c.62L --g34'72
Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 12176-IN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
FEBRUARY 1, 1994
MICROGRAPHICS
Report No:         12176 IN
Type: SAR
India Department
Agricultural Operations Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorizalion.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit    -      Rupee (Rs.)
US$1.00                 Rs.30
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system is used throughout the report
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
April 1 to March 31



MOR OmFCIL USE ONLY
ABBREVIATIONS
ADG         Additional Director General
C(CF        Chief Conservator of Forests
CRC         Conifer Research Center
CWW         Chief Wildlife Warden
DDG          Deputy Director General
DFO         District Forest Officer
DG           Director General
DIG          Deputy Inspector General
EDO         Ecodevelopment Officer
ESF          Ecodevelopment Support Fund
FRI         Forestry Research Institute
FRI-DU       Forestry Research Institute- Deemed Univerity
GHNP        Great Himalayan National Park
GOHP         Government of Himachal Pradesh
GOI          Govemment of India
GOTN        Govemment of Tamil Nadu
HRDP        Human Resource Development Plan
IAFR         Institute of Arid Forestry Research
ICAR         Indian Council for Agricultural Research
ICB         International Competitive Bidding
ICDP        Integrated Conservation-Development Projects
ICFRE        Indian Council for Forestry Reseh and Education
IFG&TB      Institute of Forest Genetics and Tree Breeding
IFLIN       Indian Forestiy Library and Informadon Network
FRIS        Indian Forestry Research Informadon System
IFS         Indian Forest Service
IGP          Inspector General of Forests
IGNFA        Indira Ghandi National Farest Academy
IIPM        Indian Institute for Forest Management
IIPA         Indian Institute for Pubhc Adiniraion
IPAS         Integrated Protected Area System
IPIRI        Indian Plywood Industries Research Institute
IPT          Institute of Paper Technology
IR&MDFR   Institute of Rain and Moist Deciduous Forest Research
IWS&T        Institute of Wood Science and Technology
JD          Joint Director
KMTR        Kalakad Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve
LCB          Local Competitive Bidding
MOEF         Ministry of Forests and Environment
NABARD    National Bank for Agriculture and Rual Development
NFLIC        National Forestry Library and Infomation Center
This document has a restricted disttibution and may be used by recipients only in the pefonuc
of their official duties Its contents may not otherwie be disclosed without World Bank authbozation.



NFRP        National Frestry Research Plan
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
ODA         Overseas Development Administation, UK
PA          Protected Area
PCCF        Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PRA         Participatoty Rual Appraisal
PSC         Project Steering Committee
ROF         Research Grant Fund
SAU         Stae Agricultural University
SDR         Special Drawing Rights
SFD         State Forestry Department
SFDC        State Forestry Development Corporaton
SFS         State Forestry Service
SFSC        State Forestry Service College
SOE         Statement of Expenditure
SRC         State Ranger College
SSR         Staff/Student Ratio
ROF         Research Grant Fund
TFRI        Tropical Forest Research Institute
USAID       United States Agency for Inemnational Development
WuI         Wildlife Institute of India
WIMCO       West India Match Company



INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJE¢Cr
Table of Contents
CREDrr AND PROJECr SUMMARY                    ..................... .... ii
L BACKGROUND1, ........                                        .......        ........   1
A. TheForestry Sector ........*.......                                            1
B. The Conservation of Biodiversity ............................ 12
C  Lessons from Past Bank Lending ............................ 17
n  TBE PROJECr .............................................  18
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement  .............   .................  18
B. Project Objectives and Dkesign ................................  18
C. Summary Description        ................................  20
D). DetailedFeatres ...             .        .                   .             .........  21
E. Project Cotsand Financing .........................  26
F. Procuminent                        ..             ... .....             ... 28
0. Disbursements ................................                               31
H. Accounts andAudit          ...............................   32
III  PROJECI' nJ04ENTATIO N ...............................                    ..... 33
A. Orsgmizaion and Maagement . .. ....... .......               ......... .  . 33
B. ProjectManagement ......... ... .... 35
C. Project Benefits and Justificadon ................................ 44
TV. ASSUR.ANCES AiND RE OM)  EN1)DATION  .........  .................. 47
Tbb rwo is bsed on he findings of an aVraisal mission which vistd l inan Mack, 1993, wih a folbw-
minb in May, 1993. Th missn comprised: L Hil (Mision Leder), N. Jones (oremy Speialst), P.
Guhathkula (oesry Speiai), A. Pithwd (eseach Manaemt Speciai) ML Jarmn sen,em
Specs), and 0. CampWel (Conslta Ral Sociologist). Mes  J. Stivasa and X. Kirmase and Ms A.
Mon  wen dhe peer ,viewr for the prjecL tI  report is endored by Mr. IL Veor (Dep_bef  Dict)
and Mr. S. Baghout (Divisio Cief).



ii
ANNEXES
1.     ICFRE. Mandate, Structure and Staff Functions
2.     ICFRE Research Institutes, Mandates and Programs
3.     Membership of Project Management Committees
4.     Ecodevelopmnt
5.     Extension Support Fund
6.     Planting Stock Improvement Program
7.     Research Grant Fund
8.     ICFRE Statistical Unit
9.     Conservation of Biodiversity Project Areas
10.     Conservation of Biodiversity. Research Programs
11.     Sunmuay Cost Tables
12.     Schedule of Estimated Disbursements
13.     Research Management
14.     Project Implementaion Schedule
15>     Technical Assistance, Studies and Consultancies
16.     Projec Supervision
17.     Documents Available in Project File
FIGURES
1.     Stucture of ICFRE
2.     Ornization Chart - Forestry Research Education and Extension
3.        ization Chart - Conservation of Biodiversity
MAPS
1.     Great Himalayan National Park (IBRD 24927)
2.     Kalakad MuthurailTger Reserve (IBRD 24928)



iii
NDIA
FO,lRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMM  Y
Borrower:               India, Acting by its President
Eecutieng Agenies:      The Indian Council for Forestry Research and Education
(ICFRE), the Ministry of Enviionment and Forests (MOEM) and
the States of Himachal Pradesh and Tamil Nadu
Amount:                 IDA Credit of SDR 33.8 million (US$47.0 million equivalent)
Tem:                    Standard, with 35 years maturity
Ptroject Desiption:     The project would initiate a long-term process to strengthen
India's forstry research system, improve the system of forestry
education, and facilitate the extension of reseach findings, thus
contributing to growth in the forestry sector that is consistent
with priorities for conservation and the sustainable use of forest
resources. The project would also support research and
development of methods for the conservation of biodiversity
through the participation of local communities in the planning
and implementation of ecodevelopment programs.
Implementation would be on a pilot basis in and around two
protect  areas.
The project would be implemented over five years and would
have five main components: (i) Research Management based
on the development of ICFE to improve the management and
coordination of forestry research and extension, through staff
training, studies and consultancies to develop priority setdng
meffiodologies and a management information systm, and
provision of a headquarters building and equipment; (ii)
Research Program Support providing necessary infrastructure,
equipment and operating expenses for selected research programs
in ICFRE institutes, the establishment of a research grant fund to
commission research by public and private sector agencies,
measures to improve the quality of planting stock, human
resource development through staff training, scientific review of
institutes and programs, and the improvement of library and
information systems and statistical services; (iii) Forestry



iv
Education involving the development and validation of forestry
curricula in formal education through provision of funds for
review and revision work, and development of the Deemed
Forestry University at Dehra Dun, primarily by financing post-
graduate research awards; (iv) Forestry Policy and Preparation
which would strengthen capabilities witiin MOEF for the
analysis of forest policies and prepaaion of future forestry
projects dtrough staff training and provision for studies and
consultancies; (v) Conservation of Biodiversity which would
support development of programs for ecodevelopment around
two protected areas, by involving communities in the planing
and implementation of programs for creation of alterave
natural or social resources or for income generton. Concurrent
improvements in the planning and management of the protcted
areas would also be financed. The project would support
research and monitoing and evaluation programs.
Estmated Project Costs
Foreign     Local       Total
............ US$ million
Research Management                 1.2           4.6         5.8
Research Program Support           17.0          20.8         37.8
Fotresty Education                  0.2           1.6          1.8
Forestry Policy and Preparation    0.4            1.8         2.2
Conservation of Biodiversity        0.8           4.5         5.3
Total Baseline Costs               19.6          33.3        52.9
Physical Contingencies        1.6           2.6         4.2
Price Contingencies           1.6          -2.3        -0.7
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS 1/            22.              6         56.4
1/   Including dudes and taxes of US$3.4 million



v
Financing Plan
Foreign     Local       Total
.................. US$ million.
IDA                        22.8      24.2         47.0
GOI                         0.0       9.4          9.4
Total               22.8       33.6         56.4
Estimated IDA Disbursements
FY94 FY95 FY96 FY97 FY98 FY99
........................ .US$ minilon
Annual             4.9   11.5  11.5  8.3   7.1   3.7
Cumulative         4.9   16.4  27.9 36.2  43.3  47.0
Rate of Retwn:          Not applicable
Poverty Category:       Not applicable
Benefits:               The project would support a key element of the Govenment's
stategy for the forestry sector as articulated in the National
Forest Policy, providing for research dtat would lead to
sustainable use of the forest resource. Improvements o the
resech management system would lead to the identification of
resoeh priorities that reflect the requirements of the Nadonal
Forest Policy and the needs of the uses of foest resources.
Improvements in the level of operadonal funding for selected
research programs, improvements to the research infrastructure,
and regul intenational scientific review of research programs
would enhance the quality of research. By facilitadng
information flows from researchers to the staff of SFDs and
private sector organizations, including NGOs, the project would
further improve the relevance of on-going and planned rsearch
programs. In addition, project support for forestry education
would lead to a cadre of forestry staff at all levels with a better
appreciation of the possible benefits of research, and mproved
capabilities to manage forests in a sustinable mamner with the
active participation of communities. Project support for the



vi
conservation of biodiversity would have wider long-tem
benefits, through the development of effective metiods for
involving communides in the planning and implementatioa of
programs to reduce the pressures on protected areas.
Risks:                   A risk affecting any research project is that research findings
generated may be irrelevant to the needs of users. Project
support for an improved methodology for setting research
priorities and the active involvement of state and private sector
organizations in deciding on priorities should minimize such a
risk. In addition, support for research that is identified and
undertaken within separate ecological zones further reduces the
risk. Project support for the development of research-extension
linkages, for the provision of extension materials to state foresty
extension serices, and for criculum improvements in forestry
education, would reduce the risk that research findings would not
be trwsmitted to the users. Another risk affecting many
research projects is that changes in economic policies render new
technologies unsuitable or less economically viable. The
improvements to the research management system and a more
systematic method of identifying research priorities that
explicitly take into account socio-economic factors would
_mnize this risk. There are risks associated with providing
support for ecodevelopment as the process is not well developed.
However, the pilot nature of project support for ecodevelopment
and the growing realization of the need for change fron the
traditional authoritarian approach nunimizes these risks.



NDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
L BACKGROUND
A. The Forestry Sector
Forestry in the National Economy
1.1       About 19 percent of the land area of India, or about 64 milliou hectares, is
covered by forests. The distribution of forest cover is meven, with more than 50 percent in
five states: Madhya Prdesh, Arunachal Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and Ma shtra.
More than 80 percent of Arunachal Pradesh is forested, while the forest cover amounts to less
dtan 4 percent in Rajasthan and Punjab. Forest cover is concentaed in the northeast, in the
Himalaya and Siwaik ranges, the central belt, along the Westen Ghats and in patches of
mangroves.
1.2       Forested areas play an important role in the conservation of environmental quality
through conservation of soil and water resources and biological diversity. They are the
principal source of timber and wood, for which the demand in 1988 amounted to 264 million
ra About 90 percent of this demand was for fuelwood. Forests are also the main source of
fodder and non-timber forest products. The contribution of the forestry sector to GNP has
been estmated at less than 2 percent, but this does not take into account the numerous non-
market and external benefits, nor the fuelwood and timber that are harvested illegally and,
therefore, uncoded. Nor does it reflect the great importance of the forests to supporting the
enormous cattle population.
1.3       Most of India's forests are degraded and productivity is poor. Only about half
the forests have a crown density of over 40 percent and the resources are under pressure due
to over-exploitation and encroachment. Forest degradation is due to the severe land scarcity
in India, which is increasing with the rising population. Poor farmes and the landless
sometmes encroach on forest areas, whilst many derive their income from the sale of
fuelwood and other forest produce. Other imortant pressures on the forests are the demands
for timber, pulp and fuelwood to supply industies and urban consumes. Over-exploitation of
grzing resources in forested areas may further accelerate degrdation.
1.4       Gomrnment is addressing the problems of the forestry sector through policy
reforms, legislation and afforestation. Historically, Indian national policy focused on forests
as a resource to be managed by government as a source of wood products and to raise
revenue. The new forest policy, revised in 1988, is to treat forests as an ecological necessity
first, a source of goods for use by the local populations second, with particular emphasis on
non-timber forest products, and only thirdly as a source of wood and odter products for
industries and other non-local uses The policy encourages industies to obtain raw marils



2
from farm forestry. Forestay activities are regulated by the Idian Forest Act, the Wildlife
Act and the Forest Consevadon Act. The government has sought to incease te area of
forest by planting on wastelands and encouraging tree planting on private lands. It is
estimated that, since 1985, about 5 million hectares have been developed from a toul of about
74 million hectares of wastelands and marginal agricultural lands, paralleled by an incease in
agroforestry activities. However, much of the land identified as wasteland may be used by
local populations for other purposes, paricularly seasonal grzing. The Eighth Five Year
Plan (1992-97) further enphasizes investments for rehabilitation of degraded forests and fam
forestry.
1.5       A World Bank review of India's forest sector I endorses the need to impwve
forest protection and management as the most important forest polcy goal for the nt
decades. This will require the coperation of local populations and agencies in forest
protecton, management and development, which will depend on improving incentives for
local participation, the technological means of production and the effectiveness of public
sector forest management, and on prioritizing the areas to protect and develop. The report
highlights the need to improve the productivity of the sector, through mproved planting
materials and practices, a strengthened research system and an effectiv forestay extension
service. Problems of a general nature that have also been identified include delays in prodect
mobilization, institutional weaknesses, and inadequate local funding.
Forestry Research
1.6       Institutions. Ihere is a long history of forestay research in India as programs on
the utiLization of forest pzoducts were started in the Forest School at Debra Dun in the late
nineteenth centwy. The Inperial Forest Research Institute was established in 1906 and
moved to substantial buildings in Dehra Dun in 1929. Increasing pressure on the forest
resource and a growing realizadon that forestry research had a key role to play in the
m-nanagement and sustainable utilizadon of the national forest estate led to the e mbnt,
in 1986, of the Indian Council of Forestay Research and Education (ICFRE), which was
granted full autonomy in 1991. The Council is responsible for 6 Institutes, two research
centers, and 45 research stations that provide foci for reseach in various ecological zones.
Research is undertken by a number of State Forest Departments (SFDs), and State
Agricultural Universides (SAUs) also participate in forestry research. Research is also
supported by commerca pnivate sector firms, and Non-Govenmental Org ons (NMOs)
play an important role in applied research, mainly in social forestay. The varous agencies are
described below.
1.7       ICFRE. Tle mandate of the Council is to advise GOI on the formulation of
foresty research policy and to organize, direct and manage research and education in the
forestry sector. The Council is established as an autonomous society, the ICFRE Society, of
I      h.nda  ores Sector Review. World Bank Report No. 10965 - IN. 1992.



3
which the Minister of Environment and Forests is President A 21 member Board of
Govemors (See Annex 1) is responsible for direcdon and control of the affairs of the Society,
overseeing the formulaion of foest policy, the determination of research priorities, tie
coordination of research activities, and the   stration and financing of the Council and its
constituent institutes and centers The Director General iL the chief executive of the CounciL
He is presently assisted by a Director (Research), a Secretary, two scientists and a small
supporting staff.
1.8       ICFRE Research Institutes and Centers The six research institutes under the
Council are: the Forest Research Institute (FRI), Dehra Dun; the Institute of Forest Genetics
and Tree Breeding (IFG&TB), Coimbatoee; the Institute of Wood Science and Technology
(IWS&T), Bangalore; the Tropical Forest Research Institute (TFRI), Jabalpur, the Institute of
Arid Forestry Research (IAFR) Jodhpur, and the Insttute of Rain and Moist Deciduous Forest
Research (RMDFR), Jorhat. Tlhe Council also runs two centers: the Conifers Research
Centre (CRC), Shimla; and the Forest Productivity Center at Ranchi, both of which are to be
upgraded to institutes The mandate for each of the institutes and centers is presented in
Annex 2. Each is headed by a Director, assisted by senior staff responsible for research
progams, facilities and administration. The Director has adinistrative autonomy, though
certain issues must be referred to the Director General, ICFRE. Research programs are
determined in consultation with a Research Advisory Group (RAG) for each institute, which
meets twice per year. Membership of the RAG for each institute is shown in Annex 3.
1.9       State Forest Departments. There are well developed State Forest Research
Institutes in Kerala and Madhya Pradesh, wbilst facilities are being developed in several other
states. The number of staff and funding assigned to forestry research vary widely amongst
the states. Budgetary support for research is limited in all states, whilst staff deputed to
research actvities seldom have specialist knowledge or training and are frequendy transferred
to other duties before research programs are well established or yield results. These factors
have tended to lead to un-focused research programs and a dissipation of research efforn
They also result in a lack of coordination between states and often to duplication.
1.10      Unlvrsltie. There has been no systematic review of fotesry related research in
universites. Many undertake biological research programs that are of relevance to forestry,
and otr, in particula agriculual universities, participate in agro-foestry rsearch
sponsored by the Indian Council for Agricultual Research. In 1991-92, ICFRE sponsored
reseach in 12 university depatmts, including both basic and applied research topics.
1.11      Private Sector Agencies. A number of private commercial companies, including
the Westemn India Match Company (WIMCO), South India Viscose, lTC, Bhadmchalam, and
BILT Tree Tech Pvt Ltd. undertake research programs. These programs are closely focused
on the specific requirements of each firm. but include species selection, vegetative
propagation, and plant and wood quality. Several NOOs support research programs in
agroforestry and participatory resource management



4
1.12      Research Funding. Expenditure on forestry research in the last decade has been
less than one percent of public sector expenditure on the sector as a whole as shown by the
figures below:
Plan Period                Public Expenditure            Research
(Rs. Millions)              as %  of
Foresty Sector     Forestry Research    Sector
1980 - 85             6,920                 41               0.6
1985 - 90           18,599                159               0.9
1.13      Forestry was less than one percent of total public sector outlay over the period
1950 - 90 so expenditure on forestry research and education is a minute proportion of the
total. It is also small in comparison to the contibution made by forestry to GNP, as formally
recorded forestry production contributes 1.7 percent to GNP and considerably more if
unrecorded forest produce, such as fuelwood, gzing, and non-wood forest products are ta6en
into account. The forestqy research budget increased to Rs. 300 million in 1991-92, to
Rs. 400 million in 1992-93 and an esimated Rs. 400 million in 1993-94. Over 40 percent of
this is for capital expenditure and a further 30 percent is for salaries. Operatonal research
funds are consequendy severely constrained. In 1991-92, funds available to ICFRE institutes
for recurrent research expenses, excluding salaries, amounted to about Rs. 160,000 per
researcher, or about US$5,000. There will be a slight increase in the 1992-93 budget.
Although there are no fium data, it is likely that average expenditure in the states is
considerably less. Experience from agricultural research in many developing countries
suggests that operating funds should be at least US$20,000 per research scientist 2.
1.14      Staffmng. There is a total of 729 scientists in the ICFRE institutes, of whom 472
are permanent ICFRE staff. The remainder are IFS staff on deputadon or other non-
permanent research officers. By comparison FAO esdmates that there are 120,000
professional forsters in India '. Terms of service have recently been agreed for ICERE,
which allow for promotion of scientists on the ments of their research work, refenred to as a
complementing scheme of service.
1.15      Data on the numbers of staff appointed to state researh institutes or to the post
of Silviculturalist are incomplete. All of them are members of the IFS or SFS in which the
current career structure is such that there is little incentive to make long-term cotments to
research. In addidon, deputadon to research or silviculturaist posts is commonly only for
2      Source  teniaonal Sevice for Naional Agricultual Reseach. Te Hague, N ctelnds
3      Wood Energy News, August, 1992. FAO, Bangko



5
throe years, so there is litde continuity in research programs, even with the most committed
staff. There is a need to address this problem to ensue continuity of research in the sftae
and coplementart with the research undertaken by ICFRE institutes.
1.16      Research Faditles. All the six ICFRE research institutes have at least some
labrtory or field expeiment facilities. FRI, Debra Dun is the oldest with well-established
facilities, albeit in need of some improvement. Substantal new buildings are under
costruction at Jabalpur and Jodhpur, and the institute at Jorhat and the centers at Shimla and
Allahabad are stdll under development. Space is a constaint at the older institutes, pary due
to the increase in numbers of staff and reorganization into a larger number of scientific
divisons. There is basic laboratory equipment in all the institutes, but there is a need to
improve and modernize much of the equipment. All insttutes suffer from the liited
availability of some laboratory supplies and inadequate maintenance of equipment. All
institutes require improved greenhouse, mist chamber and nursery facilides to enable
laboratory fndlings to be translated to pot cultures and the field. Lack of reliable trspot
and an adequate travel budget are also constraints to applying research findings in the field, in
collabration with ste forest departments.
1.17      None of the forestry research institutes in India have up-to-date library and
information services. However, the library at FRI. Dehra Dun, has a wealth of books and
documents and regularly receives a large number of joumals. Equipment has been instaLed
to make use of abstracts on CD-ROM diskettes and training has been provided with assistanmc
from the Forestry Research Support Program for Asia and the Pacific. Routne cataloguing
appears to be undertaken systematically, but it is not computerized in any of the institutes.
Further, there are no current awareness services and no mechansms to share information
between FRI and the other ICFRE institutes, or with state and university research agencies.
This is in part due to lack of equipment and finance, but most importantly, there are no
qualfied libaians in any of the ICFRE institutes with up-to-date knowledge of informadon
.sym.
1.18      Two states have substantial forest research institutes, Madhya Pradesh and Kerala
The Kerala institute has received support from the British ODA and IDRC and has a vigorous
progm  of research. In Madhya Pradesh, the institute suffers from lack of continuity of
staffing, limited funding, and perhaps, isolation from other forest research actividesL
1.19      Research Pr _   The focus of forestry research as discussed in a perspective
plan4 I in lge measu  a response to the requirements of the National Forest Policy. The
following prionty areas have been identified:
4      Nation Fosty Rarch and Educat  Perwective Plan for the Year 2000 AD and Beyond. D
N. Tewar, Director General. ICFRE, Dehra Dun. Undated.



6
Productvity. Impvement through better propagation and nursey
techniques and bio-ferlizadton, species selecon through genetic
improvement, and control of pests and diseases tirough pathology and
entomology researh;
-    Management. Conservation and management of ecosystems, pardcipatory,
commuity and social management and rehabilitation of natumal forests,
wasteland, and plantations;
-    Utilization. Treatment, improved conversion technologies and udlization
of timber and non-wood forest products,
-    Policy and Socio-Ecoonoics. Socio-economuc implications of policies,
technologies and management systems.
1.20      The matrix in Annex 2 presents the way in which ICFRE institutes undtke
reseach to address these priority conceans. More details of the programs in each institute are
conaind in the supplement to the project preparation doument (Annex 17). Whilst the
progams can be linked to each of the priority areas listed above, they reprsent a wide range
of resech topics and their inter-relidonships, or complementrity are not always clear. This
is in pat due to the lack of a detailed medium-term national foresty reseh plan. Ihe
pepetve plan (Footnote 3) provides an overnew of research objectives rather than detailed
research prposals.
1.21      Methodologies for Setting Research Priorities. The National Foest Policy
povides the framewodc for deciding priority areas for research. Tlese are tanslated into
actua research progrms through formal and informal discussions between ICFRE and the
State Fst Depatments. Metings involving the PCCFs and other senior forestry
depamen staff from a zone or group of states are held with the ICFRE institute director
usuy annually. Problems are identified by the states and research pinoties agreed, mainy
an the basis of expeience. There are no formally agreed criteria for deciding on priorities,
though ther is discussion of the social or economic importance of the various problems
identified. Then is no formal means to attach relative priority weighings to the criteria dth
a  used. Decisions on rarh progms to address identified piiorities are, therefore, based
on subjective asssments, which are rarely supported by systemadc quantitative analysis.
This often leads to progrms that are over-ambitious in the light of awailable funding,
equipment and staff experience, whilst progms are rarely closed. Priority setting is further
complicated by the lack of detailed social and economic analysis of some of the implicaions
of the forest policy at both central and state levels.
1.22      Potetial. The forestry research system in ndia has the potential to make
substantial contributions to the development of the sector in the medium to long tem.
University facuies produce an adequate number of graduates for recruitment into the
researh service.  here are well established research institutes to undertake species and factr



7
reseach programs with a reasonable level of autonomy, under ICFRE. In additon, there Is a
well qualified cadre of research staff in India, in reseach institutes, the universities and in the
private sector. The SFDs and para-statal oions, such as the State Forest Development
Corporadons (SFDC), have the responsibility for management of the forest estate so there is a
strue  for the applicadon of research results. This is reinforced by insdtutional changes
being implemented as part of recent projects such as the Mahamshtra and West Bengal
Fostry Projects, resulting from the focus of the Nadonal Forest Policy on social and farm
forestry and the involvement of local populations in forest managemenForthcoming
forestry projects will further strengthen the forestry research and extension capabilities of
SFDs. The forestry research system is, therefore, well placed to respond to improvements in
research planning and management, institutional arrangements and physical infastucte.
1.23      Constraints. Despite its long history and past perfomance, the forestry rsearch
system in India does not at present live up to its full potential to improve the productivity of
the sector and the sustainable use of the forest resource. This is due to a number of
constints as follows:
(a)  Determination of Priorities and Resource Allocaton. An important
constraint to the operation of the research system is the lack of a method
based on the systematic application of agreed criteria to twansla the
requirements of the National Forest Policy into detailed research programs,
or to allocate resources to such priorities. Tbis is reflected in the lack of a
medium to long-term natonal forestry research plan and the lack of
ntegradon of many of the research programs. It has also led to the
criticism that the research system is not responsive to the needs of the users
of research results, in part because insufficient priority has been given to
research and extension into the improvement of planting stock
(b)  Instittinal. Coordination between the reseah agencies and the users of
research results, both in the SFDs and the private sector is not always
effecdve. In addition, there is little collaboration in research between the
public and private sectors, whilst the research skills available in the
universities are not used to the best possible advantage through
collaborative research programs, even though ICFRE can authonze reseach
contacts.
(c)  Sta g. Changes in the conditions of service for scientists recruited t
ICFRE have improved incentives for a career in rsearch. However, an
imortant constraint to effective research in the states is the generally short-
term appointment to research posts with rotation to regula service posts,
often after he  years or less. This, coupled with the appointment of
foresters with little experience or interest in research, adversely affects the
continuity and quality of state research programs.



8
ICFRE research staff are mainly from forestiy or biological science
backgrounds and there are only a limited number of staff with expertise in
economics, and even fewer with social science skills. This is a constraint
to undertakdng research into the types of participatory forest management
required for successful implementation of the new forest policy. Many
research scientists also lack commercial experience which may constrain
their understanding of priorities in the private sector.
Most ICFRE research staff are well qualified but many lack expenence and
have only limited exposure to recent international research methods and
results, or even to research undertaken elsewhere in India. This makes
considerable demands on more experienced staff for supervision and on-the
job trainng. In addition, the ratio of technical support staff to researchers
is only about 1.4 and many require further training. In particular, the lack
of well-qualified instrument technicians constrains the effective
maintenance of some equipment. Numbers of other unskilled support staff
are often excessively high, so that much of the recurrent budget is spent on
salaries, leaving litde for research operations.
(d)  Facdities. Inadequate maintenance and investment in research facilities has
resulted in deterioration and many researchers are accommodated in an
environment that is not conducive to effective research. Similarly, lack of
past investment in both laboratory and field equipment means that much
existing equipment is not functoning properly, or is obsolete. This is an
increasing constraint as research becomes more sophisticated.
The lack of adequate facilities for seed collection, pzocessing and storage,
and for plant propagation, coupled with limited experience of modern
propagation techniques, is a constraint to the production of high quality
planting material. This directly affects research programs and limits
ICERE's ability to provide demonstrations of appropriate technology to
SFDs and others.
(e)  The lack of effective library and information services is a major constaint
to the effectiveness of forestry research in India. Researchers are,
therefore, unable to review current literature to avoid duplicating research
done elsewhere, cannot keep up-to-date with advances in specialized topics,
and are unable to make use of material that may be available within
ICFRE. Of equal importance is the lack of linkages with other libraries in
universides and agricultural research institutes.
(f)  Funding. The absolute level of funding for forestry research constrains the
overall size and content of the research program. Of particular significance
is dte fact that recurrent funding, excluding salaries, amounts to only about



9
US$5,000 per researcher per year. This is inadequate to support an
effectve research progm.
(g)  Research-Extenson Linkages. The lack of formal or even informal
linkages between research workers in the institutes and staff of SFDs
responsible for management of the forests constrains the dissemination of
research results. This is exacerbated by the lack of collaboraive research
programs, involving both SFD and institute reseachers in joint research
programs. Similarly, there are few links between ICPRE research scientists
and those working within private sector organizations.
Forestry Education and Training
1.24      In India, a distinction is usually drawn between forestry education and taining.
Education implies both formal education programs in universities and schools, and education
of the public at large through public awareness campaigns, whilst training means the
professional and vocational training of staff of national and state forest services in colleges
run by those services. This Staff Appraisal Report is primarily concerned with forestry
education, as training is the subject of a closely related project to be financed with bilateal
support from the Bntish ODA.
1.25      Universities. Following the 1987 recommendations of the National Commission
on Agriculture, 14 State Agricultural Universities and 5 general universities established BSc
courses in forestry. The main purpose of developing these courses is to provide a pool of
guates with spedalization in forestry for recruitment to the private sector and involvement
in agroforestry activities. However, only five universities are now recognized by ICFRE and
the rapid reduction in the number of universities offering degree courses in forestry is due to
the fact that the SAUs, which are dependent on funding, have been unable to recruit
experienced, well-qualified teaching staff. Consequently, graduates have had limited
education in forest ecosystems and forestry specific subjects, and litde or no exposure to the
forest environment Employment of the faostry graduates has been poor as many failed to
pass the recuitment board tests for employment in IFS and SFS, particulaly as they have to
compete with the best graduates from other science disciplines.
1.26      In 1991, the University Grants Commission ganted Deemed Forest University
status to the Forest Research Institute (FRI-DU), in Dehra Dun, to provide post-graduate and
PhD courses in forestry. Since then, planning for the development of the FRI-DU has
proceeded. The Director General, ICFRE would be the University Chancellor and the
Director, FRI, the Vice Chancellor. The DDG Education would be the chairman of the
University Management Committee, whilst a registrar would deal with administrtve matter
It is planned that the university would provide facilidtes for post-graduates to study within
FRI, run courses in forestry for staff of universities providing forestry degree courses, and
continue the short courses in special subjects that are presently run by FRI Plans for the
physical development of FRI-DU have also been drawn up. Whilst the provision of post-



10
graduate research facilities is highly desirable and will benefit both the students and the
research institutes, the demand for certain of the planned courses is not yet clear.
1.27     lIstitutional Linkages. Responsibility for forestry education and training
cufrently lies with a number of different institutions, linked to the distinction between formal
forestry education and vocational and professional forestry training. ICFRE has been
concerned with fonnal education in the SAUs since 1987, and since its recognition in 1991,
in the FRI- DU at Dehra Dun. Part of ICFRE's mandate is the accreditation of forestry
teaching bodies and the validation of degrees and diplomas. There has been limited progress
with this aspect of ICWRE's work, due in large part to a lack of appropriate staff. National
institutions involved in forestry trining, such as the Indira Ghandi National Forest Academy
(IGNFA) and the Indian Institute of Forest Management (IIFM) are responsible directly to
MOEF. SFSCs are also administered directly by MOEF, whilst SRCs are the responsibility
of the states. Linkages between all the insdtutions concerned with forestry education and
training and those in other scientific disciplines are, at best, tenuous whilst there appear to be
no formal institutional links with training establishments outside India, though informal ties
are maintained with the Oxford Forestry Institute.
1.28      Potential. The forest services are able to recruit young men and women of good
intellectual capacity because of the high standing of employment in forestry. There is a
network of well-established universities for undergraduate teaching of forestry and related
subjects, whilst the FRI-DU plans to provide a focus for post-graduate research.
1.29      Constiaints. Although the system of forestry eaucation and training has served
the country well in the past, it suffers a number of constraints that limit its ability to train a
cadre of foresters for the future. The most important of these are:
(a)  Staffing. The failure of many universities to recruit well-qualified and
experienced forestry staff has been a serious constraint to successful
development of planned forestry faculties. Deputation of IFS and SFS
officers has only been partially effective as they have had few career
incentives to remain in university teaching. Staff in both universities and
taining institutions have had little training in teaching methods, which has
an adverse effect on the quality of instruction.
(b) Curriculum. The curriculum in many institutions evolved to meet the
needs of the forestry services and private sector when forest policy was
based on timber production and protection. Such a curriculum is a
constraint to the training of foresters in the range of technical and social
skills needed to implement changed forest policies and to meet the
changing demands of the sector. However, there is an on-going review of
the curiculum in govemment taining institutions.



11
(c)  Institonal. The division of responsibility for formal frestry education
in universities and professional and vocadonal taining in nationda and state
colleges is a constmaint because it weakens linkages between the universites
ta are concerned with a wide range of biological and social sciences, and
the more practicaily oriented forestry rining nstitutions. This means that
university students lack the opportunity to gain practical expetience.
Conversely, trainers and students are often isolated from developments in
other disciplines that could be of relevance to forestry.
Forestry Extenion
1.30      Forestry extension is primarily the responsibility of SFDs, though some
commercial companies run successful extension programs. NGO involvement in forestry
extension is usually linked to wider rual development programs. Involvement in mass
extension programs is not part of ICFRE's mandate, but the Council does have a
responsibility for extending research results to SFDs and private sector agencies in a readily
unrstandable form and for investgating the most effectve extension methodologies. The
focus of ICFRE's activity in extension is, therefore, the development of research extension
linkages.
1.31      In earlier years, extension programs were almost exclusively based on building
resarch extension linkages through Silvicultural Conferences, generally held once every five
yeams These provided a forum for research staff to present their findings to the State
Fostry Departments. FRI also organized symposia and wokshops for SFD staff, and on
forest products for forest-based industries. Silvicultural conferences became more irregular
ater 1961, whilst the program of workshops has been replaced by occasional courses. The
post of Publicity and Liason Officer was created at Dehra Dun vith responsibility for
disseinating research results. Bulletins and monographs have been produced but these are
usually highly technical and not aimed at non-specialists, though some simpler forestry
extension materials have been produced. ICFRE institutes do not, at present, have staff with
the necessary skills to investigate the most effective extension methods, or to assist SFD staff
with the production of extension materials on a regular basis In addition, limited travel
budgets have meant that FRI staff have been unable to make extensive field visits, so a
tradition has grown up of public and private sector agency staff visiting Dehra Dun for
information, rather than vice versa
1.32      Pbtential. The emphasis of the new National Forest Policy on the involvement
of communities in the management of forest resources has stimulated a growing awareness of
the impance of forestry extension. Similaly, farm forestry programs are dependent on
providing advice and assistance to small farmers for cultivation and marketing of trees, in
much the same way as the agriculural services have done for crops over many years. There
is also an increasing appreciation of the need to undetake research that rewsponds to the needs
of users of research results and to dissemnate the results effectively, through developing
strng rsearch-extension linkages.



12
1.33      Constrants. The constants affecng forcsry exnsion, and in pardcula the
development of research extension linkages in India are:
(a)  Institutional. The lack of linkages between the reseach insdtutions, the
state forest services and the pnvate sector have limted the way in which
advice can be provided to those responsible for the magement and
utlization of forests and forest products. This has been componded by a
lack of resources for these agencies to mount effective extension
campaigns.
(b)  Staffing. The lack of experience in extension of mmy staff in both
research institutes and the SFDs is a further constraint  his is accentuatd
by the fact that forestry extension is a relatvely new discipline in which
methods are evolving, which means that staff must have a flecible and
innovative approach to their work. The hierarhical and often authori
tradition of the forest services does not aiways encourage such innovation.
In addition, front-line extension staff have little aning.
B. The Conservation of Biodiversity
Bakground
1.34      Ten bi-geographic zones are recognized in India, representng a broad range of
ecosystems. Indian flora comprises an estimated 45,000 plant speciesof which about 15,000
flowering plants have been described. Estimates of other plant taxa include 5,000 species of
algae, 1,600 lichens, 20,000 fungi, 2,700 bryophytes and 600 pteridophytes. At least 33
percent of all plant species are endemic, with the Western Ghats and the north-wterm and
eastemalayas particularly rich in plant endemism. As many as three to four thousand
plant species are endangered. The total mammal fauna comprs  341 species. There are
1,178 species of birds within India, reprsnting 14 percent of the wl totl, whilst the
reptilea md amphibian fauna  clude 420 and 165 species respectively. In addition there are
some 50,000 insect species, 2,000 fishes and 4,000 moluscs. Among the larger animals, 79
species of mammals, 44 of birds, 15 of reptiles and three of amphibians are endangered. he
importance of forests in suWorting this biological diversity has been discussed earlier in tis
rpor This section describes exisdng efforts to conserve India's biological resources in
response to a growing appreciadon within India of their impce and discusses the
presues on these resources, largely due to a rapidly increasing human population.
The Protected Area Network
1.35      The framework for the development of the Protected Area (PA) network in lnia
is the Natonal Wildlife Action Plan of 1983. The PA network includes 75 naonal paks,
and 419 sac ies and a large number of closed areas. The to  area amts to about four



13
percent of the land area of India.
1.36      Legal Status. The legal status of PAs and the protection of wildlife is based on
the Wild Life (Protection) Act of 1972, and the Wild Life (Protetion) Amendment Act, 1991.
This defmes the requirements and responsibilities for the designation and management of
sanctuaries, national parks and closed areas, as well as the regulations for hunting of wildlife
and the control of trade in animals and trophies. State Governments may, by nodfication,
declare any area to be a sanctuary, national park, or closed area, whilst the Central
Government has similar rights within areas in which the State Government has transfered
control. No alteration of the boundaries of a national park or sanctuary can be made except
on a resolution passed by the Legislature of State. The Collector is responsible for
determining the existence, nature and extent of the rights of any person in or over the land
within the proposed protected area. If the rights are recognized, Government may acquire
those rights if the holder of the rights agrees to relinquish them, or through payment of
compensalion. However, the Collector may, in consultation with the Chief Wildlife Warlen
(CWW), allow the continuance of any right within the limits of a sancuary. The CWW shall
be the authority who shall control, manage and maintain all sanctuaries and national parks,
with power to restrict entry. The CWW may take such measures, in the interest of wild life,
as are consdere necessary for the improvement of any habitat, and may issue a permit for
exploitation or removal of wild life from a sanctuary if satisfied that it is necessary for the
better management of wild life.
1.37      Pessurs on the Protected Areas. Excessive use of PA resources leading to
degradation, declining biodiversity and a loss of wildlife habitat is linked to human and
iivestock populations in and around the PAs. A survey of a sample of national parks and
sanctuaries undertaken by the Indian Institute of Public Adminisadon showed that over 50
percent of parks and over 70 percent of sanctuaries reported human populations within their
boundaries, though population densities ranged from one to over 1000 persons per km 2. As
is to be expected in a densely populated country like India, over 80 percent of parks and
sanctuaries reported human populatons in areas adjacent to the PAs. Grazing livestock
within both parks and sanctuaries is also common as about 70 percent of parks and over 80
percent of sancuaies reported cattle within the PAs, either legally or illegally. Cattle
densities ranged from one to over 1,000 per km2. In addition to grzing, fodder is extrcted
from almost all PAs. Legal extraction of timber is relatively uncommon in parks but it is
permitted in about 40 percent of sanctuaries. Although there are no data, it is likely that
unauthorized extraction of firewood and nSon-timber fest products is very widespread in
many PAs. Non-timber forest products such as leaves, medicinal plants and mushrooms, are
also obtained from many PAs. All these uses affect PA ecosystems and excessive
exploitation is usustnable. In the absence of data indicating sustainable levels of
exploitation and the difficulties of managing sustainable use, the present government stategy
is to attempt to reduce the pressures on PA resources by forbidding all use.
1.38      Maagemt Approaches. Since the setting up of the protected areas network
in India the preominant approach has been to protect by policing. Where funds have been



14
available, walls, fences, gates, guards and guns have been used in efforts to protect parks and
sactuaries. The approach is consistent with a strict interpretation of the Wild Life Protection
Act and the somewhat authoritarian tradition of the forest service as a whole, reinforced by a
genuine desire to peve the last remnants of undisturbed lad  Unfortunately, policing has
not been an effective means of preventing the exploitation of the resources of PAs by local
communities and other interests and has often led to confrontation between the wild life
authorities and the users of PA resources. There is, however, a growing realization that
perhaps the most effective and desirable way of preserving the resources of PAs is by
developing alternative resources and sources of income for the people dependent on the PA
resources. This strategy, commonly refenred to as ecodevelopment, is discussed in more
detail in Para. 1.39.
1.39      The project preparation document (IIPA) 5 indicated that management plans have
been developed for about 50 percent of the national parks and about 30 percent of the
sancuaries. The plans are mainly based on a zonation of the PA into core and buffer zones.
In principle, the core zone is designated as a totally protected area and the buffer zone an
rea wbich is designed to absorb the impact of the surrounding populations, thereby reducing
the biotic pressure on core areas. Development within buffer zone villages is envisaged as
one means of reducing such biotic pressures, as outlined in MOEF guidelines 6. However,
the amended Wild Life Protection Act limits the activities permitted within buffer zones,
where these form part of the designated PA, to improvements that are in the interests of wild
life. The Act precludes commercial exploitation and even the use of PA resources by
communities, resident either in the PA or in suzrounding areas, that have utilized these
resources over a long period of time, often with the sanction of the Forest Department.
Although these uses may not be recognized as legal rights, they are de facto rights in the eyes
of the counities. At the same time, there are often enclosures, such as established tree
crop estates or public sector infrastructure within both core and buffer zones. There appears
to be no consistent approach to these situations, and in pracdce, PA managements respond to
these situadons in an ad hoc manner.
1.40      Ecodevelopment. The term ecodevelopment has been in use in India since the
1980s and a number of different definitons have been proposed. These are discussed in
Annex 4. The IIPA port (op cit) defines ecodevelopment as a strategy for protecting
ecologically valuable areas from unsustainable or otherwise unacceptable pressures resulting
from the needs and actvities of people living in and around such areas. The nature of the
ecodevelopment process has been discussed in some detail in the IIPA report and by
S      Biodiversity Conservation Through Ecodevelopment A priinary lndicative Plan for Great
imalyan National park, Hmchal Pradesh, and Kalaka Mundanhuai Tiger Reserve, Tamil Nadu.
Indian Inttute for Pubhc Administtion (DIPA). New Delhi. April, 1993.
Detwl Guidelines of the centndly Sponsord Scheme "Ecodevelopment in and around National
Pars and Wild Life Sancrie". MOEF, 1991.



15
Rodgers 7. A summary is presented in Annex 4. The fundamental principle on which the
process is based and which governs the whole approach to ecodevelopment is that of people's
participation, in the )lanning and implementation of agreed programs. The process is also
dependent on site specific planning. The IIPA report emphasizes the need for participative
micro-planning and the need for the concunent development of a management plan for the
protected aea There are two possible sets of ecodevelopment inputs. One is to increase
resource productivity in the areas used by people that are peripheral to the PA. The second is
to reduce the dependence on PA resources through alternative developments, including the
provision of alternative energy sources, non-forest based employment and income generation
schemes, improved agriculture, and in many cases measures such as the provision of water
supplies or medical care. Although there is a growing acceptance of the ecodevelopment
approach, there is little experience of implementation of ecodevelopment progmms in India.
Small scale ecodevelopment activities have been implemented around the Ranthaambore Tiger
Reserve in Rajasthan and a few other protected areas, but few of these experiences have been
analyzed, evaluated, or documented. Similarly, some rural development and social forestry
programs have been initated around PAs but the involvement of local communities in
planning and the linkages with PA management have been limited. A strategy for
implementation that builds on this limited experience is discussed in Chapter II.
1.41      lnstitutions. The Ministry of Environment and Forests (MOEF) is the central
government institution with overall responsibility for planning and coordinating India's
strategy for the conservation of biodiversity. Within the Forestry Wing of MOEF, the post of
Director of Wildlife Preservation is held by an Additional Inspector General of Forests.
There is a Director in charge of Project Tiger and a Joint Secretary, assisted by two
Additional Diretors, takes responsibility for wildlife and protected areas outside the Project
Tiger reserves. The main responsibility for notification and management of protected arenas
lies, however, with the state governments, specifically the Chief Wildlife Wardens in the
Wildlife Wings of State Forest Departments. Day-to-day management of many PAs is
provided by a Paxk Director, assisted by Forest Rangers or Foresters, and Forest Guards. A
Research Officer is posted to some PAs. Actual staffing is variable, with many PAs lackdng a
Director, whose duties may be undertaken by the District Forest Officer or Conservator.
1.42      The Wildlife Institute of India (Wi) is the main govemment agency with
responsibility for training staff in protected area and wildlife management Recently, WII has
stared a series of training courses in ecodevelpment, with funding support from UNDP. WH
also has an important research function. A number of other institutes and universities provide
training and undertake research into the ecology and management of PAs, whilst several
NGOs focus on biodiversity conservation and public awareness.
7      Rodgers W. A. 1992. Guidelines for Eco-Development around Wildlife Protected Areas in Indi
Unpublished Paper preed for the World Banl.



16
1.43      Potential. The growing awar-ness in India of the importance of biodivers
consevaion is the most important factor in realizing the potential for improved conservadon
progams. This awareness is evident in government policy statements and a number of NGO
programs linked to conservation activities. The existing network of PAs provides an excellent
basis for improved conservation whilst the amended Wild Life Protction Act (1991) forms
the legal framework. The Wildlife Wings of Forestry Departments at stae and central
goveament levels have been established for many years and have the potential to implement
further programs for the conservation of biodiversity, including ecodevelopment programs
1.44      Constrints. The constraints affecting the conservation of biodiversity in India
are:
(a)  Land Availability and Population Pressure. The limited aea of land
available that can be designated for conservation purposes is the most
important constraint to conservation of biodiversity. This is direcdy related
to the needs of large human and livestock populations, which limit
designation of new PAs and impinge directly on the resources of exisdng
ones.
(b)  Integrated Protected Area System (IPAS). The absence of any IPAS
lining PAs thrugh networks of forested conidors or complementary
multiple-use areas, compounded by the lack of integration between
management of PAs and the surrounding areas.
(c)  Lea Procedures and Management Plans. Legal procedures are
incomplete for at least 60 percent of national parks and 90 percent of
sanctuaries as final notification of the PAs is pending the completion of the
procedures stipulated in the Wildlife (Protection) Act In addition, almost
60 percent of national parks and almost 70 percent of sanctuaries have no
management plans.
(d)  Implementation Experience. The limited experience of programs to
involve communities in the planning and implementation of
ecodevelopment actvities to reduce pressures on PAs is an important
constraint to biodiversity conservation efforts. This lack of experience
relates not only to the choice of advities, but also to the most appropria
community organizations and the role of government and NGOs.
(e) Staffing. Few of the large numbers of staff in State Forestry Departments
have raining in community participation and ecodevelopment. Taining
requirements are, therefore, considerable but there is, in addition, only a
limited number of institutions with the capabilities to provide appropriate
training for staff or trainers.



17
(f)  Fi unding. Resources for management of PAs are limited and funds
specifically allocated to ecodevelopment activities form only a small
proporton of these. This obviously constrains the type and extent of
program that can be undertaken.
C. Lessons from Past Bank Lending
1.45      There has been no Bank or IDA lending specifically for forestry research in
India, but there is a portfolio of projects in the forestry sector, some of which have
components to support technology development. A World Bank review of the sector as a
whole (op cit) which brings together the experience gained during the implementation of these
projects, has recendy been completed. The report indicates the need to move towards a
comprehensive approach to the sector on a national or state-wide basis. Recommendations in
the report for the improvement of the research and forestry extension systems have already
been noted in Para. 1.5. Experience from Bank support for agricultural research, which was
reviewed in 1990, is also relevant . In particular, the conclusions of the review concetn
te need: for research policy to reflect nadonal priorides for the sector for improved
management of the research system based on an effective management information system,
leading to program and project budgeting; for improved personnel management within the
fiamework of a human resource development plan; and for better coordination between
research institutes and the SAUs. These lessons have been taken into account in the design of
the proposed project, which focuses on the improvement of the national forestry reseach
sym, with associated support for human resource development and the strengthening of
research-extension linkages
1.46      Nor has there been Bank or IDA lending specifically for ecodevelopment
activities in India. Recent forestry projects have included funds for the conservation of
biodiversity, but there is little implementation experience as the projects have been effective
for only a short period of time. There is, however, experience with ecodevelopment in
Integrated Conservation-Development Projects (ICDPs) supported by the Bank or IDA in a
number of other countries. This experience is described in detail by Wells and Brandon 9
who conclude that such projects must form part of a larger framework that includes political
suppor, enabling legislation, realistic institutional arrangements, resource tenure and
compatibility with regional development. The scale of projects, local participation, site
selection and financial resources all affect project success and these factors have been taken
into account in the design of the proposed ecodevelopment component of this project
s      India. Agricultval Research: Prologue, Perfomance and Prospects. World Ban Repoit No. 8383 -
IN. 1990.
Wells h. andBrandon K. 1992. PeopleandPatrks. Liig PotectedAraManmetwithLca
Communis The World Bank, World Wildlife Fund and US Agency for eational Dev_opmL



18
IL THE PROJECT
A. Rationale for Bank Involvement
2.1       Development of a research system is part of a long-term strategy for the
development of technology to improve the productivity and sustainable use of forests. The
project should be seen as part of such a long-term strategy and the Bank is one of the few
institutions that could provide the necessary continuity of support. The Bank is also well
placed to assist in developing links with international forestry research initiatives. In addition,
the Bank has a strong interest in developing an effective forestry research system, as the
success of other Bank initiatives in the forestry sector in India is at least parially dependent
on the continuiF g development of improved technologies. This is endorsed by both the Forest
Sector Review (op cit) and the Bank's Agriculture Sector Public Expenditure Review. World
Bank support for research and development of effective methods for conservation of
biodiversity in India, including ecodevelopment activities, is mandated by its strong
commitment to improving environmental management. The proposed project would be
consistent with the strategy for Bank assistance to the agricultural sector in India, which is to
support policies and investments that promote economic growth and social development in the
context of macro-economic restructuring. It would also be consistent with the objectives of
the Bank's new forestry policy and the Asia Region's strategy for forestry lending, which
give emphasis to strengthening the capacity of the center and state academic and technical
institutions to provide research, education, and training for state initiatives and priorities. The
proposed project is based on proposals put forward by ICFRE in 1991, a preparation report
dealing with proposed ecodevelopment activities produced for MOEF by IlPA, and the
findings of pre-appraisal and appraisal missions in 1992 and 1993.
B. Project Objectives and Design
2.2       The main objectives of the project are to strengthen the capacity of national and
state institutions to plan and undertake priority research progmms, to improve the system of
forestry education in research and academic institutio,ns, and to improve the extension of
research findings. Important additional objectives are to improve the policy analysis and
project preparation capabilities within MOEF, and develop a supporting forestry statistical
service. The project would also aim to develop and test on a pilot basis methods for
conservation of biological resources in protected areas through ecodevelopment.
2.3       The project is designed as the first phase of a long-term process of development
of the forestry research system. It would ensure that research programs are related to
priorities for conservation, management for sustainable use, or production, by involving
researchers, public and private sector users of forest resources and political decision makers,
in the determination of research priorities and the development of a National Forestry



19
Research Plan. The process is designed to be consultative, rather than top-down and
committee-oriented. Project design builds on the strengths of the existing research system by
developing human capital and addressing the constraints that have been identified. The
design provides for the implementation of research programs through the development of a
core capability for research, by providing support for selected programs, rather than the whole
of the ICFRE research mandate. This core capability would include not only the scientific
and technical skills of research staff, but adequate operational funding that would benefit the
whole research system. Appropriate infrastructure for research would be essential and the
project is designed to provide a limited number of facilities in each ecological zone, rather
than a proliferation of well constructed but ineffective, research stations. The role of state
forestry services in both the identification of research priorities and the implementation of
collaborative research programs is central to the project design and is reinforced by the
provision of research grant funding to commission public and private sector research. The
project will, therefore, support existing and planned Bank-assisted state forestry projects by
providing the mechanisms whereby basic research priorities identified by the states can be
addressed by the national research system. Such national support would complement the
more site-specific adaptive research funded through state projects.
2.4       The project is designed to improve standairs of forestry education, for researchers
and staff in public and private sector organizations involved in forest management. The
project design also provides for training of specialists within the country and overseas.
Emphasis is given to the development of the socio-economic expertise necessary for the
implementation of the new forest policy. The development of research extension linkages to
ensure that the research results are rapidly transferred to the users of the results is also given
priority. The collaborative research programs referred to above are designed to reinforce
these linkages, complemented by improved capabilites for policy analysis and project
preparation within the sector.
2.5       Development of effective methods for the conservation of biodiversity through
ecodevelopment activities and improved PA management in and around two PAs form a
special sub-set of programs. These are designed to develop innovative means of preserving
biological resources for wider application in the future. Supporting applied research programs
are designed to provide information that is relevant to PA management and the
inplementation of ecodevelopment actvities, with monitoring and evaluation studies to record
ecological and socio-economic changes. A national study of ecodevelopment experiences and
needs would provide the means of linking experience gained in this project, with that from
similar participatory initatives in other Bank supported state forestry projects.



20
C. Summary Description
2.6       The project would be implemented over a five-year period and would have five
components, listed below with the main activities in each:
Research Management. The development of ICFRE to inprove the
management and coordination of forestry research at national, state and
institute levels; to strengthen procedures to ensure research prioities are
linked to national and state priorities for development of the forestry sector,
to develop a detailed National Forestry Research Plan; and to improve the
extension of research results. The project would finance staff training,
studies and consultancies for the development of priority setting
methodologies and a management information system, a new building, and
necessary computing and office equipment.
Research Program Support. Provision of necessary infrsucture,
equipment, and operating expenses for selected research programs in
ICFRE institutes; the establishment of a research grant fund to commission
research by public and private sector agencies outside ICFRE; measures to
improve the quality of planting stock; provision of support to the forestry
research system as a whole, through human resource development,
provision of equipment or infrastructure required by sevesal research
programs, scientific reviews of institutes and on-going reseach progms;
improvernent of lihby and information systems; and imp¢ovement in the
management and processing of forestry statistics through development of a
Forestry Statistics Unit within ICFRE.
Forestry Education. Development and validation of forestry curricula in
formal education through provision of funds for review and revision work.
Development of the Deemed Forestry University at FRI, primarily through
financing post-graduate research awards for socio-economic, as well as
technical research.
lForestry Policy and Preparation. Strengthening capabilities for policy
analysis within MOEF, in particular, the analysis of the economic
implications of various policy decisions through staff training, provision for
studies and consultancies, and necessary computing equipment; provision
of funds for preparation of fuure projects in the forestry sector.
Coneation of Biodiversity. Development and implementaton of
programs for ecodevelopment around two PAs, the Great Himalayan
National Park (GHNP), Himachal Pradesh, and the Kalakad Mundanthurai
Tiger Reserve (KMIR), Tamil Nadu. Local communities would be
involved in the planning and implementation of progams to generate



21
altentve resources or income. The project would finance the planning
process and provide funds for a range of ecodevelopment activities. The
project would also finance concurrent improvements in the planning and
management of the two PAs. The project would support researh aimed at
improving PA management and the implementation of ecodevelopment, and
a program to monitor socio-economic and ecological changes.
D. Detailed Features
lRosbe nt (US$5.8 million)
2.7       Development of ICFRE (US$4.3 million). The project would finance the
development of ICFRE as the main body responsible for planning and coordination of forstry
reseach in India. The approved structure of ICFRE is shown in Figure 1. ICFRE
Headquarters would be staffed with a limited number of senior staff (See Annex 1)
responsible for developing research, education and extension strategies based on a clear
methodology for setting reseach prioities, that would lead to the development of a National
Forestry Research Pln The project would finance necessary studies to develop the
methodology and its application to the formulation of the plan. The project would support
the development of the Indian Forestry Research Information System (IFRMS), coordinated by
ICFRE, that would provide an essential tool for monitoring and evaluation, and the
intoduction of program budgedng. The project would provide funds for a new building,
necessmy computing and office equipment, and furniture and vehicles. The project would
also finance training, mainly through short courses and visits for senior staff, and speciizd
technical assistance, both local and inteional, in the fields of pririty setting, new
technologies, management infonmation systems, monitoring and evaluation and curriculum
development. Worshops to discuss methodologies for setting research priorities, and
subsequenty the identication of those priorides would be funded through the project.
2.8       E    on (US$1.5 million). The project would strengthen the capabilities of
ICE headquarters and institutes to supo extension activities in three main aeas: (i) the
developmnt of research extension linkages, involving technology tansfer by counication
of research results to state forest services and private sector organizations; (ii) provision of
chnical support for extension programs run by the states and private sector, by investigating
the most effective extension methods, assisdng with the production of electrnic and paper
extension mateials, and financing demonstrations through an Extension Support Fund; and
(Iii) pubLic awareness campaigns and development of materials for inclusion in school and
college cunicula that emphasie the importance of sustainable use of fors resources. The
prject would finance a small ICFRE headquarters staff with specalized extension and media
sIdlls, and the creadon of Extion Support Divisions in four institutes - FRI, Ddea Dun;
TlFI Jabalpur, IWST, Bangalore; and IFG&TB, Coimbate. Each of these Divisions would



22
have funds to conct actual production and printing of films, videos and pamphlets to media
professioals. Provision would be made for limited extensions of buildings, where necessary,
and the project would finance the purchase of desk-top publishing and audio-visual equipment
and publicity vans. Training would be provided for the heads of the extension divisions and
for technicians and funds would be available for local recruitment of extension specalis as
required.
2.9       The project would also finance the creation of an Extension Support Fund. This
would be used to fund programs designed to demonstrate the results of research in the field.
Such programs would be planned by the four institute Extension Support Division, in
collabadon with State Departments of Forestry and Agriculture as approprie. They would
probably cover a group of panchayats and include rapid sociological surveys, project planning
and costing, the preparation of an implementation plan, implementation of the program and
evaluation procedures. Details of the adinistaton of the Fund are presented in Annex S.
Following approval of the planned progrm, funds would be transfenred from ICFRE to the
State Departments who would be responsible for implementaton.
Research Program Support (US$37.8 million)
2.10      Institute Program Support (US$15.1 million). The project would fund a
number of specific research programs in ICFRE and other instutes. These progams have
been chosen because they contribute to the objectives of the nadonal Forest Policy and lie
within the mandates of the respective insdtutions and centers, as shown in Annex 2. The
project would finance the purchase of necessary equipment and opadtng expenses, training
sPecfically related to each of the progrws, and certain facilities at each of the instittes and
centers, such as computers, mist chambers, and nursery facilities. These facilities would be of
use, not only to the project supported programs, but also to many of the on-going progams in
each institute.
2.11      Planting Stock Improvement (US$4.6 million). The project would finance a
program to improve the quality of plantng stock produced at ICFRE Institutes through
adaptation, if necessary, of proven technologies, providing not only greater quantities of better
planting matrals, but most importantly providng demonstrations of the technologies to
SFDs. The project would finance the necessary surveys, equipment, establishment and
maintenance costs for. identified seed production areas; clonal seed orchards; seedlng seed
production areas; seed harvest, handling, testing and storage services; and the development of
nurseries and multiplication gardens. Nursery improvements would be financed at all
institutes as part of the suppor to specific research prgrams, but major nurseies would be
developed at tWo research institutes. The first, developed in thle first year of the project,
would be at Jodhpur, and the second would be developed in the di year of the project at an
instute to be decided. The project would provide for necessary buildings, ipigadon
equipment, water supply, plant containers and staff training. Technical assistance would be
avilable to assist with the development of the planting stock improvement program which



23
would focus on the ten priority species identified by ICFRE as being of national importance.
Details are presented in Annex 6.
2.12      Research System Support (US$12.4 million). The project would widen support
to the research system through the creation of a Research Grant Fund to finance forestry
research programs undertaken by State Forestry Departments, universities, or private sector
organizations. Criteria for the use of the Fund in terms of the type of research and the types
of expenditure, and procedures for administration of the Fund are described in Annex 7.
Grants would be based on proposals for research programs, related to national or state
research priorities, that would complement research being undertaken by other agencies.
Costs could include operational expenses, the costs of needed equipment, and funds to support
post-graduate student research activities within the program.
2.13      The project would also provide substantial support for human resource
development within the research system as a whole. A number of training awards and
research fellowships would be financed, to meet the needs of the Human Resource
Development Plan to be drawn up by ICFRE. This would be paralleled by the provision of
funds for specialized consultants, both locally and internationally recruited, in fields where the
necessary skills are not available widtin the agencies implementing the project Staff training
would be an important part of the role of all consultants.
2.14      In addition, support would be provided to mantain and further improve the
quality of scientific work widtin the forestry sector. This would include reviews of each
institute by a panel of Indian and international scientists, a visiting scientists program to
enable eminent international specialists to advise and participate in specific research
programs, and annual reviews of individual research programs by Indian scientists, with
temination of inappropriate programs. The project would also finance procedures for
analytical standardization. In addition a Research Prize would be awarded annually to the
researcher who is judged to have made the greatest contribution to the sector in a particular
zone. A prize would be awarded in each of ten zones and would be decided on the vote of
staff of the rank of DFO and above in State Forest Departments in each zone.
2.15      Project funding of specific research programs (Para. 2.10) would be
complemented by the provision of support to the research system as a whole. This would
include the provision of DNA equipment in IFG & TB, Coimbatore, to serve a range of
programs in all the ICFRE institutes. The project would also finance repairs of existing
equipment through provision of spares and funds to recruit a consultant instrument technician.
In addition, the project would provide additional vehicles for field oriented research. Iidtially,
all institutes would receive one or two four-wheel drive vehicles, but in subsequent years
additional vehicles would only be allocated to institutes with operational field research
programs.
2.16      Library and Information Systems (US$5.3 million). The project would finance
the development of a National Forestry Library and Infonnation Center (NFLIC) at Debra
Dun and a network involving libraries in ICFRE and related institutes, the Indian Forestry
Libraty and Information Network (IFLIN). The Dehra Dun center would incorporate the



24
existing FR library. Project funds would be available for the construction of a new building
and the purchase of libray furniture. Computers, CD ROM equipment and disketts, and
equipment for the production of current awareness materials would also be provided at Dehra
Dun and other libraies in the network Funds for the purchase of books and jounals, the re-
binding of many existing jounWals, and the computerization of the FRI library catalogue under
contract would be available. Contract printing of special bulledns and monographs would be
financed. Training of staff in library and information sciences through short international
courses and longer courses at Indian institutions would be an important aspect of the project.
The project would also fimance reviews of current research and a sech of grey literature on
specific topics, through the provision of funds for local consultancies. Recurrent expenses
would include publication supplies and the costs of communications for the development of
an inter-library loans system.
2.17      Forestry Statistics (US$0.4 million). The project would finance the development
of a Statistical Unit within ICFRE to coordinate the compilation and analysis of national
forestry statistics. Computing and office equipment, would be provided, together with
taining for staff. Staff salaries and allowances would be included, together with the costs of
any necessary consultancies to collate statistics collected by State Forest Services. More
details of the operation of the Unit are presented in Annex 8.
Forestry Education (US$1.8 million)
2.18      The project would strengthen ICFRE's capacity to review and develop forestry
curicula in universities and schools through the appointment of a DDG Education within
ICFRE headquarters, assisted by an ADG and staff. A series of specific studies for review
and cuicula development would be fmanced through provision of consultancy funds. The
project would also suo post-graduate technical and socio-economic resewch programs at
the FRI Deemed University (FRI-DU) by providing post-graduate student grants and financing
the construction of residential accommodation for students, and the purchase of computing
and other office and laboraty equipment. Salaries and allowances for a registrar, and funds
for coodinators for each of four MSc courses and visiting professors would be included.
Forestry Policy and Preparation (US$2.2 million)
2.19      The project would provide support to the Policy Division of the Forestry Wing of
MOEF through provision of funds for local consultancies This would enable the Division to
comission studies on policy issues as required. The project would also finance short
courses and workshops for senior staff in the Ministry and the states, who are involved in
policy formulation and related analytical work. Project funds would be available to upgrade
the Division's computing facilities to provide the capabiLties to manipulate and present
forestry statistics for particula purposes. The project would also provide funds for the
preparation by local and foreign consultants of future foresty projects for funding by GOI, or
donors.



25
Conservation of Blodiversity (US$5.3 million)
2.20      The Conservation of Biodiversity Project Are". These areas would be the two
PAs of GHNP and KMITR, together with peripheral areas of between five and ten kilometers
in width, which are not already part of adjacent PAs (See Maps I and 2). GHNP, with an
area of 62,000 ha is representative of a wide range of Himalayan ecology from altitudes of
1300 meters to over 4000 meters, contains a very diverse flora, and is a refuge for a varied
Himalayan fauna, of which some species are endangered. KMTR is located in the southern
Western Ghats and has an area of 81,700 ha. The reserve contains a unique and varied flora,
ranging from thorn and dry teak forests to tropical evergreen forests, and has a rich variety of
birds and animals, including both tigers and panthers. The PAs were selected because they
are representative of widely differing ecosystems, are not affected by major issues of
resettlement, and provide a manageable area for the introduction of ecodevelopment progrms.
More details of the two PAs and their surroundings are presented in Annex 9, together with
an assessment of their biological value and an analysis of the pressures on PA resources. The
component for conservation of biodiversity would consist of three sub-components described
below.
2.21      Ecodevelopment (US$3.3 million). The project would finance the operations of
a small ecodevelopment planning team to work around each PA. The team would include not
only staff of the State Forestry Departnents, but also NGO staff to assist with micro-level
participative planning of ecodevelopment activities. The precise nature of the activities would
be dependent on the micro-planning exercise. Consultation with sample rural communides
during project preparation, based on surveys using Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
techniques, indicated that these communities would wish ecodevelopment to include: biomass
generation through tree and fodder plantings; income generation activities such as small
artisanal or agricultual enterprises; infrastructual improvements; eco-tourism and, in a
transidonal phase; paid labor opportunities related to PA development in and around the PA.
More details are presented in Annex 4. An important part of the planning would be to reach
agreement on the management of funds by the communides themselves, accepting that these
arrangements may differ from one community to another. The implementation of planned
activities would be financed tirough the creation of an Ecodevelopment Support Fund (EDS).
The planning process and the operation of the EDS are also described in Annex 4. Traimng,
staff housing and specalist advisers to monitor progress and to assist with the development of
methods and institutional arangements for the management of funds, and production,
marketing, and eco-tourism would be provided.
2.22      PA Management (US$1.1 million). The project would support improvermts to
the management of GHNP and KMTR. Funds would be available for the refinement and
further development of existing management plans for each area, so that they are lind to
ecodevelopment activities in areas peripheral to the PA. On the basis of these revised plans
the project would finance infrastructure that would include visitor centers, research sub-
stations, fire watchtowers, and staff housing. The project would also provide for
communications, computing, office and field equipment, vehicles and mules or horses, and
maerials for education and public awareness. Intemational and local taining of project staff
would be financed and funds made available to recruit specialist advisers for development of



26
PA management plans, for design of park buildings, and for developing public awareness
campaigns and materials.
2.23      Research, Monitoring and Evaluation (US$0.9 million). The project would
finance a number of different research progams to provide infornaton required for
successful management of PAs. Research topics would include studies of the vegetation and
canrying capacity of alpine pastures, the ecology and possible cultivation of herbs and
medicinal plants, biological crop protection, social anthropology and indigenous knowledge of
the environment. Monitoring and evaluation would include baseline studies of ecological and
socio-economic and cultural conditions, with follow-up studies undetaken in the third and
final years of the project. Emphasis would be given to assessing the impact of human and
livestock populations on biodiversity and PA ecology and L.- impact of PA related
restricdons on the lives of local people. The project would also finance strategic national
studies of the requirements for ecodevelopment around PAs, in order to establish piorities for
action and to provide a mechanism for building on experience gained through this project and
other initiatives, including Bank-supported state forestry projects . The objectives of project-
financed research topics are summarized in Annex 10.
E. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost Estimates
2.24      Total project costs are estimated at US$56.4 million (Rs.2152 million) inclusive
of duties and taxes in the amount of US$3.4 milion (Rs.124 million). Of this, 40 percent or
US$22.8 million are foreign exchange costs. Investment costs amount to 86 percent and
rent costs to 14 percent of base costs. The base costs are those obtained at the ime of
appraisal and have been adjusted for inflation to the time of negodations. Physical
contingencies amount to 8 percent. Price contingencies of 2.8 percent per year were added
for the foreign exchange component. For local costs, price contingencies were added at 6.5
percent for 1994 and at 6.0, 5.5, 5.0 and 5.0 percent for the following years 1°
'° Source: Word Bank Guidelines for India as of June, 1993. Mme tgi for inteatona infladon
are conisten with tke Bank's latest 0-5 MUV Index, updatod peiodially.



27
2.25     The table below gives a summary of project costs by component. Additional
sumnuay tables on project costs by year, by conmponent and by summary accounts are
presented in Annex 11.
Project Cost Summary
Foreign   Local   Total  FE
.......... (US$ million) .......  %
Researh Management
A. Development of ICFRE              0.9      3.4    4.3   21
B. Extension                         0.3      1.2     1.5   17
Research Program Support
A. Institute Program Support         6.4      8.7    15.1   43
B. Planting Stock Improvement        1.1      3.5    4.6   25
C. Research System Support           6.7      5.7    12.4   54
D. Libra  and Information Systems    2.7      2.6    5.3   52
E. Forestry Statistics               0.1      0.3    0.4   24
Forestry Education                         0.2      1.6    1.8   13
Forestry Policy and Preparation            0.4      1.8    2.2   16
Conservation of Biodiversity
A. Ecodevelopment                    0.3      3.0    3.3   10
B. PA Management                     0.3      0.8     1.1   30
C. Reseach, Monitoring and Evaluation    0.2  0.7     0.9   21
Total Baseline Costs                      19.6    33.3   52.9   37
Physical Contingencies               1.6      2.6    4.2   38
Price Contingencies                  1.6    -2.3   -0.7       0
TOTAL PROJECr COSTS 1/                    22.8             56.4   40
I/   Including duties and taxes of US$3.4 million
Proposed Financing Plan
2.26      The prposed IDA Credit of US$47.0 million equivalent would finance 88
percent of total project costs, net of taxes, or 83 percent of total project costs, including txs
The credit would finance 100 percent of the dire and indirect foreigp exchange coss and 71



28
percent of local costs. Incremental recurrent costs amount to 13 percent of total costs
including contingencies. These would include the operation and maintenance costs of civil
works, vehicles and equipment fnanced by the project, and research expenses. IDA would
fund an average of about 75 percent of the incremental recurrent costs, excluding salaries
and allowances, which amount to US$1.5 million over the five-year peiod. There would be a
phased increase in Govenment's contribution to other incremental recurrent costs. IDA
would finance 85% during the first 30 months of the project, to enable new researcb prorams
to be initiated successfully, but this contribution would decline to 50% in the second half of
the project period. In order to further develop the forestry research system and to maintain
the momentum of research activities developed through the project, there will be a continuing
need for investment in research and a commitment by Government to provision of adequate
recurent expenditure beyond the five-year project period. The project is designed as part of
a long-term effort to strengthen forestry research capabilities in India, and future increases in
Govemment funding and continued donor support for forestry research would be considered
in the light of project experience. The financing plan below presents lDA and GOI
contibutions for the inital five-year project period.
Proposed Financing Plan by Foreign Exchange and Local Costs
(US$ million)
Foreign     Local     Total
DA                 22.8       24.2       47.0
GOT                 0.0         9.4  I/   9.4
Total        22.8       33.6        .4
i/ Includes duties and taxes of US$3.4 million
F. Procurement
2.27      Cvil Works (US$11.0 million) up to an aggregate amount of US$10.0 million
would be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Local Competitive Bidding (LCB)
procedwes acceptable to IDA. iTe jusdfication for the proposed LCB for civil works is that
they consist of rebiition of existing buildings, or the construction of new buildings in
widely scattered locatons, during the first thee years of the project Ihere would be about
45 septe buildings, to be consucted in 14 different localities. Te largest contrat is
likely to be less than US$1.5 million, whilst the average contract size is likely to be less than
US$500,000. It is unlikely that foreign firms would find such contract attractve.
Nonetheless, bids from foreign conuctuors would not be precluded. Detailed design of the
works would be completed prior to issuing the invitation to bid. Contcs would be entered
into following stndard bidding procedures and documents acceptable to IDA. Small civil
works, not exceeding the equivalent of US$10,000 each would be undertaken by ICFRE under
force account, or by inviting bids from at least three qualified contractors, up to an aggregate
amount of US$1.0 million. These works would not be suitable for competitive bidding
because of the smal amounts involved.



29
2.28      Vehicles, Equipment and Materials (US$9.6 million). Wherever possible,
equipment, in particular, scientific equipment would be grouped into contracts valued at
US$200,000 or more and would be procured through International Competitive Bidding (ICB)
procedures, to an aggregate total of US$7.6 million. Equipment estimated to cost more than
the equivalent of US$60,000 but less than US$200,000, up to an aggregate of US$1.0 million,
would be procured using LCB procedures. Standard Bidding Documents acceptable to IDA
would be used for ICB and LCB procurement. Vehicles would be required throughout the
project period in different locations. For operational efficiency it would be necessary to
procure the vehicles in installments of types that car, be easily maintained and serviced
locally. Consequendy, they would be procured using local shopping procedures acceptable to
IDA. Similarly, small items of equipment, and some field and laboratory supplieswould be
procured in small lots over the five-year period. Individual contracts are not expected to
exceed US$20,000 and as such will be procured using local or intemational shopping
procedures satisfactory to IDA, up to an aggregate amount of US$1.1 million for vehicles and
US$1.0 million for equipment. Intemational shopping will be used to the maximum extent
possible. This level of shopping would be needed because of the number of different
institutions involved in project implementation, each with specific and differing needs.
2.29      Consultancies, Studies and Training (US$15.9 million). Consultancy services
estimated at US$4.3 million would be contracted on terms and conditions :n accordance with
the IDA Guidelines for the Use of Consultants. Technical assistance esmated to cost
US$3.1 million and training, including a service contract for placement and support of
trainees, to a total of US$8.5 million would be agreed using procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.30      Research Grant, Extension and Ecodevelopment Support Fund& (US$8.7
million) are designed to provide support for research and extension undertaken by agencies
contcted by ICFRE and for ecodevelopment activities. The funds would be utilized using
procedures acceptable to IDA.
2.31      Plant Establishment (US$2.6 million). This includes the cost of establishing
identified seed production areas, clonal seed orchards, seedling seed production areas, and
multiplication gardens. As these would be small and widely scattered and individual
contracts would be less than US$10,000 equivalent, each would be undertaken by ICFRE
under force account.
2.32      Operating Costs (US$7.5 million) include incremental operating and
maintenance costs of vehicles and equipment, and the purchase of office, laboratory, and
computer supplies. Costs of field expermentaton and trials, including labor, seed or other
planting mials, ferdlizers, and chemicals are also considered as operating costs
Incremental staff salaries and allowances are also included as operating costs, though these
would be financed by GOL
2.33      Contract Review. Civil works contracts valued at US$200,000 and above,
contracts for goods and vehicles valued at US$100,000 and above, consultant contracts valued
at US$10,000 and above, all computer contracts, and the first five contracts for services
would be subject to IDA prior review. This would result in prior review of about 20 percent



30
of all contracts to a total value of about US$18 million. About one in ten of all other
contracts woud be subject to random post-review by visiting missions. The nature of the
project is such that a higher level of IDA review would not have a significant impact on
procuement quality.
2.34      The project elements, their estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement
are summarized below:
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
Project Element                 Procurement Method            Total
ICB        LCB         Others       Cost
........................ .US$ Million
Works
Buildings                               10.0          1.0        11.0
(7.5)       (0.8)       (8.3)
Goods
Equipment/Supplies           7.6         1.0          1.0         9.6
56.1)      (Q-8)        (Q.8)       (7-7)
Vehicles                                              1.1         1.1
(0.9)       (0.9)
Consultancies, Studies and TIning
Capacity Building                                     3.1         3.1
(3.1)       (3.1)
Studies and Consultancies                             4.3         4.3
(4.3)       (4.3)
Training                                              8.5         8.5
(8.5)       (8.5)
Miscellaneous
Research Grant, Extension and
Ecodevelopment Support Funds             2.0          6.7         8.7
(1.8)       (6.0)       (7.8)
Plant Establishment                                   2.6         2.6
(1-9)       (1.9)
Operatng Costs                                        7.5         7.5
(4.5)       (4.5)
Total                                   13.0         3.8S        56.4
(6.1)      (10.1)      (30.8)      (47.0)
Not. 1. Figures in parentheses are the respecive amounts financed by dhe IDA Credit.
2. Other methods include force account, shopping, engagement of consultants and
training.



31
2.35      ICFRE would play a lead role in preparing procurement schedules for the project
ICFRE has little experience of IDA procurement procedures, although they have some
expenience with other donors. A Procurement Officer has, therefore, been appointed to
coordinate the procurement requirements of the ICFRE institutes, preparing equipment
specifications, procurement schedules, and bidding documents. On-the-job training for the
Procurement Officer would be aranged with an agency with procurement experience in other
IDA financed projects.
2.36      There is a limited amount of procurement associated with the Conservation of
Biodiversity component. This would be coordinated by the PA Dircors of the Wildlife
Wimgs of the State Forest Departments in Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pradesh. There are on-
going or recently completed Bank group projects in both states and staff are familiar with
IDA procurement procedures. MOEF would be responsible for procurement of consultancy
services linked to forest policy and preparation and, in collaboration with WII, for
commissioning research under the Conservation of Biodiversity component. Such studies and
consultancies would be arranged in accordance with IDA guidelines for the use of consultants.
G. Disbursements
2.37      Disbursements under the Credit would be made for
(a) 75% on civil works for buildings (including construction of nurseries and
provision of water supplies);
(b) 100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local ex-factory costs or 80% of
other local costs of equipment, vehicles, construction materials, and
research expenses, (including laboratory and field supplies);
(c) 100% of expenditures on consultant services, training, and studies;
(d) 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local costs of equipment,
construction materials, research expenses and opertng costs financed
through the Research Grant, Extension Support and Ecodevelopment
Support Funds;
(e) IDA would finance 85% of incremental recurrent costs, other than staff
salaries and allowances, during the first 30 months of the project, to enable
new research programs to be initiated successfully. This contnbution
would be reduced to 50% during the second half of the project period,
representing a phased increase in Government's contribution to incremental
recurent costs. All incremental staff salaries and allowances would be
financed by GOI so the IDA contribution to incremental recurrent costs
would amount to an average of about 60% of expenditures on operating



32
costs. These would include the incremental recurrent costs of operation and
maintenance of vehicles and equipment, and laboratory and field research
expenses of research programs supported through the project.
2.38      Disbursements against civil works on contracts exceeding US$200,000 equivalent
and against equipment and supplies on contracts exceeding US$100,000 equivalent would be
fully documented, as would disbursements for all vehicles, consultants, and overseas training,
conferences and study tours. Disbursements for other expenditures would be made against
Statements of Expenditure (SOEs). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by
GOI and be made available to Association staff during supervision. Expenditures for project
activities incurred after September 30, 1993, would be eligible for retroactive financing, up to
a maximum of SDR 2.9 million (US$4.0 million equivalent). All contracts and items to be
financed retroactively will have been procured in a manner acceptable to the Association.
Disbursements are projected over a period of five IDA fiscal years, from July 1994 to June
1999. The disbursement schedule is presented in Annex 12. It is shorter than the historical
disbursement profile for agriculture sector projects in India, but appears realistic since there is
a well-established network of research institutions responsible for undertaking project-financed
research programs, and an important project objective is to improve management skills
throughout the system. The closing date of the Credit is December 31, 1999.
2.39      To facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, a Special Account in US dollars would be established in the Reserve Bank of
lndia, with an authorized allocation of US$2.5 million, which is equal to the estimated three
monthly average disbursement. Assurances were obtained at negotations that GOI, GOHP
and GOTN would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling funds required for
canrying out the project. An understanding was reached at negotiations that GOI would
release about three months anticipated project expenditure in advance to GOHP and GOTN,
and that upon recept of funds from GOI, GOHP and GOTN would immediately transfer such
funds, together with quarterly countexpart contributions, to project accounts of the state
implementing agencies.
IL Accounts and Audit
2.40      ICFRE, MOEF and the State Forest Departments in Tamil Nadu and Himachal
Pradesh would establish separate accounts for the project. These accounts, together with
supporting documentation, including contributions from GOI and the Credit, would provide a
comprehensive recod of project financing and expenditures. Assurances were obtained at
otiaons that. these accounts and the Special Account would be maintained and audited
annually in accodance with approprite auditing principles consistently applied by
independent auditors acceptable to IIDA; and the auditor's report, which would include a
separt statement on the SOEs and certified copies of the SOEs, would be submitted to IDA
not later than nine months after the close of each fiscal year.



33
mI. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization and Management
3.1       Forestry Research Education and Extension. The organization of the project
would be fully integrated with the coordination and management of the forestry research,
education and extension systems at national, state, research institute, and program levels.
This is illustrated in Figure 2, showing planning and coordination of forestry research
programs centered on the ICFRE Society and its governing Board, with institutional linkages
to the Forestry Wing of MOEF, the State Forestry Departments and the Universities. Once
research priorities have been set by ICFRE and a long-term National Forestry Research Plan
agreed, detailed program management m the shorter term would be the responsiblity of the
Directors of Institutes, State Forestry Departments, Deans of university faculties, or other
implementing agencies. ICFRE also has a role in forestry education, directly through the
FRI-DU and indirectly through its role in curriculum development and validation of forestry
degrees in universities. Training of professional staff in IGNFA and the SRCs is the
responsibility of MOEF. Mass extension programs are primarily the responsibility of the
State Forestry Departments, but ICFRE institutes would provide support and advice.
3.2       Conservation of Biodiversity. The innovative nature of the component for the
Conservation of Biodiversity and state government responsibilites for implementation require
special arrangements for coordination and management. There is no existing institution with
a clear-cut mandate for coordination of ecodevelopment activities at a national level, so a
Project Steering Committee for Conservation of Biodiversity would fulfill this role, at least
for the duration of this project. In particular, the committee would provide a focus for
evaluation of ecodevelopment pgrams and the review of policies in the light of experience
in the two PAs. As illustrated in Figure 3, the committee would coordinate planning and
implementation of PA management and ecodevelopment activities underken by State Forest
Departments of GOHP and GOTN, with the active involvement of NGOs. The committee
would also oversee research, monitoring and evaluation studies commissioned by MOEF with
the assistance of WIT.
3.3      1The nature of the research management system is first sumnarized below,
followed by a discussion of strategies for forestry education and training, for extension and
for ecodevelopment. The project would provide support only for selected research and
development aspects of each of these strategies as it is not designed as a comprehensive
means of addressing all the needs of implementing, for example, forestry extension programs.
Arrangements for project management and implementation are then described in the following
section and discussed in more detail in Annex 13. A summary implementation schedule is
presented in Annex 14.



34
3.4       The Research Management System. ICFRE would form the focal point of the
research management system, fulffllng its mandate to formulate forestry resarrch policy and
to organize, direct and manage research and education in the forestry sector. The ICFRE
Society, whose membership is presented in Annex 1, would become the apex body goveming
research policy and programs, providing advice directly to GOI. Every effort should be made
to broaden the membership of the Society to include more private sector representatives.
ICFRE headquarters staff(Annex 1) would take the lead in formulating and coordinating the
planning and implementation of research, extension and forestry education programs on a
national basis, and not merely for project financed programs. The management of ICFRE
institutes would remain, as at present, with the institute directors and the Research Advisory
Group for each institute. Development of the research management system would be in part
dependent on the adoption of a systematic methodology to decide research priorities, that
would improve efficiency in the use of limited research resources and ensure that the reasons
for decisions to support particular programs are clear to all. A number of different methods
have been developed and are described in Annex 13. The development of the Indian Forestry
Research Informadon System (EFRIS) linked to the introduction of program budgeting would
be another important step to improve the management of forestry research, providing the
means to monitor the progress of research programs and to examine research expenditure in
relation to identified pnoities. IFRIS would require the preparation of annual research plans
in a standard format Scientific evaluation of research programs and of institutes by panels of
internatonaly respected scientists would be one further means of ensuring that research is
relevant and of high quality.
3.5       Strategy for Forestry Education. The radical changes in the National Forest
Policy requires foresters to be sensitive to the needs of village communities and tribal people,
as well as promoDting greater efficiency in the use of forest resources, through improved
management for greater productivity and sustainability. The strategy for forestry education
and training would be to introduce this major new element into the curriculum of universities
and other training institutions. The project would support curriculum development and
validation of those courses which give appropriate emphasis to the new requirements. A
closely related ODA financed project, providing support for training of IFS probationers, SFS
trainees, Rangers, Faresters and Forest Guards, would be consistent with this srtfegy. It
would require the appointment of social scientists to teaching staffs, specifically to develop an
awareness of rumral sociology, rual economy and forest economics. Other aspects of the
strategy concern the provision of research grants at the FRI-DU to provide oppotunities for
post-graduate research for university staff and others, thereby providing a linkage between
identified priority research programs and university forestry education.
3.6       Strategy for Forestry Extension. The new National Forest Policy with its
emphasis on community management of forests provides the necessary impetus for a
considerable increase in extension activities. The strategy for forestry extension supported
under the project would be to focus on the development of research extension linkages.
ICFRE's role would be the transfer of technology to State Forestry Department staff and other
private sectr ganizations, the provision of advice and extension materials to those



35
organizions, and the development of pubLic awareness campaigns. Emphasis would be
given to on-site rather than in-house workshops and demonstation. ICFRE would not be
involved in mass extension programs, dealing direcdy with large numbers of users of forest
resources. These programs would be the responsibility of SFDs forming part of their regula
activities. In those states in which World Bank support is provided for forestry, extension
would form an important part of the project.
3.7       Strategy for Conservation of Biodiversity. The strategy for conservation of
biodiversity would be based on ecodevelopment, through the involvement of people living in
and around PAs in the planning and implementation of conservation measures. It would build
on the Limited experience of the process in India and elsewhere which shows that
participative, site-specific, micro-level planning is required to identify altenative ways to
produce the biomass or genemte income presendy derived from within the PAs. Planning
would make provision for a tnsitional phase, as many ecodevelopment activittes would take
time to produce alternative incomes or resources. Ecodevelopment planning would be backed
by an appropriate management plan for the PA. This plan would: define the requirements of
conservation, thereby defining the limits to human udlizaon; identify ways in which the
local population can be involved in planning and management of the PA; be linked to
proposed ecodevelopment activities and; mnake provision for the institudonal structures and
processes for management of the PA and associated ecodevelopment. Ihe strtegy would be
to identify ways in which some of the benefits arising from conservation would be channeled
to local communies and linked to programs that raise community awaeness of the value and
conservation needs of PAs. Types of ecodevelopment activities have been identified during
project preparation on the basis of participatoiy rural apprisals in representative communities
around each PA and are discussed in Annex 4.
B. Project Management
3.8       Project Steering Committees (PSC). Two Project Stering Committees, for
Forestry Research, Education and Extension, and for Conservation of Biodiversity would be
estabLished and chaired by the Secretary, MOEF, to enswe that the implementing agencies
meet the obligations and assurances agreed during project negotiations. The functions of the
two committees and their membship are presented in the following sections. Both
committees would meet at least once per year to review progress and resolve outstanding
issues.
Forestry Reearch Education and Extension
3.9       Project Steering Committee (PSC) for Forestry Research, Education and
Extension. TIis committee would be responsible for coordination of project activities in the
Research Management, Research Program Support, Foresty Education and the Forestry
Policy and Peon components of the project. In pardcula, the Committee would ensure
dta each rsearch insttute introduces the proposed changes in management and budgeting



36
procedures, and the preparation of annual plans for research progams. Linkages between the
PSC and the implementing agencies are illustratd in Figure 2. The Secretary, ICFRE, would
be the Member Secretary of the committee and the membership is presented in Annex 3.
3.10      The Role of ICFRE. Headquarters staff of ICFRE have a key role to play in
project management and implementation. The agreed structure is illustrated in Figure 1, and
the main functions of senior staff in the headquarters unit are presented in Annex 1. This
shows that the Director General (DG), the chief execudve of the Council, would be assisted
by four Deputy Directors General (DDGs), responsible for Research, Education, Extension
Support, and Administration, supported by six Assistant Directors General (ADGs). Joint
Directors (JDs) would be appointed with responsibility for specific activities or research
topics. The responsibilities of these senior staff are discussed below in relation to project
admistration and the implementation of the various project components, followed by a
summary implementaion schedule, and a descripdon of the arangements for mid-tetm and
completion reviews and reporting.
3.11      Project Administration. The DDG Administration, assisted by a qualified
Procurement Officer would form a focal point for all project-financed procurement of goods
and services, coordinatng the preparation of procurement schedules, of detailed specifications
by the various implementing agencies, and of procurement documents in appropriate formats.
ICFRE would be responsible for ensuring that procedures as set out in World Bank
Guidelines for Procurement are followed. Similarly, the management of the ICFRE Project
Account and the processing of disbursement applications to the World Bank would be
undertaken by the ICFRE Finance and Disbursement Officers. MOEF would operate a
separate Project Account to finance activities within the Mnistry or its agencies.
3.12      Researb Management. The DDG Research, assisted by three ADOs, would
play a key role in developing the research management system through three main groups of
activities. The first group of acdvities relates to research planning, that would involve the
development of a methodology for setting research priorities. Possible methods are discussed
in Annex 13. Application of an agreed methodology would lead to the development of the
National Forestry Research Plan (NFRP). This would be closely linked to policy and
economic analysis. It would be essential to involve SFDs and private sector agencies in the
discussions leading to formulation of the NFRP and the project would finance regtonal or
zonal workshops for discussion of priorities. It would be important that SAU and zonal
agricultural research center staff be included for discussion of agroforestry research programs.
The project would finance a series of workshops to ensure that such discussions can take
place. In parallel to this process the DDG, Education would take responsibility for the
preparation of a Human Resource Development Plan (HRDP) that would reflect the skills
requred for the mplementation of the NFRP. Assurances were obktined at negotiaons that
proposals for a methodology for setting research prionties would be developed by ICFRE,
reviewed by a research advisory sub-committee of the ICFRE Board of Govemnors, discussed
with IDA, and approved by the ICFRE Board by June 30, 1995 and that dafts of the NFRP
and associated HRDP would be completed by June 30, 1996, and agreed with IDA by the



37
dme of project mid-term review, that is before February 28, 1997.
3.13      The second group of activities concerns monitoring and evaluation, also described
in Annex 13, and would include the development of IFRIS and the introduction of progam
budgeting: the scientific review of institutes and progams is discussed in Pam 3.20.
Assurances were obtained at negotions that a decision on the format of IFRIS would be
agreed with IDA by December 31, 1994. Program budgeting would be introduced during FY
95-96, the FY 96-97 budget would be based on a program budget system as far as practical,
and fully utilized for the FY 97-98 budget.
3.14      The tiird group of management activities concerns the coordination of research.
Coordination of research programs within ICFRE is discussed below in relation to that
separate project component. Coordination with other agencies undertaldng research that is
relevant to the forestry sector requires considerable attention. A particular case in point is
research into agro-forestry, in which foresters, crop scientists, livestock specialists and
agricultralists all have important contributions to make. Mechanisms for such coordination
are already provided for at a high level, as the DG, ICAR is a member of the ICFRE Board
of Governors, and vice versa. At the institute level, agriculturalists from the states and the
SAUs are represented on the Research Advisory Groups of each of the ICFRE institutes, and
external review procedures for individual research programs would provide opporunities for
coordination with research in other institutions and to avoid duplication of effort. It would be
the responsibility of the DDG Research in ICFRE, to actively promote coordinaton of
research between agencies in different sectors.
3.15      Extension. Activities would be coordinated by the DDG Extension, tirough the
Extension Support Divisions in four institutes. Each Division would, working with SFDs, be
responsible for the technical content of extension materials. They would also make
arrangements for the production of these materials, using media professionals. ICFRE
headquarters staff would be available to provide specialist advice to both institutes and SFDs.
Responsibility for the operation of the Extension Support Fund would lie with the DDG
Extension. Programs to communicate research findings would be drawn up by the Extension
Support Divisions in collaboration with SFDs. Programs would be reviewed by the Extension
Grants Committee and the DDG Extension would transfer funds to the SFD for
implementation of approved programs. He would be responsible for their annual review.
Representadves of ICAR and SAUs would be members of the Extension Grants Committee to
ensure coordination with other extension programs in the agiculumre sector, partiularly those
reling to agroforestry. Criteria for the use of the Fund would be agreed with IDA as a
conditon for disbwrsement. It was agreed at negotaons tha the first three proposals for
financing under the fund would be reviewed in collaboration with IDA.



38
3.16      Rea-cl NogmPrm Support. The DDG Research would also have responsbility
for coordinatng the planning and implementation of research progams, both those financed
through the project and the overall program of research undertaken by ICFRE. Actual
implementadon of research programs would be the responsibility of institute dietors, and
ultimately of the resewch scientists. However, the DDG Research would be responsible for
ensuring that annual research plans are drawn up and, if necessary, adjusted in the light of the
priority setting methodology to be developed by ICFRE, and the scientific reviews of
institutes and programs.
3.17      Research Grant Fund (RGF). The management of the Research Grant Fund
would be the responsibility of the DDG, Research. Applications for grants would be
considered by the Research Grants Board, which would be chaired by the DO. The
membership of the Board is presented in Annex 7, though specialsts would be coopted as
necessary to review specific applications. The first task of the Board would be to agree on
criteria for assessmg the types of research progams and expenditure eligible for support
tbrough the RGF. These would be publicized through SFi)s, private sector and NGO
associations. Suggested criteia are presented in Annex Fi together with procedures for
administaion of the Fund. The proposed criteria for t J type of researh include its
relvance to the priorities established by ICFRE, the F elihood of producing results of
immediate use to the users of forest resources, the probabilirty of obtaining results within five
yeas, and its comlementarity with on-going research in India or elsewhere. The types of
ependiture eligible for support would include equipment, operational expenses and
fellowships for post-graduate stxdents participating in the proposed progm. Staff salaries
would not be eligible for financing through the Fund. Methods for assessing  sech
proposal would be agreed with IDA as a conditon for dIsbwsementL It was agreed at
egotdIaons that the fis three proposals for financing under the RGF would be reviewed in
ollaboradon with IDA aftr pre-review by the Research Grants Board. Funds for apWoved
grants would be transfemd in three tranches, in advance, to a dedicated account set up by the
implementag agency. The Board would review progress of research financed through the
RGF at least anmually, prio to the release of funding for the next yea?s work. The
pcentage of funds allocated to SFDs, universities, private sector agencies and NGOs would
be monitored.
3.18      PIanfg Stock Improvement. Coordination of the program for planting stock
improvement to be financed under the project would be the responsibility of the ADG
Progamms, under the DDW Research. Detailed planning of the program would be managed by
the JD Troe ovement, working closely with instite Dirctors and staff and liaising with
SFD staff. Responsibility for implementation of the agreed progam would lie with the
insdtit Director  Assurces were obtained at negotatons that the survey to idendfy
iterim seed soures for development would be completed and discsed with IDA by
December 31, 1994, together with detailed site plans for clonal seed orchards, for seeding
seed productin areas and for muldplication gardens. Detailed plans for nursy improvement
in ail institutes would be completed by the same date. Quality materials produced by the
nurseries would be made available to SFDs and the private sector for further multplicaton.



39
3.19      Research System Support. An important element of this component would be
support for human resource development through the provision of traiing awards for local
and overseas post-graduate and technical rainng, both degree comses and short-term visits.
In addition, there is provision for junior and senior research fellowships within ICFRE
institutes. The nature of the trning has not been specified, in order to provide flexibility and
permit training to be tailored to the evolving needs of the research system. However, training
in specific topics or research areas has also been included in the funding for research
programs. The selection of candidates for training under both schemes would be the
responsibility of a Training Committee to be estabLished under the chairmanship of the DD;,
Education. Assurances were obtahsed at negotatons that annual training plans, acceptable
to IDA, for project-financed tanng would be prepared not later than September 30, 1994 for
the first year of the project, and not later dtan April 30 of each subsequent year, in order to
ensure placement of students in academic institutons in the following October. The costs of
trining include funds for student placement services, to facilitate timely placement of
students in appropriat courses. A contract for placement and support of trainees with an
institution acceptable to IDA would be agreed by September 30, 1994.
3.20      This component would also include funds for the scientific review of research
institutes and programs. Responsibility for the organization of these reviews would lie with
the DDG, Research. Assurances were obined at negotations that review of the scientific
activities of at least two ICFRE institutes would be undertaken during each year of the
project based on terms of reference to be agreed with IDA and the recommendatons of the
reviews would thereafter be implemented. The DDG, Research, assisted by the ADO,
Programs would be responsible for drawing up a program for analytical standardiion within
ICFRE institutes and coLaborating research organizations Assurances were obtained at
negotiaons that such a program would be discussed with IDA and introduced by December
31, 1994.
3.21      In addition to specialists underakdng the scientific reviews of institutes, support
to the research system would also be provided through short-term recruitment of local and
internaional specialists where skills are not available within the ICFRE system or national
and state forest services. Project-financed provision for internatonally-recruited technical
assistance specialists and locally recruited consultants are summarized in Annex 15. ICFRE
headquarters would be responsible for consultant recruitment, with terms of reference drawn
up by the concerned ADG and approved by the DDG. However, aU the technical assistance
and consultancies would be short-term, with individuals maling short visits for one to four
months in each year. In order to maintain continuity, and to facilitate the identification and
recruitment of appropriate specalists, ICFRE would enter into an agreement with an
apropriate institution to provide technical specialists according to the agreed schedule in
Annex 15. This concept, essentially a twinning arrangement, is further discussed in Annex
15 and in more detail in a World Bank Handbook '. The project would fund the
aministrative costs of these services. It would be a condition of credi effectiveness that an
insdtution, acceptable to IDA, would be identfied and a contac for provision of technical
speciats agreed.
11  Handbook on Technica Assiaace. World Bank. 1993.



40
3.22      Library and Informadon Systens. The DDG Extension would be responsible
for the development of the network of library and information services, though the ADO,
Library and Information Services would have specific responsibility for this specialized work.
To avoid unnecessary duplication, assurances were obtained at negotiadons that by
December 31, 1994, agreement would be reached among the various libraries in IFLIN, on
the purchase of joumals. Contracts for the computerization of the FRI and other institute
library catalogues would also be prepared and terms of reference finalized for any reviews of
current research and grey literature agreed with IDA by the same date.
3.23      Forestry Statistics. The Statistician in charge of the Forestry Statistics Unit to
be developed in ICFRE would report to the DDG Research, through the ADG Planning P.He
would draw up a program of work to collect and process statistics from each of the State
Forest Services, with, if possible, a phased program aimed to collect statistics for the period
dwing which national statistics were not compiled by FRI.
3.24      FRI-DU. Management of the FRI-DU would be closely controlled by ICFRE.
The DG would be the Chancellor, the Director FRI, the Vice Chancellor, and the DDG
Education would have an important role to play by reason of his chairmanship of the
Mianagement Committee, or University Court. The DU would be supported through the
project by the provision of post-graduate training awards for students working in FRI or other
ICFRE institutes, and the construction of a student hostel. Awards for both socio-economic
and technical research prgrams would be decided by the Training Committee. Responsibility
for the construction of the student hostel would rest with the Director, FRI. The development
of the FRI-DU would be linked to the establishment of criteria for validation of degrees in
forestry awarded by universities. This would be based on a review of the curricula for
forestry education in universities and assurances were obtained at negotiations that, in
consultation with IDA, the review would be completed by June 30, 1996. The DDG,
Education would take a lead in the review and development of curricula for universities that
meet the requirements for recruitment to forest services at various levels. Curricula that
mclude forestry topics for primary and secondary schools and other educational
establishments would also be developed.
3.25      Policy and Preparation Studies. The Deputy Inspector General, Policy, in the
MOEF would be responsible for implementing the program of consultancies designed to assist
the Ministry with policy related analysis and the preparation of future forestry projects. The
DIG would draw up terms of reference for the studies and be responsible for identification of
suitable consultants. Assurmnces were obtained at negoations that terms of reference for
the first three policy analysis studies and for all project-financed preparaton studies would be
agreed with IDA, no later than February 28, 1997.
Conswervation of Biodiversity
3.26      Ptoject Stering Committee (PSC) for Conservation of Biodiversity. This
Committee would be responsible for coordination of project support for the Conservation of



41
Biodiversity component. It would review the revised management plans for GHNP and
KMTR, and ensure that agreed areas are designated as sanctunies or as additions to national
parks. Ihe Committee would also promote consistency of approach to ecodevelopment
through an overview of ecodevelopment plans and activities in the areas peipheMl to the two
PAs, and take responsibility for the inidating any changes in policy or institutional
arrangements that may be necessary in the light of implementation experience. Linkages
between the PSC and implementing agencies are illustrated in Figure 3. The membership of
the Committee is presented in Annex 3. The Director, Project Tiger would be the Member
Secretary of the PSC and would be responsible for coordination of project acdvities for the
Conservation of Biodiversity component within MOEF.
3.27      Project Implementation Committees Committees would be established in
Himachal Pradesh and in Tamil Nadu to oversee project implementation in GHNP and KMTR
respectively. The committees, chaied by the respective state Secretaies for Forests, would
be responsible for reviewing revised PA management plans, and ecodevelopment plans as
approved by the PA Director. Institutional arrangements, in paricular for the management of
ecodevelopment funds at the commuity level would be periodically examined by the
committees. The committees would also be empowered to delegate financial authority to the
PA Director for cetain types of expenditure, to ensme that the implementation of approved
ecodevelopment plans is not delayed. Membership of the cottees is presented in Annex
3.
3.28      Ecodevelopment Activities. The PA Director would be in overall charge of
ecodevelopment activities. All ecodevelopment staff, including Forest Rangers and Guards
woridng within both the PA and the peripheral area in which ecodevelopment would take
place, would be responsible to the PA Director. In each state, an Ecodevelopment Officer
(EDO) of at least ACF grade would be appointed to coordinate micro-planning and
mplementation of ecodevelopment progms around each PA. The EDO would be spported
by an Assistant Ecodevelopment Planning Officer of Ranger level, one Deputy Ranger and
two Forest Guards, one of whom would be a woman. The planning team would be completed
by two NGO staff, and again one of these would be a woman. Asswrances were obtsined at
negotdations that these staff would be appointed and responsibility for Forest Rangers and
Forest Guards in the ecodevelopment areas transferred to the PA Director by September 30,
1994. The planning team would give prority to those communities which have most impact
on the PA. To provide continuity between planning and implemention Forest Rangers and
Guards responsible for a beat in the area penipheral to the PA, would form part of the
planning team whilst it is worinug in that particular beat area. The planning teams would
develop ecodevelopment plans for hamlets or village groups based on a participative process.
The plans would include detailed costings and an agreed mechanism for managing funds at
the community level. The nature of ecodevelopment planning is furher discussed in Annex
4. In order to develop credibility, the micro-planning teams would be able to rcmmend,
and the PA Director authorize, small preliminary investments to improve community
infiastructue, for example, repair of a water point, or access path.



42
3.29      Ecodeveloptnent plans would be approved by the PA Director and submitted to
the State Project Implementation Comnminee for periodic review. AUl plans would have to be
consistent with the principles underlying the GO! Environmental Protecdon Act, the GOI
Wildlife Protecion Act and with the World Bank guidelines for environment, involuntary
resettlement and indigenous peoples. Once approved, the PA Director would authorize
disbursement of necessary monies to the communities. Consistency of approach would be
ensured by a six-monthly review of approved plans by the Biodiversity Conservation Sub-
Committee. Project support for these activides would be through an Ecodevelopment Support
Fund. At the community level an ecodevelopment committee, or other community
organization agreed by the participants during the planning stage, would be responsible for
nmnagement of the ecodevelopment activities and related funds. Regular six-monthly audit of
ESF expenditures would be mandatory. More details of the types of activity to be funded and
the criteria and procedures for the management of the ESF are presented in Annex 4.
Agreement by IDA on the criteria for assessing proposals for implementation under the ESF
would be a condition of disbursement. It was agreed at negodations that the first three
proposals for funding under the ESF would be submitted to IDA for approval.
3.30      PA Management in each of the two PAs would be the responsibility of a PA
Dirctor, from the Wildlife Wing of the Forest Departments in Himachal Pradesh and Tamil
Nadu. It would be a condition of project effectiveness that the post of PA Director be filled
in GHNP and KMTR. The Director would coordinate the development of a management plan
and the construction of PA facilities as agreed in the plan 2. Architectural design
consultants would be employed to ensure PA buildings are compadble with the natural beauty
of the areas. The development and management of public awareness programs would be
undertken with the assistance of an appropriate NGO. These programs would emphasize the
linkages between ecodevelopment and PA protection through outreach, or extension programs
and would be linked to the management of visitor centers as foci for some of the
ecodevelopment activities. Additional staff, mainly Forest Guards, would be transfemred to
supervise activities within the PA. The PA Director would be assisted as necessary by a
procurement officer with experience of World Bank procurement procedures.
3.31      Research Monitoring and Evaluation. MOEF would contract the management
of research programs to WIU, which would have the main responsibility for coordination of
ii     Government approval of the project would provide an opporuniy to increase the area of GHNP by
issuing a notficadon to include an addidanal area of some 235 km2, lying to the north east of the
present GHNP, and providing a lirk with the Pin Valey Nadonal Par. See Map 1. At the same
dtme condation could be given to notfying additional areas as PAsM hnkng fte exing PAs in
the area, and thereby forming a lage consolidated block of protected land, represeig a unique
example of a wide range of Himalayan ecosystes and wildlife. The additional areas lie at a high
alude and most are snow-covered for much, if not all the year. It would also be an oppotunity to
notfy an area of about 90 km2 within the Sainj valley in GHNP as a sctuy. This would be an
interim measue designed to provide enhanced protection for the area, until the nofcaton of the
natonal park is finalized.



43
rearch programs, directly undakdng certain programs and commissioning reseach by
other agencies. Similarly, WII would commission institudons to undertke monitoring ad
evaluation surveys. Recruitment of short-term specialists under technical assistance
arrangements would be linked to the relevant research progrms, and institudona linHkages to
be developed by ICFRE (Annex 15) could be used for the identificadon of suitable pronnel
3.32      Project Supervision. Project Supervision would be closely linked to the
implementadon schedule discussed above and would involve monitorng a number of key
indicators. Details of the dming of supervion missions, the key indicatrs ard the skills that
are likely to be needed for supeiion are presented in Annex 16. Ihte  -would be two
missions during each year of the project, and the first mission would corspond with a
prqject launching wokshop, to provide assistance during the critical st-up period.
Subsequendy, the main supesion mission would coincide with the review of annual plans
for the various project activities, taking place early in the fourth quarter of each year. Tbere
would be one additional supevision mission in the second quarter of each year, though this
would be combined with the mid-term review in the third year of the projeci In addition to
the usual indicators of physical and financial progress, which are related to the
implementation and disbursement schedules and to the detailed cost tables, supeavision would
monitor key indicators of progress in the development of the forestry research management
system, human resource development and forestry educadon, the research programs
themselves, and the creaion of research extension linkages. ICFRE headquarters staff would
play a key role in these supervision activities, in particular, the units responsible for
onitoring and evaluation. Supervision missions would also monitor the planning and
implementation of ecodevelopment programs and PA management, assessing the need for the
application of the requirements of relevant Bank Operational Directives (Para 3.1).
3.33      Reporting, Mid-Term and Completion Reviews. The ADO, Monitoaing and
Evaluation would be responsible for preparig six-monthly progress reports to be submitted
not l   than January 31 and July 31 of each year for the preceding six months. Asswnces
we,v obtained at negoiatons that no later than February 28, 1997, a joint mid-term review
would be held and the recommendations of the review would theeafter be implementedm The
review would involve ICFRE, MOEF, GOTN, GOHP, and IlDA. It would main establish
progress towards the main project objectives and not merely an inventory of disbursements
To this end, the review woud focus on a number of the key indicators presented in Annex
16. in pardcular, conidion would be given to those reflecting progress towards the
establishment of the rearch mangement system, the results of research program and
institute reviews, the establishment and operation of the information systm, the operation af
the Research Grant and Extension Support Funds, and changes in staff skill mxu resulting
fom the training programs. The review would also examine the impact of ecodevelopment
actvides on the ecology of the PAs and the socio-economic conditions of participating
communities. To facilitate this review, ICFRE would take the lead in the preparation of a
aid-term project report, but impount inputs wold be required from the Wildlife Wings of the
State Fs Deparmes m Tamil Nadu and Himachal Pmadesh. The repots woud be
distributed to all partucipants four weeks prior to the st  of the review. Te group woud



44
review progress in the development of the research management system and tie National
Forestry Research Plan, the implementation of project-financed rsearh pro gams, including
those financed through the ROF, the human resource development program and the
establishment of IPRIS.
3.34      The project completion report would focus on the acvhieements of the prect and
its impact in relation to its objectives. In particular, considemion would be given t the
effectiveness of the research management system in deciding and impleentng pdiority
research programs, with appropriate resource aUlocations, and its responsiveness to the views
of the users of research results. The effectiveness of the ROP in utilzng the forestry
resech skills available outside the ICFRE institutions would also be exmned. In the light
of the findings, recommendations would be made for future development of faoesy rsech
In India. The report would also examine the successes and shortomings of the
ecodevelopment programs and make recommendations as to how the program could be
replicated on a wider scale. Terms of reference for tie review team and its composidto
would be agreed with IIDA, and the report submitted to IDA no lat ta sx months aftr
completion of the project.
C. Project Benefi-ts and Justiffeation
3.35      Benefis The project would support a key element of the Govemments sategy
for the forestry sector as ariculated in the Nadonal Forest Policy, prviding for rsah Xt
would lead to sustainable use of the forest resource. The project would also help to ensu
that India's investments in forestry reseach infrtructue and trained manpower would be
effectively utilized. Improvements to the research management system would lead to the
3dentificadon of research prioes that reflect the requiments of the Nationa Farest Policy
and the needs of the users of forest resources. The long-term fimework for forestry reserh
prwvided through the development of a National Forestry Research Plan, investments In
human resource development, improvements in the level of opedonal funding for selected
research pWrrams, and irovements to the research infastructure would ehce the quality
of research. By facilitating information flows fhom researchers to the staff of SFDs and
private sector organizatons, including NGOs, the project would furtier impro  the relevance
of on-going and planned research programs and lead to the cordination of research betweea
ICFRE institutes and that underaken by the states and other orins.    adon,
project support for forestry education would lead to a cadre of forsy staff at al levels with
a bet  apreciation of the possible benefits of reserch, and impoved capabilities to mana
forests in a sustnable manner with the acdve participation of communities
3.36      Project support for the conservation of biodiversity would have long-term futu
benefits of by developing effective methods for involving cin the panning and
implemenation of progrms that reduce the pressures on protected a   rsources. Te focus
on research and development of replicable methods woud benefit consrvadon, not only in
the pilot areas, but in protectd areas throughout India Associated resech programs woud



45
have important benefits for the management of protected areas as they woud provide basic
information on the balance between resource use and habitat preservadon.
3.37      No economic rate of return has been calculated for the project. Such calculatic's
for a forestry research project are not meaningful, as the nature of research achievements and
rate and extent of their adoption is impossible to predict and will vary from one agro-
ecological zone to another. In addition, not all benefits can always be attributed to newly
developed technologies, as they would be dependent on other inputs or management pctices.
An important aspect of the improved management system would be the evaluation of the
economic retums to various research programs.
3.38      Risks. A risk affecting any research project is that research findings generated
may be irrelevant to the needs of users. Project support for an improved methodology for
setting research pnionties and the acdve involvement of state and private sector organizations
in deciding on priorities should minimize such a risk. In addition, support for research that is
identified and undertaken within separate ecological zones furher reduces the risk. Project
support for the development of research extension linkages, for the provision of extension
materials to state foestry extension services, and for curriculum improvements in forestry
education, would reduce the risk that research fmdings would not be transmitted to the users.
Another risk affecting many research projects is that changes in economic policies render new
technologies unsuitable, that is, not economically viable. The improvements to the research
management system and the more systematic method of identifying research priorities that
xplicitly takes into account socio-economic factors would miniwmze this risL.
3.39      There are a number of risks associated with any program for the conservation of
biodiversity through ecodevelopment activities as the process is not well developed and is
likely to need adaptaion for specific sites. In addition, ecodevelopment requires a
considerable change in atftiude on the part of forestry staff, with a change from an
authoritarian enforcement role to a persuasive, extension role. However, the growing
reaization of the need for change from the traditional authoritarian approach and the pilot
nature of project support for ecodevelopment minimizes these risks.
3.40      Environmental Effects. The project would support research programs aimed at
increasing the sustainability of the use of forest resources within different ecological zones.
Project support for research into the management and conservation of these resources, drough
involvement of communities and tribal peoples would reduce degradation, whilst
improvements to the productivity of plantings on farms, plantations and natual forests would
reduce exploitation. Project support for conservation of biodiversity would have direct
benefits for the selected pilot areas and wider benefits in the long term for other protected
areas, as discussed in the previous section. The project would, therefore, have beneficial
effects on the environment.



46
3.41      The project has, however, been given a World Bank environmental classification
of B, because of the nature of ecodevelopment programs and the linkages between people and
PAs. Consequendy, during preparaton, an analysis of the two PAs was made that related
specifically to biological values, demographic features and existing pressures and
dependencies on PA resources. As part of the analysis, participatory rural appraisals wer
conducted in representative communities, with the assisnce of local and national NGOs, to
detenmine the type of ecodevelopment activities that communities are likely to want.
Idendfied activities are listed in Annex 4. The participatory, micro-level process of
ecodevelopment planning and implementation has been described earlier in this chapter and in
more detail in Annex 4. Project-financed ecodevelopment programs would be small and site
specific, and would incoiporate local communities environmental concerns. Agreement on the
criteria for utlization of the Ecodevelopment Support Fund would be a condition of
disbursement (Para 3.29). lTe criteria are presented in Annex 4 and include te need for
proposals to take into account the issues of concern in World Bank Operational Directives on
the environment, involuntary resettlement and indigenous people. It is not envisaged that
ecodevelopment programs would involve resettlement or impact on tribals.
3.42      Local community participation and village user rights would be monitored and
evaluated during the project. Local institutions and NOOs would be involved in establishing
baseline conditions through socio-cultural and ecological surveys prior to implementation of
the plans. Progress in implementation of the community participation and park management
sategies would be an important focus of supervision and the mid-texm review, and would
pwvide a fmal process to assess whether the principles of 001 and Bank guidelines are
being adhered to.
3.43      Impact on Women. The project would ensure that forestry research responds to
the needs of women as some of the criteria for assessing research priorities would include
factor that relate forest products or technologies to their inportance to women. Such criteria
could include the nutritional value of non-wood forest products, the contribution they make to
a family budget, or the proportion of time women spend in collecting the products, or
working to purchase replacements. In addition to the use of such criteria in the planning of
research, the involvement of NGOs in the identification of constraints and the possibility for
them to obtain funding for research through the Research Grant Fund would ensure dtat
women's needs are addressed. Many of the proposed ecodevelopment activities would
provide important benefits to women, either by reducing the labor reqir  to obtain water or
fuel, or by providing alternative sources of income. This is further discussed in Annex 4.
Women play an important role in research in many universities and other insdtutes and there
are no barriers to the promotion of women to senior posts.



47
IV. ASSURANCES ANMD R1OMN/ TION
Assurance
4.1       Condidon of Credit Effectivenes
An institution, acceptable to IDA, to provide technical specialists would be
identified and a contract for the provision of their services agreed. (Pam.
3.21);
4.2       Condition of Disbursements
Disbusement of funds under the Researh Grant Fund, the Extension
Support Fund and the Ecodevelopment Support Fund would depend on the
agreement with IDA on criteria for assessing proposals for funding. (Paras.
3.17, 3.15, and 3.29);
4.3       Other Asurances
(a) 001 would implement a system satisfactory to IDA for channelling dte funds
required for caying out the project  a  3.29);
(b)  A methdology for setting research priorides would be developed by ICFRE,
discussed with MDA and approved by the ICFRE Board of Governors by June 30,
1995. Drafts of the NFRP and associated HRDP would be completed by June 30,
1996, and agreed with IDA as part of the mid-term review (Pan 3.12);
(c)  The format of IFRIS would be agred with IDA by Deember 31, 1994, and
utiized to intodu   progrm budgeting dming FY 1995-96, for preparon of the
1996-97 budget to the extent prccable and fully utlzed for the preparadon of
the FY 1997-98 budget (Pam. 3.13);
(d)  The first te  proposals for funding under the Extension Support Fund (Pam
3.15), the Research Grant Fund (Pan 3.17) and the Ecodevelopment Support
Fund (Pan. 3.29) would be submitted to IDA for approval;
(e) The survey to identify interim seed sources for development, detailed site plans
for clonal seed orchards, for seedling seed production areas and for multplicadon
garden, and detailed plans for nursey impfovement in all ICFRE instituts
would be completed and discussed with IDA by December 31, 1994 (Pta. 3.18);



48
(0)  Annual raining plans, acceptable to IDA, for project-financed taining would be
prepared not later than September 30, 1994, for the first year of the project and
not later than April 30 of each subsequent yea (Pama. 3.19);
(g)  A conta for placement and support of t-nees with an institudon acceptable to
IDA would be agreed by September 30, 1994 (Pan 3.19);
(h)  Review of the scientific activities of at least two ICFRE institutes would be
undertaken duing each year of the project based on Terms of Reference to be
agreed with IDA and the recommendations of the reviews woud thereafter be
implemented (Pam. 3.20);
(i) A program for analytical standardization within ICFRE institutes and
collaborating research organizations would be discussed with IDA and inrouced
by December 31, 1994 (Pam. 3.20);
ii) Agreement would be reached by all Libraries participating in IFLIN on the range
of jounals to be purchased by December 31, 1994. Contraus for
computerization of library catalogues would be prepared and Terms of Reference
for reviews of current research and grey literate would be agreed with IDA by
the same date (Pagm 3.22);
(k)  In consultation with IDA, the review of the curricula for forestry education in
xndi  universities would be completed by June 30, 1996 (Pam 3.24);
(1) Terms of reference for the first three policy analysis studies and for all project-
financed preparation studies would be agreed with IDA no later than February 28,
1997 (Para 3.25 );
(m) The posts of PA Director in both GHNP and KMTR would be flled and staff of
the Ecodevelopment Planning teams in both PAs appointed, and responsibility for
Forest Rangers and Forest Guards in the ecodevelopment areas transferred to the
PA Director by September 30, 1994 (Para. 3.28);
(n)  Not later an February 28, 1997, a joint mid-term review would be held and the
rcndatons  of the review would thereafter be implemented (Para 3.33);



49
4.4       An understanding was reached that ICFRE and MOEF expenditures under the
project would be ncorporated in annual plan budgets and released by MOEF as required.
GOI would release about three months anticipated project expenditre in advance to GOHP
and GOTN, and that upon receipt of funds from GOL GOOHP and GOTN will imediately
transfer such funds, togetier with quarterly counterpart contributions, to project accounts of
the state implementing agencies (Pam. 2.39);
Recommendation
4.5       With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for an IDA
Credit of SDR 33.8 million (US$47.0 million equivalent) on standard IDA tems with 35
years maturity.
Febnruy 1, 1994
India Department
Agricultural Operations Division



Structure of ICFRE
Director
General
Sec.etl                                                                            Recruitment Board 
Registr                                                                            Chara
I  ~Meber
r   DDO    |                 |  DDGIX)                                                DD&              DW
Adknibi_uadm                        Research                                            Ed n            Exuemsion
Suppomrt
ADO                                                    ADO                          ADO ADG               G
Administration           Plaig                                      M&E                   Education        Library
Information
|-F |nce-Priority Setting                   -Social Frstry       -as&monitoeg          -Human Res.    -LibraFY
I-Disbursement      -Elcnmics &       I    I-Tmupovee     t I     -P( =Bwg I            Dev.            -Publications
1    urem_   InI Policy               I    I FOPmducts          l-Evaluation            -Curricula Dev.  -Documentatio
lFWSMW P        I  l      st          !    I-Non-woodPwd. -rants
|    |                           lh6ItllX  |                                                 | t--Reearh Gant
|   '             !                !                                           1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ !-iao



Organzation Chan - floresty Research Education & Extension Project
ICFRE                Project Steering Conmnittee
Board _ P~~orms Research Education
and Extension
Universilies  |                   ICRE  mj uu.uueee            Fores               ae            State
SAU & UGC                                                                                        Forestry
Orgpnzations
Lli                                            I Prize
Committee
mieroups
F~~~1
I Grants I-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~raIc
.                           1<                 1   1   '1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Slvcl- 1xt
.  iais1itites              DFtl | GNFA                   SRCs  SPRIs [rlists
r   _  _____  ____ EDUCATION AND TRAINING                                                        __   ]
r                                       RESEARCH PROGRAMS                                                   ]
EXTENSION
Direct Responsibility           Function
e U   U " " ' Advisoy/Coordition



Organization CarCt - Conservadon of Biodiversity
h=:oing
mo                Bbdi                  sufD Rie
I~1 rn~            CousryuuonOf
f ~~d I                       r       L-                        [J
IR  S  [PA lmn m              Fco-doMmpl
S ~~~ rbnpleio I   I        lm ion



Annex 1
Page 1 of 6
IlNDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
ICFRE
Mandate, Structure and Staff Funcions
Mandate
1.    The Indian Council of Forestry Researh and Educadon was established as an autonomous
instdttion in May, 1991, with the following objectives:
-     To underwte, aid, promote and cocidinate foetry reseh and its application
and foresty education;
-     To develop and maintain a National Information Center (Libray) for forestry and
allied sciences;
-     To act as a clearing house for research and information relating to forests and
wildlife;
-     To develop various extension programs and propagate the same dtrough mas
media and audio-visual extension machinery,
To provide consultancy services in the field of foresty rsearch, education and
training, and in allied sciences.



Annex I
Page 2 of 6
ICFRE Society
2.    The membership of the Society which governs the activities of ICFRE is as follows:
Chairman                 Secretary, Environment and Forests
Vice Chairman           Inspector General of Forests
Member Secretary         Director General, ICFRE
Members                  Secretary, Science and Technology
Director General, ICAR
Director General, CSIR
Chairman, UGC
Two Vice Chancellors of universities impardng
forestry education
One representative of forest based industries
Two Principal Chief Conservators of Forests
Joint Secretary and Financial Adviser, MOEF
Two Directors of ICFRE Research Institutes
Director, IIFM
Director, Forest Survey of India
Director, Wildlife Institute of India
Director, IGNFA
Two scientist foresters from ICFRE
Board of Governors
3.    Management of ICFRE is the responsibility of the Board of Governors. The membership
of the Board is drawn from members of the Society, with additional members coopted as
necessary. The Board provides the framework for working links and coordination with other
research organizations, such as ICAR.
Structure
4.    The approved structure of ICFRE is illustrated in Figure 1, that shows the functional
arrangements of the staffing of the headquarters unit of the Council. The Directors of the ICFRE
research institutes report directly to the Director General, so linkages with the headquarters
structure are primarily scientific and technical.



Annex I
Page 3 of 6
Staff Functions
5.    Detor General (DG).  As overall head of ICFRE the Director General has
responsibility for re-ganizing, re-vitalizing and directng national forestry research, education
and extension, requiring a high level of management skill and the ability to deal with the highest
levels of Government and the private sector. The DG ensues that:
Technical leadership for policy formulation and a diverse research program is of
high quality, ensuring that individual progmms ame related to national priorities
and the needs of users of research results, and are based on up-to-date awareness
of progress in related sciences within India and intermationally;
-     A competent body of rest-rchers are recruited, trained in the necessary skills and
provided with the necessary incentives and recognition to generate high quality
research;
-     Physical and financial resources for sustained research programs are made
available;
-     Porestry education is related to the present needs of the forestry sector,
-     ICFRE provides leadership in the development of appropriate extension methods.
6.    Professional Staff. There will be four Deputy Dirs General (DDG), assisted by
Assistant Directors General (ADO), and Joint Directors (JD), as follows:
Post                                 Responsibilities
DDG Administration                         Manage  the  adminiation  and
finances of ICFRE.
ADG Administration                   Assist DDG Administration.
JD Finance                    Manage Council finances, budgeting and
control: distribute and audit accounts.
JD Disbursements               Compile  financial  returns:  process
disbursement applications to the World
Bank, and the project Special Account
ID Prourement                 Prepare  procurement  schedule  and
documents in formats acceptable to the
Bank coordinate bid evaluation and
procurement of goods and services.
JD Personnel                   Maintain  service  records  of  ICPRE
headquarters staff, transfe, posting orders:
assist wnth preparation of Human Resource
Development Plan.



Annex I
Page 4 of 6
DDG Research                         Coordinate  planning,  programming,
execudon and monitoring and evaluation of
research programs.
ADG Planning                         Coordinate the development of priridty
setting  methodology:  apply  agreed
methodology to preparation of a National
Forestry Research Plan and annual research
plans of Institutes.
JD Priority Setting           Develop priority settng methodology and
apply to planned research programs.
JD Economics and Policy       Assist with policy analysis and ensure
economic  returns  to  research  are
investigated.
ADO Progams                          Coordinate research programs in social
forestry, tree improvement, forest products,
and non-wood products, ensuring liaison
with private sector researchers. Establish
and manage the Research Grant Fund.
JD Social Forestry            Coordinate research in the fields of social,
community, farm and agro-forestry, and the
afforestation of wastelands.
JD Tree Improvement           Coordinate research on seed production,
storage, testing and cerdfication and research
on vegetative propagation, tissue culture,
provenance trials and assessment of exotics.
J3D Forest Products            Coordinate  research  on  resource
surveys,forest operations, biomass
production, utilization, wood seasoning and
preservation, and saw milling: liaise with
wood based industries.
JD Non-Wood Products           Coordinate research on bamboos, canes,
fibers, flosses, gums, resins, tans, dyes,
drugs and spices, animal products, food, and
forest grasses: develop technologies for
collection, processing and storage of these
products.
3D Research Grants            Develop criteria for award of grants, arrange
evaluation of proposals by Research Grant
Board, facilitate the transfer of funds and
monitor and evaluate their use.



Annex 1
Page S of 6
ADO Monitoring and Evaluation       Develop procedures for monitoting and
evaluation of research undertaken by ICFRE
and other agencies.
JD Management Infonation      Develop  apprpiate  MIS  for forestry
research.
JD Program Budgeting          Develop a program budgeting system and
assist with its introduction to ICFRE
institutes.
JD Evaluadon                  Develop criteria for evaluation of research
programs and apply these to on-going
programs
DDG Education                       Coordinate forestry education and human
resource development in the forestry sector,
through curriculum development, the
validation of degrees and the development of
the  FRI-DU: manage  the  award  of
fellowships and post-graduate scholarships.
ADO Education                       Assist DDO Educadon
JD Human Resources Development Coordinate award of fellowships and
scholarships and develop HRD Plan.
JD Cursicula Development      Evaluate fortry cunicula at graduate and
post graduate level: coordinate the selection
of appropriate course books and mateials.
DDG    F          Support           Coordinate the development of extension
methods and materials to ensure that
research findings are made known to SFDs
and private sectr agencies: manage the
development of the National Forest Library
and Infommation Center (N-FC).
ADO Libray and Infrmation           Develop  NFLIC  and  network  of
colaborating libaries.
JD Libry                      As Chief Librarian within NFLIC develop
libray  management, catalogue, current
awareness and inter-library loan proedur
for the forestry library network.
3D Publication                Coordinate the production of ICFRE reseach
and extension publications.
3D Docuntation                Coordinate the production of scientific
documents presenting ICFRE research
findings



Annex 1
Page 6sf 6
JD Media                       Coordinate pioduction of extension mateials
by media profesdonals.
JD Liaison                     and relations with the public and othr
public and private scto agence.
Chairman Recuidtment Bo"             Recruitment of  crah  scientsts by
adverdsement, scuay  of applicadons,
srening and evaluadon, and selecion by
the Recruitment Board.
Secrey Recruitment Board      As Member Secary to the Board assist the
Chairman with administradon of the Board.
Secretary ICFRIE              Assist DO with the admiistre affais of
the Council, including prsonnd matters,
nsitute plans, ad  the mainace of
confidential records. Act as viglance oficer
to the CounciL
Regirar, Dep. Regiss                 Assist DO and Secry with admistion
Of Council affair



Annex 2
Par I 0 11
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
ICFRE Resarch Institutes. Project Financed Research Progms
A. Mandates and Prgrams
1.    The locion, divisional structre, regional responsibilities and reseah mandates of the
ICFRE Institutes are set out in the attached matrix. The matrix also shows the research programs
to be financed through this project and the way in which these programs fit into the reserh
mandat of each instute. Thus, project supported reseh programs form only a paut of the
total resch undetaken by the ICFRE institutes, though much of the project financed equipment
and facilites would be of use to the institute as a whole. More details of the program are
contained in the project documents prepared by ICFRE, and the World Bank Working Paper on
Resarch Progams (See Annex 17).
B. Objectives of Project Flnanced Research Programs
2     The objectives of the research programs that would be financed under the project are
summarized below, for each of the institutes. Project numbers cross refer to the matrix.
FRI Debr Dul
Project 1. Stage of Forest Tree Seeds
(i)      Research and devise an appropiate and cost-effectve technology for short to
medium-term storage of seed to maintain quality, viability and vigor,
(ii)     Develop standard techniques for indigenous species to rapidly assess seed
viability and seedling vigor in order to detrmine field planting value;
(i;i)    Develop facilities for stonng seeds of rare, endangered, or otherwise valuable
germplasnL
Project 2. Maret Monitoring of Tree Products
(i)      Collect market intelligence for me products;



Annex 2
Page 2 of 11
(ii)      Publish monthly price bulletins and publicize market information through the
mass media;
(iii)    Analyze price tends and suggest policy measures to give impetus to plandng
of trees.
Project 3. Cellulose and Paper
(i)      Research methods of reducing environmental pollution resulting from
processing;
(ii)     Demonstrate and transfer environmentally sound technology to the industy.
Project 4. Forest Pathology
{i)      Examine diseases of economically important tree species and develop suitable
protective measures;
(i)      Examine bio-feralizers beneficial to economically important tree species and
develop practical methods for field application.
Project 5. Tree Improvement
(i)      Study floral biology and breeding systems and develop hybrids specific to site
in order to maximiz productivity;
0ii)     Develop techniques for rejuvenation of mature plant tissue to maximize
multiplication rates;
(iii)    Develop in vivo and in vitro propagation techniques for mass multiplication
of selected genotypes.
Project 6. Forest Entomology
(i)      Survey and screen indigenous parasitoid fauna of forest pests and develop
techniques for their mass culture under laboratory conditions;
(ii)     Develop field practices for biological control of insect pests;
(Oi) Screen forest seeds for insect infestations.



Annex 2
Page 3 of 11
1MG& , Coilbatore
Project 1. Genetic Improvement
(i)      Develop genotypes tolert to biotic and abiotic stresses in order to maxme
productivity.
Project 2. Reproductive Biology
(i)      Study pollen biology and pollen-pistil interacdon;
(ii)     Study breeding systems and hybridization tochniques;
(iii)    Study phenology and floral biology.
Project 3. Tree Breeding
(i)      Develop suitable genotypes for agro-forstry systems;
iii)     Develop improved planting material of higher productity.
Project 4. Biotechnology of Trees
fi)      Establish a nucleus of sciendsts and appropriate laboray facilities for
genetic engineering of forest plants.
Project 5. Nuttient Cyclng
(i)      Estimate nutrient cycling in different plantation ecosystem and the impact on
the ecology of the sites.
(ii)     Esdmate the productivity of plantation ecosystems and rnom nd suitable
species;
IWST, Bangalore
Project 1. Research on Sandal
(i)      Identify provenance aweas, and collect and test seeds from these to develop a
gene base for genetic m   t;



Annex 2
Page 4 of 11
(ii)     Develop nursery pcices, including in vivo and in vitro propagation
techniques for mass production of high quality planting stock;
(iO)     Develop suitable silvicultural and management practies for raising high
quality plantations on a range of sites, paying special attention to the potential
of sandal in farm forestry;
(iv)     Study the various pathogens and develop suitable protective measures;
(v)      Study the variation in wood and oil productivity and quality between different
provenances and progeny, with a view to developing productive clonal
planting stock.
Project 2. Tree   vement
(i)      Establish and evaluate provenance and progeny trials, including assessment
of tials already laid out by SFSs;
(ii)     Study variability of growth rates, yield, quality of timber, resistance to disease
and pathogens, identification of provenances and superior phenotypes;
Oiii)    Studies of vegetative propagaton of these species and mass production
techniques;
(iv)     Develop tissue culture protocols for the selected genotypes.
Project 3. Udlization of Alternaive Timbers for Catamarans
(i)      Reduce investment in and increase the service life of catamarans through
improvements in protection of altemative imbers for catamaran constuction;
(-d)     Inoduce 200 cataans made of processed tmber as trials of laboratory-
tested timbers.
(iOi)    Generate awareness of and popularize techniques for increasing the service
life of catamarns by involving he dmber teatment industry, fisheries
departments, local authorities, universities and NGOs;



Annex 2
Page 5 of 11
TFRi, Jabalpur
Project 1. Non-Wood Forest Products
(i)      3Gennplasm collection of different species of Diasporas, bamboos and grasses
for introduction to central India, selection of high yielding species and
varieties, and their distribution for fiuther multiplication.
(ii)      Selection of fruit-yielding trees of forest origin and edible bamboos, develop
multiplicatdon techniques, establish demonstration plots, seed orchards and
improve fruit quality through hybridization.
Project 2. Muld-Pupose Trees for Agro-Forestry.
(i)       Trials of multi-purpose tree species in agro-forestry systems in Chhattisgarh
aea of MP,
(ii)      Study any allelopathic effects of tree growth on agricultual crops, root
growth pattem under different plantation geometry, and develop suitable agro-
forestry models.
Project 3. Bio-Fertilizers
(i)       Identify species of VAM fungi, rhizobium and Frankda occurring in different
tree species and select effective strains of symbiotic organisms;
iii)      Develop techniques for production of inoculum in bulk;
(iii)     Develop techniques for the field application of bio-fertlizers.
Project 4. Forest Entomology
(i)       Identify pathogens on forest tree seeds, in nurseries and plantation and assess
levels of damage;
(ii)      Develop prctical techniques for control of pathogens through cultural
practices or bio-control techniques.



Annex 2
Page 6 of 11
LAFR, Jodhpur
Project 1. Woody Plant Water Relations
(i)       Investigate soil-water-plant relationships in respect of different tree and shrub
species, on varying site conditions;
(ii)      Screen indigenous and exotic species for their tolerance of moisture stress,
and adverse site conditions.
(iii)     Develop soil moisture and nutrient management practices for speedy and
better plantation establishment in various sites;
Project 2. Irrigation Water Management for Tree Species
(i)       Develop methods, and quantity and time schedules for irrigation of different
forest species and agro-forestry systems, to maximize production on a
sustainable basis;
(ii)      Develop nutrient management practices for irrigated plantatons and agro-
forestry systems, in order to maintain long-term soil productivity,
(iii)     Identify suitable tree species for high yielding commercial forestry and agro-
forestry in IGNP command area.
Project 3. Provenance and Propagadon of Fodder Trees
(i)       Provenance trials of fodder species for tolerance to moisture stress, salinity,
etc;
(ii)      Develop vegetative propogation techniques for these fodder species;
(iii)     Develop tissue culture techniques for propagation of fodder species.
(iv)      Evaluate lopping regimes in relation to growth and production.
IRMDFR, Jorhat
Project 1. Ecology of Evergreen Tropical Forests
(i)       Examine the cunment conservation status of forest resources to determine the
effectiveness of the protected area network;



Annex 2
Pagp 7 of 11
(ii)     evaluate changes in forest structure and composition over time, documt the
effects of logging on forest structure and composition and dtermine opdmal
harvest schedules for sustainable production of timber,
(iii)    Develop methods of restoring vegetation on degraded lands by testing native
species and comparing the productivity of mixed and single species
plantations with natural mxed forest
Project 2. Seed Production and Germination
(i)      Examine annual and seasonal varadon in seed formion   viability,
germination and dormancy;
(ii)     Develop reliable seed germination procedures;
Project 3. Shifting Cultivation
(i)      Monitor physical and chemical changes in soil properties before and durng
shifting cultivation cycles;
(ii)     Examine changes in micro-flora, including mycontizm  due to shifdng
cultivation.
fiii)    Develop ecologically compatible altenatives to shifting cultivation.
Project 4. Mycorrhyzae Screening
(i)      Screen tropical evergreen forest species for VAM association;
(ii)     Develop techniques for VAM  culture and utilizion in nurseries and
plantations as bio-ferdlizers.
CRC, Shimla
Project 1. Cold Desert Afforestation and Pasture Establishment
(i)       Select suitable species for planting, including trees, shrubs and grasses, and
develop effective establishment techniques;
(ii)     Improve establishment of clonal wood species.



Annex 2
Pager8  of 
Project 2. Regeneration of Coniferous and Broad Leaved Forest
(i)      Examine the effect of the introduction of poplars into degraded coniferous
forests;
(ii)     Develop improved ppogation, nurseay and planting techniques.
Project 3. Agro-Forestry/Silvipasture in the Lower HiLs
(i)      Select species most suited for agr-forestry/silvipasturein the hills and develop
appropriate models with people's participation.
CSF&ER, Af_ahabad
Project 1. Wasteland and Agroforestry Development
(i)      Identify vaious types of stress sites and examine speces and species mixes
for their restoradon leading to  arons ad demonstatons of
fecidve crop establishment tecbniques;
()       Examine the legal, ad     ve, social and policy aspects of crop
establishment through people's participation on severely stressed sites.
Project 2. Environmental Rehabilitation - Vindhyans Hills and Gangetic Plains
(i)      Examine the ecology and scua interactions in the Vindhyans hills and
adjacent Gangetic plains;
(ii)     Develop models for sustnable cropping,
(iii)    Establish demonstaon plots to encourage people's participation in improving
site productivity.
Project 3. Productivity of Ecosystems
(i)      Develop reliable methods to assess plant growth and productivity in forests
and plantaions and use these to evaluate productivity in representative sites;
(A)      Detene effec of bo-feriies, pariculaly mycorrhizae, on plant gowth
in the various sites.



Anne 2
lage 9 of 11
14B- 114) 10 4
] 0 l[ 5t 1lI.ti   Ijilj  X         I}2}



F*Oarest Research         Mdwadmaru taMdyaPkudh.    Minor Forms Ftodmctr              Eicoiestoration of Viodhya    1. Nolcod jinl
Ibaiua  Ja%p                 Odm  G3oa                     Projet I                      SatpaualAmakaaakHM            2. Muipmpose
Rage                         3. Biofetfiz
S          _kok^&mmwmmt                                                                                             4. Entomol
Aw _   e                                                                              I Foxrest  contoldForat
pM" Botay                                                                             Watddweleunen
- %et Ramowoes A Eetn
-N    WFamePd                                                                         CommuyandAgroforesty
Ccqp         _4 Appfiadm                                                              ProJect 2
-  Eobgy A Sail                                                                          Dise and asect Ps of
Cmwndo                                                                             Dcidoom For;
.-    edais&Plns                                                                      ProJect 4
a amisa     of Pow Pmduo                                                              Silviue  of Decio Forest
Spemies;
Project 3
Socioeconomic Research on
Tribals
Institute of Arid Forsy       Rajasthma  Gujarat, Arid tracs of  Restoration of Arid and seni and  Ecoresraion of Amrvalis;  1. Woody pit water elations
Researc  Jodhu                Hayan and Punjab              Areas of die CDmuty           Agri-Silvi-Pasta Pakages for  2. Irrigation systems
-   cology & Convaom                                       Project 1                     Arid Regions                  3. Provenance & popagaio of
-  Sivcuture & Manageret                                                                 ProJects 2, 3                     fodcteruu
-  Gaietes &Tree Breeding
-  Forest Potection                                                                      Naual Regeneration in Foess
-  Conimnity Foresay                                                                     of the Region their Silvicuture
and Mangai
WastelandDevelolnb_;
Institute of Rain and Moist   North Enten Stat, West       Forest Hydroloy and ShiRing    Eicology;                     1. Evergeen ecolog
Deciduous Fet Reser          BengaL Sikdm Andsum  and    Cultivation;                    Project 1                     2. Seodpiuhicd
Joa                          Nwcobarlslt                   Project 3                                                   3. Shft  cultivation
WaterhdMagemet;               4. Mycouhye
Silvicuare and Mangemen of
Rain and Moist Decidu
Forstsand MangoveForsts;
PoJects 2, 4
Wood Sciu3einldg
Chemisny;
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ C om vation ofBi d v r i y_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
C_it.                                           o "~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



CmaifuR.uu~~~aCagg., Bliuila  Himalayan Sta51 ~ IofCold Desem   1. CoMddusettf                           itn
Xi- wshc w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  .  .._aioiRat .  ..d
3. A
Forests;  F2.sm
ProJect 2
So_SofC_
,Prect 3
CwasebrSom!Gi7d              P mmeBovem-ft                                      ICWosai Bp,zm        -      1. WasieRod aata
EHolo&dRebabUbm"                                     Rdidxl     of DevadeofDl d dev
A llo                                                                             }s;e                      2. Enbcwendeisbis
3CehCox&fFr  ofesotoOms.
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   Nom-Wo d  F(or stPt de w   _ _ _ _ _ _
Pwh Pum  ofw fa
Tme Juqovaniu C4Mv,        AumiPtadesh                                          Nummy
HydNAW             ~~KiMatak                                             Tm impovuma
Souim &y daddm                                                                                                 co
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   e o system            _ _   _   _   _    _ _      _    _   _ _   _   _a__           _   _   _    _
}_i~~~~~~~~~~
c-wa~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-



AM 
ND1IA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Membership of Project Management Committees
Project Steering Committee - Forestry Research Education and Extension
Charman                  Secreray, Environment and Fomes
Secretary                Secretary, ICFRE
Members                  Inspector Geneal of Fo¢e
Director General, ICFRE
Representative, ICAR
Representative, DEA
Four Principal Chief Co2sevators of Forests
Two MDs, SFD Coxpons
Project Steering Committee - Conservation of IBiodiversity
Chairman                 Secretary, Environment and Foest
Member Secretay          Director, Project Tiger
Members                 Inpector General Forests
Director General, ICFRE
Additional IGF, Wildlife
PCCF/Chief Wildlife Warden, TN
PCCF/Chief Widfe Warden, HP
Dihctu, WII
Repesentaive DEA
Representatives colabortting NGOs, TN and HP
Representative IIPA
Representative SACON



Annex 3
Page 2 of 3
State Project Implementation Committees
Chairman                 State Secretary, Forests
Member Secretazy         Chief Wildlife Warden
Members                  Principal Chief Conservator of Forests
PA Director
Conservator of Forests - PA area
District Forest Officer - PA area
Representative, collaborating NGO
Coopted Specialists as needed.
Institute Research Advisory Group
There is a Research Advisory Group for each ICFRE Institute to review staffing and
research plans and advise the Director. The membership of the Research Advisory Groups varies
between Institutes, but includes PCCFs of states served by the institutes, state forestry reseach
staff, university staff, and other distinguished sciendsts. The membership of the TFRI, Jabalpur,
Research Advisory Group is given below as an example.
Chaimnm                  Director, TFRI, Jabalpur
Members                  PCCF, Madhya Pradesh
PCCF, Mahamshtm
PCCF, Orissa
CF, Goa
Managing Director, FDC, Orissa
Dean, Forestry Dept. Jawahar Lal Nehnr Krishi
Vishwa Vidyalaya, Jabalpur
Drector, State Forest Research Institute, Jabalpur
Director, Maharashtra Van Sanshodhan Sanstha,
Chandapur
State Silvicutalist, Orissa
Head, Forestry Dept., Punjab Rao Deshmukh Krishi
Vishwa Vidyalaya, Akola
CF, Research, Pune
Group Coordinator, Research, TFR, Jabalpur



Annex 3
Page 3 o3
ICFRE Traing Committee
Chairman                 DD, Administraion
Convenor                 JD, Human Resource Development
Members                  DDW, Education
DDG, Research
DDW, Extension
Three Directots of ICFRE Institutes



Annex 4
Page 1 of 7
ENDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Ecodevelopment
Definitions
1.        The term ecodevelopment has been used in India since the 1980s and a number of
definitions have been proposed. Panwar I defined ecodevelopment as a site-specific package of
measures derived dtrough people's participation, which addresses all aspects of land use and other
resources in order to promote sustainable land use practices as well as off-fam incore
generaing activities, which are not deleterious to PA values. The MOEF Guidelines 2 describes
ecodevelopment as a package of programs that will demonstrate the concern of the PA manager
for the socio-economic development of the fringe or buffer zone villages and will result in greater
cooperation of the residents of the villages in the conservation and management of wildlife. The
project preparation document 3 defines ecodevelopment as a strategy for protecting ecologically
valuable areas from unsustainable or otherwise unacceptable pressures resulting from the needs
and activities of people living in and around such areas.
2.        Ecodevelopment is not a panacea for all conservation problems. As a strategy it is
appropriate only for those areas where the dtreats to PAs are due to pressures from local rural
communities. Ecodevelopment does not seek to protect areas primaily through the enforcement
Of laWS, but is not a substitute for a clear legislative framework. A detailed discussion of many
of the issues related to ecodevelopment is contained in a Working Paper, " Ecodevelopment.
Principles and Strategies" (See Annex 11).
Panwar IL S. 1992. Guidelies for Plamning and Implemendng Ecodevelopment Prognmus as a
Means of Intating Man ment of Proected Areas with the Concens of Peopl for Susene an
Cultur  UnpubL WMI
2   Detailed Guidelines of the Centmlay Sponsored Scheme "Ecodevelopment in and around Nao
pas and Wild Life Satuaries'. MOEF, 1991.
3   Biodveaft  Conservaon through Ecodevelopment A Peiminary Indicative Plan for Great
Himaayan Naional pa*r, Himachal Pradesh, and KAlakad Mdandri Tiger Resenre, Tamil Nadu.
Indi  stitute of Publc Admi   , New Delhi Apri 1993



Annex 4
Page 2 of 7
Strateg
3.        The strategy for ecodevelopment supported through the project would be based on
the involvement of people living in and around PAs in the planning and implementation of
conservation measures. This would require pardcipative, site-specific, micro level planning to
identify altenative ways to produce the biomass or generate income presently derived from
witiin the PAs.  Planning would make provision for a tansitional phase, as many
ecodevelopment activities would take time to produce altemative incomes or resources.
Ecodevelopment planning would be backed by an appropriate management plan for the PA. This
plan would: define the requirements of conservation. hereby defining the limits to human
utilization; identify ways in which the local popul&don can be involved in planning and
management of the PA; be linked to proposed ecodevelopment activities and; make provision for
the institutional strucures and processes for management of the PA  and associated
ecodevelopment The suategy would be to identify ways in which some of the benefits aising
from conservation would be channeled to local communities and linked to progams that raise
community awareness of the value and conservation needs of PAs.
Eeodeveopment Planing
4.        The essential charteristic of ecodevelopment planning, somedmes referred to as
micr-planning, is its participative nature. Project supported planning would be based on
participative rural appraisal techniques undertaken at the level of the community or interest group
and woud, therefore, be site-secific. It would aim to determine the negative impacts of the
community on the PA and conversely the negative impact of the PA on the community, for
example crop depredation by wild animals. The plan would be based on an assessment of the
resources or income presently derived from a PA, the location and distribution of the resources
exploited, the seasonality of supply and demand, and the main beneficiaries. Building on any
community awareness of the need for conservation of PA resources, planning would identify
community suggestions for alternative ways of providing resources or income and any associated
trining needs. The plan would present costed proposals for the implementation of agreed
alternatives, together with an implementation schedule. Institutional arrangements would be
agreed (See below) and the plan would clearly identfy community resonsibilities and those of
the PA management. A strategy for the transiton between a community stopping use of PA
resources and ecodevelopment initiatives providing reurns would form an important aspect of
ecodevelopment planning.
Ecodevelopment Actes
5.        On the basis of PRA surveys in seven sample villages around GHNP and twelve
sample villages around KMTR, a range of possible ecodevelopment activities was identified by
the project prepaton team. This provides an indicative list of activities, though not all would
necessaily be adopted and others may be identified during more detailed planning. The activities
can be grouped as follows:



Annex 4
Page 3 of 7
Biomass geneation                               Fuel and fodder plantations
Joint Forest Management
Nurseries
Income genadon
Artisanal                           Weaving
Tailoring
Carpenty
Agricultural                        Poulty
Beekeping
Horticulture
Sheep
Herb cultivation
Crop protection
Labor                               Park m     anagement activities
Irftastructure                      PA bridle paths
PA inspection paths
Small irrigation works
Agricultual land development
Transpor                            Mules
Tourism                             Visitor services
Tnining                             Stipends and course costs
6.        Governmet. PA management would be the responsibility of the PA Director, a
member of the Wildlife Wing of the State Forest Department (SFD). As it is important that
communities perceive a clear liage between the benefits of ecodevelopment and their
collaboraion in reducing pressures on PA resources, the planning and implemention of
ecodevelopment activities woud also be managed by the PA Director. To ensure that there would
be no overlap between staff responsible for ecodevelopment and the activities normally
undertaken by the Territrial Wimg of the SF), the PA Director would be responsible for all staff
within the PA and the peripheral area in which ecodevelopment is promoted.



Annex 4
Page 4 of 7
7.        An Ecodevelopment Planning Team would be established in each PA, headed by an
Ecodevelopment Planning Officer, of at least Assistant Conservator of Forests (ACF) grde. He
would be assisted by an Assistant Planning Officer of Forest Ranger grade, one Deputy Ranger
and two Forest Guards, one of whom would be a woman. The planning team would be
completed by two NGO staff, and again one of these would be a woman. The planning team
would give piority to those communities which have most impact on the PA. Forest Guards and
rangers responsible for beats in areas peripheral to the PA would form part of the planning team,
whilst it is worling in that particular beat area. Ecodevelopment plans would be approved by
the PA Director and submitted to the State Project Implementation Committee for peniodic
review. Consistency of approach would be ensured by a six-monthly review of approved plans
by the Project Steering Committee for Conservation of Biodiversity.
8.        Once the plan is agreed with the community and approved by the PA Director,
funding would be released and the local Forest Guard, Ranger and NGO staff would assist with
the implemenion of the ecodevelopment activities. The planning team would move on to the
next priority area
9.        NGOs. Local NGOs that have the trust of rural communities would have an
important role to play in the planning and implementation of ecodevelopment. NGO staff would
participate in the planning team and work closely with SFD staff and communites in the
implementation. NGOs would be of particular assistance in setting up community institutions
for the management of ecodevelopment funds and programs, and could provide at least some of
the necessary training for artisanal or other income generating activities.
10.      Commuity. Successful ecodevelopment would be dependent on the formation of
viable community organiations. These may be existing community organizations or may be
special Ecodevelopment Committees. The institutions would be representative of the participating
groups, mcluding women, and have clear rules for the management of funds, stdard procedures
for allocation of funds to group or individual activities, and regular audits. Defining the nature
and composition of the community organization would be an essential part of the micro-planning.
The Role of Wonen
11.       Maintaining special efforts to ensure ta women are decisively involved in the
planning and implementation of ecodevelopment has been recognized as critical to project
success. As the p inant aors in fuelwood and fodder collection, significant players in the
agricultural workforce, and an important contributors to household income, women's direct
cooperation and goodwill will frequendy be the key to changing resource use behavior, as well
as to meeting equity goals. The actve participation of women in the two project areas would
be particularly important, given the relatively high level of their participation in the rual
economy. In Himachal Pradesh, 44 percent of all women are actively woing in agriculture,
whilst in Tamil Nadu the figure is 32 percent, both significantly higher than the national average



Annex 4
Page 5 of 7
of 24 percent 4. The strategies employed would, however, be site-specific to respond to the
different roles of women in the two environments. Around GHNP, women are almost exclusively
active as collectors of forest resources and cultivators on their own farms, where tiey are often
primary decision-makers in the absence of household males. Around KMTR, women from the
large number of landless and marginal farm households are principa1ly involved as agricultural
laborers and in off-farm employment, for example, bidi making for local contctors.
12.       Because previous natural resource and social forestry projects have had only limited
success in involving women in decision making 5, the project strategy would be to keep
women's active participadon in the forefront by including women in each of the key institutions:
the govemment ecodevelopment planning and implementadon teams, the NGOs, and local
ecodevelopment committees. For both goverment and local committees this would be a change
from existing practices. Wider women's participation is commonly correlated with active NGO
involvement, so careful monitoring and NGO facilitation would be important to ensuring the
success of this strategy.
Ecodevelopment Support Fund (EDSF)
13.       Objectives. To provide a means of financing approved ecodevelopment plans the
project would provide for an Ecodevelopment Support Fund. The Fund would have two main
objectives. The first would be to enable the Ecodevelopment Planning Team in each state to
provide finance for any small improvements to commnunity infrastructure that are urgently
required. The works could include items such as the repair of a water point or the improvement
of an access path. Provision of such finance would aim to generate goodwill and show that
ecodevelopment would be more than just a promise. The expenditure on such works to provide
the Ecodevelopment Planning Team with credibility would amount to no more than Rs.50,000
per community. The second objective of the Ecodevelopment Support Fund would be to enable
implementaion to take place almost immediately a plan is approved. This would be essential
if commuites are to actively participate in planned activities.
4      Genr and Poverty m India World Bank Counmry Study. 1991, p.295.
5      Evaln studs im Hinacl Pradesh and Tami Nadu have documented low levels of p £ciptt
in loca committees and even lower lvels of awareness of project objectives, activities and benefits.
(See Venkateswman Sandhya. Living on the Edge. Women, Environment and DevlopmeaL
FPiedrich Ebert Stfiung. New Delhi 1992.)
Benefits accuing to women have been primarily in the form of employmenu, where ty have
benefted to the same extent as they have in oher projects. (See Olson G. Employment and Income
Geneato in Social Forestry. A Case Study from Onssa ILO. Geneva 1988.



Annex 4
Page 6 of 7
14.       Criteria for Use of the Ecodevelopment Support Fund. Agreement on the criteia
for use of the ESF would be a condition of disbursement from the Fund. Preliminary criteria are
set out below, which will need to be modified or expanded as necessary by the state Project
Implementation Committees.
-   Completion of site-specific microplanning for ecodevelopment;
- Review of plans by the PA Director, including an assessment of their environmental
and social impact 6;
-   Endorsement of plans by the concerned community;
-   Identification of community organizations rsponsible for implementation;
-   Identification of individuals within the organization with responsibility for
management of funds;
-   Adherence to the agreed administrative procedures (See below) for disbursement and
monitoring.
15.       Admiative Procedures. An outline of the procedures for utiLization of the
EDSF is presented here. More detailed procedures would be evolved on the basis of experience,
particularly at the community level, but systematic control of funds would be provided as the PA
Director would be responsible for approving individual ecodevelopment plans, which the State
project Implementation Committee reviews on a regular basis.
Expenditure from EDSF would be on the basis of ecodevelopment plans
approved by the PA Director,
Payments would be in accordance with the schedule of expenditures
provided in the plan;
To reduce administrative delays, the State Project Implemention
Committee would delegate authority to the PA Director to make payments
for certain ty    of ecodevelopment activities.
Payments would be charged to a specially created accounting sub-head;
Mm envionenta and social impact of ecodeeopient plans wolld be reviewed in the h of the
principles of dte 001 Enviromental Protection Act, he 001 Wdife Prcion ct  and the Wodd
Bak Gddees for environment, involvuntary rettemen and indigenous peoples h have been
sot out in World Bank Optondal Directives 4.00,420 and 430.



Annex 4
Page 7 of 7
IDirect payments to community members employed within the PA on a
daily wage basis for PA management related activities, such as bridle path
construction would be authorized by the PA Director. Such payments
would be separated from the regular PA management budget and would be
of particular importance during the tansidonal phase;
CoLiaborative or cooperative ecodevelopment activities would be managed
by community Ecodevelopment Comnittees, or any other community
organization that the has been agreed as responsible;
The community organization would establish a bank account, dedicaed to
agreed ecodevelopment activities, with signatories as decided during the
ecodevelopment planning;
An advance payment would be made to the account for authorized
expenditures.   Subsequent payments would be on the basis of
reimbursement against actual expenditures;
All commiunity accounts would be subject to regular inspection by PA
administration, with the assistance of the collaborating NGO. Annual
audits of all EDSF accounts would be mandatory.



Annex S
Page 1 of 4
IN4DIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Extension Support Fund
1.    The project would provide support for the improvement of research/extendon linkages.
This would be achieved, inter alia, by supporting demonstrations of research resuts zi the fiel
for which the project would provide finance to establish an Extension Support Fund (ESF).
Grants from this fund would support demonstrations planned by the State Forestry Deparments
(SFDs), in collaboration with the Extension Support units in ICFRE insdtutes, and implemented
by the SFDs and other competent extension agencies.
2.    An Extension Grant Committee (EGC) would be established at ICFRE to develop and
design proposals for funding through ESF. This Annex sets out initial guidelines for criteria for
the identification of technology to be demonstrted, the evaluation of proposals and the award
of grants. Following detailed review by EGC, a final set of critena would be prepaed, agreed
with IDA and published. This Annex also sets out the proposed membership of the EOC and
the arrangements for the adinistration of ESF. The administradve procedures would be
followed for all grants, regardless of the source of funds.
3.    Criteria for the Type of Demonstration. Grants would normally be for three years in
the first instance, with a possibility of extensions for successful programs. Proposals would be
made in the form prescribed by EGC and would be assessed against the following criter.ia:
Availability of new technology that has been pre-tested under reserch conditions;
Relevance of the technology to the pracical constraints faced by foestry staff, the
users of forest resources, farmers and commercial producers
Complementarity with, or contribution to, past or on-going extension efforts;
Degree of involvement of the community in the design and implementaton of the
demonstration, and the area and number of villages likely to benefit;
Appropriateness of technology to be demonstedo the production system
Ability to complete the proposed demonstration using existing facidities and
equipment;
Availability of competent extension staff;



Annex S
Page 2 of 4
Degree of cooperation with other extension agencies (MOA, NGOs, private sector,
universities);
Cost.
4.    Criteria for Type of Expenditure. The expenditure eligible for support under the ESF
would include:
Equipment;
Operational expenses, including those for equipment, costs of casual labor, and
travel and subsistence expenses for staff;
- Costs of field days and meetings.
Expenditures that would not be eligible for support under the ESF would include:
-     On-going extension and demonstration programs;
-     Staff salaries and allowances;
-     Staff training and consultancies;
-     International travel;
-     Civil works of any kind.
5.    Membership of the Extension Grant Board. The membership of the Extension Grant
Board responsible for allocating the Extension Support Fund would be as follows:
Chaiman                 DDG Extension
Convener                Diretor Extension, FRI
Members                 From relevant Stwe:
Director, ICFRE institute
CCF, Social Forestry
Managing Director, FDC
Extension Representative, ICAR
Extension Representative, State Dept.
Agriculture
Representative, NGO
Representative, Forest Based lIdustry
Representative, SAU.



Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
6.    Admiinistrative Procedures
The EGC would publicize the availability of the grants, the broad objectives, and
the procedures to be followed to SFDs, universities and other competent public
and private sector agencies;
Extension demonstation programs would be submitted to the DDG Extension in
a standard format, complete with detailed costings;
Following review, the EGO would approve selected proposals that meet the
criteria. On approval, a legal agreement or memorandum of understanding would
be drawn up between ICFRE and the agency undertakang the progm, specifying
the obligations and commitments of both parties;
Gmrants would be made semi-annually and closing dates for applications would be
Febnrary 1 and August 1 in each year, to permit the grants to be announced on
May 1 and November 1;
Fomal acceptance of the grant and its conditions would be required before the
first payment, and the program would become effective on the date of the first
payment;
The grantee would not sub-contract any part of the extension program to be
supported under the grant to any other agency or individual;
The first three proposals would be reviewed in collaboration with IDA before any
funds are allocated;
Procurement of specified items would be arranged by the Procurement Officer, in
consultation with the agency undertaking the research;
The grantee would maintain an inventory of all assets procured under the grant
and would provide EGC with an updated copy of this, annually. AR equipment
would be marked to show ownership by ICFRE;
All assets purchased under the grant would remain the property of ICFRE. At the
end of the grant period, ICFRE would determine the disposition of the assets;
EGC would be authofized to make changes in the technical program, or terminate
the grant after reasonable notice, in the event that the program has been deemed
to be making unsatisfactory progress, or to be in non-compliance with grant
conditions;



Annex S
Page 4 ot 4
Grantees would agree to accept supervision by EGC and would cooperate fully
with supervision and review teams appointed by EGC;
Funds for agreed expenses would be transferred at six-monthly intervals and in
advance, to a dedicated account set up by the research agency. Each payment
would be adjusted for unspent funds from the previous disbursement period;
Separate accounts would be maintained for all expenditures. ITese accounts
would be transmitted to ICFRE, together with full documentation, and would be
subject to audit every six months;
Receipts resulting from the research supported under the grant would be credited
to ICFRE;
Savings on any approved provision under the gant would not be used for any
other purpose, without the approval of the EGC;
-The financial support received by the grantee would be acknowledged in any
publications;
Six-monthly progress reports would be submitted to EGC. A termination report
would be provided three months after the completion of the grant period;
Progress with research financed through the ESF would be reviewed annually by
the EGC and IDA, prior to release of finance for the next yea's work.



Annex 6
Page 1 of 3
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Planting Stock Improvement Progm
Introduction
1.    About one and a half billion tes are planted annually In India but records Indicate that
survival is sporadic and often poor by inteaional standards. Tere are many reasons for low
swvival rates, but the poor quality of planting stock is a major contributory factor. lTis starts
with poor quality of seed, due to the lack of properly identified seed sources, and inadequate seed
harvestng and cleamng procedures. Vegetative propagation is increasingly important in forest
tree establishment, but is constrained by the lack of properly selected parent trees. The quality
of seedlings produced from forest nurseries is a further limitation. Procedus tend to be
standdized for aUl species in all ecological conditions and nmsery managers have little access
to modern nursery technologics. One of the primary objectives of ICFRE is to increase
productivity and an improvement in plantng stock can make a dramatic impact on the
productivity of the forest sector. The project would, therefore, finance a program to improve the
production of planting stock, with ICFRE institutes taling a lead in the introduction and, if
necessary, adaptation of proven technologies, providing demonstations and adiece to Stat
Forest Service staff.
Project Propos
2.    The project would include support for the following:
-     Seed Stands
-     Clonal Seed Orchards
-     Seedling Seed Production Areas\
-     Seed Harvest, Handling, Tesdng and Storage
-     Vegetative Propagation
-     Nursery Buildings and Equipment
-     Muldplicadon Gardens
3.    Seed Stands  Seed stands would be developed for 10 priaity species, by each of 8
ICFRE instutes. This would involve:
-     Seed stand selection survey, to be undtaken by two team  from each institute.
Each team would consist of a forest technologist, 2 skiled laborrs, and 2
climbes Lump sum provision would be made for travel and allowances for these



Annex 6
Page 2 f 3
teams and each institute would be provided with a jeep.
Identified sites would be designated as seed stands. It is assumed that two sites
would be designated for each of 10 species and that each site would be 100 ha.
Designated sites would be culled at a cost of Rs.15,O0O per ha.
Management and maintenance of each site would amount to Rs.15,O0O/lO0ha/year
4.    Clond Seed Orchards. Clonal seed orchards would be developed at all institutes over
the period of the project. It would involve:
Identification and lisung of all Candidate Plus Trees that have already been
selected
Collecting CPT material and transporting to the institutes. It is assumed that two
teams of 5, as in A, would undertake this work Each team would be provided
with a truck.
-     Muliplication of the base population using a staff of one permannt superisor
and four contract grafters for four months per year. Miscellaneous supplies and
fertiL  would amount to Rs. 100,000/institute/year
-     Planting of clonal orchards. It is assumed ftat a lOOha orchard woud be
established for each of ten species at a cost of Rs. 30,000 per ha.
- l'iManagement and maintenance of the orchards would amount to Rs
30,OO0/lOOha/yr
5.    Seedling Seed Production Area. Development of SSPAs would be dependent on the
condition of any existng areas. It would involve:
-     A review of existing inforation on seed source quality, ic. best provenances
-     Identification of any established pure stands of best provenances
-     If these exist, procedures for development of seed stands oudined at A would be
followed.
-     If there are no exising SSPAs, seed would be imported. A lump sum provision
of Rs.300,000 would be made



Annex 6
Page 3 of 3
It is assumed that 1,000 ha of new plantings would be established with the
imported seed at a cost of Rs.9,000 per ha
Management and maintenance of the SSPAs would cost Rs.30,000/lO1ha/yr
6.    Seed tarvesting, Handling, Testing and Storage. Equipment would be provided to
each institute for these activities. Lump sum provision per institute would be made. follows:
-     Harvesting        Rs. 15,000
-     Handling,cleaning   Rs. 300,000
-     Testing           Rs. 600,000
-     Storage           Rs. 150,000
7.    Vegetative Propagation. Facilities for vegetative propagation would be improved at all
institutes. These would form centers of excellence in nursery practice, for both demonstration
purposes and training of ICFRE and SFS staff. The project would finance the construction of
a 300m2 greenhouse, a 300m2 shade house, and a 100m2 mist chamber at each institute, together
with the necessary equipment and water supplies, and nursery design and development
consultancies.
8.    The project would also finance development of multiplication gardens associated with the
nursery facilites above. Each institute would develop a total of 30 ha of multiplicaton gaden,
that is, 10 ha for each of three species at a cost of Rs, 30,000/ha. Development would be at a
rate of 5 ha per species, per institute, per year.
9.    Development would be phased as follows:
Project Year                  Institutes
I                       IAFR, Jodhpur. TFRI, Jabalpur
2                       IFG&TB,Coimbatore;       FRI,  Dehra
Dun; IWST, Bangalore
3                       CRC, Shimla; CSF&ER, Allahabad.
4                       IRMDFR, Jorhat



Annex 7
JPar 1 of 4
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Research Grant Fund
1.    The project would provide finance to establish a Research Grant Fund (ROF) to enable
orgniaiSons within or outside the forestry seO to undake research that would contrbute to
naonal foestry research priories. These rgant include Recognized Universit, Stae
Agriutural Universities, State Fotrey ReSearCh nsttutes and Siviculturalists. NCOs and
private indstty  Research proposals would either be developed from the intnal intereStS of
theses organizatons, or in ronse to specific problems ideandfied by ICFRE.
2.    A Reserch Grants Board (RGB) woud be established to revew  search proposs and
this Board would be empowered to act on behalf of ICPRE  This Annex sets out inital
uideines for criteria for the evuadon of proposals and the awad of grats. Folowing deied
review by the Bouz a final set of citeria would be prepared and folowing review by IDA woud
be subsequendy publshed. This Annex also sets out the proposed membeship of the RGB and
arransements for the an   of the Fund. The   miisve procedure would be
followed for all research grants, regardless of the source of funds.
3.    Criteria for Type of Research. Grants would normally be for tr  years in the fim
instance, with the possibility of extensions for successful programs. Proposals woud be made
in the form prescribed by RGB and would be assessed against the following critera
-     Relevance to the priorities established by ICFRE;
-     Likelihood of success and the probability of producing usable results within a
reasonable time-frame;
-     Complementarity with, or contribution to, past or on-going wreh in India or
elsewhere, justified by a litature review;
-     Mulld-disciplinary approach and de integation of sils available in the agency
applying for th Gant;
-     Relationship to the long-tem research program of the insdutio concerned;
-     Appropiness of experimental approach and methodologr,
Ability to complete the proposed researh using existing facilities and equipment;
Cost, based on detailed lists of equipment, scholabips and other costs.



Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
4.    Critria for Type of Expenditure. The expenditure eligible for support under the RGF
would depend on the type of research, but would include:
Equipment;
Operational expenses, including the running costs of vehicles and equipment, the
cost of casual labor for field experiments and travel and subsistence expenses for
research staff; and
Scholarships or fellowships for post-gaduate students participating in the proposed
research program;
Publication of research results.
Expenditure not eligible for support under the ROF would include:
Core programs within ICFRE Institutes;
-     Staff salaries and allowances;
-     Staff training and consultancies;
-     Iternational travel;
-     Civil works of any kind.
S.    Membership of the Rssearch Grants Board. The Board would have a mmbership of
13 made up as follows:
Chairnan          Director General, ICFRE
Secretary         Joint Director, Research Grants
Members           DDG, Research
DDG, Extension
DDG, Administration
ADO, Programs
Additional IGF, MOEF
University Representative
SAU Representative
2 SFD Representatives
P)C Representative
Forest Federation Represntative
Wood Based Industry Representative
NGO Representative



Anna 7
Page 3 of 4
6.    Adm aive Procedures.
The ROB would publicize the availability of grants to universties, Stat Foest
Departments, and other competent public and piivate sector agencies, the broad
objecdves and the procedures to be followed;
Research proposals would be submitted to the ADO Programs in a standard
fomat, complete with detailed costings;
Following review, the Board would approve selected poposals that meet the
cnteria and are judged to make a significant contribution to agreed prionty
research topics. Following approval, a legal agreement or    rndum  of
understanding would be drawn up between ICFRE and the agency undertakng the
research, specifying the obligations and commniitments on both sides;
CGrants would be made semi-annually and closing dates for applications would be
February 1 and August 1 in each year, to permit thf grants to be announced on
May 1 and November 1;
Formal acceptance of the grant and its conditions would be required befoe the
frst payment, and the research program would become effecdve on the date of the
frst payment;
The gmntee would not sub-contract any part of the research program to be
supported under the gmant to any other agency or individual;
iThe fist three proposals would be reviewed in collaboration with IDA before any
funds are allocated;
Proement of specfied items would be ranged by the Procurement Officer, in
consultation with the agency undertaking the research;
The grantee would maintain an inventory of all assets procured under the grant
and would provide RGB with an updated copy of this, annually. All equipment
would be marked to show ownership by ICFRE;
All assets purchased under the grant would remain the property of ICFRE. At the
end of the grant period, ICFRE would detemine the dsposition of the assets
ROB woud be consulted prior to any changes in the value of fellowships awarded
under the grant;



7
ROB would be authorized to make changes In the tecbnical program at 
the grt aft reasonable notice, in the event that the prgram has bo deeed
to be making unsatisfactoy progress, or non-compliance with gant conditons
Grantees would agree to accept supervision by RGB and would coopa  fully
with supervision and review teams appointed by RGB;
Funds for agreed expenses would be transfened at six-monthly Inhtrvals and in
advance, to a dedicated account set up by the research agency. Each paymn
would be adjusted for unspent funds from the pevious disbu     pai;
Separate accounts would be maintained for all expenditures. These accout
would be tansmitted to ICFRE, together with full dcunentlon, and would be
subject to audit every six months,
Receipu resulting from the research supported under the ga  woud be credited
to ICFRE;
savings on any approved provison under the grant would not be used for any
other purpose, without the approval of the ROB;
ROB would be informed of any patentable or ommae y exploiable discovey.
and no action would be taken by the grntee to patent the disovery witout RGB
approval;
The financial support received by fte grantee would be acknowledged in any
publications;
Six-monthly progress reports would be submitted to ROB. A t_minato rppot
would be provided throe montius after the compledon of the gnt peiod;
Progress with research financed through the RoF would be mviwd andually by
the ROB and IDA, prior to release of finance for the next yeaes wo&



Anne, S
Page I o 3
INDIA
FO RE    Y RESEARCH EDUCATION AND E              SION PROJ
ICFRE Statstical Unit
1.    Reliable forestry saisdcs are required at a national level by the Minisay of Environment
and Forests (MOEF) for plnning, policy analysis and making decisions on forestay invesmet
and development programs. Statistcs are also required to monitr and evaluate the impact of
policies and programs. At present, the information available to MOEF is lmited as the  are no
compehensive sttcs on forest rescuaces, supply and demand for fst products, mrking,
mangent and productivity of natual forests and waselands on private and public lands, nor
instituional stengths and weaknesses. Many of the data are colected by states and public and
rivate sector agencies, but are not collated, analyzed, or readily available. This is a significant
c-onstaint to the development of the foestry sector, so the project would provide finance for the
development of a Statistical Unit to ensme the collection of nadonal fresty sudtsts.
2.    The Stistcal Unit would foam part of ICFRE. Its primary function would be to act as
a service, rather than a research unit, providing forestry statstcs to MOEF and oe agencis
as required. The Unit would, therefore:
identify, and agree with MOEF, the pmay and secondary foresay daft to be
collected;
hliaise with agencies concemed with the collection of primary or secoday data;
collect, collate and process the agree data;
-     check on data reliability,
-     provide required data to MOEF, or other authorized users, in a dmely fashion.
Ihe types of informaton and data, likely sources and the peiodicity of data collecdon am
1ummarized in Table 1. A clear distinction should be drawn between these data and bionic
statitic  which are used to validate research programs. The Unit would also establish close
linkages with other information networks, such as that established by the Naional Informaics
Centr (NICNE7).



Annex S
Pbge 2 of 3
3.    The Stattical Unit would be under the management of the ICFRE ADG Planning. The
Unit would be headed by a Staisdcian of the rank of Joint Director. Stg would be as
follows:
Head of Unit
2 Senior Stastdcal Officers
2 Statistical Officers
2 Field Offiicers
1 Pogrammer
3 Staiscal Assistants
4 Investigators
2 Data Entry  aors
4.    The project would provide funds for special studies, necesary equipment, taining, and
staff travel for data collecdon.



Table 1 Dab to be Collected by the OCIER  b       Unit
TDISof Data                              So                                   ,dd
Fmtco, qpS, down.s                           MI, soB-se
owneshp lealstau
Commisen
Receipts and  pedite                        MOEF. SDF                           Annual
Fre Industries: tpe. number.                Min Comme rme
locadton capacit, ouut, employmeat.         SD Sman and Cotrage Idtes
SD Comm_rce and I_duuis
Foest Indusies, FDC
Mar_atng sas, Impors e" s                                                       6 m
Instirus                                    MOEF, SW, FDC                       Anal
rest maaem     t ystms and                  MOEF, SDF, FDC                      Rinul
Naua forests and pl_ntain  tgp              SDF, FDC                             Ahua
ara distribution. gowing sock
workng pans
Watlnds, sca and fm fobeswy                 NAIB. SDF Socia Fmoy                AnnPd
area, distrbtuln, rehbiliatin               Wag
Joint for   _     :                                    S                         Anal
oamnm  plans
Non-wood forest poict: tpes,                SD. STC,                             Annual
production maketing
Protected areas: area, wif,                 SDP WiD  Wing                       Di-mndl
enroachmnt, eco-deelopment                  Willfe Institu
IMwAiond Co Laom do ,                       MOPk, NANB, SDF                     Annua
prs                                         DEA
DEA           Depa       of Economic Affah
FSI           Forest Survey of India
FDC           Foret Developmnt Corporation
MOEF          Ministry of Environment and Forest
NAEB          NatimAfuoonS and EoDc_mVif Doard
SDF           Stat Deparme  of Fos
SO            Sate Govanmt
STC           Stare Tf ba p



Annex 9
Page 1 of S
ND[IA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Conservation of Biodiversity. Project Areas
A. Great Hmalayan National Park
1.        Locafion and Area. The Great Himalayan National Park consists of the upper
catchment areas of the Tirthan, Sainj and Jiwa rivers in Himachal Pradesh. (Map IBRD
24927) The present park aea of 620sq.ans. includes a part of the Ttan Sancay
(84sq.kms.), the rest of which adjourns the southern boundary. The park is contiguous with
the Rupi Bhaba Sanctuary (269sqkms.) in the south-east and the Pin Valley National Park
(675sq.kms.) in the eas the latter is connected to the park through the proposed extension in
the Parvati river catchment. Together, these areas constitute one of the largest areas of
reatively undisturbed Himalayan ecosystems in Norther India The intention to declare the
reat Himalayan National Park as a national park was issued in 1984.
2.        Biologlcal/Conservation Value. Located in the north-westen Himalayan
region, the vegetation of the paik shows distinct altitudinal zonation. Gaston et al. (1981)
recognized five broad forest types within the park, with sub-tropical pine forest between 600-
1700m, Himalayan moist temperate forest chaacteized by conifers and broad-leaved species
betwveen 1500-3600m, sub-alpine forests between 3000-3400m, moist sub-alpine scrub
between 3000-3500m, and dry alpine scrub between 3400-3800m Particularly noteworthy is
the presence of undisturbed oak forest at low and middle altius, which is now rare outside
the park. Alpine meadows occur above 3800m, the upper limit of sub-alpine and alpine scrub
communities. These meadows have a high diversity of herbaceous species, many of which
have medicinal or aromatic properties.
3.        The park suppots an extremely diverse wildlife population. This includes the
largest remaning population of Himalayan tahr (endemic to India) in India. The park is also
one of the only two places in India where there is still a viable populadon of the Western
tragopan (pheasant). The highly endangered Snow leopard is repord to occur in areas
widtin and adjacent to the national park. The park also supports over 300 species of birds.
Rodgers and Panwar I have identified the park and its surrounds as an area of foremost
priodr  for biodiversity conservation in India. The World Conservation Monitoring Center in
ZPlanning a Wildfle Prosctd Area Netwoti in India. Rodgers. W. A., and Panwar. HK S.
Wfldlife Instute of India. 1988.



Annex 9
Page 2 of 5
the United Kingdom has identified the Western Himalayas as one of the five Centers of Plant
Diversity and Endernism in India 2 and in need of urgent protection.
4.        Issues. The park has relatively few management issues, which makes it an ideal
site for testing pilot approaches to participatory management. The nothem and eastern
boundaries of the park are under permanent snow, while the southern boundary is along a
high ridge and almost impassable. The remaining surrounds are relatively sparsely populated
with harsh terrain and poor conmmunications. There are only four hamlets with around 24
houset.olds living within the park with small areas of cultivated teraces (70 ha.) surrounding
the settlements. The impact on the park from these hamlets is comparatively low. However,
the 3,000 households in over 200 hamlets and villages, within a l0kas. radlus to the west of
the park, have traditional rights in the park area for grazing, collection of forest products and
herbs.
5.        The most destructive of the various pressures on the park comes from the ancient
tradition of collection of medicinal and aromatic herbs and molrel mushrooms from a variety
of locations in the high altitudes of the park, largely for commercial purposes. Most of the
herbs are extracted for the properdes contained in their roots and are usually uprooted.
Current estimates suggest that more than 2,500 people living in the periphery of the park
enter the area for herb and mushroom collection. It is understood that most of these hens
have been exploited and some of the species may be even locally extinct. One reason for this
is the early extracdon of the herbs before fruiting and seeding have taken place, which has
led to the progressive decline of herb availability over the years. The potential exists for
addressing this issue, through provision of alternative income generation activities and research
and development for possible propogation of herbs and mushrooms, outside the park.
6.        Another pressure on the park is the use of the alpine pasture within the high
elevations of the park for summer grzing. Most of the villagers living around the park have
traditional rights to grazing within the park. It is estimated that around 25,000 to 30,000
sheep and goats graze in the park every year. Although grzing has been going on in the
park since at least 1886, it is arguable that the park ecosystem has adapted to it. However,
the number of animals entering the park in recent years is said to have progressively
increased and efforts are now needed to restnct the number of animals that enter the park
through the voluntary revocation of rights in retun for ecodevelopment inputs. In addition
resarch could support rotational grazing and improved artificial feeds.
7.        The park has also substantial potential for approprate recreational and tourism
development dtough the development of trails, local accomodation and other service-related
activities.
2      WCMC. 1988. lndia. Conservonof Biologicl Dvesit.



Annex 9
Page 3 of 5
B. Kalakad Mundanthural Tiger Reserve
8.        Location and Area. The Kalakad-Mundanthurai T1ger Reserve includes the two
adjacent wildlife sanctuaries of Kalakad and Mundanthurai in the district of Tirunelveli in the
southeem Indian state of Tamnil Nadu (Map IBRD 24928). The reserve is situated in the south
Western Ghats region and covers 841sq.kmns in extent. Possibilities further exists for
extension of the park to the south to include the reserved and protection forests that lie
adjacent to the Tiger Reserve. There is also a proposal to upgrade the higher altitude forests
within the Reserve to national park status (400sq.kns), leaving the lower forests as a
sanctuary buffer.
9.        The Tiger Reserve is bounded to the west, north-west and south by reserved and
protection forests and to the east by villages. There is a proposal to demarcate the reserve
into four zones, namely: a core undisturbed zone of around 459sq. kms, a buffer zone of
162sq. kms that is to be managed as a supplementary area to the core zone for supporting
wildlife populations, a tourism zone of 35sq. kms. and a multiple use zone that extends
between 5-10 km radius outside the reserve boundary. A new management plan has been
completed for the reserve.
10.       Biological/Conservation Value. The reserve is located in the Western Ghats,
one of the most important biogeographic zones in India, due to its tropical forest
conglomerations and richness of species and endemism. The reserve itself is located in the
Agastyamalai hills at the southern extremity of the Ghats. This area has less ecologially dry
months than any other area in the Ghats and hence experience a more typical tropical
evergreen forest regime. These hills are separated from the more northern hfll forests of the
Western Ghats by the Shencottah Gap and the flora and lesser fauna here have many endemic
taxa. lTe forests in this region has a strong biological link to the Sri Lankan rainforests.
The Agastyamalai hills are considered as one of the five Centers of Plant Diversity and
Endemism in India (IUCN op cit) and therefore is a priority area for conservation. At least
150 localised endemic species of plants occur in the Agastyamalai hills.
11.       The Kalakad-Mundanthurai sanctuary complex is the largest and most intact
forest extent in the Agastyamaai hills, consisting of a variety of altitudinal climax forest
communities. These range from evergreen, semi-evergreen, moist deciduous and hill forests
to small extents of dry deciduous forest Because of its tropical location and high vegetation
diversity, the Tiger Reserve harbors a rich variety of wildlife. The reserve is home to five of
the eigtheen primates found in the country, the endemic Nilgiri Langur, Lion-tailed Macaque,
Nilgiri Tahr, and Slender Loris of which are considered to be endangered. The reserve is also
home to the rare Great Indian Hornbill. Other significant animal species include the elephant,
tiger, gaur, Bonnet Macaque and a variety of birds.



Annex 9
Page 4 of 5
12.       Issues. The extension of agriculture, primarily cash food production, dam
construction, and the encroachment of subsistence farmers over extensive areas of the
Western Ghats have eliminated the natwal bic;ogical diversity in most of the settled pars
Within the remaining forests in the region there are only isolated remnants of the ariginal
extensive natural ecosystems such as Kalakad-Mudanthurai that are sdll largely intact and
need to be managed with minimum disturbance.
13.       Fortunately, most of the forests, particularly within the proposed core national
park area in the Kalakad-Mudanthurai area are under very litde or no human pressure at
present. However, some areas in the periphery experience pressures from grazing, removal of
small timber and firewood and non-timber forest products, and also the illegal feling of
dmber trees. The peripheral areas are also prone to forest fires. The main pressure on the
re  comes from around 66 villages comprising 46,000 households situated within 5 kms
of the eastern boundary of the reserve and the three colonies of State Electricity Board
personnel and laborers, a lare private tea holding consisting of 4,000 persons and several
smaler estates, and four small tribal (Kani) enclaves all of which lie within the reserve. The
peripheral villages practice rainfed agriculture, which is usually their single-most important
source of livelihood and have constant problems with elephants, which is a major
conservation issues that needs to be addressed in the future.
14.       All use of the Kalalcad and Mundanthurai Sanctuaries (except grzing in
Mundanthurai) was legally stopped ten years ago. Prior to this, the area was wored as
Reserved Forests for fuelwood using coppice with standard coupes and selection felling of
imber stnds. In addition, contracts for extracton of minor forest products were given within
the area until they were declared as sanctuaries. While the level of curnent ilegal resource
use is reportedly relatively low following the estabLishment of the Protected Area (PA) some
households are evidently still dependent on forest resources to see them through half of the
year when agricultural labor enployment is unavailable. Although the declaration of the PA
has reduced the level of forest resource use, it is evident that the cunrent resentment to the
loss of previously available resources and employment needs to be addressed if the potential
for incrased future threats is to be avoided.
15.       There seem to be some potential for implementng ecodevelopment programs in
the multiple use areas surrounding the reserve. A large band of relatively fallow land is
intrspsd between many of the villages and the PA boundary. These lands appear to be
owned by absentee landowners and a large Temple Trust that could possibly be used for
substitute forest resources creation, provided creative negotiations can be worked out with
these private landowners and Temple authorties. Further Government and NGO programs
have shown some potential for incraesing substitute incomes through crafts nuanufactur and
marketing and the provision of credit for improved catde for milk production. Both of these



Pge 5 Of 5
kinds of proram  have potential for fute expanon. The eistnce of arge aeas of
waored foests and pltaions withn the boundaze of the rseve could be managed to
provide mspoved habita for wildlf and employment and resources for the loca people.
There is so condeble scope for fuue  recaonal and toudism development if sensitively
handled and developed to povide employment to zocal people.
16.       The   ad-Mnda          Reserve is foun   in having some local NGOs that
appear to have the necessaxy erse and expenence to prde the local villages and Foest
Department with  rong supp     They curently work in many of he proposed project
villages, have establshed credibility, and exhibit a professionl approach which would be
invaluable to sucoeful Implementation of any ecodevelopment progmra.



Annex 10
Page 1 of 6
INDIA
FORETY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Cons tion of Blodiversity. Researchoms
A. lnbrodudion
1.        The Consetion of Biodiversity Component of the Project would support reseach
and pilot developmnt of methods of ecodevelopnent and resource managemei in around The
Gea Himalayan National Park and the Kalakad-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve. Ihere is cumeny
vey little infomation available on the blodiversity of dtese poected areas, particularly in the
Great Himalayan Nationra Park, the impact of current resource uses such as grazing and heb
olwection on the wildlfe populadions in the reserves and its impact on the ecology of rsve
ecosyms There Is knowledge among the villages regarding the use and value of medicinal
plants and other park resources that needs to be researched and docun   Monitoring and
vluation woud requre the collecton of baseline iformation on the socio-economic and
eoogical conditions in the rserves.
2.        The project would support research of an applied nature that wold provide
information for improved protected areas management and ecodevelopment activities. A number
of research toics have so far been identified. In addition the project would support expansion
of the previous work done by the Wildlife Institute of India and the Indian Institute of Public
Administraon toward development of stegies for prorion of protected areas for
conservation and ecodevelopment. The main objectives of the reserch programs are ummaizd
below, but detailed terms of reference for each would have to be drawn up before they are
implemented.
B. Strategic Reearch
3.        A naional study would be undtaken to describe and classify PAs in India and
to pioidze them in tensm of their management and ecodevelopment neods.
Rcmendaions would be made for biodiversity consrvon straegies at nadonal, state
and local levels. The study would build on the baseline study undaken by IIPA 1. The
study would be completed in dtee yeas with interim reports released annually. Specifically
1      Managmaet of Nationalas and Sanctuwies in hndi A Sus ReporL IPA.



Annex 10
Page 2 of 6
the study would survey and analyze:
-     The staus of PAs in India, including their legal status, biogeoaphic
classificadon, pressures on the PAs, management planning asPcs,
existing PA facilides and staffing. research and monitoring progrWms,
touri, etc;
Ecodevelopment needs for each PA, curent population pressures and
resource dependencies, social and historical justificadon for PA resource
use by local communides, restrictions on resource use, and approaches
for replacing PA-based needs and diverdng pressures from the PAs;
National, stae and local policies, legislation, schemes and programs that
influence PA management and ecodevelopment, and rm  dons
to make them moe supportive of biodiversity conservation efforts.
C. Great Himalayan National Park
Literature Review
Review exsting research reports, documents, publications, maps, land-
use and legal documents, programs, prqects, plans, etc. pertaining to the
Grat Himalayan National Park and surroundings;
- Prepare a report su g  the current status of knowledge of the
reserve and its resources, dependencies and pmessure currnt and
proposed plans and programs, etc.
G     Ing I Alpine iastures.
-       Assess the extent of grazing and the carying capacity of alpine pastes
within the park;
-      Evaluate the impact of grazing on widlife and wildlife habitats and on
the behaviour of wild ungulates and other species;
-       Ilnvestigate possible management strategies for reducing impact on the
pastures through e.g. rotational grazing, use of control plots, etc;
-      Analyze the nutritional value of the grasses and other plants avlable in
these pasures to livestock and investigate tecbniques for providing such
nutrition artificial feeds.



AM        n
1¢3 e(?
Herbs ad Mudhooms
-       Assess the extent of herb and m uhm coUecdon in the p    (illegal
and legal) and the dynamics of the acdvity (collection, distributdon,
markQeting, etc);
Assessing the impact of herb and mushroom collecdon on the part
ecosystems and the cunrent ecological status of the herb and mushrom
species;
Examne the possibilities for ex-situ cultivation of these species,
naturally or in tissue cultures.
crop
Evaluate cm-ent levels and causes of crop depredation by wild animals
around the park;
Attempt to develop new and innovative medtods of crop protcon
based on actual field situations, e.g. artficial barriers, green fencing,
cultural practices, compensation, etc. or combinaions of these method
Soda Anthropology
Assess the demographic char stics of populatons living wihin and
adjacent to those dependent on the National Park;
Determine existing traditional nights to resource use witdin the park,
crrent local dependencies on the park resources, and the atttudes and
perceptions of local people to the paik;
-        Define the legal saus and land tenure issues related to the park and its
Discuss possible approaches to reducing pressures on pak resources and
approaches to deal with existing habitations within the park.



Indigenous Knowledge
Assess current knowledge about the park and its resources among the
local people;
Define existing knowledge of local species and its use for local
medicine, rituals, ceremonies, food, fibre, etc,
Describe current religious and cultual beliefs related to the forests
Experimental Slope Stabilization
Assess the extent of landslide problems in the park and imwediate
sunundings;
Plan and implement experimntal cost-effective approaches (physical,
biological, cultural and traditional) to stabilize lndslid slopes and
landslide prone slopes;
Evaluate the merits of such measues.
D. Kalakad-Mundanthural Tiger Reserve
Lierature Review
Review existing research reports, documents, publications, maps, land-
use and legal documents, programs, projects, plans, etc. peaning to the
Kalakd-Mundanthurai Tiger Reserve;
Prepare a report suming the current status of Inowledge of the
reserve and its resources, dependencies and pressures, current and
proposed plans and programs, etc.
Medicnal Plants
Identify, catalogue, map the distribution, and make laboatory
collections of plants of known medicnal properties found within the
reserve;
Determine the status of these medicinal plants and make
reco m mendations for their conservation and sustainable use.



Anes D10
Page 5 of 6
Commercial Plants
Identify, caalogue, map die distribudon, and make laboatory
collections of plants of known or potential commercial value in the
reserve;
Determine the status of tdese species and make recomendatons for
their conservation and sustable use.
Crop Protection
Evaluate current levels and causes of crop depredation by wild animal
around the reserve;
Assess the extent of damage caused by elephants in relaton to the total
wildlife-related damage;
Assess tfhe effectveness of any current crop protcton measures,
copensation measures being employed and their effectiveness in
reducing damage to crops and reducing antagomsm to the reserve;
Develop new and innovative cost-effective aproaches to reduce
wildlife-related crop and other damages.
Indigenous Knovledge
Assess current knowledge and perceptions about the reseve and its
resources among the local people, including specifically the Kani tribes
that live within the reserve;
Define existing knowledge of local species and its use by the local
people for medicine, rituals, ceremonies, food, fibre, etc.;
Describe cunent religious and cultural beliefs related to the forest.
Socal Antopology
Assess the demographic chrcteristics of the populaton living within
and adjacent to, the reserve, including the enclaves of the Electricity
Board, Tea and Cardamom Estates, etc;



Annex 10
Page 6 of 6
D Define existing traditional rights to resource use. if any, within the
reserve;
Assess current local dependencies on the resources of the reserve;
Assess the extent of impact of the closure of the reserve on lHvelihood
of people that are dependent on the reserve and the attitudes and
perceptions of local people on the closure of the resve;
Investigate the attitudes and peceptions of the Kani households to be
relocated from the core to buffer zone and the sensitivity of the Forest
Department to it;
Discuss approaches to reducing pressure on the reserve from people
living within and adjacent to the reserve.
Resource Mapping
Produce resource maps on the physical (topography, climate, water
resources, etc) and biological features of the reserve (vegetation), using
existing information (maps, aerial photographs, etc) and ground truthing.
E. Monitoring and Evaluation
This world involve collection of baseline information on ecological and socio-economic
features related to the two protected areas and the establishment of specf  parmets to be
monitored as the project progresses. This baseline condition would be esablished for
determined parameters in the initial year of the project and monitored subsequently in years 3
and 5.



India
Forestry Research, Education & Extension Project
Project Cost Summary
Rs. M                              US$ M                          % Total
---------_-__-----------------    -----------------I----------   % Foreign          Base
Local   Foreign      Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
A . Research Management
1. Development of ICFRE            102.47     27.34    129.81          3.42     0.91      4.33         21.06      8.18
2. Extension Support                37.82      7.63      45.44         1.26      0.25     1.51         16.78       2.86
Sub-Total                              140.28      34.96    175.25         4.68      1.17     5.84         19.95      11.04
B . Research Program Support
1. Research Programs               260.49    192.77    453.26          8.68     6.43    15.11          42.53     28.56
2. Planting Seed Improvement       105.17     34.53    139.70          3.51      1.15     4.66         24.72       8.80
3. Library & Info. Systems          76.98     81.87    158.85          2.57     2.73      5.29         51.54     10.01
4. Research System Support         171.94    199.06    371.00          5.73     6.64    12.37          53.65     23.37
S. Forestry Statistics               7.86      2.49      10.35         0.26     0.08      0.35         24.10      0.65
Sub-Total                              622.44    510.72   1133.16         20.75    17.02    37.77          45.07      71.39
C . Education & Training
1. FRI Deemed University            47.33      7.01      54.34         1.58     0.23      1.81         12.90      3.42
D . Forestry Policy & Prep.            55.22      10.50     65.72         1.84      0.35     2.19         15.98       4.14
E . Biodiversity Conservation
1. Bcodevelopment                   89.21      9.59      98.80         2.97     0.32      3.29          9.71      6.22
2. PA Management                    23.09      9.87      32.96         0.77     0.33      1.10         29.94      2.08
3. Research M & B                   22.75      4.20      26.95         0.76     0.14      0.90         15.58      1.70
Sub-Total                              135.05      23.66    158.72         4.50      0.79     5.29         14.91      10.00
Total BASELINE COSTS                  1000.33    586.85   1587.19         33.34    19.56    52.91          36.97    100.00
Physical Contingencies               77.41     48.06    125.47          2.58     1.60      4.18         38.31       7.91
Price Contingencies                 209.76    229.32    439.08         -2.24     1.63    -0.61           0.00       0.00
Total PROJECTS COSTS                  1287.50    864.24   2151.74         33.69    22.79    56.48          40.35    106.76
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 - 6/29/1993 11:35
j



India
Forestry Research. education & ixtenioa Project
Projects Components by Y't
Totals Including Contingencies                              Totals Including Contingencies
Re. n                                                        US$ N
.... .. ....   ............ ......_._.   ._.  .................................... .......  -.--.---------..-..-..-..  ..-.------------------.-..-_-.--.------------.........._ 
93/94    94/9S    95/96    96/97    97/90    Total        93/94    94/9S    9S/96    96/97    97/98    Total
.-     s...............................................................................................- 
A.  Research bnMeemant
1. Dneelopment of ICPRS           40.20    72.69    31.21    11.91    12.53   160.53         1.16      1.97     0.S0     0.30     0.30     4.S2
2. Bxtension Support              13.53    12.30    10.83      9.80    11.0S    S7.60        0.39      0.33     0.26     0.25     0.27     1.S5
Sub-total                             53.73    84.99    42.04    21.79    23.58   226.13          1.54     2.30     2.08     0.54     O.S7     6.03
3. Rebearch Program support
1. Research PrograDm             15.76   232.37   140.46   4S.18    36.73   606.S2          4.36      6.30     3.60     1.12     0.80   16.26
2. PlantIng Seed tprovement       29.43    42.10    48.17    38.65    40.37   198.71         0.OS      1.14     1.24     0.96     0.97     S.1S
3. Library & info. System         56.28    64.86    41.18    33.92    2S.21   221A.4S        1.62      1.76     1.06     0.04     0.61     S.86
4. Research System Support        S1.85    73.48    94.70   127.60   177.00   524.83         1.49      1.99     2.43     3.17     4.25    13.34
S. Forestry Statistics             3.S4      3.3S     2.19     2.31     2.43    S3.53        0.10     0.09      0.06     0.06     0.06     0.36
.. . . . . . ...._ __. .   . .._. .. .. ... ....... ............._ ..  _...... ..  ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------- ------
Sub-Total                            292.87   416.17   326.70   247.65   281.74  1S65.33          S.42    11.26     0.36     6.15     6.77    40.99
C. Saducation a TrainIng
1. FRI Deesmed University          9.05    29.69    18.86      6.43     6.76    70.82        0.26      0.80     0.48     0.16     0.16     1.87
D. Forestry Policy & Prep.            16.96    16.44    17.48    16.4S    19.43   68.76          0.49     0.45     0.45     0.46     0.47     2.31
B. Biodivwdsity conservation
1. Ucodavelopgmnt                 19.69    29.68    36.13    22.97    12.80   121.47         O.S      0.60     0.93     O.S7     0.31     3.16
2. PA    _ mgemet                 11.15    11.69      9.2S     6.67     4.68    43.63         0.32     0.32     0.24     0.17     0.11     1.16
3. Research 3 & B                  6.47      8.17     9.83     4.S2     4.60    3S.60        0.24      0.22     0.25     0.11     0.11     0.94
Sub-Total                              39.S2    49.SS    55.21    34.36    22.08   200.70         1.14     1.34     1.42     0.65     O.S3      S.28
.. -. ............. ....................... ... ....  --.........  --------....----------.-.---.-..---------...----....--------
Total PR58I  cmS                     412.12   596.04   460.31   328.86   353.59  21S1.74         11.84    16.17    11.80     6.16     6.sO    S6.46
.............             ..     . -. -.        -         .    .    ....................................................
.al.es  Scaled . 10000...........0     11:52-----------------------_-------------------._------...------------...-------_-
Vbaloa 8ea1 d bY 1000000.0 6/29/1"3 llsS2



India
Forestry Research, Education & Extension Project
Summary Accounts Cost Sumary
Rs. M                             US$ M                         % Total
________   _________-_-_-----    ---------------------------   0 Foreign          Base
Local   Foreign     Total        Local  Foreign    Total      Exchange      Costs
I. iNV3SMB1Tm COSTS
A. Civil Works                      288.23      32.03    320.26         9.61      1.07    10.68         10.00     20.18
B. Equipment                         56.01    191.46    247.47          1.87     6.38      8.25        77.37      15.59
C. Vehicles                          22.51       S.63     28.13         0.75     0.9       0.94        20.00       1.77
D. Training                          65.18    150.63    224.01          2.17     5.29      7.47        70.90      14.11
B. Technical Assistance               0.00      77.76     77.76         0.00     2.S9      2.59       100.00       4.90
F. Plant Establishment               69.60       0.00     69.60         2.32     0.00      2.32         0.00       4.39
0. Studies & Consultancies          107.62       0.00    107.62         3.59      0.00     3.59         0.00       6.78
B. Fund                             180.60      82.90    263.50         6.02     2.76      8.78        31.46      16.60
I. Services                          21.90       0.00     21.90         0.73     0.00      0.73         0.00       1.38
Total WN4ISTMETW COSTS              811.65    548.60   1360.25         27.06    18.29    45.34         40.33      85.70
II. RECORRBNT COSTS
A. Salaries & Allowances             44.96       0.00     44.96         1.50      0.00     1.50          0.00      2.83
B. Operations & Maintenance         115.86      28.97    144.83         3.86     0.97      4.83        20.00       9.12
C. Research Operations               27.86       9.29     37.1S         0.93     0.31      1.24        25.00       2.34
Total RECURRENT COSTS               188.68      38.25    226.93         6.29     1.28      7.56        16.86      14.30
Total  SMELINE COSTS               1000.33    586.85   1587.19         33.34    19.56    52.91         36.97    100.00
Physical Contingencies            77.41      48.06    125.47         2.58     1.60      4.18        38.31       7.91
Price Contingencies              209.76    229.32    439.08         -2.24     1.63    -0.61          0.00       0.00
Total PROJECTS COSTS               1287.50    864.24   21S1.74         33.69    22.79    56.48         40.35    106.76
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 -   6/29/1993  lls52



India
Forestry Research, Education & Extension Project
Summary Accounts by Year
Totals Including Contingencies                               Totals Including Contingencies
Rs. M                                                         US$ M
93/94    94/95    95/96    96/97    97/98    Total         93/94    94/95    9S/96    96/97    97/98    Total
....... ............---.. --....- ..-.----................ --....    .... ......--..-......... --....--_.-.--........................
2. INVESTMENT COSS
A. Civil Works                       72.96   222.22   100.51    13.03      0.15   408.87         2.10      6.02     2.58     0.32      0.00    11.02
S. Equipment                        131.16   110.00    69.52    25.82    16.52   353.02          3.77      2.98     1.78     0.64      0.40     9.57
C. Vehicles                          16.59    13.66      5.27     1.91     2.01    :9.42         0.48     0.37      0.14     0.05     0.0S      1.08
D. Training                          58.96    66.58    71.76    58.31    72.96   328.57          1.69      1.80     1.84     1.45      1.75     8.54
S. Technical Assistance              27.28    32.74    21.85    18.35    15.79   116.00          0.78      0.89     0.56     0.46      0.38     3.07
P. Plant Establishment               15.58    19.21    20.96    21.83    22.92   100.51          0.45     0.52      0.54     0.54     0.55      2.60
0. Studies & Consultancies           29.54    29.50    30.70    24.54    26.21   140.50          0.85      0.80     0.79     0.61      0.63     3.67
H. Fund                              22.90    47.49    71.45    89.11   113.14   344.09          0.66      1.29     1.83     2.21      2.72     8.71
I. Services                           4.25     4.52      5.38     5.66     6.61    26.42         0.12     0.12      0.14     0.14     0.16      0.68
Total INVESTKENT COSrS              379.22   545.92   397.39   258.56   276.31  1857.40         10.90    14.79    10.19      6.42      6.64    48.94
II. RECURRENT COSTS
A. Salaries & Allowances             10.12    11.35    12.00    12.63    13.26    59.36          0.29      0.31     0.31     0.31      0.32     1.54
D. Operations & Maintenance          13.79    29.95    40.67    46.88    52.63   183.92          0.40     0.81      1.04     1.16     1.27      4.68
C. Research Operations                8.99     9.62    10.25    10.82    11.39    51.07          0.26     0.26      0.26     0.27      0.27     1.32
-- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -     -- -  - - - - - - - - - - - - - -  - -  --------- --------  _    _  
Total RECURRENT COSTS                32.90    50.92    62.92    70.33    77.28   294.35          0.95     1.38      1.61     1.75      1.86     7.54
.. :;;a;; ... ;;;. =; ...    =         ...   .   ..;m  ....    ....................................... ======= .........
Total PROJECT COSTS                 412.12   596.84   460.31   326.88   353.59  2151.74         11.84    16.17    11.80      8.16     8.50    56.48
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 6/29/1993 11:46
m W7
4O :
Fo 



Anna 12
Par I of 1
IDWIA
1FOR)Y DRESEARCH EDUCATION AND FMTENSION PROJECr
Schedule of Estdmated Disburst
IDA              Disbursement     Cumuative Disbursement Percent
FY     Semester        ............. (US$ millon).
95        I                4.92                 4.92                10
95       II                4.92                 9.84                21
96        I                6.58                16.42                35
96       II                6.58                23.00                49
97        I                4.91                27.91                59
97        I                4.91                32.82                70
98        I                3.46                36.28                77
98       It                3.46                39.74                84
99        I                3.65                43.39                92
99       II                3.65                47.04               100



Annex 13
Page 1 of 4
IWDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Researh Management
A. Research Planning
Methodologies for Setting Research Priorities
1.    An important function of ICFRE will be to make decisions on the allocation of resources
to forestry research programs. This will require the identification of priorities, so that most
effective use can be made of lmited resources. At present, decisions on research priorities that
ae reflected in the Perspective Plan are based on knowledge or experience of national or regional
needs and consraints, and the needs of, or returns to pardcular species or groups of users.
Decisions also take into account regional differences of land availabiity and ecological
conditions. However, these facts  are seldom explicitly recognized or systematically evaluated.
Instead, research programs may be dependent on the enthusiam and influence of the researcher,
adaptadons of the previous year's budget, or the availability of funding from other sources. It
is important, thefore, to develop a methodology that provides a systematic and transparent
means of ariving at decisions on research priorities. A number of such methods have been
developed, largely for agricultura research, but the principles are equally applicable to forestry
, and these are oudined below. ICFRE would have the responsibility of making an in-depth study
of these and any other methods that may be suitable for use in Ixdia, and for coordiating the
applicaion of the chosen method for the fomulation of a National Forestry Research Plan.
2.   In addition to the use of simple check lists, there are four main approaches to setting
piorities:
-     Weighted crteria models;
Mathemratical progomming;
-     Benefit-Cost analyses, including the expected economic surplus;
-     Simuation models.
The bnief desecption given below is drawn mainly from work at ISNAR'.
I ISNAR Working Paper No.7. G. W. Norton and P. G. Pardey.



Annex 13
Page 2 of 4
3.    Weighted Criteria Models. This method depends on establishing mulitple criteria for
ranking priorities to explicitly consider a wide variety of factors that influence research selection.
These can be grouped into criteria piumarily relatd to the goal of efficiency and those related to
primarily to distributional or equity and security goals. The relative weights attached to each of
the criteria may be left implicit, but in some studies explicity weights have been attached to each
of the criteria. It is this allocation of weights to individual criteria that is most critical if the
method is to produce meaningful results. For example, if the goal is to improve the well-being
of tribal people, species might be ranked according to the contribution they make to the income
of these peoples. I, on the other hand, the goal were to increase the well-being of people in a
particular region, then the species would be ranked by the value of production in the region.
Agreement on the weights requires an iteration between researchers, producers and policy makers.
4.    Benefit-Cost (Expected Economic Surplus Analaysis). Most studies based on the
benefit-cost aproach to selecting priorities have employed consumer-producer swplus analysis,
using ex-post research evaluation. Ex-ante analyses ususally incorporate expert opinion to
determine project research impacts, adoption rates, and probabilides of research success. Benefit-
cost studies calculate benefit-cost ratios, internal rates of retumn and net present values for
altenative types of research or research on different species. The difficulties with this method
are mainly associated with a lack of data and the problems of making accurate ex-ante
projections. Consequently, the results may be based on a subjective assessment, despite the
apparent precision of the calculations.
5.    Mathematical Programming. This method relies on the mathematical optimization of
a multiple-goal objective function. The model uses smilar information as the weighted criteria
model and thus depends on judgements in defining objecdves,     is eficiency, distributional
and security objectives, and on assigning values to the coefficients used in the model. However,
the model selects an 0optimal" research portfolio, rther than simply rankng research areas.
6.    Simuation. Allocating priorities to research can be modelled using a systems simulation
approaxh to capture goals and objectives, uncertainty, research system constraints, field
constraints and changes in supply, demand, adoption, time, financial costs and the probability of
research success. As with other models, the procedure starts with the definition of the goals and
objecdves. The crucial step is the development of a mahematical model of the system, which
must then be validated before decisions can be made on research priorities.
7.    Comparison of Methods. All the methods descrbed above attempt to provide a
systematic means of assessing research priorities: each has advantages and disadvantages. The
weighted criteria model forces decision makers to make concious trade-offs between multiple
goals. It can incorporate both qualitative and quantitatve data, can be easily understood by
researchers and aminista  and is not demanding of speciaized analystical skills. However,
it does require careful iteration between researchers, professional foresters and   strators to
allocate weights to selected criteria. The weights are inevitably subjective. An illustration of the



Annex 13
Page 3 of 4
application of this method to allocation of research priorities in forestry is presented in the
Appendix to this Annex. The economic surplus model incorpoates several efficiency and
distributional criteria into one or two measures and can be used to examine the benefits of
research under alternative pricing or trade policies. It is dependent on economic data that may
not be available, it demands analytical skills and may not be widely understood by non-
specialists. Mathematical programming allows a rapid quantfication of trade-offs between goals.
It suffers from the same disadvantage as weighted criteria models. in that it is dependent on
subjective weighting of criteria. It is also demanding of an analyst's time. Simulation models
are extremely flexible allowing a great number of hypotheses to be tested before nmaking a
decision on priorities. Their main disadvantages are their complexity and the amount of
analytical time required to construct and operate the model.
8.    The National Forestry Research Plan (NFRP). Application of the chosen priority
setting methodology would lead to the development of an NFRP. Although a Perspective Plan
for Forestry Research has been drawn up in the light of the requirements of the National Forest
Policy, the dynamic nature of the sector means that any research plan must be regularly reviewed
and updated. The development of a methodology for settng research priorties would provide
a systematic basis for such review. The reviews of the current status of forestry research
undertaken for the development of IFRIS would be an important step in updating the plan. This
would be paralleled by a systematic analysis of the constraints affecting forestry production and
conservation, to identify those that can be overcome by research, and those that require action
in areas other than research. This would require a clear undending of the socio-economic
systems in the zones affected by the constraints. The process of developing the research plan
would be iterative and dynamic, depending on the results of field-level diagnostic surveys
involving the users of the forest resource, State Forestry Department staff, natual resource
economists and research scientists. It would be a consultative process based on social and
political factors as well as scientific considertons, so that the plan would evolve with both
changing needs and improving research capabilities. As the National Forestry Research Plan
evolves, the human resources required for its implementation would become clear and a Human
Resources Development Plan would be drawn up in parallel.
B. Monitoring and Evaluation
9.    Monitoring and Evaluation (M & E) would be the responsibility of the ADG Monitoring
and Evaluation. Development of an M & E system would require the identification of agreed
monitoring criteria or indicators, that is, what is going to be monitored and what does it indicate
about the progress of research. Information on selected critera needs to be collected in a
manageable form, which requires the development of a management information system.
Financial or budgetary criteria form a special sub-set of data and are most useful in relation to
research programs. The needs of a management information system and of program budgeting
are discussed below.



Annex 13
Page 4 of 4
10.  Indian Forestry Research Information System (IFRIS).  The development of a
research management information system would be an essental tool for effective monitoring and
evaluation.  IFRIS would be a computerized information system in which research would be
described and costed, so that infomation could be retrieved by topic, discipline, agro-ecological
zone, institute, or researcher. It would make it possible to see the up-to-date cost of research In
India on one species, in one research area, or in one institute. It would also provide informaon
about the status of research programs and their application. Initially, a series of reviews of
cun-ent forestry research in India would be underauken to provide essential inputs to IFRIS. In
subsequent years, reports from each research program would be submitted in a stndard format
to be added to the IFRIS database. These reports would be additional, though linked to, annual
institute reports. The service would, thus be an essential tool to monitor research, that is to
detennine whether it is proceeding according to plan and in line with agreed objectives and
priorities. Subsequently, IPRIS reports would be used to evaluate research programs.
11.   Program Budgeting. Preparation of budgets for forestry research would be an iterative,
rather than a top-down process. Thus, on the basis of priorities decided by ICFRE and an
indication of the costs and the likely funding for forestry reseah available from both
government and donors, an approximate allocation of resources would be made between
nstitutions and programs. Once tentative allocations have been made by ICFRE, institutes would
formulate costed programs and experiments, which would form the basis of budget proposals.
These would be brought together by ICFRE for submission to the Miistry of Finance. Following
budget approval, actual expenditure on specific programs would be monitored duing the year.
This would enable research managers to examine research expenditure in relation to identied
prioities and the allocation of resources to research as a proporion of public expenditure on the
forestry sector. The proportion of the recunent budget devoted to personal emoluments would
also be discussed in relation to the overall budget.



13
piSs
Appenixt 1
llustratlon of the Applkation of the Weigtd   Critea Metod '
1.   To illustrate the application of the weighted criteria model to allocating fresy
resch prioities, eleven critria thought to be of importance were selected and appled to
nine unamed species as ilusred in Table 1. Quantitative data we applied to only four of
the criteria and the rest were assessed qualitadvely.
2.    Each criteion was then assigned a value between 1 and 9 as shown in Table 2, which
shows a the conved data in an unweighted fonm. Species No. 8 is allocated  ighest
priority, followed by Species No. 1, with Species No. 4 given the lowest priority.
3.   If monetary returns are of paramount importance, prioity in reseamh should be given
to those speies that will provide the best returns. In Table 3, the criterion for Monetay
Vahle has been given a weighting of x3 and Employment a weighting of x2. Social Value
and Social Benefits have been given a zero weighting. Species No. 8 and Species No. 1
remain the two highest priority species, but Species No. 6 is the lowesL
4.    When enviomnental and social improvement are considered of greatest imporance,
the citerion for Environmental Impact is given a weighting of x3 and both Social Value and
Social Benefits a weighing of x2. Table 4 shows hat Species No.5 should rcieve the
highest reseh prity, Species No 2 dte second piority and Speies No. 4 the lowesL
5.    The values and weightings given in the tables are arbiary and their choice clearly
influences the results. However, the eamples given serve to Illustathe application of de
method to the choice of species to which resach priority should be given. A similr
procedure can be used to decide on priorities amongst faos or production systems.
The illustradon presented here is derived from: A Possible Approh to
Allocadng Reseach Prities. Jones N., Hill, L, u      P., and
Pritchard A. Paper presented to the Semin  on Forest Research    age ,
Debra Dun, 1993.



Annex 13
Appendx 1-
Page 2 of 5
Table 1. Criteria for Allocadon of Research Priorities
Criteria                                               Species
1     2    3    4        5    6     7      8    9
Occurrence                W       L    M     M    W       L     L    W       W
Value
Monetary                H     M     H    M       L     L    M      M     H
Social                  H      L    H      L    H      H     L    M      M
Probability of Res. Success
Existing knowledge      M      H     P     p     P     P    H      H      P
Existingprograms        S    M       N     S    N      S      S    H      N
Time to complete res.    25    6   30    40    15      5      5     5    10
Cost of research py.    1000    30  850   275   700   225   200   200   650
Available staff   A     F      A    A      F     S    A      A      S
Populadon Involvement
Employment (mill)    10.00   0.05  5.00  0.20  010  0.10  0.50  2.00  0.05
Social benefits (mill)    50.0   0.1  25.0   1.0  40.0   0.5   0.0   0.2   5.0
Environmental Impact        -    +      -     -    +      +     +      0     -
Abbreviations
Occurrence:             W - Widespread    M - Moderately widespread L - lalized
Value                   H - High          M- Medium                L-Low
Probability of res. success
Existing knowledge     H - High          M - Moderate             P - Poor
Existing programs      M - Moderate      S - Some                 N - Nil
Time to complete research Number of calendar years
Cost of research       Number of staff years
Available staff        A- Adequate       S - Some                 F - Few
Population involvement    Numbers of people involved
Environmental impact    Positive, negative or neutal



Annex 13
Appendix 1
Pae 3 of 5
Table 2. Unweighted citeria for Allocation of Research Priorides
Critia                                         Species
1    2    3    4       5    6    7       8    9
Occrence               9     1    5    5      9     1     1     9    9
value
Monety              9    5    9    5        1    1    5       5    9
Social              9     1    9      1    9    9       1     5    5
Prbability of Res. Success
Exising knowlcdge    5    9     1    1      1    1    9       9     1
Exsng programs      1    5    0       1    0      1    1      9    0
Tilme to coplet res.  4    8    3     1    6    8    8        8    7
Cost of reseh py.   1    9    2    8        4    9     9      9    4
AvaHlable staff     9    5    9    9        5     1    9      9    5
opulaton Involvement
Employment (mill)    9    0    5      1     1    1      1     2    0
Social benefits (mill)  9    0    5   1    8    0    0        0    3
Envlromnent1ali1pac    1     9    1    1    9    9    9         5    1
Total           66   52   49   34    53   41    53    70   44
Ranking         ii    v    vi   uc   iii  vi    iii        i   vii



Table 3. Criteria for Allocation of Research Priorides Weighted for Moneay BenefitAX
Criteia                                        Species
1     2    3    4       5    6    7      8    9
Occunen                  9      1    5    5      9    1    1    9    9
Value
Monetay               27    15   27   15       3    3    15   15   27
Social                0      0    0    0       0    0    0      0    0
Pmbability of Res. Swcess
Euisftiknowle          5     9    1    1       1    1    9      9    1
Existing       1             5    0    1       0    1    1    9    0
me to completere       4     8    3    1       6    8    8      8    7
Cost of tesach py.     1     9    2    8       4    9    9      9    4
Avaflablestaff         9     5    9    9       5    1    9      9    5
Populatin involvement
Employment (mll)      18     0   10    2       2    2    2      4    0
Social benefits (ril)  0     0    0    0       0    0    0      0    0
EnvihonmentalImpact       1    9    1    1       9    9    9       5    1
Total             75    61   58   43    39   35   63   77   54
Rang               ui   iv    v   vii   vii  Ii   i.  i         vi



Annex 13
Appendix 1
Page 5 of S
Table 4. Criteria for Allocation of Research Priorities Weighted for Environmental and
Social Benefits
Criteria                                     Species
1     2    3    4       5    6    7       8    9
Occuirence               9      1    5    5       9    1    1    9    9
Value
Monetary               9      5    9    5      1    1    5       5    9
Social                18     2   18    2    18   18    2    10   10
Probability of Res. Success
Existingknfowledge     5      9     1    1      1    1    9      9    1
Existingprograns       1      5    0    1      0    1      1    9    0
lTime to complete res.    4   8    3    1      6    8    8       8    7
Cost of reseach py.    1     9    2    8       4    9      9     9    4
Available staff        9      5    9    9      5    1    9       9    5
Poplation Involvement
Employment (mill)      9      0    5    1       1    1    1    2    0
Social benefits (mill)    18  0    10    2    16    0      0     0    6
EnvironmentalImpct        3   27    3    3    27   27   27    15    3
Total              86    71   65   38    88   68   72    85   54
Ranidng            ii     v   vii  ix       i   vi   iv   iii  viii



Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
I  WiROPRWOJTTAMAWAMSTw
2      No:opobm
4      Efui3.dvaiiw
co~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~kb
7  SUPER.SC.                                                                          __EW
IS PROOUEM5NW
a2  PROJEOT UMLWAIVN
2S   P*Iaoi i__-__
24                   _le                                        htSel    
2t         Eg.bbhl.Pt*d t     n M.                            Edoa.         s       Ct
~~~~-  ~~~~~~~ -~p
as   icPAEsi                                          I -_                                    -     _
a~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
s o        O w sIq oN FPfl * U V U f d
aO R             nAt sW
27 OOQa  IAflIXz tWStM GOt
a      M@rLm~DoknU a ZSyt
40            Iff=MmM&%GI.Im
41             hRP    -                                                                              _ &_
42          Dkuri_ 
42
44     ~Ow4Vl*"&mWObb=
4.             _oab .Imedeimoftv.
47          sl cEe Pmm
45     A~koumw RAmwdPw~
a          pi*ii PAstr
U           PuAOP-__s _ _
U    kIewin RON  atsrn=w
Ig:llS IhMjAu -x=ww4                                                               PAW up 4=



Annex 14
Fhliy Rmach Micallon and Exthndw Prepod                                             Page 2 of 2
low 193     994       lm 1"       998        Ss       t99 lo      t2 i       0      _
so         Roch Grad Fund
e1              Estabbh Ras                                                              Estbrh              _G_
E2              Agrme CeAih tl o ud al w.ol
63              RsVIOlW flil thee RIGF propab
64       OhAb   temf e   preEam
65         Pba&I Stk = _ven___                                                               _                                                                     1-
68              Sw& yend D100n
07              Dwtebpn& of F  l
- t              ilnwd Program
de        Lbmhea8 and l    ln Syd_m
70              OcOopFUN. 
7t              Cent"Catl"wogu Conpina rt  dou
72              PrFeae TORt 1        SamUtomb ==
,3              PaE    Sef 3si
74       lHan Raaou Oe Deeopetrww'
76              EsabAsh Tr.ining Conw*t e
78              Fmeake PlamrentSenrl,
7?              Prpare Annua Tmining Plan
83              TraIn Peronnel
Forestry Educio
U8              Revbn =C5r=lesla
-6             ln~leaient Pot-Gaduate Resar.ch Progmie=
87         TecnIa Assistanceo tdi.                                                                                                            MEeW
88              PrwpereTOR
so              Advealiz poels
SO     Fb            tet*nbg uinq  'a ngeuts
91              Reai Personnel
112 E_nAdvi ___E3
l3              Appoint EDO and St0                                               _
94              Ulopbnnis_
95              Renew ED Plane ED                                                                                    _
90              Establsh ESf Pocedures
97              Disburs,ftoAgreedProgram-
a8         PA Managemet.
90              AppoIt PA Oor_e                                                                               C 
100             Prope PA Management Plan
101             krplsenat PA Mngmend Plan
10         ED Rearch Moitaonrg ,n E iam.-
103             tqlnu  Reseach Progr an
104             M&EYOU=
105             M&EYars3
106             M&EYea5T
Proje  F       Re   h EduS ionad   Eitenk      Criical                             Pr.greis. s.2
Dat: 1111494                                   Noncritioal                         Milestone                           Rolled Up 



Annex 1I
Page 1 of 5
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Technical Assistance, Studies and Consultancies
A. Technical Assistance - Forestry Research. Schedule of Activities
Activity                      No. Months TA by Year
1    2      3     4     5     Total
Planning and Monitoring
Priority Methodology    4     4     1                   9
MIS (WM)                4     4     1                   9
M andE                  2     2     1      1     1      7
Libraiy and Information
Libray Science          3     3      1     1     1      9
ResearchWriting               1            1            2
InstituteReviews                    5     3      3     3      14
Visiting Scientis             6     6     6     6      6     30
Program Specialisu
Debra Dun               5     3     3     2            13
Coimbatore              3           2      1     1      7
Bangalore               5     4     1                  10
Jabalpur                2     1                         3
Jodhpur                 3     1      1     1     1      7
lorhat                  3     8     3     2      1     17
Shimla                        4     3      1            8
Allahabad               4     3     1                   8
Total            44    49   27    19    14      153



Annex 15
Page 2 of 5
B. Sumnmry Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance Staff - Forestry Research
1.   Intemationally recruited technical assistance staff would only be recruited to provide
specialist skills not presendy available in India. They would work closely with local consultants
and an important part of each specialist's work would be to provide on-the-job training to ICFRE
staff and local consultants.
2.    Priority Methodology. The appointment would be for four months in each of the furst
two years of the project, with a short follow-up visit in the third year. The objective would be to
assist with developing a methodology for setting research priorities at national, institute and
program levels. Check lists of factors to be considered, indicators and the weighting to be
attached to each would be developed and agreed with researchers and the users of research results.
In the second year the focus of the work would be on the application of the methodology to the
development of a National Forestry Research Plan.
3.    Management and Information System. The appointment of an expert in computer-based
information systems with experience in their application to the management of research would be
for a total of nine months, spread over the first dtree years of the project. Four months would be
in each of the first two years of the project to assist with the development of the Indian Forestry
Research Information System (IFRIS). The work would include system design, the installation of
hardware and software, and the design of data collection procedures. It would also include
procedures for the introduction of program budgeting Subsequent short visits would be advisory
for further development of the system in the light of expeiience.
4.    Monitoring and Evaluation. Two month visits would be made in each of the first two
years of the project to assist with the development of monitoring and evaluation procedures. This
would involve the choice of specific indicators and methods of assessing infomation to evaluate
the impact of research programs. Special expertise in monitoring and evaluation techniques would
complement the work of the information systems expert
5.    Library Science. The appointment would be for a period of nine months over the project
period. Two visits of three months each would be made in the first two years of the project by a
librarian with expertise in the installation and operation of modern library technology to be
provided through the project. The specialist would be responsible for trauning librarians
participating in the Inian Forestry Library and Information Network in the operation of the
system. The specialist would also assist with the planning and implementation of other
improvements to the library and information systems. One month advisory visits would be made
in the last three years of the project.
6.    Research Writing. A short course would be held in the second year of the project to train
a slected number of Indian scientists in techniques of writing for specialized reseh
pubL;cations. These scientists would form a nucleus of trained staff to assist their peers to
improve their writing skills.



Annex 15
Page 3 of 5
7.    Institute Reviews. Internationally recognized forestry research scientists would participate
in regular reviews of each of the ICFRE institutes. Two or three international scientists would
participate with Indian scientists in the reviews to exanine the overall research program of the
institute. For individual programs, the methods, progress and results, and cost would be reviewed
in the light of current research in India and elsewhere. Constraints would be identified, training
needs detailed, and recommendadons made for the improvement, or if necessary, the termination
of programs.
8.    Visiting Scientists and Program Specialists. Research scientists with specialized
knowledge relevant to particular aspects of on-going research programs would make short visits to
assist ICFRE researchers with the planning and implementation of programs. The main objective
of each visit would be to ensure that ICFRE programs are developed in the light of intemational
research advances. Specialists have been identified for those programs to be financed through the
project, and are referred to here as program specialists and are listed below in relation to each of
the projects defined in Annex 2. Visiting scientists would be selected by ICFRE to assist with
other programs not supported by this project.
Institute             Proiect                           Specialist
FRI, Dehra Dun     1. Seed storage                Forest Tree Seed Specialist
3. Cellulose and paper effluent   Waste Water Treatment Specialist
6. Entomolgy                         Insect Parasitologist
IFGTB, Coimbatore 1. Genetic improvement          Cytological Geneticist
5. Nutrient Recycling                Nutritional Biologist
ISWST, Bangalore  2. Tree improvement                   Tree Genetics Planner
3. Alternative timbers for     Marine Larval Biologist
catamarans                        Marine Timber Coating
Specialist
TFRI, Jabalpur    2. Multi-purpose trees                Multi-purpose Tree Specialist
IAZFR, Jodhpur    1. Woody plant water relations   Arid Zone Plant Physiologist
IRMDFR, Jorhat    1. Evergreen ecology                  Tropical Ecologist
2. Seed production             Seed Ontologist
3. Shifting cultivation        Nutritional Biologist
CRC, Shimla        1. Cold desert afforestation   Temperate Propagation Specialist
2. Forest regeneration         Poplar Specialist
CSFER, Allahabad  2. Environmental rehabilitation    Environmental Specialist
3. Productivity of ecosystems  Forest Biometrician



Annex 1S
Page 4 of 5
C Services for Specialist Recruitment
9.    The summary of project-financed technical assistance given in Section A above, shows that
a variety of specialists, whose skills are not available within the ICFRE system or national and
state forest services, would be recruited for short periods during each year. Ad hoc recruitment
poses severe administrative problems for 1CFRE, makes continuity difficult and may not provide
the most appropriate specialists. To overcome these difficulties, ICFRE would enter into an
agreement with an internationally recognized organization to provide the specialists according to
an agreed schedule. The organization may be international or bilateral, a government institute or
agency, or a commercial concem. It is unlikely that any one organization could provide the full
range of specialists. Consequently, the organization would provide a number of specialists from
core staff and undertake to identify, recruit and mobilize other specialists in a timely manner.
Recruitment of all specialists would be subject to ICFRE approval. The agreement would be in
the form of a formal contract for services, drawn up in accordance with IDA Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants.
D. Studies and Consultancies
10.   Locally recruited consultants would be provided for the activities presented below. These
require expertise that is available in India but not at present within ICFRE. As with the
internationally recruited technical assistance staff an important part of the work of the consultants
would be on-the-job training of ICFRE staff.
tvity                              No. Months Consultancy by Year
1      2     3      4    5   Total
Plaming and Monitoing
MISIIS)                         4     4                         8
MandE                          4      4                         8
Statistics                            6     6      6     6      6    30
Educadon  /
Criculum Review                 4     4     4      4     4    20
MSc Course Coordinat          48    48    48    48    48   240
Research Topic Reviews               12    12    12       6     6    48
Extension
Medi Specialist                 3     3     3      3      3    15
Legal Advisor                   2     2     2      2     2    10
Libray and Infomation
Lib   yManagement              12    12    12    12    12    60
Networking                      6     1      1     1      1    10
Grey Liare Search              18     9     9      9     9    54
Research Writing                      2     2      2     2      8
Program Reviews                      12    12    12    12    12    60
ResearchGrantSupervision              6     6      6      6     6    30
InstrumentRepair                      6     6      6     6      6    30
Nursery Development                   6     6      6                  18
Total                  149   137   129   1       117   649
1/    Lump sum provison made for visiing faculty for FRI-DU



Annex 15
Page S of S
E. Technical Assistance - Conservation of Biodiversity. Schedule of Activities
Activity                      No. Months TA by Year
1    2    3      4     5      Total
Alpine Pastures                I   1           1              3
Herbs and Medicinal Plants     1   1                          2
Biological Crop Protection     1   1                          2
Unallocated                              1     1     1        3
Total              3   3     1     1     1       10
F. Summary Terms of Reference for Technical Asistance Staff
Conservation of Biodiversity
11.   Alpine Pastures The appointment would be for one month in each of the first two years
of the project with a follow-up visit in the fourth year. The specialist would assist with research
on alpine pastures to develop and apply a methodology for assessing carying capacity of these
pastures and impacts of grazing on wildlife and wildlife habitats and assisting in subsequent
analysis of data Based on experience from elsewhere in the world, techniques to analyze alpine
pasture grasses for their nutritive value and their substitution in arificial feed would be developed.
12.   Herbs and Medicinal Plants. A specialist would be reuited for one month in each of
the first two years of the project to assist with research on the ecology of medicinal plants and
Morcella mushrooms, with particular emphasis on techniques fortheir propogation and cultivation
in a commercially viable enterptise.
13.   Crop Protection Spedalist. Two one-month visits would be made by a specalist to
advise the research teams involved in study of crop depredation and protecdon from wildlife.
Experimental application for the project areas of crop protection techniques that have been
experimentally tsted elsewhere in the world, would be and the cost-effectiveness of such
measures and possible new approaches that should be expeimented with.



Annex 16
Pae 1 of4
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION ANID EXTENSION PROJECT
Projed Supervision
Superviien Plan
1.   IDA supervision of the project would be closely linked to the implementation schedule
presented in Annex 14. Supervision would be undertaken joindy with GOI. The schedule of
supervision missions presented below includes two visits in each year of the project. In the first
year of the project one supervision mission would coincide with the project launching workshop
to provide assistance during the czitical start-up period. In this and subsequent years, a
supervision nmssion would coincide with the review of annual programs of project activities, to
be undertaken early in the fourth quarter. One additonal supervision mision would be
undertaken in the second quarter of each year. In the third year of the project this would
coincide with the project mid-tern review.
CY                   1994      1995      1996      1997     1998      1999
Quarter             1234    1234    1234    1234   1234   1234
Supervision            *       *  *       *  *     *  *      *  i     *
Mid-Term Review _
Expected Skill Requirements
2.          In addition to the Task Manager responsible for supervising compliance with Bank
procedures, supervision missions would include personnel with skills in:
Research Management
General Forestiy
-         Tree Improvement
-         Librayr and Information Systems
-         Extension
-         PA Management
-         Participatoy Development



Annex 16
Page 2 of 4
Forestry Research Education and Extension - Key Indicators
3.    The key indicators to assess the progress of the project can be considered in a number
of groups. ICERE headquarters staff, in particular the units responsible for monitoring and
evaluation, would be responsible for collating the data shown below:
Research Management System
Introduction of priority setting methodology;
-     Compledon of NFRP;
-     Development of IFRIS;
-     Completion of annual training plans;
-     Introduction of program budgeting;
Extension
Development of linkages with SFDs and private sector agencies;
Production of extension materials;
Operation of Extension Support Fund.
Research Progam Support
-     Number of research programs;
-     Number of laboratory and field experiments;
-     Number of experiments/researcher/research area;
-     Timeliness of experiments;
-     Implementation within budget;
-     Number of institute and program reviews;
-     Schedule of visiting scientists;
-     Adoption of results.
Research Grant Fund
*     Establishment and operation of Research Grant Board;
-     Number of and size of research grants awarded;
-     Institutions implementing research fmanced thrugh the Fund;
-     Progress of research programs as above.
Planting Stock Inprovement
-     Design and implementation of seed stands, clonal seed orchards, seedling
production areas, nurseries and multiplication gardens;



Annex 16
Page 3 of 4
Development of seed harvest, handling, testing and storage services.
Library and Information Services
-     Development of IFLIN;
-     Functioning of current awareness and inter-library loan services;
-     Linkages with other information networks.
Human Resource Development
-     Preparation of annual training plans;
-     Numbers and disciplines of professional staff undergoing training;
-     Numbers of technical and support staff undergoing training;
-     Numbers of short-term study visits by professional and technical staff.
Conservation of Biodiversity - Key Indicators
Ecodevelopment
-     Number of completed ecodevelopment plans
-     Number of participating communities
-     Types of ecodevelopment activities
-     Benefits to the communities
-     Reduction in pressure on PA resources
PA Management
-     iRevision of PA Management Plans
-     Implementation of PA Management Plan
-     Ecological records
Research Monitoring and Evaluation
-     Progress with research programs
-     Completion of baseline studies
-     Completion of monitoring studies
Other Indicators
Technical Assistance, Studies and Consultancies



Annex 16
Page 4 of 4
Preparation of Terms of Reference;
Numbers of months/ discipline;
Completion of consultant reports.
Physical
Physical achievement of works a nd procurement of project finance items
as presented in the implementation schedule and detailed cost tables;
Financial
Research budget by agency;
-     Investment;
Personnel;
Operational expenses;
Research budget by research program or area;
Expenditure by researcher and researcher year by agency and research
program.
Reporting
Timeliness of bi-annual reports;
Preparation of Institute reports;
Publication of research results in;
-      3Extension bulletins;
-     Scientific joumals.



Annex 17
Page I of I
INDIA
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
Documents in Project File
A. Background and Project Preparation Papers
1.    World Bank Project for Forestry Research Education and Extension in India.
Indian Council of Forestry Research and Education, Dehra Dun.
2.    World Bank Projects. Supplement to First Appraisal. Indian Council of Forestry
Research and Education, Dehra Dun.
3.    Forestry Research Education and Extension Project.  Preparation Report.
Euroconsult in Association with Institute for Forestry and Nature Research,
Wageningen. May, 1992.
4.    Biodiversity Conservation Through Ecodevelopment. A Preliminary, Indicative
Plan for Great Himalayan National Park, Himachal Pradesh, and Kalakad
Mundathurai Tiger Reserve, Tamil Nadu. Prepared on behalf of Department of
Forest Farming and Conservation, Government of Himachal pradesh, Department
of Forests, Govermnent of Tamil Nadu, and the MIinistry of Environment and
Forests, Government of India, by the Indian Institute of Public Administration.
April, 1993.
B. Appraisal and Pre-Appraisal Working Papers
1.    Research Programs. December, 1992.
2.    Forestry Extension. December, 1992.
3.    Education and Training. December, 1992.
4.    Library and Information Services. December, 1992
5.    Ecodevelopment. Principles and Strategies. February, 1993.



-                                /             \    /   J                        /~~~~I- 
IBRO 24927
'7                          1771I 5                                                       77 30'                                                      77>45                                                      7'001
'SS                                 \            KANAWAR
Culls            8\ '                 \    42    WILDLIFE
SANCTUARY
POSSIBLE EXTENSION O                                      - t---l
KANAWAR WILDLIFE    //
SANCTUARY 
is  --~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Pl-~BEErl                                                                          O
_   %/%%/?                       w~~~~~~~                                                 ~~~45683   N,AIONAI P.F.,. -K   ~
t    _                                                    ==96027                             .-            --'                "                   2~~~~~~~o2
h          6         >,/                   I          ~~~~~~~~PROPOSED SAINJ 
KILOMETERSWILDLIFE  SANCTUARY
77 15 ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~  ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~57
-31 45IN
\               0   ':1[ 1 ' ' I (_;E',/l5! ', tA4692                                                            l            
ar_                             v                  ,3662'                                                                   
'~ ApxmI               \' ,_PROJECT'AREA BOUNDARY
~~,r'ST   Lw  5< r'    NAIOA PAK                                                                                                                          - -       -- RIVER      IBHAI5  a/sp',sSdls~    ,   1
*\O4'S400                         -   MAJOR ROADS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~     HO
LJesf 12 Gushoi /~/ XWILDLIFE g(SANCTUARISY
'-'  0,                        10                                                                                                                                            \ 
vE                                AE KILOMETERS                 SC              S                                                                    \MTES
--, ~~~~77   15'                                                         77i0'3
JAMMU AND KASHMIRINI JTolp 
,JA'\  /                   FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT A
'HIMACHAL PRADESH                      P          GREAT HIMALAYAN NATIONAL PARK 
'App-oJi-nte                             PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY                                                                                                                     'j n,i"btq^ss'E.,b
i a Ea lZ                         NATIONAL PARKS                           '         RIVERS                         -31 30-                                                                -~~;-          i30-
>   tSF  I         I    ~~~~~~~WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES   A               SEUECTE   RD ELEVATION $ (METERS )                     WN...                                 
PUNJAE ii\             [7    ~~~~~~ECODEVELOPMENT AREA                  O    SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNSJ
\ .tUTTAR    V       ////A POSSIBLE NATIONAL PARK EXTENSIONSTEORERTRrBUDIS  /n
< ov   PRADESH  L       POSSlbLE SANCTUARY EXTENSION          -.-  STATE OR TERRITORY BOUNDAsRIES
,.t-~~  PRAOESN        r  = POSSIBLE SANCTUARY EXTENSION                  INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES                                         77 R5ompEr0
H ARYANA /                I__  _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _  _ _ _  _ _



IBRD 24928
v   rO5Ssrouniarcniovi                                     ~~~~INDIA 
FORESTRY RESEARCH EDUCATION AND EXTENSION PROJECT
T                        Tenkisi                                   KALAKAD MUNDANTHURAI TIGER RESERVE
H,,HNDD                          \                                                                                 PROJECT AREA BOUNDARY
' ""<SA N C T U                                              Aw-7 ) \ ro Kow,/pcn. ECODEVELOPMENT AREA
TIGER RESERVE AREA
RESERVE FOREST AREAS
'  g  \\   /WILDLIFE SANCTUARIES
0   SELECTED TOWNS AND CITIES
mb -  <-<Asaos-mudrom                                                   MAJOR ROADS
MUND          R KALAKAD P . <+ E  RAILROADS
RIVERS
-.}PEPPARA/ EEV    
,< NEYYAR   vK,       T     s      i    U\N    E    L/V   E   L   I  BortruTh,h                               DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
SANCTUARY       m       W    ;           t   ~~  /            1                                          -  -STATE BOUNDARIES
-INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARY
. . .    . .  .                                 _5=                                           w=-26p
0          10          2
KILOWTERS
4          K ~~A  N   N A KUM  A- ' .P.'                  
QeO> . . .t t \t 8r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bngelore3  .1   80  *Nbosros
Tisaiyan4ioi         KARNATAKA f
>                \sB^~~~~~8utopani                                                    <.        J
Padmonobhapurom>;<                   5>                                                                <     TAMIL NADU
KERALA\            '
5 f 4A\                                     (     "'                                                  Triyand..o?rinon
Cape Comorin                                                                      SRI LANKA
JULY 199



