CREDIT NUMBER 2572 IN
Project Agreement
(Forestry Research Education and Extension Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
STATE OF HIMACHAL PRADESH
and
STATE OF TAMIL NADU
Dated      Al AAC1              , 1994


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 2572 IN
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated         AaCm    9, 1994 between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and STATE OF
HIMACHAL PRADESH, and STATE OF TAMIL NADU (the Project States).
WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between India (the Borrower) and the Association, the
Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount
in various currencies equivalent to thirty three million eight
hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (SDR 33,800,000), on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement,
but only on condition that the Project States agree to undertake
such obligations toward the Association as are set forth in this
Agreement;
(B)   by a Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and the Indian Council for Forestry Research and
Education (ICFRE) (the ICFRE Agreement), ICFRE has agreed to
undertake certain obligations in respect of the carrying out of Part
A of the Project.
WHEREAS  the  Project  States,   in  consideration  of  the
Association's entering into the Development Credit Agreement with
the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the obligations set forth in
this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01.  (a) Each of the Project States declares its
commitment to the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule
2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry
out Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project with due diligence and


﻿-2-
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, and environmental practices, and shall provide, or cause
to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services
and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitations to the provisions of Section 2.01 (a)
above, each of the Project States shall implement a system
satisfactory to the Association, for channelling the funds required
for Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project to all the entities involved
in carrying out Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. Each of the Project States shall carry out the
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and
9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods
and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of this Project
Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) Each of the Project States shall, at the
request of the Association, exchange views with the Association with
regard to the progress of Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and other
matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   Each of the Project States shall promptly inform the
Association of any condition which interferes or threatens to
interfere with the progress of Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project,
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by such State of its obligations under this Agreement.
Section 2.05. Each of the Project States shall (i) appoint,
not later than September 30, 1994, a PA Director and the necessary
staff  for  Part C    (i) and   (ii) of   the  Project, all with
qualifications and responsibilities acceptable to the Association,
and (ii) transfer the responsibility for Forest Rangers and Forest
Guards in the eco-development areas to such PA Director.
Section 2.06. The Project States shall undertake, in
collaboration with the Association, the Borrower and ICFRE, not


﻿-3-
later than February 28, 1997, a mid-term review of the Project, and
shall thereafter implement the recommendations of such review.
Section 2.07. In addition to the criteria for assessing the
proposals for implementation of eco-development programs referred to
in paragraph 3 (iii) of Schedule 1 to the Development Credit
Agreement, each of the Project States shall prepare and furnish to
the Association, for the Association's review and approval, the
first three proposals for funding under the eco-development support
grant fund under Part C (i) of the Project.
ARTICLE III
Financial Covenants
Section 3.01. (a) Each of the Project States shall maintain
records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures in
respect of Part C (i) and (ii) of the Project of the departments or
agencies of the such State responsible for carrying out Part C (i)
and (ii) of the Project or any part thereof.
(b)   Each of the Project States shall:
(i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) of this Section for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent   auditors    acceptable   to    the
Association;
(ii)   furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than nine months after
the end of each such year, the report of such
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such
detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and
(iii)   furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿ARTICLE IV
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 4.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 4.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and each of the States thereunder shall terminate on the
earlier of the following two dates:
(i)   the  date  on  which  the  Development   Credit
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms; or
(ii)   the date twenty (20) years after the date of this
Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify the
States of this event.
Section 4.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE V
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 5.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice


﻿- 5 -
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:               Telex:
INDEVAS                  248423 (RCA)
Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
64145 (WUI) or
197688 (TRT)
For Himachal Pradesh:
Chief Secretary
Government of Himachal Pradesh
Secretariat
Shimla Himachal Pradesh
India
Telex:
0391-210 SML IN
For Tamil Nadu:
Chief Secretary
Government of Tamil Nadu
Madras 600009
Tamil Nadu
India
Telex:
953-418238
Section 5.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of each of the Project States may be taken or
executed by its Chief Secretary or such other person or persons as


﻿-6-
such State shall designate in writing, and each such State shall
furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
Section 5.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                     /S/ b. ~?S&'tH    wAoo
Regional Vice President
South Asia
HIMACHAL PRADESH
By                        AL  VA LL021/
Authorized Representative
TAMIL NADU
By                 /S/ AJ   VALLU/ /
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy of
the original in the archives of the International
Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the
International Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


