Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22167
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(IDA-28100; PPFI-P9380)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 15.1 (US$ MILLION EQUIVALENT)
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
FOR A
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
06/28/01
Human Development 1
Country Department 2
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 06/11/2001)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MWK)
MWK 1.00 = US$ 0.0008
US$ 1.00 = MWK 76.00
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS          -       Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA         -      Canadian International Development Agency
DEO          -      District Education Officer
DfID         -      Department for International Development - Formerly ODA
EDMU         -      Education Development Management Unit
GTZ          -      German Agency for Technical Cooperation
IDA          -      International Development Association
KfVW         -       German Bank for Reconstruction
MASAF        -      Malawi Social Action Fund
MIE          -      Malawi Institute of Education
MIITEP       -       Malawi Integrated In-Service Teacher Education Program
MOE          -       Ministry of Education
MoEST        -       Ministry of Education, Science and Technology
MSSSP        -       Malawi Schools Support Systems Program
PEP          -       Primary Education Project
SDR          -      Special Drawing Rights
SEP          -       Secondary Education Project
PEA          -      Primary Education Advisor
PICMO        -       Private Independent Construction Management Organization
PIU          -       Project Implementation Unit
RC           -      Resource Center
TA           -      Technical Assistance
TESC         -       Third Education Sector Credit
TTD          -       Teacher Training Department
TTC          -       Teacher Training College
TTPM         -      Turner, Townsend Project Management
Vice President:    Callisto E. Madavo (AFR)
Country Manager/Director:    Darius Mans (AFC02)
Sector Manager/Director:    Dzingai B. Mutumbuka (AFTH1)
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Mmantsetsa Marope (AFTHI)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CR. 2810-MAI
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                          1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                         1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry               1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                  7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                   10
6. Sustainability                                                                       13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                        14
8. Lessons Learned                                                                      16
9. Partner Comments                                                                     19
10. Additional Information                                                              20
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                    27
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                    28
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                    30
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                    31
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    33
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       34
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   35
Annex 8. The Borrower's Report                                                          37
Annex 9. Project Results                                                                50
MAP IBRD 31130
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P042305                                       Project Name: PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Team Leader: Mmantsetsa Marope                            TL Unit: AFTHI
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 26, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT                      L/C/TFNumber: IDA-28100;
PPFI-P9380
Country/Department: MALAWI                                                Region: Africa Regional Office
Sector/subsector: EP - Primary Education
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  05/01/1995                              Effective: 06/25/1996          04/25/1996
Appraisal:  09/18/1995                                MTR: 12/30/1997            02/02/1998
Approval:  01/25/1996                              Closing: 06/30/1999           12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVERNMENT OF MALAWI/MIN. OF EDUCATION
Other Partners: GTZ, KfW, CIDA, ODA (DflD)
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Callisto E. Madavo                         Kim Jaycox
Country Manager:     Darius Mans                                Barbara Kafka
Sector Manager:      Dzingai Mutumbuka                          Roger Grawe
Team Leader at ICR:   Mmantsetsa Marope
ICR Primary Author:   Mmantsetsa Marope; Patricia
Maughan-Colon
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U-Unsatisfactory, HL=-Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: U
Sustainability: UN
Institutional Development Impact: N
Bank Performance: U
BorrowerPerformance: U
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      U
Project at Risk at Any Time:
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
A retrospective assessment of the objectives and design of the Malawi Primary Education Project
(PEP) has to be situated within a context of the heightened primary education crisis that followed the
declaration of the Free Primary Education (FPE) policy in June 1994. Prior to 1994 the primary education



enrolments had been increasing at an annual average of 9.2% from 1985 to 1992. By 1994, when the FPE
policy was passed Malawi had a 67% gross enrolment rate, 20% repetition rate and 20% survival rate. On
average it took learners 15 years to complete an 8 year primary education cycle. Internal efficiency
indicators therefore show that the quantitative growth realized between 1985 and 1992 had hardly been
consolidated when the FPE came into effect. To this rather weak primary education system, the FPE
brought in an additional 1.3 million new learners within a one-year period; between 1993 and 1994. This
surge in enrolments exacerbated the already acute shortages of qualitative education resource inputs such
as instructional materials, qualified teachers, opportunities for teacher professional support and
development, and increased the shortfall in teaching space to about 38, 000 classrooms. In order to cope
with teacher shortages, 20,000 unqualified teachers (75% with junior secondary certificate and 25% with
senior secondary certificate) were recruited and 4000 retired teachers were recalled. In 1994 as the crisis
escalated, the Third Education Sector Credit (TESC) which was planned to be a comprehensive sector
development program intended to facilitate a holistic development of the sector was under preparation.
However, in the face of the primary education crisis, IDA positively agreed to the Government's request to
"fast-track" urgently required primary education components of the TESC vis the provision of classrooms,
instructional materials and the training of unqualified teachers. Activities covered by PEP were therefore
deliberately designed to be 'focused, simple, ready and capable of being implemented quickly'.
The main objective of the project was to assist the Government of Malawi in its efforts at poverty
reduction and capacity building. Specific objectives were to: (i) ensure that the quantitative gains in
enrollments obtained with the introduction of free primary education were maintained through the retention
of newly-enrolled children in the system; and (ii) improve the quality of primary education through
providing teaching and learning materials, and pedagogical support to, and in-service training for untrained
teachers.
Despite the intention to design a fast track project, the specific objectives were stated in a manner
that made them unattainable, within the life span of the project and within the context of Malawi. For an
already weak education system such as Malawi's, increasing retention rates and improving quality required
a complex mix of inputs and processes sustained over a time period certainly much longer than the intended
three-year project duration. For purposes and duration of this project, the following examples of specific
objectives would have been attainable (i) reduce student / classroom ratio from 140:1 to 70: 1, (ii) through
in-service training, upgrade 20, 000 unqualified teachers to a certificate level, (iii) for core subjects, reduce
student/bookratio to from 6:1 to 1:1, etc.
The above limitation notwithstanding, the project's objectives were relevant to the specific crisis
facing the education sector and to the overall country's development priorities reflected in the joint
government / Bank priority of sustaining poverty reduction through economic growth and equity as stated
in the CAS of June 1994 (report No. P 6236). More specifically, the project's objectives were relevant to
the objectives dated as to (i) expanding access to human capital through improved education, health and
other social sectors, (iii) enhancing agricultural productivity for poor, small farmers and ensuring
sustainable use of land resources, (iv) introducing an integrated family planning strategy to curb population
growth and reduce fertility rates.
Within the education sector the objectives were responsive to critical challenges facing the primary
education sub-sector as summarized in the Sector Policy Framework Paper (SPFP). The objectives
particularly responded to (i) severe financial constraints and the problem of financing the recurrent costs of
the education development program; (ii) shortage of classrooms and acute overcrowding in schools and
classrooms; (iii) poor quality and low efficiency due in large part to the large number of untrained teachers,
especially the 20,000 who had been recruited to meet the acute shortage of teachers.
- 2 -



3.2 Revised Objective:
The original objectives of the project were not revised.
3.3 Original Components:
The Credit was to support:
*     Classroom construction [US$ 11.8 mill. Against an estimated shortfall of 38, 000, the project
was supposed to finance the construction about 1600 classrooms and provide their furniture. Of this total,
600 classrooms were to be in 75 new sites (new primary schools) mainly in rural areas; the other 1000
would expand existing schools with overcrowded classrooms especially in peri-urban and some rural areas.
In addition to classrooms, the project was to finance the construction of an administration block, two
teacher houses, two pit latrines and a borehole in each of the new schools, and the planting of sapling shade
trees at all new sites. The selection of classroom construction sites was based on criteria that took into
account critical inequality factors like gender, location, and poverty. Although the reality of the project
implementation turned otherwise, the construction methodology was supposed to have taken into account
cost and time effectiveness and the strengthening of community participation and ownership as key deciding
factors. The construction methodology necessitated community mobilization and development activities, the
development of an information system that would guide the selection of participating NGOs and the
articulation of a system for assessing capacities of participating NGOs.
-     Pedagogical support and in-service teacher training [US$ 4.7 mill. With parallel financing
from GTZ and DflD (formerly ODA), the project was to provide support to: (a) the Malawi Integrated
hn-service Teacher Education Program (MIITEP) for certification of untrained teachers and (b)
pedagogical support for all primary school teachers.
*     Teaching and learning materials [US$ 3.1 mill. The project was to: (a) acquire basic learning
materials, including exercise books, pencils, slates, chalk and boards; (b) furnish secured book storage
rooms in new primary schools; (c) strengthen the Supplies Unit of the Ministry of Education (Ministry)
including the computerization of book-distribution operations and provision of associated training and
technical assistance; (d) training of teachers and primary education advisers on effective use and
management of textbooks; and (e) evaluate the content and durability of textbooks developed under the
IDA-financed Second Education Sector Credit.
The project components were clearly relevant to the challenges facing primary education and
therefore to the project's objectives. The construction of classrooms would improve the physical capacity
of the primary education system, albeit in a very limited way. The classroom space would ease the
overcrowding of primary classrooms and thus provide a more conducive physical learning environment.
The combined qualitative inputs, vis teacher pedagogical support, provision of instructional materials, and
teacher in-service training would, over time, contribute to the improvement of the quality of education and
thus to a higher retention of learners within the primary education system.
The design of the components was partially sensitive to the capacity limitations of the project's
implementing agency. Effort was made to improve the Supplies Unit's capacity to procure, store and
distribute instructional materials. However, no plan seems to have been developed to sustain such
capacity. Teachers and Primary Education Advisors (PEAs) were trained in the management and effective
use of instructional materials. A critical oversight was that the project seems not to have had a component
or activities directly targeted at improving the implementation capacity of the EDMU. This omission was
-3 -



critical given the management and financial management capacity gaps documented in the OED report on
the First and Second Education Sector Credit.
Assessment of Project Design
Project design was flawed in its relative weighting of project components implied in the allocation
of funds. The civil works component claimed 59% of the project funds relative to 24% for teacher training
and development and 15% for instructional materials. The allocation of funds was further skewed by the
cost overruns in the civil works that were financed from the already inadequately resourced teacher training
component. Later during implementation, the implicit weighting biased the investment of time and effort
toward the civil works component. Given that the PEP was essentially a quality enhancement project that
aimed to improve the quality of primary education and the retention of newly enrolled learners, a strategic
allocation of funds and implementation efforts would have favored 'teacher training and professional
support' and the provision of 'instructional materials' as the project components that are more effective at
enhancing education quality.
While classroom construction is important in improving the physical learming environment and in
easing over-crowding which interferes with the quality of teaching and learning processes, education
research has consistently documented the impact of effectively use instructional materials and teacher
quality in improving education quality, especially in developing countries. In addition, large class sizes and
overcrowding are more a function of teacher shortage than of teaching space. Though not the most optimal
circumstance, small classes can be effectively taught in the open, assuming there are adequately qualified
and effective teachers whose teaching is facilitated through suitable instructional materials. Other than the
relative ineffectiveness of teaching space, the 1600 classrooms that PEP was going to build were hardly
going to make any impact on the estimated 38, 000 shortfall of classrooms. On the other hand, the training
of the 20, 000 unqualified teachers and the provision of instructional materials to all schools would, if done
well, certainly redress, if not eliminate, shortages and make a significant impact on the quality of education
as set out in the project objectives.
Even when taking into account the increase in project costs that was induced by the need to provide
the foundation and slabs for classrooms that emerged during implementation, the project design team had
substantially underestimated the costs of the project by almost a factor of two. The substantial
underestimation of project costs and the late surfacing of the need to provide foundation and slabs caused a
serious financial shortage to the very two components that were pivotal to the attainment of project
development objectives vis teacher training and development and the provision of instructional materials.
Project design was also flawed by the unrealistic timeframe provided to complete this complex and
innovative project in Malawi. The three-year implementation period to complete the new type of classroom
construction while acknowledging that special attention was required to mobilize communities (district
officials, community leaders, and NGOs) for the shell classroom structure was risky. The communities
were described in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) as being crucial to the success of the project as both
beneficiaries and implementers of the project. The mobilization and substantive participation of
communities was going to be facilitated through the support of local NGOs which the SAR described as
willing and capable of undertaking the training and capacity building efforts at the community level. NGOs
were also described as capable of providing the technical assistance for the Information, Education and
Conmnunication (IEC) activities as well as supporting the Ministry's efforts to organize the IEC campaign.
However, no specific conditions of Board Presentation or Effectiveness were made which would ensure that
the critical community mobilization and development activities would be undertaken. Although the SAR
states that an IEC campaign was conducted within the project Preparation Facility (PPF) phase with
- 4 -



MASAF collaboration, there was no evidence that it had been carried out or that it had made the intended
impact at the community level.
The design of implementation arrangements seemed to not have paid adequate attention to the
realities of the country context. Although the technical suitability of the construction methodology to
Malawi was challenged by those with better understanding of the country context, the methodology was
still upheld, albeit with some minor modifications. With hind-sight, these modifications did not adequately
reduce the risk of the lack of contextual suitability of the methodology. Even though only three NGOs
seriously responded to the call to participate in the project, and even though interested NGOs were least
keen to work in the central and northem regions of the country, the design team still insisted that there was
adequate NGO capacity to effectively support the project. Despite the Ministry's advice to have a PIU, the
design team inclined more toward the IDA's disposition to mainstream project implementation within
existing government implementation structures. While mainstreaming is indeed the best way to build
sustainable capacity and avoid distortions that PIU incentive packages induce in the labor market, no
measures were put in place to ensure the necessary capacity development nor to provide altemative
incentive systems that could ensure the commitment of the staff of EDMU.
The decision to mainstream project implementation, couple with the lack of a capacity development
plan created out of EDMU, a hybrid between a PIU and a Ministry department that in reality suffered the
disadvantages of both. Like a PIU, EDMU was physically located out of the Ministry and received very
little support from the Ministry. As a department of the Ministry, the staff of EDMU had to follow the
government protocol in making decisions about the daily running of the project and this invariably induced
delays. As junior staff of the Ministry, their technical authority could be overridden by the position
authority of their supervisors. The staff of the EDMU also received government salaries and incentives,
within a context where other projects were providing better incentives. This lead to the low staff motivation
and commitment and to the high turnover of staff. In addition, the salaries and incentives packages of the
EDMU could not attract the highly qualified technical staff like engineers, quantity surveyors, procurement
specialists and accountants who could secure better benefits somewhere else. As staff of the Ministry,
EDMU staff were not exempted from other regular Ministry duties. This situation led to an unmanageable
work load which adversely affected project implementation.
Although the SAR states that the activities covered by PEP were deliberately designed to be"
focused, simple, ready and capable of being implemented quickly" very little if anything in the design and
implementation arrangements of the PEP activities support this claim. The selected construction and
teacher training approaches were innovative to Malawi and untested at least at a large scale. In addition,
the success of selected classroom construction and teacher training approaches depended heavily on the
timely, properly sequenced, and highly orchestrated inputs from an array of actors who were not
necessarily used to working together in coordinated manner. For instance, the construction methodology
required NGOs to mobilize communities and develop their capacities, effective social marketing of the
project so as to get the buy-in of communities, communities' adaptation to the use of a new technology for
molding bricks, etc. The Malawi Integrated In-service Teacher Education Program (MIITEP) required the
coordinated and properly sequenced inputs of other donors working in teacher education, college lecturers,
Primary Education Advisors (PEAs), and the Bank's own inputs. The delivery of project's activities
required time to break and settle into the Malawi context, close monitoring and timely adaptation as the
context demanded. Contrary to what is stated in the SAR therefore, PEP activities were anything but"
simple, ready and capable of being implemented quickly". To be simple, ready and capable of being
implemented quickly, the project could have used traditional and tested construction methods, or used
MASAF which already had a positive experience building classrooms with substantial community
participation. With respect to MIITEP, the design team had little, if any choice under the circumstance.
- 5-



However, it could have put in place, sustained coordination as well as a monitoring and evaluation
functions for up-close implementation by the Resident Mission staff.
Project design did not seem to benefit from the lessons learned through the implementation phase of
the First and Second Education Sector Credits (Nos. 1767 and 2082-MAI). The Credits closed on
December 15, 1994 and June 30, 1998 respectively. An Operations Evaluation Department (OED) audit
of both projects in July 2000 revealed that they were completed with marginally satisfactory performance
and that their sustainability was uncertain. The audit revealed similar implementation issues as those
experienced under the Primary Education Project (PEP) Specifically, performance weaknesses included
management, organization and local supervision of construction activity, including the inadequate
communities' input of labor; as well as extreme complexity of project design relative to the known
weaknesses in the country's capacities. The audit also noted that all five previous education projects had
suffered problems related to high turnover of managers and inadequate staffing.
In retrospect, the project design overlooked the risk of the TESC not materializing. By its design,
PEP was intended to cover urgently needed activities of the TESC, which activities were to be sustained
and taken to scale under the umbrella sector program. By overlooking the risk of the failure of the TESC,
PEP did not have an alternative exit strategy and this contributed significantly to its lack of sustainability.
A number of risks were identified at the design stage. First, government's capacity to
expeditiously implement the fast-track activities, particularly the civil works program, was doubtful.
However, no measures were put in place to develop the capacity of the Government's implementing agency
- the Education Development Management Unit (EDMU) - to manage and supervise civil works. Instead,
the implementation of construction-related activities was delegated to a Private Independent Construction
Management Organization (PICMO) and to communities, thereby limiting the Government's role for
oversight and quality control. No measures were put in place to assess the capacity of the PICMO to
effectively execute its role. Thus, there was an unanticipated risk that the PICMO could actually not have
been the right body for the work. In the event the PICMO had adequate capacity, its Terms of Reference
did not include the need to transfer such capacities to EDMU. Thus an opportunity for building EDMU's
capacity to oversee civil works through skill transfer was missed. Moreover, the PICMO was placed under
the supervision of EDMU. This created an unrealistic situation where an entity with less capacity was
made to supervise another with supposedly more capacity.
Second, a new construction methodology and design (the shell classroom scheme) was risky.
However, experience from another African country (Ghana) had demonstrated that a large construction
company was able to erect 2000 classroom shells in 18 months. It was anticipated that the PICMO would
be able to supervise the construction of 1600 shells over a 2-3 year period. The shell classroom scheme
was discussed and analyzed in Malawi with construction practitioners (architects and builders) and
advance work on construction began under the PPF and the results were encouraging. It was further
decided to pilot the construction scheme under the PPF phase in addition to plans for careful monitoring
and annual reviews of progress, as well as possible fine-tuning as implementation progressed.
3.4 Revised Components:
Project design was not revised during implementation.
- 6 -



3.5 Quality at Entry:
Unsatisfactory: In contrast to a QAG review in May that rated the project's quality at entry as
fully satisfactory, the ICR team finds the quality at entry to be unsatisfactory. As noted in the QAG report,
the 'fast-track' processing of the operation required a trade off with readiness for implementation'. The
ICR team acknowledges the reality of this trade-off but highlights the point that the design of the project
should more so have built in mechanisms for addressing those well-noted implementation capacity gaps. As
noted above, the design paid inadequate attention to the capacity limitations of the implementing agency,
and the NGOs that were supposed to develop the capacities of the communities that were so central to the
success of the civil works. Further, the weak implementing agency was placed in a precarious situation of
having to oversee the work of a PICMO which had relatively better capacity to manage the construction of
classrooms. Second and related to the first point, the design paid inadequate attention to the EDMU's
capacity gaps in project management, procurement and financial management. Third, the selection and
piloting of the construction methodology was flawed. The pilot served more to confirm an already preferred
methodology than to try out a plausible methodology.
In addition, the selection of pilot sites got confused between the function of the pilot and the need to
address the needs of rural and remote areas that desperately needed classrooms. For the best part, the pilot
sites were inaccessible and could not be effectively monitored to provide the much needed lessons. Fourth,
the extrapolation of the success of the construction methodology from Ghana to Malawi seems to have
overlooked contextual differences especially those related to the capacity of construction companies. Fifth,
lessons from prior sector credits and from the pilot phase of the project were not adequately integrated into
the design of the project. Sixth, although the success and sustainability of the project hinged on community
participation, there seems to be no evidence that effective community mobilization and the social marketing
of the project was undertaken. In addition, the positive experiences of MASAF with community
mobilization and participation seems to have been ignored. Seven, the development objectives were couched
in a manner that made them highly unlikely to be achieved within the project's lifespan. Eighth, the project
activities and processes selected to address the objectives were overall too complex to be successfully
undertaken by the client and within the duration of the project.
The design of the project was however, consistent with the overall government priorities as outlined
in the CAS and with the specific sector priorities as outlined in the SPFP. Although undue weight was
accorded the construction components, overall, the project's objectives were also consistent with its
components. Substantial donor collaboration was instrumental in securing grant funding in the amount of
US$ 27.2 million from the British, German and Canadian bilateral agencies in support of project
objectives. These donors were actively engaged in the provision of instructional materials (CIDA) and in
teacher training programs (GTZ and Df[D) in which the project also participated.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Unsatisfactory: In qualitative terms, the project provided instructional materials. However, in
1997 (for which data are available) the student to textbook ratio was 24:1 for English, Chichewa and
mathematics. Other reports note the paucity of instructional materials particularly for science. The project
also partially executed a key goal of improving the quality of primary education through pedagogical
support to, and in-service training for untrained teachers. Project funds ran out before this activity could be
fully executed. This component was successfully completed only because of donor and Government support
for the MIITEP. MlITEP increased the annual output of Teacher Training Colleges (TTCs) from 2700 to
8100. However, because of the high teacher attrition rate (estimates range from 25% to 11% exacerbated
-7 -



by HIV/AIDS) and the reduced government expenditure on teacher training, teacher shortages are bound to
persist. The project supported the training of the first four cohorts leaving the rest of the cohorts stranded
without funding. As a proxy for education quality, teacher qualifications were not improved adequately. In
1997, nearly half the teachers were unqualified. For 1998, the ratio of learners to qualified teachers was
115:1 While the student pass rates on Primary School Leaving Examinations (PSLEs) are moderate (e.g.
77% for 1997), it is difficult to claim improvement in student learning quality using results from Norm
Referenced Tests. A diagnostic study of student learning carried out by USAID in 1999 reported that
nearly half of Grade IV learners could not read English while 25% could not read Chichewa.
In quantitative terms, the project did not satisfactorily achieve its objective of sustaining the gains
accrued through the FPE policy, especially through the retention of newly-enrolled learners. Overall
dropout rates and repetition rates remain high. In 1995/96 at project inception, dropout rates were 19%.
They then increased to 23% in 1997 and lowered somewhat for 1998 and 1999 but still remaining at a high
15% and 17% respectively. Specific to newly-enrolled leamers, dropout rates are higher between Grades 1
and 3. Since 1995/96, nearly 30% of the learners drop out at this stage.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Primary Classroom Construction Program.
Implementation of this component was unsatisfactory and contributed to the premature depletion
offunds for other component activities.The component accounted for 59% of project costs and was
designed to be an innovative pilot construction program which attempted improvement in the current design
and implementation of school construction practices. The project was to establish and furnish 1600
classrooms as well as build an administration block, two teacher houses, two pit latrines and a borehole in
each of the new schools (75), as well as plant sapling shade trees at all new sites. About 966 classrooms
were tendered. Of these, 858 classrooms were erected. Of the planned 75 new schools, 59 were erected (
30 remained unclad). At the end of the project's extended implementation phase (December 2000), 340
classrooms in rural and remote areas were left unfinished (to be clad and furnished), as well as the two
teacher's houses which were to be clad; the administration block (comprised of the head teacher's office,
general office, staff room, and store house) was to be clad also; and 41 boreholes were to be installed.
Equipment and Furniture Procurement - The project made provision for furniture at all the new
full schools. The planned amounts were: 4770 desks, and 256 tables and chairs. Only 16 new full schools
were furnished with 3200 desks, 192 tables and 192 chairs. Funds for furnishing and equipping the
remaining schools were depleted prematurely. Also, no funds were available for the planting of sapling
trees at the new school sites and this was left up the communities to complete.
The project attempted an innovative construction design program which required considerable
inputs from the communities and close monitoring through the pilot phase. The communities which
were to be mobilized to assist with the completion of the classrooms were not organised adequately for the
task and the construction program was not finished by the end of the project. A PICMO was hired to
ensure quality of construction management supervision when it was observed that the Government did not
have the capacity to undertake the required level of supervision. However, the PICMO needed specialized
supervision and neither the Govemment nor IDA provided the necessary oversight. As a result, numerous
irregularities were experienced with the construction program and its funding and costs of the construction
program escalated. Inadequate supervision of the PICMO by the EDMU and the flow pace of community
involvement to complete the classroom construction program hindered successful implementation. The
situation was further exacerbated when the contract for the PICMO came to an end and was not extended.
Construction work came to a virtual halt. It is expected that the IDA-financed MASAF project's school
-8 -



construction program with the communities will complete the unfinished construction work.
By the Mid-Term evaluation of the project, when the classroom construction component was
seriously behind schedule and the allocation for that component had been almost depleted it was decided to
reduce the scope of construction. The Malawi Kwacha was devalued on several occasions and its value at
appraisal (1995) dropped from MK 15.7 to the US$ to MK 45.6 (July 2000) and to MK 80.0 by December
2000 (project closing). The Bank commissioned an engineering firm in late 1999 to undertake a study of
the PICMO's performance and to conduct a thorough review of the classroom construction component.
The engineering firm's report was delivered in March 2000 and presented a very detailed analysis of the
seriousness of the component's situation as well as the inadequate financial management and record
keeping at EDMU. In March 2000, just as the decision to extend the project was being finalized, a new
IDA task team leader was selected who mounted a supervision mission to review the project. That mission
rated the project's implementation progress as unsatisfactory and noted that the problems encountered in
implementing the classroom construction component had overshadowed the development of the other two
components - (i) Pedagogical Support and Teacher Training and (ii) Learning Materials and Textbook
Related Activities. Project outputs for this component were unsatisfactory.
Pedagogical Support and Teacher Training Program.
Planned inputs such as the acquisition of learning materials and textbooks to improve teacher
performance were provided, and teachers were trained as planned. Although the project did not provide all
of the funding originally planned, an extensive collaboration and donor-financed program (MIITEP) is
ongoing and is expected to sustain project inputs (GTZ is playing a key role in the delivery of the technical
assistance for teacher training). Although the first MIITEP cohort started without the required module,
course materials were finally prepared for training 22,000 new teachers, as well as for sub-zonal teacher's
seminars. Modules were also revised and staff development was evaluated. Along with IDA's input, GTZ
and KfW continued the financing of classrooms and reginonal centers; CIDA provided textbooks; DflD
provided teacher support and some regional centers. Training seminars were conducted three times a year
and zonal seminars for teachers, and preparation and revision of training modules were completed as
planned. Specifically, the project funded seminars for four of the six cohorts before funds for this activity
were exhausted by the civil works overrun. The project provided 315 motorcycles for the primary
education advisors. It is clear that the consistent support of GTZ was instrumental in providing the
necessary inputs for the success of the MIITEP program. IDA funding for this component was insufficient
due to over expenditures for the classroom construction program. The project's outputs for this
component were unsatisfactory.
Learning Materials and Textbook-related Activities.
Procurement and distribution of learning materials. As originally planned, basic learning
materials were acquired, including exercise books, pencils, slates, chalk and boards. Specifically, a batch
of coloured chalk, white chalk, and lead pencils were procured through UNICEF and distributed to schocls;
8 million notebooks, 3.5 million slate pencils, 3.5 million lead pencils, and a further 60,000 boxes of
coloured chalk were purchased through ICB and the notebooks, lead pencils, and coloured chalk were
distributed. Distribution of these items was problematic and not well organised in advance of their supply.
Furniture and equipment for book storage rooms in new primary schools were provided.
Strengthening of the SU. Staff of the Ministry's Supplies Unit (SU) located in Blantyre were
trained when their book distribution operations were computerised. The SU benefited from two study tours
for four staff members (two staff to Madagascar and Lesotho and two to Mauritius and the UK), on the
-9-



computerization of procurement and distribution services. However, new staff replaced those who were
trained and because of poor handing over, relevant capacities were not transferred to the new staff. The SU
received a vehicle; 4 computers; a photocopying machine, and other items to facilitate its work.
Training in the use and management of Textbooks. The project intended to develop a Materials
Management Handbook to enable users to extend the usability of the teaching and learning materials that
were acquired. The Malawi Institute of Education (MIE) was also to carry out a study whose results
would inform the training of teachers in better and effective use of textbooks and the development of a
Library Guide. Both activities were not completed satisfactorily.
Evaluation of textbooks developed under the Second Education Sector Credit. The Center for
Education and Research (CERT) was to evaluate 63 textbooks developed under the Second Sector Credit.
Data were collected and the task moved with the Chief Researcher to the Directorate of Planning at the
MoESC. However, while these activities were started, none of them were completed as funds were
unavailable when the civil works component of the project exceeded its budget. Project outputs for this
component were partially satisfactory.
4.3 Net Preseni Value/Economic rate of return:
Not calculated for the project.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
Not calculated for the project.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project's institutional development impact was low. The EDMU and the Ministry's
implementation capacities were not systematically strengthened. Any capacity gains were informal and
accrued through informal on-the-job-training rather than through systematized training and skill transfer.
About four staff of the SU benefited from study tours in connection with the distribution system for goods.
However, with the exception of one staff member, there has been relatively no continuity of capacity at the
Unit from the previous administrations that benefited from the training program. Even the computerized
distribution system that was put in place at the SU with project funds was discontinued when the staff who
were trained left their posts at the SU and there was no smooth handover and transfer of skills by outgoing
staff to in-coming ones. Owing to low incentives, both the SU and EDMU suffered capacity erosion as staff
trained through project funds left for 'greener pastures'.
Human capacities in terms of teachers were enhanced. The project financed in-service training for
four out of the six cohorts of trainees before funds for the pedagogical support and in-service teacher
training component were channeled to the classroom construction component. The MIITEP trained about
22,000 teachers largely due to the sizeable financial inputs and consistent supervision of the program by
GTZ and the Teacher Training Department (TTD) of the Ministry.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control ofgovernment or implementing agency:
(a) Errors made by the PICMO in calculating price escalation resulted in overpayments to some
contractors.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
- 10-



(a) Project costs were not accurately calculated at the project design stage. As a result, the classroom
construction component utilized more than double the originally provided budget.
(b) The cost of steel and cement also increased.
(c ) The Malawi Kwacha was devalued on several occasions and its value at appraisal (1995) dropped
from MK 15.7 to MK 80.0 by December 2000 (project closing).
(d) Community mobilization efforts in connection with the classroom construction component were not
adequate and this resulted in serious delays for the component.
(e) The inadequate integration of lessons from previous sector credit, MASAF and the project pilot
phase adversely affected project implementation.
(f) EDMU staff were not well selected with respect to expertise and the turnover of staff at the unit
was problematic.
(g) Insufficient oversight of the project's implementation by the Ministry led to the continued
over-expenditure of funds for the Classroom Construction component.
(h) During the last semester of the project's implementation phase, in spite of IDA requests that
Government request reallocation of funds in the Credit account, this was never done.
(i) Poor supervision of sites following the end of the PICMO's contract resulted in the loss of
materials to weather and theft.
(j) The inadequate attention to MIITEP technical dimension (curricula balance, course duration,
supervision of school-based training) adversely affected the quality of newly trained teachers.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
(a) Poor accounting practices and record keeping hindered effective and efficient execution of the
project.
(b) Inadequate supervision of the PICMO and its daily operations encouraged the PICMO's lack of
accountability and its unsatisfactory performance.
(c ) Inadequate knowledge by EDMU management of the project's activities through satisfactory
update and use of the project Implementation Manual and Project Procurement Plans adversely
affected decision making and timely implementation of activities.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
Total project costs were estimated at US$ 25.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of about
US$ 12.4 million. IDA was to finance US$ 22.5 million (including a PPF of US$ 1.4 million). The
Government of Malawi was to contribute the equivalent of US$1.6 million to the school construction
component of the project through contributions in cash or in kind. Parallel financing in the amount of US$
27.0 million was pledged from donors active in the primary education subsector. Only $0.44 of the PPF
- 11 -



was utilized before the Credit became Effective. The engineering firm's investigation of the Classroom
Construction Component reported that the pilot activities (which utilized the PPF) were about 1.5 times
more expensive that the construction activities when the project became Effective. Moreover, the PICMO
misapplied the price adjustment fornula and as a result overpayment were made to several contractors.
Government contributions for the project were slow but consistently provided. All donors provided
their financing in a timely manner for the activities planned as is shown in the table below.
PLANNED PROJECT PARALLEL FINANCING
(in Millions)
PARALLEL                                                  US $
FINANCIERS           ACTIVITIES            AMOUNT         EQUIV.              STATUS
KfW             Classrooms + RC           12.0 DM            8.0     U$6.0 m spent (equiv. to 12.0
DM today)
CIDA            Textbooks                 10.0 Can.$         7.5     US$10.0 million
ODA (DFID)      Teacher Support + RC      5.5 Pounds         8.5      10.0 Pounds spent to date.
GTZ             TA for MIITEP             4.5 DM             3.0     US$3.8 m spent on the MIITEP
program
TOTAL             27.0
SAR cost estimates for construction were underestimated. The engineering firm which evaluated
the relevant component in mid-1999 determined that a more realistic cost estimate of US $ 26.0 million
rather than the SAR's US$ 10.0 million to construct the target number of classrooms was necessary. The
introduction of the foundations to the original design of the classrooms increased the budget for
construction by approximately 47%. Moreover, unit costs increased for the major inputs for constructing
the classrooms, such as cement, roofing sheets and steel bars. The IDA task team reported the rising costs
of the construction program due to increases in the cost of cement and steel in mid-1999. At project
closing, the Credit account was 97% disbursed. However, EDMU financial staff reported that there were
about $1.8 million in outstanding commitments while the Credit account had a little over $0.5 million as a
remaining balance, as shown in the table below.
Status of the Credit Account
(In Millions US$)
EXPENSE CATEGORY                                                             AMOUNT
ALLOCATION         AMOUNT DISBURSED           UNDISBURSED
1. Civil Works                  7.14                    12.83                  -5.61
2. Furniture                     1.04                   0.29                    0.74
3. Equipment & Vehicles          0.68                   0.64                    0.04
4. Textbooks & Other             4.34                   1.47                    2.83
Learning Materials
5. Consultants' Services         1.89                   1.16                    0.72
6. Training                      2.83                   1.95                    0.87
7. Operating Costs               0.43                   0.65                   -0.22
8.   Project Preparation         1.21                   0.44                    0.76
Facility
9. Unallocated                   1.03                                           1.01
Special Account Funds                                   0.73                   -0.64
- 12-



TOTAL             20.60                20.16                 0.50
NOTE: Figures may not add up due to rounding
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Unlkely: The overall sustainability of the project is rated unlikely but with a caveat that depending
on the point of view adopted, some key aspects are likely to be sustained, albeit without IDA involvement.
When viewed strictly from the point of view of IDA and GoM inputs, the sustainability of project
activities is unlikely. The combined failure of the GoM and IDA to follow through the design and
implementation of the TESC eliminated opportunities for sustaining project activities. The failure to
institute the TESC meant that PEP activities were ended rather abruptly and with no planned exit strategy.
In addition, neither IDA nor the GoM could come up with a follow up of the PEP in a manner timely
enough to see through activities that were not completed under PEP. As a result, MASAF was requested to
take over only the unfinished civil works component of the project.
That MASAF finally had to take over the outstanding civil works was ironic given that IDA's own
condition for extending a project that was unsatisfactory, which had serious cost overruns and which had
less than likely chance of getting supplementary funds to complete outstanding works were that (a) the
project should be likely to achieve its developmental objectives and (b) there should be no alternative source
of funds to finish it off such as through MASAF.
Sustainability is also unlkely when viewed from a financial point of view in terms of whether the
Government will be able to take over and sustain project-related recurrent expenditures. However, it needs
to be highlighted that in a context like Malawi where more than 70% of the recurrent and development
expenditure in the sector is extemally funded, most projects would get an unlikely rating for sustainability.
Project sustainability is likely when viewed from a standpoint of whether the govemment managed to
put in place policies that will support the continuance of project efforts and whether activities that are
pivotal to the attainment of the project's DO will be continued with the support of donors involved in the
sector. The government has articulated an Education Policy Investment Framework that will ensure
sustained efforts to improve the quality and internal efficiency of primary education. Specific to teacher
education, a joint Government / donor review of teacher education has been undertaken and three task
forces have been constituted to follow on the recommendations and to improve on the shortfalls of that
review. One of these task forces is working on the improvement of MIITEP and the other (of which the
IDA is a member) will work out an elaborate future strategy for teacher education in Malawi. The MIITEP
cohorts that the PEP left stranded were seen through with the support of GTZ, KFW and USAID. DfID
continues to support the training of the PEAs. CIDA has just completed a comprehensive review of the
state of instructional materials in Malawi schools, the results of which will guide interventions that continue
to provide instructional materials. Classrooms construction is ongoing with donor support. Specific to the
PEP unfinished classrooms, DfiD has offered to complete those in Charadzulu district and MASAF will
complete the rest.
In the final analysis the qualitative inputs intended by PEP will be sustained, albeit without much
involvement of the IDA.
- 13 -



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
As noted earlier, the classroom construction program will be completed by MASAF in collaboration
with the MoEST and the communities. The MoEST has agreed to provide the necessary support to
mobilize the communities to finish the cladding of the existing structures. A Memorandum of
Understanding between MASAF and the MoEST is being finalized. The TTD of the Ministry has
incorporated the MIITEP and MSSSP training programs as part of its regular work programs.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The performance of IDA during the identification, preparation assistance and appraisal of the project
is marginally satisfactory. The project was developed on a fast-track basis to provide a rapid solution to
the Govermment's urgent need for trained teachers and classrooms. However, the three year implementation
timeframe proposed for the project was unrealistic. The appraisal report was well documented and
provided an analysis of altemative scenarios for project activities and identified key risks and ways to
mitigate them. A PPF was provided to undertake major activities of the pilot phase for the classroom
construction component. However, lessons from the pilot phase were not adequately used. Good
relationships with bilateral donors and familiarity with their ongoing programs facilitated key linkages with
specific project targets - for example, the MIITEP and MSSSP. Key lessons of experience were noted and
documented in the SAR but the transition of activities begun with the PPF were not monitored carefully
through project effectiveness (e.g., the IEC program to mobilize the communities).
7.2 Supervision:
The IDA supervision reporting effort failed to record the seriousness of the project's implementation
experience. More specifically, the project was rated as 'satisfactory' in supervision project status reports
until the supervision mission of March 2000 (nine months before its revised closing date). The supervision
miissions did not monitor EDMU's use of the project Implementation Manual or Procurement Plans to
ensure timely completion of activities. Moreover, in spite of the fact that a few of the former IDA financed
projects had acknowledged difficulty in mobilizing community participation, this vital element was not
carefully monitored by either IDA or the Government.
IDA country office personnel (Financial Management Specialist and the Procurement Specialist)
were not sufficiently involved in the project's supervision with the headquarters IDA team and the required
daily monitoring of ongoing issues was not pursued. The Mid-term Review of the project failed to alert
either the Borrower or IDA that almost $6.0 million in Credit funds had been shifted from other
components to the classroom construction component which had exhausted its allocation. Moreover, no
indication was provided that EDMU needed special Ministry oversight, and that its capacity to manage the
project was deficient, particularly with regard to its expertise to monitor or supervise the PICMO. IDA
decided to extend a project which as outlined above did not meet the conditions for extension. IDA's overall
performance is unsatisfactory.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Key opportunities to restructure the project at Midterm review stage by formally scaling down its
objectives, and/or securing additional funds to complete key activities, were missed. The IDA team did not
- 14 -



recalculate project costs to appraise Govemnment of the extent of the deficit in available project financing,
and EDMUs poor managerial capacity which was exposed when the PICMO's contract expired. The
engineering firm's report on the serious implementation issues confronting the project was delivered about
nine months before the project's final Closing Date. At this late stage, there were few remedies available to
turn the project around. Before the engineering report was delivered, prior IDA missions rated the project's
performance as satisfactory presumably based on its high level of disbursement. Nevertheless, an in-depth
and transparent accounting of the project's overall performance was not communicated. IDA's overall
performance is unsatisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Government provided adequate support during the preparation phase.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Given the severe lack of funding for the training programs caused when the project could not provide
what it had promised, the Teacher Training Department (formerly the TDU) has done good work in
managing the teacher education programs (MIITEP and MSSSP).
MASAF management is to be commended for their willingness to implement the unfinished project
facilities.
There was relatively little follow up by the relevant authorities to mobilize the communities; under a
successful media campaign or liaise with the NGOs and MASAF on how this should be undertaken. This
lack of follow up on key activities to assist with the cladding of the classrooms precipitated the delays
which crippled the success of the component.
The Government failed to provide the necessary oversight for the EDMU with the result that the unit
was understaffed with personnel who were inexperienced and inadequately prepared assigned tasks.
Individuals who were near retirement were assigned to the Unit and as a result, turnover of staff in key
positions was frequent.
Key officials did not make an effort to know the project or its requirements. Important
implementation decisions (such as the reallocation of Credit funds) were not acted on expeditiously.
Counterpart financing, although delayed during the project's implementation was provided
consistently.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
Accounts were not well maintained; records were not properly kept, neither were periodic reports
kept on project activities. This daily supervision of key activities was left up to the PICMO and
relationships with the PICMO were strained.
The monitoring and evaluation of the pilot activities was not pursued.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
-15-



In view of the serious lack of oversight for the project's activities at the Ministry, and particularly so
for the use of consultants, Borrower performance is unsatisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The project's implementation phase provided the following lessons of experience:
Project Design
(a)    The articulation of project 'intentions' needs to distinguish between objectives (which should be
attained within a project's lifespan) and impact (whose attainment continues even after project
implementation). In particular, the design of education projects need to take into account the reality that
education quality improvement efforts require substantial time to make measurable impact. To this effect,
the objectives of a short-term project such as PEP should have been stated in a manner that is simple,
measurable and attainable within Malawi as a specific implementation context and the duration of PEP.
(b)    The complexity of project design and implementation arrangements needs to be matched to the
capacities of the implementing agents. Altematively, systematic capacity development efforts need to be
built into the project and strategically sequenced in a manner that builds requisite capacities as
implementation demands them.
(c)    The timeframe for implementing innovative projects should be realistic and should allow
implementers to effectively adapt or adopt new approaches and methodologies. The three-year horizon
given PEP was too short for communities to adjust to and internalize the new construction methodology.
(d)    In recognition of the reality that fast-track projects are prone to omit important design details, their
implementation needs to be flexible and to effectively adapt project designs in accordance with feedback
from the implementation context.
(e)    The design of projects, the resultant allocation of funds across project components, and the
investment of time and effort during project supervision need to be guided by a strategic judgment of where
the project is most likely to attain its development objectives. Given that PEP was essentially an education
quality improvement project, more attention should have been accorded high-impact qualitative inputs like
teacher training and the provision and effective use of instructional materials than to classroom
construction.
(f)    The adoption of innovative and context-responsive teacher training programs such as MIITEP
needs to be guided by a balanced attention to their qualitative effectiveness and cost efficiency. Although
MIITEP substantially increased the much-needed output of teachers, inadequate attention was paid to the
quality of that output and therefore its potential impact on the project's education quality improvement
efforts. As pointed in the QAG report, it is also doubtful if given its comprehensive costs, (including
student teachers' salaries, supervision of school-based training, materials etc.) MIITEP would meet the
joint criterion of effectiveness and efficiency.
Project Implementation
(a)    Project implementation arrangements need to be premised less on Bank policies and dispositions
and more on the unique country realities. The substantial roles allocated to communities and NGOs, despite
- 16-



their evident capacity limitations seem to have been more guided by the Bank's emphasis on working with
communities and civil society than on the Malawi realities. Similarly, the decision to mainstream the
project implementation within the regular Ministry structures, despite their capacity limitations and without
a clear capacity development plan, seems to have been guided by the Bank's de-emphasis on using PIUs,
(reasonable as it may be) than by Malawi's realities.
(b)    Choices in implementation arrangements such as those made for the PEP have to be backed by
appropriate and comprehensive capacity assessment that pays attention to human resources' skills,
experiences, dispositions; incentive systems; organizational and institutional arrangements.
(c)   It is crucial that project implementation readiness is developed before or at least during the early
phases of project implementation. In order to improve chances of effective project implementation, a
comprehensive capacity assessment of each project implementation agent has to be followed by appropriate
and timely remedial action.
(d)   In order to build capacity, it is necessary for Government personnel at various levels to be fully
involved in the project's implementation. Project design marginalized the role of the Government in favor
of a PICMO where it was expected that the expertise needed to implement the project would be available.
The PICMO's performance was highly unsatisfactory and the Government was insufficiently involved in its
day-to-day operations to know the extent of its activities and how to rectify them. Moreover, when the
PICMO's contract was not extended implementation was at a virtual standstill.
(e)    Government ownership of the project is necessary in order to ensure collaboration with the various
ministries and autonomous government agencies (e.g. MASAF) involved in similar project activities can be
utilized for efficiency. When the PICMO was put in charge of the project, there was little incentive for
other Government entities to be fully involved in its implementation. IDA and the PICMO interacted on
key issues and EDMU who were responsible for project management, felt excluded from the
implementation process.
(f)    Pilot operations need to be closely monitored and evaluated. Restructuring should be formalized to
adjust project activities throughout the pilot phase. The project was not formally restructured following the
Mid-Term Review even though funding for all components was jeopardized by over-expenditures for the
classroom construction component.
(g)    Project costs must be monitored carefully to ensure that funds are not depleted prematurely. In the
case of PEP, the construction component overran its allocation and funds were provided from other areas
of the project and as a result, some key quality enhancing activities were not carried out.
(h)    Community mobilization must be carefully planned and supervised to be successful. In the case of
PEP, the cladding of the classrooms did not materialize as planned as the communities were not prepared
for the task, and their capacities were not evaluated.
(i)    Management needs to ensure that project supervision is diligent and that supervision teams are
appropriately constituted to reflect a skill mix that is comunensurate with critical project components.
Supervision missions also need to more candidly report on project problems so that management can
institute appropriate remedial action on time.
0)    Resident mission staff need to be involved in sustained project supervision, especially for projects
like PEP whose success depended heavily on the ability to immediately detect problems and to coordinate
- 17-



on a daily basis, complex inputs from an array of players such as was required for MIITEP and for the
civil works component.
-18-



9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
During the last supervision mission for the project, the IDA mission team conducted a brief
workshop to acquaint the involved partners of the ICR process and in particular, provide an overview on
the requirements for the Borrower's Report. At that time, participants were asked to discuss the project's
implementation phase candidly and some of the following observations and recommendations were
expressed, particularly with regard to the Pedagogical Support and In-Service Teacher Training
Component.
Implementation Experience - Partners felt that procurement planning and execution was
problematic and did not always correspond with key training activities. They felt that there was little
accountability with regard to the use of the Credit funds for programmed activities and that implementation
staff who were responsible for facilitating payments did not understand the project or how the funds were
to be used. Disbursement of funds was also a difficult process for the recipients. Seminars, training and
workshop events were delayed when EDMU failed to coordinate the provision of funds in a timely manner.
There was also lack of coordination of tasks - there was no clear linkage between tasks that were obviously
connected. It was reported that the project's design provided for stipends for training. This proved to be a
problematic and unsustainable activity. The Mid-Term Review of the project was a lost opportunity to
identify project funding gaps and make the necessary adjustments to project activities or find extra donor
financing for key training activities.
TransitionalArrangements - Suggestions included a timely subrnission of training related work
programs to ensure adequate budgeting. The TTD will now be eligible for program funding with its own
budget now that it has been reorganized as a Department of the Ministry. Transport for PEAs, in
particular gasoline for their vehicles (and motorbikes), must be a district responsibility of the Ministry.
Government should plan in advance for zonal seminars which are now its responsibility.
Sustainability - Participants believed that to ensure sustainability of programs, training colleges
and facilities should not be converted to other uses. Colleges should be located in accessible locations to
ensure the full participation by beneficiaries. Lack of student transportation continues to be a threat to the
sustainability of programs.
Impact - Students' and trainers' evaluation of programs is important to determine their suitability
and whether adjustments are necessary.
(b) Cofinanciers.
No conmments received to date
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
None
- 19 -



10. Additional Information
THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.LG.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:          June 17, 1998
TO:            Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, Vice Presidents,
Africa Region
FROM:          Constance Bernard, Acting Director, Quality Assurance Group
EXTENSION: 32532
SUBJECT:       Final Report: Post-Approval Quality at Entry/Quality of Supervision Assessment Africa
Education
A Quality at Entry/Quality of Supervision Assessment for four Africa education projects was carried out
by a Panel led by Gianni Brizzi. The Assessment Panel's Final Report is attached. Previous drafts of this report
were discussed during two separate meetings with regional staff and managers.
We very much appreciate the open manner in which the Region's staff and managers approached this
exercise. We will be coming back to them to obtain their feedback on the process and to explore ways in which
we might improve our work in the future.
cc: Messrs./Mmes.    C. Kosh-Weser, S. Sandstrom, R. Picciotto, S. Weissman, P. Harrold,
M. Dia, T. Ahlers, B. Kafka, H. Ribe, J. Woo, R. Prouty, N. Burnett,
P. Bender, B. Fredriksen, R. Kagia, A. van Adams, P. Ngomba,
B. Moll, D. de Ferranti, M. O'Rourke, B. Laporte, G. Brizzi,
S. Berryman, P. Veglio, S. Cottingham, P. Garg (o/r), K. Sierra, J. Salop,
H-M Boehmer, G. Rice
- 20 -



THE WORLD BANK/IFC/M.LG.A.
OFFICE MEMORANDUM
DATE:         May 1, 1998
TO:           DISTRIBUTION
FROM:         Constance Bernard, Acting Director, Quality Assurance Group
EXTENSION:   85175
SUBJECT:      Discussion Draft: Post-Approval Quality at Entry/Quality of Supervision Assessment Africa
Education
Attached please find a copy of the draft report prepared by the Assessment Panel headed by Gianni Brizzi
to assess the Post-Approval Quality at Entry/Quality of Supervision of the following projects:
GHANA Basic Education Sector Improvement Program;
GUINEA Equity and School Improvement Project;
*       IMALAWI Primary Education Project; and
TOGO Education Rehabilitation Project.
To provide an opportunity for the regional staff and managers concemed to discuss their views and
concems with the Panel before the report is finalized, we will meet next week at a time and location to be
announced.
DISTRIBUTION:
Messrs./Mmes.         Helena Ribe, Shing-Fan Josephine Woo, Robert Prouty, Nicholas Burnett,
Penelope, Bender, Birger Fredriksen, Ruth Kagia, Arvil van Adams,
Peter Ngomba, and Bettina Ursel Moll
cc: Messrs./Mmes.     Stephen Weissman, Peter Harrold, Mamadou Dia, Theodore Ahlers,
Barbara Kafka, David de Ferranti, Maris O'Rourke, Gianni Brizzi,
Sue Berryman, Pietro Veglio, Sara Cottingharn, P. Garg (o/r),
A. Colliou, J. Brown, N. Perez, S. Singh, P. Johnson
- 21 -



May 1, 1998
Malawi
Primary Education Project
QAG Post Approval Assessment
Context and Highlights
1.      Following the establishment of a new democratically elected President in June 1994, the Malawi
Govemment proceeded to implement its electoral platform, which included the provision of universal free primary
education.
2.       The Bank and other donors did not share in this political decision and had previously encouraged a
phased approach to universal primary education. However, they decided to support the Governments initiative,
which had already resulted in massive additional school enrollments and subsequent needs for classrooms, trained
teachers, school supplies, materials and equipment. The Bank -- which was preparing for a Third Education Sector
project -- decided to respond to the Govemment request for emergency assistance with a fast-track credit (Primary
Education project), to be followed by the planned broader sector operation.
3.       Although questioning the technical feasibility and fiscal sustainability of the Government decision, the
Panel concluded that the Bank's support to such a decision was responsive to the clienfts needs and appropriate,
given the country circumstances. The Panel also concluded that the overall quality at entry of the project was fully
satisfactory, with the proviso that the fast-track processing of the operation required a trade-off with readiness for
implementation.
4.       The Panel would like to highlight that the February, 1998, mid-term Review of the project acknowledged
many of the issues faced by project implementation and recommended actions to improve it. For example, it has
resolved the problem of supervising the first three cohorts of teacher trainees by allowing Govemment to use IDA
funds to pay tutors for field supervision. The Panel does recommend that the Resident Mission take a more active
role in monitoring project implementation. Several problems that emerged in the first two years of the project could
have been identified and resolved more expeditiously with active Resident Mission involvement. It would have
been desirable for the Mid-Term Review to compare the cost of different models and approaches of classroom
construction to achieve a more informed decision conceming the continuation of this component.
Strengths                                                 weaknesses
- focus in the selection of key components:                - lack of adequate understanding of the role played by key
- comprehensiveness of economic analysis which presents many  stakeholders such as local communities, NGOs, and donors venal
best practice features:                                   to project success:
- integration of the project coordination unit into the Ministry of  - insufficient analysis of institutional capacity required for an
Education and use of a private management company fbr the  effective design and implementation of the three project
implementation of the school constnuction component:       components:
- anchoring, of the project to a medium-term education     - technocratic approach to school construction which fails to
expenditure policy firamework.                             separate the engineering criteria and the community participation
criteria necessary for its success:
- unrealistic assumptions about the timely availability of key
inputs at all stages of the teacher training process.
Concept, objectives, and approach.
5.      The project responded to the strategic objectives set out in the CAS. The SAR provided a strong rationale
for the project to be in the public sector and linked its implementation to a medium-term public expenditure
framework and alternative
scenarios conceming economic growth and expenditures on education.
- 22 -



6.      Overall, the project was based on adequate sector knowledge resulting from prior Bank involvement in
the sector as well as sector studies on human resources and poverty reduction.
7.     The project objectives were clearly forrnulated and stemmed from a realistic assessment of the country's
political reality. This reality resulting from the establishment of a democratically elected Government who declared
free universal primary education as one of its key goals. The Panel acknowledges that a phased approach to
universal free
primary education was politically unacceptable to the new Government although it was the process initially favored
by the Bank.
8.     The Bank decision to assist the Govermment on a fast-track basis with building new classrooms, training
teachers, and purchasing essential teaching materials was clearly responsive to client's needs. This decision
superseded the preparation of the Third Education Sector Credit. This Credit was meant to address broader sectoral
issues; its preparation was postponed. In fact, given the urgency of absorbing the output of the Primary Education
project, this Credit will be preceded by another investment project targeted on secondary education.
9.     While the general approach is deemed satisfactory, the Panel has some doubts about aspects of the school
construction component. (See pares. 14.) These issues arise in part because the pilot activities financed by the PPF
could not be completed and fully assessed prior to negotiations and Board presentation. The need for calibrating
the design
of this component was particularly acute, given the innovative nature of the selected construction technology (shall
concept using metal structure provided by private contractors and cladding made of hydroform blocks) and the
expected major role of the local communities in the construction of the cladding.
10.    The design of project implementation arrangements took into account lessons of experience. However, this
aspect was at least partially undermined by the need of proceeding expeditiously with project preparation because
of the fast-track nature of the project. A deeper analysis of the experience of other donors on the involvement of
local communities in school construction could have led to greater caution in the design of this component and in
estimating the full cost of the proposed approach.
11.    Project conditionality was consistent with the fast-track nature of the project. The Policy and Investment
Framework for Education in Malawi from 1995 to 2005 was provided in a paper issued by the Secretary for
Education. The Panel considers this best practice for a fast-track operation.
Technical, economic, and financial analysis.
12.    Technically the project was only marginally, satisfactory. The positive aspect was that the project targeted
three components fundamental to the system: classroom construction, rapid provision of minimal qualifications for
the teachers, and procurement and distribution of teaching and learning materials.
13.    The weakness in the design lay in the fact that none of the three components were well matched to the
incentives and capabilities of the players, who had to take the actions to meet the projects' objectives. In other
words, the technical design should have been informed by good stakeholder analyses, assessments of institutional
capacity, and risk
assessments. These assessments were weak, resulting in compromised technical designs.
14.    The school construction component was innovative and accordingly risky. As mentioned above, the
project team found a way to start piloting the construction strategy during project preparation. Had the project not
been a fast track operation, the team could have used the results of this pilot to strengthen the design of the
construction component.
In the absence of results from the pilot, the design had these problems.
* Although there was an analysis of construction alternatives, it needed to be more disaggregated. Tradeoffs
- 23 -



among engineering alternatives should have been considered separately from tradeoffs among levels of
community contribution to the construction effort. Although Annex 3g mentions alternative designs which
ODA (DflF) was exploring, these alternatives were not identified or analyzed. The design selected had a
potential downside-- the foreign exchange cost and delays associated with the need to import steel for the
shells, but this was not addressed. Cost tradeoffs of cladding by the community versus private contractors were
not calculated. For example, there was not a detailed analysis of the rather demanding skills required for the
community to complete the work and thus of the supervision that experience showed had to be supplied for
proper completion.
*   The cost estimates should have been more realistic. For example, the design selected tumed out to be much
more expensive than originally estimated, in part because of adaptations to the technical design arising from
the pilots (floor, foundations). Although costs can only be estimated during preparation, under-estimating by a
factor of two is a large error. It is not clear that the construction strategy selected would have survive a least
cost-benefit analysis if costs had been better anticipated.
*   The construction design selected assumed that the community would complete the school, i.e., clad the. The
SAR notes that the community contributions presumed in an earlier Bank project did not adequately
materialize. This project incorporated this earlier experience by using NGOs to mobilize community
contributions and by giving communities, school furniture and learning materialize exchange for completing
the cladding. However, the project did not analyze whether these incentives could be expected to secure
community contributions.
*   The SAR under-estimated the importance of harmonizing donor and Bank policies on community
contributions for classroom construction. The donors had different policies, some providing entire schools
without expecting community contributions. The World Bank is simultaneously implementing two projects
(PEP and SEP) that have different strategies. In fact, the teams for both projects carefully coordinated their
expectations for community contribution. Both provided 80 percent of the cost and expected the community to
provide 20 percent. However, the project transfers funds for the 80 percent to the community. The community
can use this money to hire local residents to build the school. The PEP project supplies the shell, using
contractors from outside of the community. The community perception is that the MASAF project pays
community members to work on school construction and that the PEP project requires free contributions.
Communities know about these discrepancies, undermining their willingness to contribute under the PEP
project.
15.    The design of the pedagogical support and teacher training component reflected the reality of needing to
train large numbers of poorly qualified new teachers. It changed the traditional framework for pre-service training.
The strategy consisted of an intense three months of training in a teacher training college, to be followed by 21
months of periodic supervision in the field by faculty from the teacher training colleges and primary education
advisors. The problem was that the design depended heavily for its success on several inputs coming together in a
timely way--for example, Government funds, donor support, the teacher guides, and transport for primary
education advisors. These risks were well identified in Annex 3f, but the design was not modified to minimize
them, or an exit strategy devised that could be used if they materialized. For example, the five teacher guides were
critical to the training in the teacher training colleges. Only one of these five guides was available for training the
current cohort of unqualified teachers, but their training was not postponed until such time as the key guides were
available. The Government's food budget for the teacher training college was based on the traditional three-term
use of the college, not the full time, full year use required for this strategy. The 21 months of field support from
lecturers in the teacher training colleges, the primary education advisers, and head teachers in the schools did not
materialize because Government funding for the lecturers' in-field supervision had not been made available, and
the motorcycles required by the primary education advisers had not been procured.
16.    The Panel was most impressed by the economic analysis performed by the project team which covers
almost all the critical dimensions of the project. In addition to the evaluation of economic and social rate of return
to investment, the team carried out a very good poverty analysis-benefit incidence analysis of public educational
- 24 -



spending; fiscal analysis based on three economic growth scenarios; a financial comparison of two alternative
teacher training approaches. This analysis should be considered best practice. Unfortunately, the quality of the
analysis did not prevent serious implementation problems resulting from the lack of timely mobilization of
counterpart funding, the hasty selection of some school construction sites, and the shortage of qualified staff for the
implementation of the project.
Environmental analysis
17.    The project was fully satisfactory on this dimension. It appreciated the environmental costs of the
traditional burnt brick approach to school construction. It prevented the use of firewood, which accelerates
deforestation and soil erosion. However, this commendable feature is expected to make only a marginal
contribution to environmental conservation.
Social and stakeholders analysis.
18.    This dimension of the project was fully satisfactory, but unevenly so. It has a best practice analysis of the
distribution of public expenditures on education by social group (Annex 3b) and of the implications of the proposed
school site selection for the poor (Annex 3c). There was consultation with local NGOs. However, as discussed
above, there was insufficient consultation with beneficiaries and community groups who were expected to
contribute to school construction.
Institutional capacity analysis.
19.    This dimension of the project was only marginally satisfactory. As indicated above, all three components
depended on adequate incentives and capacities of all players. The Bank has had thirty years of experience with the
Malawi education sector and its institutional weaknesses. The SAR acknowledged capacity problems, but failed to
analyze them in ways that inform the design of components or exit strategies.
20.    The probability that the Ministry of Finance would make recurrent budget available in a timely way was
not assessed. The capacities of communities to make the construction contributions expected of them were not
assessed. The selection of the original architectural/engineering firm was not based on adequate information about
alternative firms or their qualifications. The Supplies Unit, key to the implementation of the third component
(learning materials and textbook-related activities), has had high turnover, the current staff not having had training
in procurement. Obvious- results have been no teacher training guides and no
motorcycles for the primary education advisers.
Readiness for implementation.
21.    The fast-track approach in project preparation implicitly called for a compromise on the level of definition
of the project components prior to negotiations and Board presentation. While such compromise appears
reasonable, the Panel notes that the time saved in pre-Board processing was ultimately lost the initial phase of
project implementation due to delays related to the completion of the final engineering and bidding documents for
the school construction component, the organization of the teacher training program, and the tendering of school
books and materials.
22.    These delays could be only partially offset by the execution of the project launch mission and related
workshop. In particular, the effectiveness of the workshop was.undermined by a lack of a procurement plan for the
first year-project investment program and too optimistic project implementation plans for all components.
Risk analysis and sustainability.
23.    This dimension of the project was satisfactory, but unevenly so. Some risks were well assessed. The
sustainability analysis and recurrent cost implications under different scenarios are best practice (Annex 3d). Broad
risks were well identified. The construction component was designed to reduce risk. If the community failed to clad
- 25 -



the walls, a solid structure was still in place to shelter children from the elements. However, the risks associated
with other components of the project were not well identified. The absence of contingency plans or exit strategies
for dealing with their materialization constituted a flaw.
Supervision to-date.
24.    The frequency of supervision missions appears adequate, although their short duration may have limited
the team's ability to support project implementation arid reduce procurement delays. In particular, participation by
the Resident Mission's staff in supervision activities was limited ' ate of the presence of a locally-hired staff
earmarked for the supervision of human development projects. An additional limiting factor was the lack of a
procurement specialist in the Resident Mission who could help the borrower prepare bidding documents consistent
with Bank procurement procedures. The existence of such a specialist would have been the more useful because of
changes in the staffing of the Supply Unit of the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for all procurement
activities under the project.
25      A Mid-term Review was carried out in February 1998, and is discussed above in paragraph 4.
Bank processes.
26.     Management inputs during project preparation were consistent and limited to the, fast track nature of the
operation. Inputs by peer reviewers were generally good. No major internal factors had a negative impact on
project quality although the change in the Country Director after appraisal resulted in some discontinuity of the
guidance provided by Senior Management. Bank experience shows that in fast track operations, you pay now or
you pay later-in other words, implementation problems that might have been resolved in projects prepared under
normal schedules have to be resolved after Board approval. It is essential to compensate for short-cuts that have to
be taken in a fast-track operation by allocating greater resources to early implementation.
- 26-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
hPductormatIxL                      ProJacetd in last PMR                 Actual/Latest Estirate
Retention of newly enrolled leamers (Grade
2)
Provision of leaming mateials and training.  100%                            100%
Output Indicators:
IndicatorMatrix                     Propcted la last PSR                  Actual/Latest Estimats
Construction of 1600 classrooms.      966                                    858
Supporting the MIITEP Program with the    20,000                             22,000
training of about 20,000 teachers
Providing motorcyles for trainers     320                                    315
Acquisition of basic leaming materials;  100%                                100%
furniture and equipment; and hnstitufional
strengthening of the MoEST Supplies Unit.
End of project
-27 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
mp                           eq              Appiaisal  f ActuallLatest   Percentage of
Estimate     Estimate       Appraisal
Project Cost By Component            US$ million    US$ million
1. Primary School Construction Program              11.81          16.40           139
2. Teacher Development Program                      4.73            3.38            71
3. Teaching and Learning Materials                  3.07            2.12            69
4. Project Management/EDMU/PU                        0.50           0.82           164
Total Baseline Cost                                20.11           22.72
Physical Contingencies                              1.00
Price Contingencies                                4.13
Total Project Costs            25.24           22.72
Total Financing Required             25.24   _      2272 .
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (A raisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Expenditure Category      C         Procurement Method           N.e.Fr     Total Cost
1~. Wok                                                           ...        otlCs
1. Works                     4.89         4.19         0.00          0.93        10.01
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
2. Goods                     4.62         1.86          1.15         0.45         8.08
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        0.00)        (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00          5.64         0.00         5.64
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Recurrent Cost            0.00         0.00          0.71         0.80         1.51
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Total                     9.51          6.05         7.50         2.18         25.24
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)        (0.00)
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivale nt)
Procurement Method'I
Expenditure Category     ICe           NCB         Other'       N.B.F.     Total Cost
1. Works                     9.27         4.69    1    2.44         0.00         16.40
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
2. Goods                     0.84         0.35         1.17         0.00         2.36
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
3. Services                  0.00         0.00         2.50         0.00         2.50
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
4. Recurrent Cost            0.00         0.00         1.46         0.00         1.46
_______________________   (0.00)         (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)       (0.00)
Total                     10.11         5.04         7.57         0.00        22.72
(0.00)       (0.00)       (0.0o)       (0.00)       0.00)
- 28 -



" Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2 Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local govemment units.
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Percentage of Appraisal
C:omponent         _   Appraisal Estimate            ActuaVLatest sffmate       P       g o
Bank   I  Govti      CoF,      Bank       Govt.     CoF.    Bank   Govt.  CoF.
I. Investment Costs
1. Civil Works            7.43       1.35      8.00      14.96      0.42      8.00    201.3   31.1   100.0
2. Furniture              1.19      0.06                 0.21       0.01               17.6   16.7
3. Equipment and          0.74       0.49                0.62       0.04               83.8    8.2
Vehicles
4. Teaching and Learning  4.90                16.00       1.06      0.01      10.80    21.6           67.5
Materials
5. Technical Assistance   2.08                 3.00                                     0.0            0.0
6. Training/Workshops     3.12                           2.19                          70.2
Total lnvestment Costs   19.46       1.90     27.20      19.04      0.48      18.80    97.8   25.3   69.1
11. Recurrent Costs
7. Incremental Operating  0.45      0.87                 1.46       0.32               324.4  36.8
Costs
111. PPF                  1.35                           0.47                          34.8
IV. Unallocated           1.19                           0.93       0.01               78.2
Total                    22.46      2.77      27.20      21.90      0.81      18.80    97.5   29.2   69.1
- 29 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Not calculated for the project
- 30 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                 No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)   Implementation Development
Month/Year    Count           Specialty                      Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
May 1, 1995                 8   1 Sr. Education Economist (TM),
2 Senior Education Specialists, 1
Education Specialist, 2
Economist, 1 Textbook
Specialist, 1 Procurement
Specialist,
Appraisal/Negotiation
Sep. 25-Oct. 19,           12   1 Sr. Education Economist
1995                             (TM), 3 Economists, 1
Textbook Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist, I
Disbursement Specialist, 2
Architects, I
Engineer/Organization
Planner, a team from
GTZ/KfW, 1 Regional
Education Director, ODA., 1
Legal Counsel
Supervision
Apr. 28-May 11,              8   1 Sr. Education Economist          S             S
1996 - Proj.                    (TM), 1 Senior Education
Launch                           Specialist, 3 Economists, 1
Workshop                         Procurement Specialist, 1
Project Management
Specialist, I Architect, I
Management Consultant
Oct. 28-Nov. 17,             5   1 Sr. Education Economist (TM),    S             S
1996                             2 Sr. Education Specialists, I
Procurement Specialist, 1
Architect
June 14 - July 7,            6   1 Sr. Education Economist (TM),    S             S
1997                             1 Textbook Specialist, 1
Procurement Specialist, I
Architect, 2 Economists
February 2 - 15,             6   1 Sr. Education Economist (TM),    S             S
1998                             1 Education Specialist, Textbook
Specialist, I Architect, I
Economists, FMS
- 31 -



November, 1998                 3   1 Sr. Education Economist            S              S
(TM),I Education Specialist, 1
Economist
May, 1999                     2   1 Sr. Education Economist (TM),       S              S
I Education Specialist
Oct 24 -Nov. 3                2   1 Economist, I Education              S              S
1999                               Specialist
December, 1999                3   1 Sr. Education Economist (TM),       S              S
I Education Specialist
(Textbooks)
Jan. 23-Feb. 4,               4   1 Sr. Education Specialist (TM),      U              S
2000                               Procurement Specialist, 1 FMS,
1 SSS,
Mar.29-Apr. 7,,                6   1 Sr. Education Specialist (TM),
2000                               1 Implementation Specialist, I
Procurement Specialist, 1 FMS,
1 SSS, 1 Architect
May 18-25, 2000                1   1 Sr. Education Specialist (TM),     U              S
July 14-28, 2000              5   1 Sr. Education Specialist (TM),      U              S
I Implementation Specialist, 1
Procurement Specialist, 1 FMS,
1 SSS
ICR
October 2 - 21                3    1 Sr. Education Specialist           U              U
2000                               (TM), 1 Implementation
Specialist, 1 FMS
I
FMS=Financial Management Specialiat, TM=Task Manager+
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
._______________________ _ .No. Staff weeks              US$  ('000)
Identification/Preparation                 11.8                          34.2
Appraisal/Negotiation                      34.8                          85.3
Supervision                              149.99                         320.4
ICR
Total                                    196.59                         439.9
Supervision figure for staff weeks includes ICR time.
- 32 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
LI Macro policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                         O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
O Physical                                O H  O SU * M  O N  O NA
El Financial                              OH OSUOM ON *NA
O Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LIEnvironmental                           O H  OSU*M  O N  O NA
Social
El Poverty Reduction                O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
[I Gender                           O H  OSUOM  * N  O NA
El Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
L Private sector development              0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
LI Public sector management               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
I Other (Please specify)                  OH  OSUOM  ON  O NA
- 33 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank perfornance                                Rating
El Lending                                           OHS*S  OU  OHU
El Supervision                                       OHS Os   *U   O HU
Fl Overall                                           OHS OS  *  U  O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
El Preparation                                       OHS OS  O  U  O HU
E  Government implementation performance             O HS O S  *  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                           OHS OS  *  U  O HU
- 34 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
* Staff Appraisal Report No. 15127-MAI dated December 21, 1995
* Development Credit Agreement (Primary Education Project) dated March 28, 1996
* Project Proposal to MASAF for Rural Primary Education (August 2000)
* Review of Civil Works Programme - Mangat & Partners
*  Independent Review of Civil Works Program - Summary Findings of Follow-Up Mission
* Letter from T.S. Mangat re Review of Civil Works Programme
* Letter from Government Requesting Extension of Closing date
* Request for Extension of Closing Date
* Letter from Government Requesting Extension of Project Closing date
*  Malawi Integrated Inservice Teacher Education Programme (MITEP) 4-5 June 1998 2nd Workshop
for TTC Professional Staff (23-25 November 1998) Workshop Documentation
*  Teacher Development Programme in Malawi; German Support to MIITEP; Report on a Short-Term
Consultancy from 4 October - 10 December 1999 - GTZ Project No. 95.2135.2-001.00 Contract No.
81031499 Gruppe/Abteilung 1120by Joachim Friedrich Pfaffe, D.Ed. (ZA), M.A. 13364 Berlin
* Education Sector Note June 30, 1999
* Joint Review of the Malawi Education Sector, Malawi Institute of Management 2nd - 10th October
2000
*  Approved Textbooks & Recommended Supplementary Books for Malawi Secondary Schools for the
2000 School Year by The Book Publishers Association of Malawi and approved by The Educational
Methods and Advisory Service of MoESC, January 2000.
* Education Sector Malawi; Danida Support to MoESC 2000-2005 Summary of Main Documents,
January 2000
* Ministry of Education, Sports & Culture Public Expenditure Review (PER), January, 2000
* MoESC Textbook Revolving Fund Handbook (for Secondary Schools and Divisional staff)
e Project Proposal for the Development of the Diploma in Distance Education for MCDE Centre
Teacher-supervisors, September, 1996
e Secondary Teacher Development Plan
* Donors to African Education (DAE); Working Group on The Teaching Profession
* Background Paper for the Malawi Education Sector Review by Doug Addison and Al Crego, February
13, 1998
T The Polytechnic of the University of Malawi; Technical Education Department Secondary Teacher
Development Plan Submitted to Ministry of Education and Culture, 12th December 1996
* The Secondary School Education Development Policy; a Document submitted to the World Bank
August 30, 1996
* Letter from Secretary for Education, Ministry of Education re Teacher Education and Development
Review Exercise dated January 21, 2000
*  Village Based Schools in Mangochi: Evaluation Report June 1996 (Study funded under the USAID's
ABEL II project with additional support from a cooperative agreement between the Institute for Policy
Reform and USAID
* World Bank Project Preparation Study Education Sector Credit III - Malawi; Canadian Malawi
Education Consortium; Hickling Corporation Hendrik Wiebe Associates, March 31, 1995
* Mid Decade Review of Education for all; Malawi Interventions to Achieve Education for all Since
Jomtien 1990 - Johannesburg 20th - 23rd February, 1996; Ministry of Education
* Letter from Education Development Management Unit re Incorrect Payments made to A.R. Steel
Company-London-United Kingdom
* Report on Mauritius Study Visit for the Procurement and Distribution of Teaching and Learning
Materials by Mrs F. G. Severe (Director of Supplies Unit) and Mr. A.K.A. Chipungu (Logistics
- 35 -



Manager - Central and North) 16th - 27th September, 1998
*  Hand over notes (Supplies Unit)
*  Evaluation of the Education Management Infornation System at the Malawian Ministry of Education
by Johnson Sikes 1 15/98 (draft)
*   GTZ Malawi-German Cooperation in Basic Education Project Progress Review by Hannes Siege
* Teacher Development Programme, MOE; MSSSP Plan of Operations; Planning period October 97 to
May 98
*   T'eacher Development Programme; National Training Curriculum for Primary Education Advisers and
Primary Headteachers
*   Malawi Primary Community Schools Project; GoM
*   Mzuzu University Creation of the Faculty of Education and Centres at Mzuzu University by Dr. Dan
Chimwenje, Director of Studies, Mzuzu University; May 1998
*   Free Primary Education - The Malawi Experience (1994-1998) - A Policy Analysis Study conducted
by the Ministry of Education, Sports and Culture in Collaboration with UNICEF, December 1998
*   Ministry of Education - IDA/ADF Projects Implementation Unit (PIU and Education Development
Management Unit (EDMU) - PIU and EDMU Systems' Sample Reports - KPMG - October 1997
*   Primary Education Project - Implementation Manual (Main Volume) - May 1996
*   World Bank Memorandum dated June 17, 1998 - from Constance Bemard, Acting Director, Quality
Assurance Group, to Mr. Jean-Louis Sarbib and Mr. Callisto E. Madavo, Vice Presidents, Africa
Region - Final Report: Post Approval Quality at Entry/Quality of Supervision Assessment -Africa
Education.
- 36 -



Additional Annex 8. The Borrower's Report
GOVERNMENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT (IDA)
[CREDIT NO. 2810- MAI]
PROJECT EVALUATION REPORT
Ministry of Education Science and Technology,
Area 3, Old Town
Private Bag 53
Lilongwe 3
- 37 -



Introduction and Background
This report is intended to give an account of the project design and implementation by analyzing
the extent to which project objectives have been achieved. The project became effective in March
1996 with funds amounting to SDR15,100,000 (US$ 22,500,000). The closing date of the
project was 31st December 1998. However there was a partial extension of the project to 31st
December 2000.
On 28th March 1996 the Government of Malawi (GoM) signed a Development Credit
Agreement (DCA) with the World Bank for the Primary Education Project (PEP). The main
objective of the project was to assist the Government of Malawi in its efforts at poverty reduction
and capacity building. The project was being developed as a fast-track forerunner to an overall
integrated sector operation aimed at assisting the Government of Malawi implement a time-slice
of its long term education sector development program.
Statement / Evaluation of Project Objectives
The main objectives of the program were to:
*     provide access to primary education to 90% of school-age children by
the year 2005;
*     expand access to lower secondary education;
*     improve quality and resource use at all levels of education; and
*     strengthen planning and management in the sector.
The specific objectives of this fast-track operation were to:
     ensure that the quantitative gains in enrollments obtained with the
introduction of free primary education are maintained through the
retention of newly-enrolled children in the system;
*     improve the quality of primary education through providing
teaching and learning materials, and pedagogical support to, and in-service training for
untrained teachers.
The, which involved US$22.5 million equivalent (SDR 15.1 million), consisted of the following
three main components that focused on primary education:
(i)   classroom construction;
(ii)  (ii) pedagogical support and in-service teacher training; and
(iii)  (iii) teaching and learning materials.
- 38 -



Component 1:   Primary Classroom Construction Program
(US$11.8 million)
The Ministry of Education estimated that 38, 000 classrooms would be required over the next ten
years to reduce serious overcrowding and to move towards a student: classroom ration of 60:1.
In response to the high demand for classrooms, over 50% of project funds was allocated to
primary school infrastructure. The overall goal for civil works was to provide as many well-built
classrooms as quickly and as cost-effectively as possible, and to provide teachers' housing and
administration blocks in appropriate proportion. Health and hygiene needs required the
construction of pit latrines and boreholes at most primary school sites.
The project would have financed the construction and provision of furniture for about 1600
primary classrooms. Of this total, 600 would have expended existing schools with overcrowded
classrooms especially in peri-urban and some rural areas. The project would have financed the
construction of an administration block, two teacher houses, two pit latrines and a borehole in
each of the new schools and the planting of sapling shade trees at all new sites.
Because of the serious and immediate need for classrooms (as well as the need for
cost-effectiveness), a shell design was selected for fast track classroom construction. The
Ministry of Works and Supplies completed designs for shell-type structures in July 1995. the
Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which was a pilot for this fast-track project, was
supposed to finance the construction of 96 classroom steel shells, along with teacher houses,
administration blocks, and site services.
Component 2: Pedagogical Support and Teacher Training
Program (US$4.7 million)
The Ministry of Education recognized that support to teachers needs to be improved. In its effort
to move from an inspection-based system to one that supports teachers' development, the
Government changed the name of the Inspectorate to the Methods Advisory Service, and the
local inspectors are now called Primary Education Advisors (PEAs). More PEAs were added and
these advisors are based in recently-created sub-zones. Ultimately each PEA will be responsible
for 10-15 schools or 160 teachers. Altogether about 320 PEAs will be deployed throughout the
country. As part of the preparation for the TESC, the Method Advisory Service articulated a
scheme for school-based supervision in which school heads and PEAs would provide pedagogical
leadership at the school level.
The introduction of free primary education for the 1994-95 academic year made the need for the
planned improvements in teacher support more urgent. To respond to the enrollment increase,
- 39 -



the Government recruited about 20,000 mainly untrained primary teachers. With some 3,400
untrained teachers already in the system, about half of the over 48,000 teachers in the field are
uncertified. There is an urgent need to improve the classroom effectiveness of all teachers in
order to improve the quality of education.
The long-term goal of this component is to imnprove the learning in Malawi's primary schools by
establishing a teacher support system that provides regular, sustained assistance to every school
and teacher. Building on the outposting of the PEAs, the Government proposed to create a
resource center in each sub-zone, the position at which the PEAs were to be posted. PEAs will
spend over half their time in schools assisting school heads to imnprove the performance of
teachers.
This component will provide support to the Malawi Integrated In-Service Teacher Education
Program (MIITEP) for certification of untrained teachers, and pedagogical support for all primary
teachers. Ministry of Education involved ODA, GTZ/KIfW and the Bank in planning this
prograrn. Consequently these donors agreed to provide parallel financing. ODA had indicated
interest in supporting the following activities:
*     training and support for headquarters and regional education office staff, district
and deputy district education officers, primary education advisors (PEAs),
headteachers and deputy heads;
*     construction of up to 100 resource centers;
*     strengthening of MIE, and;
e     technical assistance.
ODA's contribution in support of these four activities was estimated to reach US$8.5 million.
KfW was expected to provide parallel support through constructing about 20 resource centers
and 400 primary classrooms for an overall total amount of approximately US$8.0 million while
GTZ was expected to provide technical assistance (about US$3.0 million. The activities to be
supported by the Bank were designed to complement those to be funded by these donors.
Component 3:              Learning Materials and Textbook-related
Activities (US$3.1 million)
The Second Education Sector Credit had a major component for the development, production
and distribution of textbooks to all primary school grades, with a planned target of one textbook
for every two students and one guide for each teacher in Mathematics, Chichewa, English and
General Studies. However there was a huge demand for additional textbooks and learning
materials resulting from the massive influx of children into the system. The need was felt most in
grades 1-4. MOE estimated that about 4 million additional textbooks were required for these four
grades alone to enable the Government to attain its target of one textbook for every two students
in each of the four main subjects. There was also need to improve the distribution of textbooks
and learning materials. The Supplies Unit which had just been established within MOE to
implement Government's procurement and distribution of textbooks and learning materials
-40 -



needed to be strengthened. There was also need to train teachers and primary education advisers
(PEAs) in the effective use and management of textbooks.
To help meet the additional demand for textbooks in the four main subjects at grades 1 to 4, the
Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) was expected to provide parallel support of
about US$7.5 million equivalent for the reprinting of about 5 million textbooks using the films of
the titles developed under the IDA-financed Second Education Sector Credit. For its part, PEP
would have concentrated on the:
*     acquisition of basic learning materials, including exercise books, pencils slates,
chalk and boards;
*     furnishing of secured book storage rooms in new primary schools;
*     strengthening of the Supplies Unit of MOE including the computerization
of book-distribution operations and provision of associated training and
technical assistance;
*     training of teachers and primary education advisers on effective use and
management of textbooks; and
*     evaluation of the content and durability of textbooks developed under the
IDA-financed Second Education Sector Credit.
- 41 -



Project Costs and Financing Plan
The total project cost was estimated at US$25.2 million equivalent. The foreign exchange
component of the project was estimated at 49% (US$12.4 million) of total cost. Total base cost
estimates were US$20.1 nillion at October 1995 prices. Physical and price contingencies were
estimated at US$5.1 million, with physical contingencies representing 5% of base costs. Price
contingencies, estimated at US$4.1 million, assumed an average local annual inflation rate of
about 15% and an average foreign annual inflation rate of about 2% during the three years of
project implementation. A summary cost table is given in Table 1:
- 42 -



Table 1: Components Project Cost Summary
(MK Million)           (US$ Million)
%      Total
Foreig  Base
Local  Foreign Total Local   Foreign Total   n           Cost
Exchan s
1. Primary School Construction  96.65   88.70  185.35   6.16    5.65   11.81    48      59
Program                        36.90   37.42   74.32   2.35    2.38    4.73     50      24
2. Teacher Development Program  6.36   41.78   48.13   0.40    2.66    3.07     87      15
3. Teaching and Leaming Materials   5.27    2.65    7.92   0.34    0.17    0.50  33     3
4. Project ManagementlEDMU/PU   145.18  170.54  315.72   9.25   10.86   20.11   54      100
Total Baseline Costs         7.16    8.53   15.69   0.46    0.54    1.00      54     5
Physical Contingencies      76.20   41.45  117.65   3.10    1.03    4.13      25     21
Price Contingencies        228.54  220.52  449.06  12.80   12.44   25.24      49     126
Total Project Costs
Financing Plan
The IDA Credit was expected to finance 89% of the total project cost (US$22.5 million);
Government and communities were expected to finance about 4.8% and 6.2% respectively
(approximately US$1.2 million and US$1.6 million equivalent respectively). Parallel financing
totaling about US$27.0 million equivalent was being provided by KfW (about US$8 million for
the construction of 400 primary classrooms and 20 Resource centers); CIDA (about US$7.5
million for the provision of textbooks); ODA (about US$8.5 million for the training of head
teachers and PEAs as well as the construction of 100 resource centers under the TDP); and GTZ
(about US$3.0 million for technical assistance under the TDP).
Recurrent Cost Implications
Incremental recurrent costs to the Government generated by this project concerned three major
elements:
*     Operating cost of project-funded institutions and programs (MK244,000 or
US$15,250 per annum);
*     Transitory incremental salary costs associated with project management and
coordination (MK79,000 or about US$5,000 per annum).
-43 -



Project Implementation
Project preparation was carried out by Ministry of Education staff, under the guidance of a
project preparation committee (PPC) which was set up during the preparation mission for the
TESC in February 1995. The work of the PPC was financially supported by the ongoing Second
Education Sector Credit and a Japanese Grant for preparation of the TESC. An advance for the
project preparation facility (PPF) of about US$1.4 million was also approved to assist specifically
with preparation activities for the PEP, especially in expanding the piloting of the shell design for
classroom construction, as well as undertaking some of the preparatory activities for
implementing the pedagogical support and in-service teacher training program, and providing
some teaching and learning materials to schools.
The table below outlines the Categories of items that were supposed to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the actual
expenditures incurred per category.
Amount of the
Credit Allocated  Actual
(Expressed in SDR Expenditures
Equivalent)      Financed to 31
December 2000
_ Category                             (SDR)            Difference
I Civil Works                 5,000,000        9,425,502       (4,425,502)
2 Furniture                     800,000          214,581          585,419
3 Equipment and                 500,000          468,597           31,403
Vehicles                                _
4 Textbooks and Other
Learning Materials          3,300,000        1,068,981        2,231,019
5 Consultants' Services       1,400,000          829,708          570,292
6 Training                    2,100,000         1,414,893         685,107
7 Operating Costs               300,000          474,632         (174,632)
8 Refunding of Project
_ Preparation Advance           900,000          302,223           597,777
9 Unallocated                   800,000          503,485          296,515
_ Total                      15,100,000       14,702,602          397,398
-44 -



Project Management and Coordination
The day-to-day management and implementation of the project was carried out by units of the
Ministry of Education, namely the Education Development Management Unit (EDMU), the
Coordinating Unit for the Primary Education Teacher Development Program and the Supplies
Unit. The EDMU, which was created and placed under the direct responsibility of the PS to
manage this fast-track operation, coordinated project activities and dealt with administrative,
procurement, and financial matters, as well as contacts with IDA and inter-agency relations.
EDMU was also responsible for the management and coordination of the future TESC and other
donor projects in the sector. Management of the civil works program and related furniture and
equipment needs were delegated to a private and independent construction management
organization (PICMO) under contract to MOE. The provision of learning materials was handled
and coordinated by the Supplies Unit of the Ministry of Education.
Implementation of Civil Works
Civil works was the joint responsibility of large-scale contractors (about 8 procurement packages)
and some smaller contractors and NGOs (about 7 procurement packages), who would have
constructed the classroom shells (100 complete primary schools and 1000 classrooms for existing
schools), the auxiliary buildings and the site services, and of the communities who would have
constructed the infill for the classrooms. Large and small contracts were tendered and awarded
by PICMO through international competitive bidding (ICB) and national competitive bidding
(NCB) for the provision and erection of classroom shells, as well as shells for teachers houses and
administration blocks. Other smaller contracts for the construction of bore holes and pit latrines
and the cladding of teachers houses and administration blocks were awarded following
competitive bidding advertised nationally (NCB).
Construction Supervision
A private and independent construction management organization (PICMO) was retained to
provide overall supervision of the civil works. PICMO was responsible for supervising all aspects
of primary school construction, beginning with site layout, foundation work, erection of shells,
construction of teachers houses and administration blocks, digging of boreholes and excavations
of pit latrines, planting and staking of shade trees, and preparation of certificates of payment for
the contractors. PICMO took instructions from EDMU on scope of work and site selection and
were responsible for:
K     programming the construction works;
*     preparing bid packages;
*     preparing bid evaluation reports;
*     submitting recommendations to Central Tender Board;
*     preparing individual contracts;
*     supervising the works in the field;
*     certifying the quality and value of work executed;
-45 -



*     preparing disbursement applications;
*     reporting regularly to EDMU;
*     coordinating borehole, landscaping and material delivery activities;
E     maintaining project accounts for local payments;
*     certifying that works are completed and preparing a completion report for
each site; and
E     all other administrative tasks pertinent to construction management.
Implementation of the Pedagogical Support and In-service
Teacher Training Program
The implementation of this program was undertaken by Ministry of Education's newly established
Coordinating Unit for the Primary Education TDP. Key tasks included:
*     drafting conditions of service for staff;
*     recruitment procedures;
*     planning in-service workshops;
*     selection of in-service training centers;
*     arranging the intended cooperation of lecturers of Primary Teacher
Training Colleges; and
     making arrangements for selecting venues for materials distribution and
meeting places for trainees and  tutors.
Implementation of the Teaching and Learning Materials
Component
The Supplies Unit (SU) was responsible for the provision of teaching and learning materials and
their distribution and management as well as other textbook-related activities. Most teaching and
learning materials were purchased through international competitive bidding while a small quantity
of off-the-shelf items were purchased through UNICEF's Supply Division in Copenhagen
(UNIPAC). The SU was responsible for hiring private transporters to deliver these items directly
to the schools.
Procurement
Civil Works
IDA would have funded construction of approximately 1600 classroom shells (including 96 under
the PPF). Individual contracts equal to or greater than US$500,000 up to an aggregate total of
US$4.89 million including contingencies, were awarded and managed by PICMO on the basis of
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January, 1995. civil works contracts for the cladding of
teacher houses and administration blocks and the construction of boreholes and pit latrines for the
approximately 75 new schools (as well as additional pit latrines for the expanded schools) as well
-46 -



as landscaping and small external works were awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB). All these NCB procurements for civil works were not to exceed an aggregate
total of US$4.2 million.
Community Participation in Procurement
PEP was designed with a high level of community participation in order to enhance project
sustainability, encourage community involvement in children's education, increase the utilization
of local skills and materials, discourage the use materials harmful to the environment.
Achievement of Project Objectives
Achievement of project objectives especially with regard to primary school construction program
was impacted by serious crisis in the supervision of civil works and the management of contracts.
With the TTPM contract in a state of abeyance and EDMU's limited technical capacity, there was
virtually no supervision of works on site or management of the on-going contracts certificates and
performance. TTPM failed to adhere to its terms of reference and in particular TTPM did not
deliver regular progress reports. This led to a paucity of data on the status of the various
contracts and seriously affected the delivery of well-founded management decisions.
It was noted during project execution that TTPM was not following the contractual procedure
and their valuations resulted in over compensation to the contractors for price adjustments. The
total amount of the overpayment has not yet been quantified but the certificates are being
reworked to ascertain the amount involved.
The original scope was to build 1600 classrooms, of which 600 in 75 full schools and 1000 on
expansion sites. As the floor slabs were not included in the original undertaking by the
contractors, but were added in for practical reasons and as the initial cost estimate was too low,
the scope had to be revised accordingly. Thus the revised scope was approximately 1000
classrooms, of which 480 in 60 full schools and 520 on expansion sites. This meant that the
original scope had been reduced by a third.
Status of the Project
Revised
Scope    Completed
Classrooms in shells on full school sites  480    454
Auxiliary building shells on full school sites    162  156
Classrooms on expansion sites           520       378
Total                                   1162      988
- 47 -



Components Project Cost Summary
ACTUAL /
APPRAISAL    LATEST             % OF
PROJECT COMPONENTS             ESTIMATE   ESTIMATE    APPRAISAL
1. Primary School Construction
Program                                 11.81         16.40            139
2. Teacher Development Program             4.73          3.38             71
3. Teaching and Learning Materials         3.07          2.12             69
4. Project Management/EDMU/PU               0.5          0.82            164
Total Baseline Costs                   20.11         22.72            113
Physical Contingencies                  1.00
Price Contingencies                     4.13
Total Project Costs                    25.24         22.72             90
Project Financing By Category
(In US$ million equivalent)
Appraisal        Actual/Latest
Category             ___Estimate            Estimate        % of Appraisal
IDA  Govt Other IDA  Govt Other IDA  Govt Other
I I I ~~~~~~~~~~~~s                                   s                  s
=~~~~~~~~~~~~                                         5   __ _5=__
I. Investment Costs                                                    _
1. Civil Works                 7.43  1.35   8.0 14.96  0.42   8.0  201    31   100
2. Furniture                    1.19  0.06        0.21  0.01           18    17
3. Equipment and Vehicles       0.74  0.49        0.62  0.04           84     8
4. Teaching and Learning        4.90        16.0  1.06  0.01  10.8   22            68
Materials                         _                  _
5. Technical Assistance         2.08         3.0
6. Training/Workshops           3.12  =           2.19         =
Total Investnent Costs           19.46  1.90  27.2 19.04  0.48  18.8   98    25    69
II. Recurrent Costs               _     ___
7. Incremental Operating Costs  0.45  0.87         1.46  0.32         324    37
IL.  PPF                          1.35               0.47                35
IV. Unallocated                   1.19               0.93  0.01          78
Total                         22.46  2.77  27.2 21.90  0.81  18.8   98    29    69
-48 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(In US$ Million Equivalent)
Procurement Method            Procurement Method
Expenditure Categories                  Appraisal Estimate   -   Actual /Latest Estimate
ICB  NCB Other NBF  Total ICB  NCB Other NBF  Total
1. Civil Works                      4.89  4.19    0  0.93 10.00  9.27  4.69  2.44     0 16.40
2. Goods
X Equipment, Cars & Motor       0.70    0  0.30  0.45  1.45              0.66        0.66
Cycles                                0  1.16  0.17    0  1.33          0.35  0.22        0.57
* Furniture                     3.92  0.70  0.68    0  5.30  0.84         0.29        1.13
* Teaching & Learning Materials
3.    Consultancies & Training
* Technical Assistance            0    0  2.28      0  2.28
* Training
I  Teacher Training         0    0   2.7    0  2.70                2.50        2.50
I  Other Training           0     0  0.66    0  0.66 _
4.    Miscellaneous
* Recurrent Expenditure           0    0  0.71  0.80  1.51             1 1.46 _       1.46
Total                          9.51  6.051 7.49  2.18 25.24 10.11  5.04  7.57 _      22.72
- 49 -



Additional Annex 9. Project Results
Component I - Primary Classroom Construction Program
Activities Planned              -Actual (At End of Project)                  Comments
1. Construction and furnishing of about Classrooms:                      The construction of classrooms will be
1600 classrooms in new and existing  1.   966 class rooms tendered       completed under MASAF programs.
schools                              2.   858 class rooms erected (429
shells)
3.   59 new schools erected (472 class
rooms) - of which:
4.   29 new schools cladded (232 class
rooms)
5.   30 new schools not cladd
6.   386 class rooms erected in
expansion sites - of which:
7.   168 classrooms were cladd
8.   218 classrooms were not cladd
Furniture:
17 new schools are furnished
28 expansion sites are furnished.
2. Construction of (a) administration    Administration Blocks:           Completion of administration blocks and
buildings, teacher houses, pit latrines    59 admin. blocks were erected  teacher's houses were to be completed by
and boreholes in the new schools and (b) 3 admin. blocks were completed.  small contractors, but due to insufficient
pit latrines in existing schools.    56 admin. blocks not completed.      funds the plan was never completed.
Teacher Houses:                      During the pilot phase, pit
166 teacher houses erected.         latrines/ablution blocks were to be
12 teacher houses completed         constructed with in the steel shells. It
154 teacher houses not completed.   was discovered that this was not feasible
so in the main project phase, these
Pit Latrines/Ablution Blocks:        facilities were constructed using load
Pit Latrines/Ablution blocks were    bearing brick walls.
constructed only in new schools at the
schools and at teacher houses.       Only the first phase of the Boreholes was
carried out.
Boreholes:
22 boreholes were drilled in some new
schools.
3. Planting of sapling trees at all new    Communities were to be mobilized at the Not completed satisfactorily.
school sites                         sites where the cladding took place.
- 50 -



Component 2-Pedagogical Support & Teacher Training Program
(a) Orientation of Key Stakeholders
Category of Stakeholder          No.Targetted                No. Oriented                  Remarks
Head Teachers                          3800                        3800             High turnover of staff meant
Deputy Head Teachers                   3800                        3340             that arrangements had to be
Primary Education Advisors              315                         369             made to train the replacements
Co-ordinating PEAs                                                  31              of the staff who left.
District Education Officers             3_1 3_1
Education Divisiono Managers             6                           4
SEA-Primary                              3                           3
College Tutors                          180                         180
(b)     Student's Training - Residential Training Courses
Teachers' Colleges                           All Cohorts                             Final Examination (MANEB) -
Teachers'________                                                                             Cohort One
1        2         3        4       5       6      Total      No.    No. Passed  Pass Rate
I___________Enrolled                        (%)
Blantyre                513       532       513      525     432    545    3060         508         378        74.41
Karonga                 267       314       288      350     305    346      1870       506         414        81.82
Kasungu                 581       547       546      529     544    529    3276         275         213        77.45
Lilongwe                519       532       496      528     470    577    3122         519         440        84.77
St. Joseph              300       288       204      340     297    370    1809         437         373        85.35
Montfort                439       562       494      520     434    580    3029         279         243        87.10
TOTAL                   2619      2775     2541    2802    2482   2947   16166          2524        2061       81.82
Component 3 - Learning Materials and Textbook-related Activities
Procurement Description             Package               Procurement Method               Comments
Notebooks and slate pencils   Note books (8.0 m)        ICB                         Completed in 1997
Slate Pencils (3.5 m)
Chalk and lead pencils      Colored Chalk               UNICEF                      Completed in 1997
Lead Pencils
Stock Control Documents     ATC/POD/Issue Notes         Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Vehicles                                                Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Chalkboards                                             Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Computerization of the SU                                                           Partially completed
Computers                                               Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Photocopier                                             Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Scheme of Work Books                                    Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Ballpoint pens for teachers                             Local Shopping              Completed in 1997
Printing of MIITEP Books -                              NCB                         Completed 1997-1998
Cohorts 1-5
TDU Textbooks                                           NCB                         Completed 1997-1998
- 51 -



Materials Management                                  Short List                Draft of handbook prepared
Handbook                                             _
Training in effective use of                          Single Source             Not completed
textbooks
Textbook Evaluation (Books                            Single Source             Data collected - report not
.1-4)                                                                           tdone.
- 52 -



IBRD 31130
32,                                                                                                      36'
X 9,'S ~~~~T AN Z AN I A
To D.res Solam1,      _
0   20  40  60  80  100
KILOMETERS            ,         /
10:       -XJ                           j   ,/2 KAR~~~~KAONGA \10
10'                                                                                                                                                           Io- 10
MALAWI
-       %        ,) ,4Livingstonioa
$   X                       0           r?        ~~~~~~~~~~~RUMPHI / 8l
/~~~~~~~~~~~~
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ L                                                      a    ttck e     , 
7       ~    >   t   u   Chilcangcswo  SS. Augustine i    I no
Z A M B I A                               ,1 zazil                                             bBA )   i NKHATAY  / )  PRINCIPAL ROADS
12'                                        (/ rl                                         <'C /yQhksumu Ii,...MWi   --      SELECTED UNPAVED ROADS             12-
-12'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ .I                                                                                                            2
S      t       4       /          /t^>otn lNQc       <     - ~~~~~~RIVERS
/      (1/ x,>  X  \   2   O    TOWNS
0     DISTRICT CAPITALS
t tr | - Malawi            NATIONAL CAPITAL
i/   4 (  f   '   1e   @   I  f  -----DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
| ,4  khotakoto   - -  -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
MCi N  /            DO AS-'f-  ,-'-se         ' t-   \MOZAMBIQUE
Ta Lusnk.          Mchinii  '                                   nM ail        lc ,,,,>,
>4                             -t  gs ~~~~~~~~~~~~LILONGWE <         'e4UA     X0\ 
14'  o        Ljkuni0    W       WE "   /0     i  Moky 1t' \                     / /                 14'
N  ~ To Noeni.
'       E                                        \! LI                   % EangochiNYA
DEMOCRATIC        RW N ABIQ 'P KENYA                                                                        tBalaka      MACHINGA
REPUBLIC OF           BURUNDI             N                                                                      E      M Bga          k
CONGO  *  TANZANIA            NOlAN                             /                             /          PHA
-.              SOZAMBIQOCEAN                                /       6                                 'PHALOMBE
_-_-  \S<>_>/   8 ~~~~%>   ofl   d    ~ ~        -  X                    \      tBt  y             MoPbDe5i3n tJnicr7*dlj?cscdenvm-nMountain
COMOROS,                      T. Tele 
ANGOLA  ~           MA* hikwowo                                                                           t  fZANE16'-
ZAMBIA           ~~~MOZAMBIGUE     F)-                                          HKW,\5                ~T Bair
~~~~                                                    (>,   ( ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ This mlap wos producedi by the
k.  Nq~~~~B         Mp Design Unit of The World Bank.
                 ~~~~~~The boundaries, colors, denom)nations
j   \  ZIMBABWE  /          9                  g             \                     \    I      Ch irama    ond anyother information shown on
ZIMEArWE                                                               __          s                      >x' '--~C/zabe this map do not imply, on the part of
..-..                       * \ MADAG  CAR                  j-,,                        '\    7a          - The World Bank Group, ony judgment
z   rBOTSWANA          ,.                                                                                                       on the legal status of any territory,or
sanie a ny endorsement or occeptonce of
SOUTH  ;                                                                              \\   (              such 6oundaries.
I>    ---.j J      AFRICA                                                          34O                                                 3 6
October 2000



