Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15127-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
DECEMBER 21, 1995
Human Resources Division
Southern Africa Department
Africa Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of October, 1995)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
U.S. $1.00 = MK15.7
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April 1 to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m) = 3.281 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km) = 0.621 miles (mi)
1 square kilometer (sq km) = 0.386 square miles (sq mi)
1 cubic meter (m3) = 264.2 U.S. gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
CAS                Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA         =     Canadian International Development Agency
CIF          =     Cost Insurance and Freight at Port of Destination
CIP          =     Cost Insurance Paid (for landlocked countries)
DEO                District Education Officer
GDP          =     Gross Domestic Product
GOM                Government of Malawi
GTZ          =     German Corporation for Technical Cooperation
HESSEA             1990/91 Household Expenditure and Small Scale
Economic Activities Survey
HYDRAFORM          Hydraulic Forming (Machines)
IBRD         =     International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB          =     International Competitive Bidding
ICR          =     Implementation Completion Report
IDA                International Development Association
ISA                Integrated Sector Approach
IEC                Information, Education and Communication
JCE                Junior Certificate Examination
KfW                German Bank for Reconstruction
MASAF              Malawi Social Action Fund
MEP&D        =     Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MIE          =     Malawi Institute of Education
MIITEP       =     Malawi Integrated In-service Teacher Education Program
MOE          =     Ministry of Education
MOIWD        =     Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development
MOWS         =     Ministry of Works and Supplies



NCB         =      National Competitive Bidding
NGO         =      Non-Governmental Organization
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
ODA         =      Overseas Development Administration
PEP         =      Primary Education Project
PICMO       =      Private and Independent Construction Management
Organization
PIU         =     Project Implementation Unit
PPF         =      Project Preparation Facility
PSIP        =      Public Sector Investment Program
PTTC        =      Primary Teacher Training College
PU           =    Planning Unit
SCC         =      Systematic Client Consultation
SOE         =      Statement of Expenditures
SPFP        =      Sector Policy Framework Paper
SU          =      Supplies Unit
TA          =     Technical Assistance
TDP         =     Teacher Development Program
TESC        =     Third Education Sector Credit
TOR         =     Terms of Reference
UNDP        =      United Nations Development Program
UNESCO    =       United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural
Organization
UNICEF      =     United Nations Children's Fund
UNIPAC      =     United Nations Children's Fund Procurement and
Assembly Center
USAID       =     United States Agency for International Development






MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                     Government of Malawi
Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Education
Beneficiaries:                Ministry of Education, Local Communities, and
Primary School Students
Poverty:                      Program of Targeted Interventions (PTI). The project
would contribute to poverty reduction by improving
access to and the quality of primary education.
Amount:                       SDR15.1 million (US$22.5million equivalent).
Terms:                        Standard IDA terms with a maturity of 40 years
including a 10-year grace period.
Commitment Fee:               0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60
days after signing, less any waiver.
Financing Plan:               IDA - US$22.5 Million; GOM - US$1.2 Million;
Communities - US$1.6.
Net Present Value:            Not applicable. However, least-cost, cost-effectiveness,
and fiscal impact analyses have been undertaken (see
Annex 3).
Staff Appraisal Report:       Report No. 15127 - MAI
Map:                          IBRD - 27693
Project Identification Number:  42305



Estimated Project Costs:
(MK Million)        (US$ Million)
%    Total
Foreign  Base
Local Foreign Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
1. Primary School Construction     96.65  88.70 185.35  6.16    5.65 11.81   48    59
Program
2. Teacher Development Program     36.90  37.42  74.32  2.35    2.38 4.73   50     24
3. Teaching and Learning Materials  6.36  41.78  48.13  0.40    2.66 3.07   87     15
4. Project Management / EDMU/ PU    5.27   2.65   7.92 0.34   0.17 0.50   33       3
Total Baseline Costs           145.18 170.54 315.72  9.25   10.86 20.11   54    100
Physical Contingencies            7.16   8.53  15.69  0.46   0.54  1.00   54     5
Price Contingencies              76.20  41.45 117.65  3.10   1.03 4.13   25    21
Total Project Costs             228.54 220.52 449.06 12.80   12.44 25.24   49    126
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Fiscal Year Ending June 30 (US$ million)
Years              FY96        FY97    FY98    FY99
Annual disbursement           1.4         7.4       11.3     2.3
Cumulative disbursement       1.4         8.8      20.1      22.5



TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. INTRODUCTION ................................................................1
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT ................................................................2
A. BACKGROUND: SoCiO ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND MACRO FRAMEWORK .........                                                          ................2
B. SECTOR BACKGROUND  AND  THE MALAWI EDUCATION  CRISIS .................................................3
C. MAIN  SECTOR ISSUES ...............................................................................4
D. GOVERNMENT EDUCATION  SECTOR STRATEGY ...........................................................................6
E. THE BANK  GROUP'S ROLE AND  STRATEGY  ............................................................................... 7
3. THE PROJECT ...............................................................                                                            10
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND  SCOPE ...............................................................................                          10
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION ................................................................................  0
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING  PLAN  ..............................................................................   15
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ...............................................................                                                 18
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION  AND  READINESS ..............................                               ................................. 18
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION  ......................................................................... 18
C. PROJECT MONITORING  AND EVALUATION  ..............................................................................  20
D. PROCUREMENT .............................................................................. 21
E. DISBURSEMENT  ............................................................................... 24
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING  AND  REPORTING  ..............................................................................  25
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS ...............................................................                                             27
A. PROJECT BENEFITS ..............................................................................                                       27
B. PROJECT RISKS ..............................................................................                                          28
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ..............................................................................                                   29
6. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .................................. 30
LIST OF TEXT TABLES
Table  1: Central Government Expenditures, Revenues and Fiscal Deficits, 1993-1998 .................2
Table 2: Components Project Cost Summary ..............................................................................  15
Table 3: Parallel Financing ...............................................................................                               16
Table 4: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ......................................................... 23
Table 5: Proposed Procurement Plan by Year .............................................................................. 24
Table 6: Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA  Credit .............................................................. 25
Table 7: Estimated IDA  Disbursement Schedule ........................................................................... 25
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal/negotiations mission which visited Malawi in September/October 1995,
comprising Mr. Peter Ngomba (Senior Education Economist and Mission Leader), Mr. Dzingai Mutumbuka (Senior Education
Specialist), Mr. David Bruns (Economist), Mr. Noel Kulemeka (Economist), Ms. Yisgedullish Amde (Economist), Mr. Diop Sakhevar
(Textbook Specialist), Mr. Steve Gaginis (Disbursement Officer), Mr. Jaime Roman (Departmental Procurement Advisor), Mr. Aberra
Zerabruk (Senior Legal Counsel), Mr. Arthur Fields (Procurement Specialist), Messrs. Thorkil Schou, Harry Wiebe, Alex Warrender and
Dr. Bizaliele (Consultants). Mr. Leandros Alves and Florencia Castro-Leal made contributions to the economic analyses. Mss. Ada
Rivera and Guadalupe Prado (Staff Assistants) provided administrative support in the preparation of the project. This report was edited
by Mr. Leo Demesmaker. Messrs. Nat Colletta, Nick Bennett, Vincent Greaney and Abdelwahed Zhiri were the peer reviewers. Mr.
Mulugeta Wodajo is the overall supervisor of the sector-wide education operation in Malawi and was the main contact point in
Washington during negotiations in the field. Ms. Jacomina de Regt provided guidance on systematic client consultation. Ms. Barbara
Kafka and Ms. Judith Edstrom are the Country Operations Manager and Operations Adviser respectively. Mr. Roger Grawe and Ms.
Katherine Marshall are the Managing Division Chief and Department Director respectively.



-2 -
ANNEXES
Annex 1:    Basic Indicators
Annex 2.a:   Structure of the Education System
Annex 2.b:   Primary School Enrollment Pyramid for Malawi (1994/95)
Annex 3:    Dimensions of Economic Analyses Performed Under the Primary Education
Project
Annex 3.a:   Rates of Return to Investment in Education in Malawi
Annex 3.b:  Poverty Analysis and the Incidence of Public Expenditures on Education
Annex 3.c:   Site Selection and Targeting the Poor under PEP
Annex 3.d:   Sustainability Analysis and Recurrent Cost Implications
Annex 3.e:   Efficiency Gains through Reductions in Primary Repetition Rates
Annex 3.f:   Comparison of Alternative Teacher Training Programs
Annex 3.g:   Cost-Effectiveness and Least Cost Analysis of Alternatives During Project
Design
Annex 3.h:   Uncertainty, Risk and Sensitivity Analyses
Annex 3.i:   Education Sector Institutional Planning and Management
Annex 4:    Roles, Responsibilities and Relations among Main Implementing Units
Annex 5:    Terms of Reference for a Private and Independent Construction Management
Organization (PICMO)
Annex 6:    Implementation Charts
Annex 7:    Cost Tables
Annex 8:    Training on the Use of Hydraform Machines
Annex 9:    Key Project Performance Indicators
Annex 10:   Supervision Plan
Annex I1:   Procurement Packaging and Phasing of Civil Works
Annex 12:   Further Details on Past Education Projects
Annex 13:   Structure of Tuition, other Fees and Associated Costs of Primary
Education before the Abolition of these Fees.
Annex 14:   Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
Annex 15.a:  Summary of Technical Assistance Services
Annex 15.b: Summary of Local and Foreign Training
Annex 16:   Documents in Project Files
Map:        IBRD 27693



1. INTRODUCTION
1.1    The Government of Malawi has requested IDA's assistance in financing a primary education
project (PEP). This project is in response to a crisis caused by the surge in enrollment resulting from
the new Government's policy of eliminating all fees and associated costs of primary education.
Total primary school enrollments increased from about 1.9 million in 1993 to about 3.2 million in
1994, putting enormous strain on an already weak system. The quality of primary education is
particularly threatened, as up to 200 pupils fill each classroom and most of the twenty thousand
newly-recruited primary teachers have not been trained. In addition, despite an increase of budgetary
allocations to the sector, the current difficult macro-economic situation threatens to erode gains
associated with increased allocation of resources to the sector. However, the widespread and strong
political commitment to education from the current Government is expected to ease these serious
difficulties.
1.2    This project is being developed as a fast-track supplement to an overall integrated sector
credit aimed at financing a time-slice of the Government's long-term program for educational
development. The proposed PEP will focus on the following urgently needed activities: (i)
construction of about 1,600 primary classrooms and associated infrastructures; (ii) pedagogical
support and in-service teacher training particularly focused on the recently recruited teachers; and
(iii) provision of teaching and learning materials.
1.3    Total project costs are estimated at US$25.2 million, with a foreign exchange component of
about US$12.4 million. IDA would finance US$22.5 million (including a PPF of US$1.4 million).
The Government of Malawi would contribute about US$1.2 million equivalent including taxes and
duties; and communities would contribute the equivalent of US$1.6 million to the school
construction component of the project through contributions in cash or in kind.



- 2 -
2. SECTORAL CONTEXT
A. BACKGROUND: SOCIO ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT AND MACRO FRAMEWORK
2.1    Malawi is currently facing tough economic times, with the Government struggling with
macro imbalances caused by factors including expenditure overruns, the recent drought and civil
service wage increases. In 1994, real output growth shrank by 12.4% and the annual rate of inflation
was 34.7% (compared to 22.8% in 1993). The fiscal deficit including grants rose from about 5% in
1994 to about 15 % in 1995. Table I shows the evolution and projections of central government
expenditures, revenues and deficits between 1993 and 1998.
Table 1
Central Government Expenditures and Revenues, 1993 - 19981
(in % of GDP, unless indicated otherwise)
1993   1994  1995   1996   1997  1998
l__ ___ ___   _est.  proj.  proj.    proj.
Revenue (excl. grants)         18.3  17.1   16.2   18.7   18.6   19.0
Expenditure                   32.8  25.5   42.3   34.7   30.9   29.0
Deficit (excl. grants)        -14.4  -8.4  -26.1  -16.0  -12.3  -10.0
Deficit (incl. grants)        -12.1  -5.4  -15.1   -4.1   -3.9   -3.3
Education Recurrent
Expenditure as:
% of GDP                       4.9   4.6    7.5    7.8    8.1    8.1
% of Total Gov. Expend.       14.8  17.2  23.4   24.6  26.8   27.7
2.2    Notwithstanding the economic difficulties, the new democratically-elected Government of
Malawi has indicated its commitment to improve the quantity and quality of social sector
expenditures as a means to reaching its overall objective of reducing poverty. In expenditure
allocations on the recurrent account of this year's budget (1995/96), the Government's top priority
has been the social sectors, with 40.1% budgetary allocation compared to 31.1% in 1994/95. The
share of recurrent expenditure allocations for education rose from about 17% in 1994 to about 23.4%
in 1995 and is projected to increase to about 25% in 1996. Much of the increase in education
expenditures between 1994 and 1995 was aimed at accommodating and training the new teachers
hired to carry out the free primary education policy. To permit these increased social sector
expenditures and still meet deficit reduction targets, measures are underway to control overall
expenditures and improve revenue collection. These include: the restriction (or prohibition) on
filling new vacancies; a freeze on the hiring of temporary workers and the purchase of new vehicles;
and a reduction in external travel. There has also been a stricter application of the cash budgeting
system introduced in November, 1994. Measures were taken to enhance revenue by increasing the
efficiency of tax and tariff collection.  These measures have been effective in easing the
macroeconomic situation; halfway through FY96, the projected deficit is expected to stand at 4% of
GDP, including grants and excluding drought relief expenditures. Fiscal restraint will be reinforced
under the ongoing Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF). Under this, expenditure
I Fiscal year ending March 31 of the year indicated.



- 3 -
frameworks have been established that prioritize sectoral programs and spending to ensure that
priority areas, such as the social sectors, are protected despite aggregate expenditure cuts. This
overall effort is receiving Bank assistance including the structural adjustment program now being
prepared.
2.3   It is urgent that economic stability be restored through reducing the current account deficit
on the balance of payments, increasing the level of external reserves, adopting monetary policies that
will ensure a stable exchange rate and reducing the government budget deficit and consequently the
level of inflation (to below 20%). Notwithstanding the need for such stabilization policies, some
priority expenditures in the social sectors (such as expenditures on primary education) need to be
protected and the Government is committed to providing that protection.
B. SECTOR BACKGROUND AND THE MALAWI EDUCATION CRISIS
2.4    Since Malawi gained its independence in 1964, significant progress has been made in the
development of its education system. The World Bank has long been active in assisting Malawi's
education sector; the first project was approved in 1967. Five additional education projects have
been completed since and currently there is an ongoing project (the Second Education Sector
Project). Although Malawi's education system has benefited considerably from the assistance of the
Bank and other donors, this support has not produced the desired benefits. This limited success is
due in part to lack of commitment by the former Government to education as well as the lack of a
well-conceived and comprehensive policy framework. In 1994 the Bank began to prepare a new
operation, the Third Education Sector Credit (TESC), which will pursue an integrated sector
approach (ISA) to support a Government-designed program for the development and improvement of
the sector as a whole. Through this approach, IDA will share in the financing of a time-slice of the
Government's overall program as specified in the Ministry of Education's draft Sector Policy
Framework Paper (SPFP). Donor coordination is an important aspect of the integrated sector
approach. Most donors active in the sector support the approach; some have already committed
resources to financing parts of the Government's program.
2.5    During the preparation of the TESC, the democratically-elected Government of Malawi
announced (in June 1994) that all primary school fees would be abolished as of the beginning of the
new school year in October, 1994. While this decision was consistent with the Government's overall
goal of poverty reduction through economic growth and investment in human capital, it created a
flood of over one million additional students into the primary system2, and necessitated the hiring of
about 20,000 new teachers. This was in effect a 75% increase over the existing primary teaching
force. The new teachers were mainly from among secondary school leavers, who were given only
three weeks of induction training before being dispatched to schools. Retired teachers were also
called back to help with the crisis. Government estimates that about 38,000 additional classrooms
will be required to accommodate this influx of children. At present classrooms are severely
overcrowded; thousands of children take their lessons in temporary facilities such as churches and
mosques. Thousands more assemble in the open air, under trees or are crammed into rooms; it is
common to see classes of two or three hundred children in a small shed. While "nominal" access to
schools has increased, "effective" access to education has not improved. The quality of education
has fallen -- many young children do not have enough teaching and learning materials and have only
a few young untrained teachers to guide them. Unless these pressing needs are quickly addressed,
2 There were approximately 1.9 million primary school children in the system before the recent influx.



- 4 -
the public's enthusiastic support for primary education could quickly evaporate and be succeeded by
cynicism and apathy.
2.6    The current education crisis is the result of extreme pressures on an already weak system.
Notwithstanding the Government's effort to improve access to education, starting from a very low
base has meant that despite the very rapid rate of growth of primary enrollments (about 9.2% per
annum from 1985 to 1993), the primary gross enrollment ratio was only about 67% on average
between 1987-92, and adult literacy rate (aged 18 and over) was estimated to be around 40%.
However, the real problem in the education system has been that of quality, which has declined over
the years as indicated by high repetition and dropout rates. The repetition rate on average was over
20%, with only 19% of the (1980/81) intake completing primary school within the normal period. At
present, it normally takes a primary pupil about 15 years to complete the 8-year primary cycle. The
primary pupil-teacher ratio has progressively increased to 70 in 1992/93 with 13% unqualified
teachers; the primary pupil-classroom ratio was about 100 during the same year. These indicators
show that the primary education system was already extremely weak even before the recent crisis,
because of lack of qualified teachers, textbooks, classrooms, and other essential inputs.
C. MAIN SECTOR ISSUES
2.7    The Government's draft SPFP identifies the main issues confronting primary education in
Malawi as: (i) severe financial constraints and the problem of financing the recurrent costs of GOM's
educational development program; (ii) shortage of classrooms and acute overcrowding in schools
and classrooms; (iii) poor quality and low efficiency due in large part to the large number of
untrained teachers, especially the 20,000 recruited hurriedly after the introduction of free primary
education; (iv) ineffective sector management and support, especially the weaknesses in inspection
and supervisory functions; and (v) gender disparities, particularly at post-primary levels.
2.8    Severe Financial Constraints: Public resources within the education sector in Malawi are
utterly insufficient to cover the rapid surge in primary school enrollments observed in 1994.
Although public education recurrent spending in 1994/95 increased to about 7.5% of GDP, and
increased as a share of the Government's recurrent expenditures allocated to the education sector
from about 8.7% in 1988/89 to about 24% in 1994/953, there are still severe constraints for
improving the quantity and quality of education. Initial results from a simulation model for
educational development indicate that over the next five years, the education sector will need on
average nearly 30% of public resources to meet the recurrent costs of the Government's education
development program. The already low public spending dedicated to quality enhancement items is
declining. In 1990/91, non-salary recurrent expenditure per primary school student was 11.5% of
public recurrent spending on education; in 1994/95, this share declined to 3%. This decline was
influenced by the rise in enrollments and in corresponding teacher requirements unsupported by a
proportional increase in budgetary allocations for non-wage items.
2.9    The severe financial constraints confronting the education sector require bold measures,
many of which are envisaged in the SPFP. These include: increased cost recovery at post-primary
education levels; increased community involvement which will be a significant part of this project;
cost-saving measures such as more secondary day schooling and double-shifting; encouragement of
the private sector in the construction, maintenance and operation of schools; and the choice of least-
cost alternatives in project design (such as the shell classroom construction design and the teacher
3 The priority accorded to primary education is also evident from the increase in the share of public recurrent education
spending from 45% in 1990/91 to 71% in 1994/95.



- 5 -
training approach developed in this project). In fact, providing more resources to the sector will be
important but lifting monetary resource constraints will not suffice; the efficiency of expenditures
and of delivery systems must be improved. Some donor financing of recurrent expenditures on an
increasing or constant basis over the next five years (for example under the proposed TESC
operation) will provide short-term relief, help set up these measures and ensure long-term
sustainability so that such recurrent costs could be financed on a declining basis in subsequent IDA /
other donor operations.
2.10   Shortage of Classrooms and Acute Over-crowding of Schools and Classrooms: The
limited facilities that existed before 1994 are now over-stretched and acute overcrowding is the
norm, especially in the larger urban centers. In many schools, classes are organized under trees and
in mosques and churches. The Government estimates a need of about 38,000 new classrooms to
attain a ratio of about 60 pupils per classroom. Meanwhile, although access to primary schooling has
increased (the net enrollment rate for primary education in Malawi has risen to around 70% while the
gross enrollment rate is over 100%), equity issues still need to be addressed. The results obtained
from the 1990/91 household survey (HESSEA) indicate that disparities in net and gross rates across
income levels are considerable. For example the poorest group has only 30% net and 60% gross
enrollment rates in contrast with the richest group with its 75% net and 110% gross rate. The survey
also shows that enrollment ratios are lower in rural than in urban areas, especially in the central and
southern regions of the country. The location of the new schools and expansion of existing schools
under this project will take these disparities and the problem of overcrowding into consideration.
2.11   Poor Quality and Low Efficiency: Because of the surge in enrollment, about 20,000 new
teachers were recruited, most of them untrained school leavers (25% with full secondary education
and 75% with only JCE). About 4,000 retired teachers were recalled from retirement. Most new
recruits were given three weeks of crash training before being dispatched to schools. Consequently,
teacher upgrading, in the most cost-effective manner possible, is an urgent priority. The weaknesses
in inspection and supervisory functions have also limited the support provided to teachers. These
functions should be strengthened and school-based supervision and support should be provided.
2.12   Gender Disparities:  Historically, girls in Malawi have not gone to school in as great
numbers as boys; drop out rates are higher for girls at both primary and secondary levels, and
achievement rates are low for girls, especially in mathematics and science. Over half of enrolled
girls leave school during early primary grades before they attain full literacy. Of those who stayed, it
took an average of 16 years for girls to complete the 8-year primary education cycle, as opposed to
13 years for boys. Low enrollment is particularly apparent in secondary schools, where less than
39% of the places at secondary schools (in 1994/95) are held by girls. The reasons for these low
rates include: retention problems; school and associated fees4; parents' perception of low return to
girls' education; poor performance on Standard 8 exams; limited places at boarding schools; early
marriage; and pregnancy, after which until very recently girls were not permitted to return to school.
2.13   Girls' participation and performance in primary education has recently improved. This
overall improvement has been reinforced by USAID's Girls' Attainment in Basic Literacy and
Education (GABLE) Project, launched in 1991. Under the project, school fee waivers were
introduced for non-repeating girls (before the abolition of all fees); Government launched a social
mobilization campaign to encourage girls to complete their schooling, and to change attitudes and
elicit support from parents and communities. Substantial progress was also made in revising the
4 These include fees for uniforms, textbooks and learning materials.



-6 -
curriculum to be more gender appropriate5. The success of the GABLE project resulted in increased
female enrollment6 and a reduction in female dropout and repetition rates.  Thus, the general
enrollment increase in primary education has been accompanied by a fall in the gap in Gross
Enrollment Ratios (GER) between girls and boys, from a 15% gap in 1986/87 (GER of 47% for girls
and 62% for boys) to an 11% gap in 1992/93 (GER of 70% for girls and 81% for boys); the gap was
only 4% in 1993/94 (91% for girls and 95% for boys). In a few years, this gap will be closed.
2.14   Notwithstanding the overall progress made at the primary level, significant gender disparities
still exist at the upper-primary, post-primary and regional levels. The results obtained from the
1990/91 household survey (HESSEA) confirm that although gender disparities are not severe
nationally in primary education, the rural South region shows boys with an enrollment rate 25%
higher than girls, (probably due to the later development of education in the region) and a gross
enrollment ratio about 20% higher for boys than girls in the urban North. There are enrollment
disparities in class levels, where the share of girls in upper primary grades has remained in the mid
20% for the past several years. Under this project, gender disparities will figure prominently among
the criteria in classroom site selection for districts. The project will also monitor the development of
the SPFP to ensure that gender issues at post-primary levels are adequately addressed under the
upcoming Third Education Sector Credit, especially the redefinition of the Gender Appropriate
Curriculum Unit's roles and responsibilities to include the revision of the secondary curriculum to
incorporate gender issues. Scholarship programs and school fee waivers are also being considered.
D. GOVERNMENT EDUCATION SECTOR STRATEGY
2.15   Government has recently undertaken an intensive review of its policies and priorities in the
education sector. The results of Government's efforts are set out in the Sector Policy Framework
Paper (SPFP) that will be used to guide the overall development of the sector in the next decade and
coordinate the efforts of donors under the ISA. The Framework Paper emphasizes primary education
and sets ambitious targets for improving school quality and girls' participation. For example,
primary school net enrollment is to increase to 90 percent for each district, with girls making up one
half of those enrolled; pupil-teacher ratios are to drop from an average of about 70:1 now to 45:1 by
2005, and one textbook for each pupil in each of the three main subjects is to be required. The
principal measures for achieving these targets are higher budgetary allocations to education in
general and to the primary subsector in particular, greater community and private sector participation
in both the construction and operation of primary and secondary schools, and increased construction
and focus on community schools (Grades 1-4) combined with a social mobilization campaign aimed
at girls and their parents. For post-primary education, more day schooling (rather than the currently
predominant policy of boarding) and increased cost recovery are envisaged. The priorities outlined
in the SPFP will parallel those spelled out in the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and
agreed with MOF, thus facilitating adequate funding of the program in future years.
2.16   In June 1995, a draft of the SPFP was distributed to donors, NGOs, and other key
stakeholders to solicit comments and reactions. While reactions have generally been favorable,
several revisions were requested to ensure sustainability of the policies. The Bank's input included a
5 The Gender Appropriate Curriculum (GAC) Unit located at the Malawi Institute of Education has completed the primary
curriculum up to Standard 5.
6 The overall percentage of girls in school has risen from 45% to 47% since the GABLE waivers began. Note that 52% of
the Malawi population is female. In 1992/93, for the first time, the number of girls enrolling in standard I exceeded
the number of boys (51% up from 49% the previous year).



- 7 -
request for more realistic estimation of recurrent and investment expenditures and more explicit
description of cost recovery measures at the secondary and tertiary levels.  During appraisal,
Government agreed to take these comments into consideration and set the following benchmarks
towards "finalization" of the SPFP7:
* In early October 1995, the Cabinet Committee on Education reviewed the initial draft of the
SPFP and discussed the task of the PEP within this framework. An action plan and timetable
was proposed for completion of the document.
* Towards the end of November 1995, the Ministry of Education presented a revised SPFP to key
stakeholders in the sector (donors, NGOs, and other members of civil society) that responded to
their comments concerning prioritization and affordability. A strategy for ensuring an ongoing
and broad policy dialogue for the forthcoming year has been agreed. Recognizing the fact that
the SPFP is in fact a "living" document, some allocation has been made within PEP to finance
some of the actions aimed at broadening the dialogue further on the policy framework and
refining the document.
* By end-December 1995, the Ministry will present the revised SPFP with its executive summary
to the Cabinet Committee on Education for approval and endorsement.
So before Board presentation, the Government will submit to IDA a prioritized summary of its
policies and programs in the sector as a whole in a manner that clearly demonstrates that a critical
assessment of trade-offs and policy options has been applied to arrive at programs and targets that
are affordable and sustainable.
E. THE BANK GROUP'S ROLE AND STRATEGY
2.17   Past and Ongoing Involvement: The Bank has long been active in assisting Malawi's
education sector. The first project was approved in 1967. Five additional education projects have
been completed since then. Further details on these completed projects are given in Annex 12.
Currently, there is one ongoing project (the Second Education Sector Project), bringing the number
of education projects to seven, for a total of about US$175 million.
2.18   The on-going project, the Second Education Sector Credit (Cr. 2083-MAI, scheduled to
close on 30 June, 1996) began in 1990. The project objectives are: providing roofs for primary
school buildings and teachers' houses; providing classroom furniture; providing science kits for
secondary schools; improving library services to secondary schools; expanding Malawi Centres for
Distance Education (MCDEs) and in-service teachers' training; developing curricula and textbooks;
strengthening administration of the PIU; and providing technical assistance to MIE as well as to the
Faculty of Commerce of the Malawi Polytechnic (including scholarships). In 1994 the Bank began
to prepare a new operation, the Third Education Sector Credit (TESC), which will pursue an
integrated sector approach to support a Government-designed program to develop and improve the
sector as a whole. However, given the severity of the current crisis facing primary education in
Malawi, the Bank has agreed to the Government's request of 'fast-tracking' urgently needed primary
school activities of the TESC under a separate project, the PEP.
7 The SPFP is intended to serve as an operational document that Govemment regularly uses as a forum to debate and reach
consensus with stakeholders on priorities in the sector and to identify the costs associated with meeting these priorities.
"Completion" of the document does not exclude further consultation, revision and change.



- 8 -
2.19   Lessons from  Previous IDA Involvement:  Unlike previous projects which provided
loosely-structured interventions, and thus resulted in limited impact, this project, and the TESC will
share in the financing of a time-slice of the Government's overall program. By working within this
framework, the projects should be more effective in improving the sector. Specific lessons learnt
from implementing past projects have been incorporated in designing this operation. The design of
classroom construction has been modified to reduce construction time and cost and maximize
community participation. The school designs will consist of a shell which communities will
complete with in-fills. This approach is expected to build a strong sense of ownership of schools by
the local communities. Communities did not participate as fully as expected under the First
Education Sector Credit as reported in the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for that project
(see Annex 12, para. 2 for further details); thus the communities' participation under PEP will not be
taken for granted. A vigorous IEC campaign and community mobilization exercise (in collaboration
with MASAF) as well as training for district and community leaders, are planned. An incentive
mechanism for communities has been built into the project by making the provision and delivery of
furniture and learning materials to the new classrooms conditional on the completion of the infills.
Project implementation will be expedited by modifying the contracting arrangements so that
contracts are awarded through a private and independent construction management organization
(PICMO). Similarly, textbook distribution will be privatized.
2.20   Bank Strategy:  The Bank's education sector strategy is aimed at supporting the
implementation of a time-slice of the Government's educational development program in
collaboration with other donors through the TESC. However, to respond immediately to the crisis
facing primary education in Malawi, activities that are focused, ready, simple, and capable of being
implemented quickly have been selected from the TESC for fast-track processing under a separate
Primary Education Project (PEP). Both the PEP and TESC are consistent with the Bank's Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS) in Malawi, presented to the Board on June 9, 1994 (Report No. P6236-
MAI). The major objective of the CAS is sustainable poverty reduction through economic growth
with equity. To attain this objective the strategy focuses on: (i) expanding access to human capital
through improved education, health and other social services; (ii) expanding employment
opportunities through a liberal environment for private sector entrepreneurship and initiative,
expanded access to financial capital, and policies and programs that encourage labor-intensive
activities and participation of women; (iii) enhancing agricultural productivity for poor, small
farmers and ensuring sustainable use of land resources; and (iv) introduction of an integrated family-
planning strategy to curb population growth and reduce fertility rates.
2.21   Education is central to all four dimensions of the strategy and the focus on primary education
is crucial. In developing and implementing the Bank's education strategy, an iterative process has
been used with feedback from systematic client consultation (SCC). As the findings of a 1995 SCC
exercise carried out in the country show,8 communities ranked the need for schools as one of the two
top priorities (the other was credit).  Many communities have been participating in the
implementation of school construction, through labor and monetary contribution; some have even
generated, managed and implemented their projects without assistance from outside. Communities
consistently ranked school committees as valued for their ability to deliver relevant services. This
seems to validate the contention that communities have the provision of schools as their top priority
and that with some facilitation, communities will be enthusiastic participants to this end. The SCC
confirms that: (i) there is a high demand for education and communities give top priority to it; (ii)
communities are willing to contribute to school construction and maintenance; and (iii) communities
8The SCC was done for the Malawi Social Action Fund project preparation. Nineteen representative communities in all
three regions were surveyed .



-9-
are interested in participating as early as possible in development projects affecting them. These
factors were all taken into consideration when designing this project. The project combines a supply
orientation (to provide a quick response to this high demand for education by the communities and to
facilitate their involvement) with a demand-driven approach (through the active involvement of the
communities). An IEC campaign and community mobilization are underway; some training for
community members and leaders as well as district officials has already been undertaken (like the
training in the use of hydraform machines and in the techniques of cladding - see Annex 8) and more
training is envisaged under the project. Regular feedback will also be sollicited from participating
communities and this information will be used to improve the training programs and project
implementation.
2.22   Rationale for IDA Involvement: Poverty alleviation and human resource development are
at the centre of IDA's strategy in Malawi (articulated in the Country Assistance Strategy Paper that
was presented to the Board on June 9, 1994 - see details in para. 2.20) because these are essential
elements of the country's development approach. IDA has been active in Malawi's education system
for the last thirty years. It has incorporated the lessons learned in project preparation and
implementation over those years and is now well positioned to assist the sector to implement the
Government's sector development plan. PEP will provide timely assistance to at least partially
alleviate the extreme pressure the primary education system now faces.



- 10-
3. THE PROJECT
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND SCOPE
3.1    Development Objectives: The main objective of this project is to assist the Government of
Malawi in its efforts at poverty reduction and capacity building. The project is being developed as a
fast-track forerunner to an overall integrated sector operation aimed at assisting the Government of
Malawi implement a time-slice of its long term education sector development program. The main
objectives of the program are to provide access to primary education to 90% of school-age children
by the year 2005, expand access to lower secondary education, improve quality and resource use at
all levels of education, and strengthen planning and management in the sector. Within that
framework, this project aims at putting on fast-track selected activities of the program to provide a
rapid response to the Malawian educational crisis which followed the elimination of all school fees
and associated costs of primary education in 1994. These activities have been identified as among
the most critical for poverty reduction and for providing the foundation for capacity building.
3.2    Specific Project Objectives: The specific objectives of this fast-track operation are to: (i)
ensur-e that the quantitative gains in enrollments obtained with the introduction of free primary
education are maintained through the retention of newly-enrolled children in the system; and (ii)
improve the quality of primary education through providing teaching and learning materials, and
pedagogical support to, and in-service training for untrained teachers.
B. PROJECT DESCRIPTION
3.3    The three main project components, all focused on primary education, are: (i) classroom
construction; (ii) pedagogical support and in-service teacher training; and (iii) teaching and learning
materials.
Component 1: Primary Classroom Construction Program (US$11.8 million)
3.4    Objectives and Scope of Component: The Ministry of Education estimates that 38,000
classrooms will be required over the next ten years to reduce serious overcrowding and to move
towards a student: classroom ratio of 60:1. This ambitious construction program will require an
improvement in current designs and implementation practices. In response to the high demand for
classrooms, over 50% of project funds will be allocated to primary school infrastructure. The overall
goal for civil works is to provide as many well-built classrooms as quickly and as cost-effectively as
possible, and to provide teachers' housing and administration blocks in appropriate proportion.
Health and hygiene needs will require the construction of pit latrines and boreholes at most primary
school sites. Sapling shade trees will be planted at all new sites to provide a shade canopy for the
many hot months of school attendance.
3.5    Activities to be Supported: The project would finance the construction and provision of
furniture for about 1600 primary classrooms. Of this total, 600 will be in 75 new sites (new primary
schools) mainly in rural areas; the other 1000 will expand existing schools with overcrowded
classrooms especially in peri-urban and some rural areas. The project would finance the construction
of an administration block, two teacher houses, two pit latrines and a borehole in each of the new
schools and the planting of sapling shade trees at all new sites. Before appraisal, Government
undertook a school location exercise to determine the communities in which the new schools will be



located as well as those in which schools will be expanded. To ensure that the exercise was carried
out in a transparent manner, the Bank assisted MOE in identifying objective criteria and developing a
formula to rank districts, zones or communities on the basis of these criteria (see annex 3c for
details). The criteria include: poverty level, average number of pupils per classroom, population
density, gender disparity and average enrollment ratios. Once identified, the communities are
required to select the sites for the new schools and prepare them for construction (mainly by clearing
the sites). Before negotiations the Government submitted the list of districts in which classrooms
will be constructed. As a condition of Board Presentation the Government will submit the list of the
sites selected in consultation with the communities where new schools will be constructed as well as
the names of the existing schools to be expanded, ensuring that this list contains at least 80% of the
total number of classrooms to be constructed under this primary school construction component of
the project.
3.6    Classroom Construction Using Shell Concept: Because of the serious and immediate need
for classrooms (as well as the need for cost-effectiveness), a shell design has been selected for fast
track classroom construction. The Ministry of Works and Supplies (MOWS) completed designs for
shell-type structures in July 1995. The Bank's Project Preparation Facility (PPF), which is a pilot for
this fast-track project, is financing the construction of 96 classroom steel shells, along with teacher
houses, administration blocks, and site services. The steel shell design has already been tested in
Malawi by UNICEF, on a smaller scale. The results from all these pilot operations have been
positive. Communities have shown a lot of enthusiasm for the project and the role they will play in
its implementation. They have already moulded large amounts of blocks using the hydraform
machines. Annex 3g provides further analyses of alternative construction designs considered before
selecting the shell design. Alternative shell types will be used only if these prove to be as cost-
effective, as quick to construct and as durable as the steel shell design selected. Although the shell
design is new to Malawi, it has a track record in Africa, notably with the Bank's ongoing primary
school construction project in Ghana. The shell model is a low-cost high-quality classroom design
with construction across two stages:
  Stage I: Putting up the Shells by Contractors.  A foundation, columns, and a roof are
constructed.  The contractor is also responsible for installing the floor. The shell can be
constructed very quickly, permitting school children to move to the shade and shelter of a
classroom shell.
*  Stage 1I: Infills through Community Participation.  The walls are constructed. Doors and
windows, a closet, and a permanent chalkboard are installed. The infill stage does not require
the same high level of construction skills as does the installation of a foundation, and the
erection of columns and a tied-down roof. The infill stage lends itself well to community inputs
involving skills and materials that are readily available and which may vary from region to
region. Most communities will use hydraform blocks; others have a stockpile of already burnt
bricks. Other communities may choose to construct walls of traditional sun-dried bricks. The
production of additional burnt bricks will be discouraged because of the environmental damage
caused by the large number of trees that must be felled to burn bricks.
3.7    The shell model brings together high technology and traditional building skills. The shell
model implies a natural division of inputs. By awarding large contracts to the efficient private
sector, Government will quickly construct useable classroom shells throughout the country. Using
their own abilities and resources, the communities will complete the classroom shells provided by
Government. During appraisal, prototypical draft architectural designs for the construction of shell
classrooms were submitted to the Bank for review. Minor revisions were suggested and these have



- 12 -
been incorporated in the final designs which are being used currently for the construction of
classrooms under PPF financing.
3.8    Orientation of District Officials and Community Leaders: The assistance of district
officials will be required to mobilize the community in completing the classroom shells. Orientation
sessions of 2-3 days will be held for key officials from each district; project implementation officials
will act as trainers (see annex 8 for details on some of the training that has already been undertaken).
These orientation sessions must be held before the project becomes effective and will be repeated
periodically. At the village level, community leaders will be invited to take part in orientation
workshops.  The goal of these workshops is to instill a sense of school ownership in the
communities. The orientation is intended to increase enthusiasm and commitment to complete and
maintain the shells. Up to three leaders from each community, including a traditional chief with
recognized local authority, will take part in the workshops.
3.9    NGO  Involvement in  the  School Construction  Program:   Non-governmental
organizations have recently become very active in Malawi; their increasing role has been stimulated
by two major events; the increased number of refugees and the introduction of democracy which has
opened doors for NGO activities. Most NGOs have a comparative advantage in the social sectors,
given their proximity to grass root levels, and also have existing capacity (though not nationwide in
Malawi) to deal with community-based assignments. The communities will be crucial to the success
of the PEP as both beneficiaries and implementors of the project. And NGOs would be very
significant in community mobilization, sensitization, capacity building and training for leadership
and transformation, selection of high caliber people, and putting into place monitoring and
evaluation mechanisms.
3.10   This project will finance activities related to community mobilization and development.
These would include the participation of NGOs as resource persons for training and capacity
building efforts at the community level and to provide technical assistance for community
mobilization. NGO involvement in this project will help expedite the uptake and facilitate greater
awareness of the communities as to how the project has been structured. Furthermore, the project
will help MOE put in place an information system that will help identify appropriate NGOs to
participate in the project in each relevant district. This will require gathering adequate information
about the NGO sector; establishing, in a transparent manner, relevant selection criteria (NGOs will
be part of the process to define these criteria), and a suitable selection process; assessing the
organizational capacity and proven track record relevant to project tasks; and identifying what would
be 'capacity-building' needs and strategies to meet these needs.
3.11   Information, Education and Communication (IEC): The activities under the PEP that
require community and NGO participation will have to be effectively presented and well explained
to the communities.  Malawi has gone through a tremendous transformation with regard to
community involvement. The self-help spirit which used to exist was interrupted during the political
transition. The return of self-help must be carefully handled to make it strong and sustainable. A
well articulated IEC campaign is necessary to impart the importance of providing schools, especially
the approach to school construction used in this project. The approach PEP will use is new in many
ways, and may cause some confusion among the communities. MOE would operate IEC campaigns
where the project will go, well before its implementation. The IEC packages would contain among
other data, information about the project, community involvement, identify tasks to be fulfilled by
Government officials in different capacities, describe NGOs who happen to be in the locality, and
identify community leaders and other leaders. PEP would fund MOE's efforts of organizing this IEC
campaign. An initial IEC campaign is underway under the PPF phase. This campaign is being



- 13 -
developed in collaboration with that being undertaken under the Malawi Social Action Project
(MASAF).
Component 2: Pedagogical Support and Teacher Training Program (US$4.7 million)
3.12   Background and Objectives: The Ministry of Education has recognized that support to
teachers needs to be improved. In its effort to move from an inspection-based system to one that
supports teachers' development, the Government has changed the name of the Inspectorate to the
Methods Advisory Service, and the local inspectors are now called Primary Education Advisors
(PEAs). More PEAs have been added and these advisors are based in recently-created sub-zones.
Ultimately each PEA will be responsible for 10-15 schools or 160 teachers. Altogether about 320
PEAs will be deployed throughout the country. As part of the preparation for the TESC, the
Methods Advisory Service has articulated a scheme for school-based supervision in which school
heads and PEAs would provide pedagogical leadership at the school level. A plan for implementing
this scheme has been prepared by the Ministry of Education with assistance from GTZ, ODA, and
the World Bank, all of whom have expressed willingness to support elements of the plan9.
3.13   The introduction of free primary education for the 1994-95 academic year has made the need
for the planned improvements in teacher support more urgent. To respond to the enrollment
increase, the Government recruited about 20,000 mainly untrained primary teachers. With some
3,400 untrained teachers already in the system, about half of the over 48,000 teachers in the field
now are uncertified. This has further depressed an already poor learning environment. There is an
urgent need to improve the classroom effectiveness of all teachers in order to improve the quality of
education.
3.14   The long-term goal of this component is to improve the learning in Malawi's primary
schools by establishing a teacher support system that provides regular, sustained assistance to every
school and teacher. Building on the outposting of the PEAs, the Government proposes to create a
resource center in each sub-zone, the position at which the PEAs are to be posted. PEAs will spend
over half their time in schools assisting school heads to improve the performance of teachers. The
resource centers will support this school-level work by providing a gathering place and training site
for teachers and school heads. At the same time, there is a clear need to create a mechanism to
coordinate the array of institutions that guide the delivery of pedagogical support to teachers -- the
Methods Advisory Service, teacher training colleges, Malawi Institute of Education, Malawi
National Examinations Board, Teachers Union of Malawi; NGOs; Malawi College of Distance
Education, and the Faculty of Education at the University of Malawi.
3.15   Activities to be Supported:  This component will provide support to: (a) the Malawi
Integrated In-service Teacher Education Program (MIITEP) for certification of untrained teachers,
and (b) pedagogical support for all primary teachers. MOE has involved ODA, GTZ/KfW and the
Bank in planning this program.  Consequently these donors have agreed to provide parallel
financing. ODA has indicated interest in supporting the following activities: (i) training and support
for headquarters and regional education office staff, district and deputy district education officers,
primary education advisors (PEAs), headteachers and deputy heads; (ii) construction of up to 100
resource centers; (iii) strengthening of MIE, and; (iv) technical assistance. ODA's contribution in
support of these four activities will reach US$8.5 million. KfW will also provide parallel support
9 (see Inspection and Supervision of Education in Malawi: Creating Conditions for Improving Learning in Schools. June,
1994; Proposed Framework for Strengthening Inspection and Supervision of Primary Education in Malawi, December,
1994; and Strengthening Supervision, In-service Education & Training in Malawian Primary Schools, Februarv, 1995).



- 14 -
through constructing about 20 resource centers and 400 primary classrooms for an overall total
amount of approximately US$8.0 million) while GTZ will provide technical assistance (about
US$3.0 million). The activities to be supported by the Bank are designed to complement those to be
funded by these donors.
3.16   In effect, the long-term needs for pedagogical support to teachers will be addressed by
TESC, with the support of other donors. Under this project, only immediate and urgent needs are
targeted. These include:
1. Preparatory activities for the implementation of the Teacher Development Program
(TDP) which would include: (i) setting up an apex coordinating body; (ii) design of
curricula; (iii) development of training manuals, modules and handbooks; (iv) training of
trainers; and (v) staff development. In addition a campaign to inform all key players
about the program and their tasks in it would be launched immediately.
2. Planning and preparation of course materials and the implementation of the MIITEP
aimed at about 20,000 untrained teachers. MIITEP will start in January, 1997 with 3,000
students for a three-month residential course. Thereafter, the students will be deployed
to schools and continue their training for 21 months through sub-zonal seminars and
supervised teaching in schools. A formative evaluation will be conducted after three
consecutive residential courses. To be certified, students will be required to write a final
examination in addition to writing a specified number of projects and assignments.
3. School and sub-zonal in-service training for all primary teachers. Each resource center
and school will be provided with a set of teaching and learning materials packages.
4. Provision of motorcycles (including operation and maintenance) for about 320 PEAs to
enhance their mobility to visit schools.
3.17   The activities supported, including the use of the motorcycles, will be directed towards
improving the quality of primary education. The build-up of these activities commencing with the
PEP (see Annex 3f for details on the teacher training program and the comparison of alternatives to
arrive at the selected program) will be extended into TESC. Under TESC a comprehensive Teacher
Development Program, including secondary, technical and vocational education and training, will be
implemented.
Component 3: Learning Materials and Textbook-related Activities (US$3.1 million)
3.18   Background and Objectives: The ongoing Second Education Sector Credit has a major
component for the development, production and distribution of textbooks to all primary school
grades, with a planned target of one textbook for every two students and one guide for each teacher
in Mathematics, Chichewa, English, and General Studies. However, there is a huge current demand
for additional textbooks and learning materials resulting from the massive influx of children into the
system. This need is being felt most in grades I - 4. MOE estimates that about 4 million additional
textbooks are required for these four grades alone to enable the Government to attain its target of one
textbook for every two students in each of the four main subjects. Meanwhile, there is also a need to
improve the distribution of textbooks and learning materials. The Supplies Unit (SU) which was
recently established within MOE to implement Government's procurement and distribution of
textbooks and learning materials needs to be strengthened. There is a need to undertake an
evaluation of the content and durability of the textbooks developed under the Second Education



- 15 -
Sector Credit in order to prepare for revised editions under the TESC. There is also a need to train
teachers and primary education advisers (PEAs) in the effective use and management of textbooks.
3.19   Activities to be Supported:   To help meet the additional demand for textbooks in the
four main subjects at grades I to 4, the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) is
providing parallel support of about US$7.5 million equivalent for the reprinting of about 5 million
textbooks using the films of the titles developed under the IDA-financed Second Education Sector
Credit. For its part, PEP would concentrate on the:
* Acquisition of basic learning materials, including exercise books, pencils, slates, chalk and
boards;
* Furnishing of secured book storage rooms in new primary schools;
*  Strengthening of the Supplies Unit of MOE including the computerization of book-distribution
operations and provision of associated training and technical assistance;
*  Training of teachers and primary education advisers on effective use and management of
textbooks; and
*  Evaluation of the content and durability of textbooks developed under the IDA-financed Second
Education Sector Credit.
C. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
3.20   The total project cost is estimated at US$25.2 million equivalent. The foreign exchange
component of the project is estimated at 49.0% (US$12.4 million) of total cost. Total base cost
estimates are US$20.1 million at October 1995 prices. Physical and price contingencies are
estimated at US$5.1 million, with physical contingencies representing 5.0% of base costs. Price
contingencies, estimated at US$4.1 million, assume an average local annual inflation rate of about
15.0% and an average foreign annual inflation rate of about 2.0% during the three years of project
implementation. A summary cost table is given in Table 2 while detailed cost estimates are given in
Annex 7.
Table 2
Components Project Cost Summary
(MK Million)        (US$ Million)
%    Total
Foreign  Base
Local Foreign  Total Local Foreign Total Exchange Costs
1. Primary School Construction Program  96.65   88.70 185.35  6.16    5.65 11.81   48  59
2. Teacher Development Program     36.90  37.42  74.32  2.35    2.38 4.73   50     24
3. Teaching and Learning Materials  6.36  41.78  48.13  0.40    2.66 3.07   87     15
4. Project Management/ EDMU/ PU     5.27   2.65   7.92  0.34    0.17 0.50   33     3
Total Baseline Costs            145.18  170.54 315.72  9.25   10.86 20.11   54    100
Physical Contingencies            7.16   8.53  15.69  0.46    0.54  1.00   54     5
Price Contingencies              76.20  41.45 117.65  3.10    1.03 4.13   25     21
Total Project Costs             228.54 220.52 449.06 12.80   12.44 25.24   49    126



- 16 -
3.21   Financing Plan: The IDA Credit would finance 89.0% of the total project cost (US$22.5
million); Government and communities would finance about 4.8% and 6.2% respectively
(approximately US$1.2 million and US$1.6 million equivalent respectively). Parallel financing
totaling about US$27.0 million equivalent is being provided by KFW (about US$8 million for the
construction of 400 primary classrooms and 20 Resource Centers); CIDA (about US$7.5 for the
provision of textbooks; ODA (about US$8.5 million for the training of head teachers and PEAs as
well as the construction of 100 resource centers under the TDP); and GTZ (about US$3.0 million for
technical assistance under the TDP).
Table 3
Parallel Financing
(in millions)
PARALLEL            ACTIVITIES           AMOUNT               US$
FINANCIERS                                               EQUIVALENT
KFW                Classrooms + RC        12.0 DM                8.0
CIDA               Textbooks              10.0 Can. $            7.5
ODA                Teacher Support + RC   5.5 Pounds             8.5
GTZ                TA for MIITEP          4.5 DM                 3.0
TOTAL                                                            27.2
RC = Resource Center
MIITEP = Malawi Integrated In-Service Teacher Education Program
3.22   Recurrent Cost Implications: Incremental recurrent costs to the Government generated by
this project concern three major elements: (i) operating cost of project-supported institutions and
programs (244,000 MK or US$15,250 per annum); (ii) transitory incremental salary costs associated
with project management and coordination (79,000 MK or about US$5,000 per annum). Meanwhile
there will be an increase in teachers' salaries after certification following completion of the teacher
training program being organized for about 20,000 untrained teachers: only part of the recurrent cost
implications are attributable to PEP10. To assess the fiscal feasibility and recurrent cost implications
of its overall investment program contained in its policy framework paper, the MOE is using a
simulation model for education (developed by UNESCO in 1991) to develop alternative scenarios as
well as to undertake counterfactual policy simulations. Details on the model are contained in Annex
3d.
3.23   Public resources within the education sector in Malawi are insufficient to cover the rapid
surge in primary school enrollments observed in 1994. Although recurrent education expenditures as
a share of total public recurrent expenditures increased from 8.7% in 1988 to 24% in 1995 and the
share of education in GNP more than doubled from 3.4% to 7.5%, there are still severe constraints to
improving the quantity and quality of education. The very young population profile creates an
immense need for human capital investment in education. About 34% of Malawians are in the
school age group of 6 to 17 years. The simulation results indicate that over the next decade, it would
10 The average annual teacher salary before certification of the approximately 20,000 untrained teachers is 7000 MK (about
US$ 460) and will increase to 9,500 MK (about US$ 620) after certification, implying an annual recurrent cost
implication attributable to the overall govemment program (to be assisted by TESC) of about 50,000,000 MK or US$3.3
million. However, these costs will only come on stream in 1998 when the first teachers start getting certified.



- 17-
require a share of over 30% of the Government's recurrent budget to provide education of reasonable
quality to 80% to 90% of primary school-age children (with a per student expenditure level ranging
between 300 and 450 MK -- i.e. about 20 to 30 US$). With the difficult economic outlook, the major
challenge is how to do more with less resources and how to mobilize alternative resources for
education. In the draft SPFP, the Government plans to institute measures to reduce the financial
pressure including: increased cost recovery at post-primary education levels; increased community
involvement which will be a significant part of this project; cost-saving measures such as more
secondary day schooling (instead of the current predominant practice of boarding) and double-
shifting; encouragement of the private sector and the choice of least-cost alternatives in project
design (such as the shell classroom construction design and the teacher training approach developed
in this project). These measures are aimed at improving the efficiency of expenditures and of
delivery systems. Meanwhile, some donor financing of recurrent expenditures on an increasing or
constant basis over the next five years (for example under the proposed IDA Third Education Sector
operation) will provide short-term relief, help set up these measures, and ensure long-term
sustainability so that in subsequent operations, such recurrent costs could be financed on a declining
basis.



- 18-
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. STATUS OF PROJECT PREPARATION AND READINESS
4.1    Project preparation was carried out by Ministry of Education staff, under the guidance of a
project preparation committee (PPC) set up during the preparation mission for the TESC in February
1995 and composed of representatives of the various units directly associated with the project as well
as representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Economic Planning and
Development. The work of the PPC was financially supported by the ongoing Second Education
Sector Credit and a Japanese Grant for preparation of the TESC. An advance from the project
preparation facility (PPF) of about US$1.4 million was also approved to assist specifically with
preparation activities for the PEP, especially in expanding the piloting of the shell design for
classroom construction, as well as undertaking some of the preparatory activities for implementing
the pedagogical support and in-service teacher training program, and providing some teaching and
learning materials to schools. Several small and well-targeted Bank missions were organized since
the TESC preparation mission in February 1995 to assist the PPC in its work, including a PEP
identification mission in May 1995 and a follow-up mission in June/July 1995 to prepare the PEP.
Close contacts have been maintained throughout with other donors, in particular USAID, ODA,
KfW, GTZ, UNDP and UNICEF.
4.2    The Bank has worked with NGOs active in the sector. During the appraisal mission, the
monthly meeting of the Resident Mission with NGOs for October focused on PEP. At the meeting,
the NGOs expressed enthusiasm for the project and indicated willingness to participate especially in
the implementation phase (to assist in community mobilization and in the cladding of shells and to
bid for contracts to construct classroom shells, clad teacher houses and administration blocks,
construct pit latrines or boreholes or undertake landscaping and other external work).  The
Government has shown significant and sustained commitment to the overall integrated sector
approach and to this fast-track supplement. The Department of Planning and the newly created
Education Development Management Unit (EDMU) are coordinating the preparation of an action
plan and performance indicators, an implementation manual, a procurement plan, draft contracts and
standard bidding documents for major procurement actions. As a condition of Credit Effectiveness,
the Government will submit an implementation manual to IDA. Meanwhile, during negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that adequate staff and associated resources would be made available to
implement both this 'fast-track' operation and the subsequent integrated sector operation.
B. PROJECT MANAGEMENT AND COORDINATION
4.3    Background: Day-to-day management and implementation of the project will be carried
out by units of the Ministry of Education, namely the Education Development Management Unit
(EDMU), the Coordinating Unit for the Primary Education Teacher Development Program and the
Supplies Unit. The EDMU, recently created and placed under the direct responsibility of the PS to
manage this fast-track operation, will co-ordinate project activities and deal with administrative,
procurement, and financial matters, as well as contacts with IDA and inter-agency relations. EDMU
would also be responsible for the management and coordination of the future TESC and other donor
projects in the sector. Management of the civil works program and related furniture and equipment
needs would be delegated to a private and independent construction management organization
(PICMO) under contract to MOE. The functions, responsibilities and reporting arrangements of
EDMU and PICMO are briefly described in Annex 4 and articulated in detail in a procedural manual



- '9 -
developed by MOE with Bank assistance. The provision of learning materials will be handled and
coordinated by the Supplies Unit of MOE. During appraisal the Govemment gave assurances that it
will maintain the EDMU with adequate professional and support staff, under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, (including a team leader, an architect/implementation specialist, an accountant
and a public relations officer) and will consult IDA for any changes in EDMU staffing and
responsibilities. These will all be civil servants since EDMU is directly integrated into MOE's
structure. In the short-term and for some crucial specialized skills difficult to find in Malawi (like
the architect), short-term local consultants financed under the project will be recruited (under private
sector terms). The following paragraphs provide details on the implementation of each component.
4.4    Implementation of civil works: Civil works will be the joint responsibility of large-scale
contractors (about 8 procurement packages) and a some smaller contractors and NGOs (about 7
procurement packages), who will construct the classroom shells (see Annex II for details), the
auxiliary buildings and the site services, and of the communities who will construct the infill for the
classrooms. The steps involved in the construction of the primary schools are as follows. First,
Government has selected all districts in which the new and existing schools will be built or
expanded. Working with MOE technicians, the communities select and prepare the sites and
determine the appropriate layout for the proposed facilities, with technical advice on appropriate
drainage, solar and wind orientations, and with community inputs on issues such as proximity to
village and location of a future football pitch. Simultaneously, the orientation workshops for district
officials and community leaders are conducted.  During these sessions, the communities'
responsibility in preparing the site, completing the infill of the shell classrooms, planting, protecting
and maintaining the shade tree saplings, and maintaining the completed primary school buildings,
will be discussed and clarified. Secondly, large and small contracts will be tendered and awarded by
PICMO through international competitive bidding (ICB) and national competitive bidding (NCB) for
the provision and erection of classroom shells, as well as shells for teachers houses and
administration blocks. Other smaller contracts for the construction of bore holes and pit latrines and
the cladding of teacher houses and administration blocks will be awarded following competitive
bidding advertised nationally (NCB). Finally, as the classroom shells are completed, the district
officials, or other appointees will visit the communities to encourage them to complete the infill of
the classroom shells. NGOs will be prominent in mobilizing community efforts. Community inputs
will be assured by the provision of cement which is a necessary ingredient in the production of
hydraform blocks. Most rural Malawian communities lack the financial resources to buy their own
cement, and requiring them to do so would probably result in failure of the community input. The
cement, and window and door frames to ensure solidity around breeze blocks, will be included in the
tender packages for the shells and be delivered by the contractors to the communities when
delivering their materials for the shells to the construction sites.
4.5    Construction  Supervision:   A  private and  independent construction  management
organization (PICMO) will be retained to provide overall supervision of the civil works. PICMO
will be responsible for supervising all aspects of primary school construction, beginning with site
layout, foundation work, erection of shells, construction of teachers houses and administration
blocks, digging of boreholes and excavations for pit latrines, planting and staking of shade trees, and
preparation of certificates of payment for the contractors. PICMO will take instructions from EDMU
on scope of work and site selection and will program the construction works, prepare bid packages,
prepare bid evaluation reports, submit recommendations to Central Tender Board, prepare individual
contracts, supervise the works in the field, certify the quality and value of work executed, prepare
disbursement applications, report regularly to EDMU, coordinate borehole, landscaping and material
delivery activities, maintain project accounts for local payments, certify that works are completed
and prepare a completion report for each site, and all other administrative tasks pertinent to



-20 -
construction management. The PICMO will consist of a team leader, an engineer, an accountant, a
chief clerk of works and three additional clerks of works. PICMO will be selected on a competitive
basis from a short-list of experienced construction management firms.
4.6   Implementation of the Pedagogical Support and In-service Teacher Training Program:
The implementation of this program will be underlaken by MOE's newly-established Coordinating
Unit for the Primary Education TDP (which is integrated in MOE's structure). Key tasks include:
drafting conditions of service for staff, recruitment procedures, planning in-service workshops,
selection of in-service training centers, arranging the intended cooperation of lecturers of Primary
Teacher Training Colleges, and making arrangements for selecting venues for materials distribution
and meeting places for trainees and tutors. Annex 3f provides further details on how the teacher
training program will be implemented.
4.7   Implementation of the Teaching and Learning Materials Component: (i) The Supplies
Unit (SU), also integrated in MOE's structure, will be responsible for the provision of teaching and
learning materials and their distribution and management as well as other textbook-related activities.
Most teaching and learning materials will be purchased through international competitive bidding
while a small quantity of off-the-shelf items will be purchased through UNICEF's Supply Division
in Copenhagen (UNIPAC). The SU will hire private transporters to deliver these items directly to
the schools. In each school, the learning materials will be handed over to the school committee
headed by the headmaster and including representatives of the teachers, PTAs, and communities.
Representatives of political parties, labor unions, and NGOs will attend as observers. A secure
storage room will be constructed in each new school. Donors, NGOs, and local communities will be
encouraged to construct secure store rooms in existing schools; MASAF funds could also be used
for this purpose. A guide for the management of textbooks will be prepared and distributed to all the
primary schools. The SU will set up a computerized procurement and distribution system to keep
track of stock levels in each primary school; (ii) with assistance from the Coordinating Unit for the
TDP, MIE will organize seminars to train Primary Education Advisers (PEAs) in the use of
textbooks. The PEAs, in their turn, will train the headmasters and teachers; (iii) The Center for
Educational Research and Training (CERT) will evaluate the 63 titles developed under the Second
Education Sector Credit. It will obtain feedback from PEAs, headmasters, Children (especially those
in higher grades) and teachers through questionnaires.  It will prepare detailed proposals for
improving the quality and durability of textbooks and for preparing second editions under the TESC.
C. PROJECT MONITORING AND EVALUATION
4.8    Evaluation and monitoring of project performance and outcomes would be carried out by the
implementing units over the life of the project. Key project-related performance as well as some
sector-wide indicators (inputs, outputs, processes, and outcomes) for which targets were set and
agreed upon at appraisal, are shown in Annex 9. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that EDMU would organize joint IDA-Government annual reviews, and a mid-term
review of project implementation (approximately a year and a half following Credit effectiveness),
the results of which will be incorporated in an action plan, acceptable to IDA, for further
implementation of the project and to be incorporated into the TESC. Progress reports comparing
planned and actual project implementation, procurement and disbursements, would be submitted by
EDMU to IDA by December 31 and June 30 each year. A project launch workshop, including local
launch workshops in communities where PEP schools will be constructed, would be held in Malawi
shortly before, or shortly after Credit effectiveness, financed from the project, to acquaint staff of



- 21 -
beneficiary institutions and community leaders with problems likely to be encountered during project
implementation. Joint IDA-Government supervision missions would be organized at least twice a
year. Details of the Bank's supervision and review plans are in Annex 10. During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that it will submit an Implementation Completion Report (ICR), in
accordance with applicable guidelines for preparation of completion reports within four months of
project completion.
D. PROCUREMENT
4.9    Planning and Monitoring: Procurement of IDA-financed goods and civil works would be
carried out in accordance with the Guidelines, Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits,
January, 1995 (GuidelinesJ. Under ICB a margin of preference would be granted in the evaluation
of bids to locally manufactured goods and civil works bids from domestic contractors in accordance
with paragraph 2.54 and Appendix 2 to the Guidelines. Procurement arrangements are summarized
in Table 3. EDMU prepared a procurement plan identifying contract packages, value, procurement
method, implementation schedule and responsibility for implementation which was reviewed at
appraisal and found satisfactory. The plan, which would be the basis for project implementation and
monitoring, would be updated quarterly and included in periodic project progress reports.
4.10   Civil Works:  IDA would fund construction of approximately 1600 classroom  shells
(including 96 under the PPF). The procurement will be packaged on a geographical region basis
where feasible. Individual contracts equal to or greater than US$500,000 up to an aggregate total of
US$ 4.89 million including contingencies, will be awarded and managed by PICMO on the basis of
International Competitive Bidding (ICB) in accordance with the Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits dated January, 1995. Meanwhile for a fast start, the construction of
classroom shells during the first 6 months of project implementation when the EDMU and the
PICMO are new to the tasks and the procurement packages are of a modest amount, will be procured
using the faster National Competitive Bidding (NCB), through contracts valued at less than US$
500,000 each. During the subsequent three 6-month periods, as construction activity gears-up,
procurement packages will become considerably larger, and ICB will be used in most cases, while
continuing with NCB and smaller procurement packages for isolated areas in the North where works
are geographically dispersed and are not likely to be attractive to foreign contractors. Civil works
contracts for the cladding of teacher houses and administration blocksl1 and the construction of
boreholes and pit latrines for the approximately 75 new schools (as well as additional pit latrines for
the expanded schools) as well as landscaping and small external works would be awarded on the
basis of National Competitive Bidding (NCB). All these NCB procurements for civil works will not
exceed an aggregate total of US$4.2 million and will be performed in accordance with the Guidelines
and using procedures acceptable to IDA.
4.11   Community Participation in Procurement: PEP has been designed with a high level of
community participation to enhance project sustainability, encourage community involvement in
children's education, increase the utilization of local skills and materials, and discourage the use of
materials harmnful to the environment (the burning of bricks has led to serious deforestation).
During the recent school mapping, the MOE determined that communities have stock-piled sufficient
burnt bricks to construct 1600 classrooms. With the introduction of the hydraform block-making
machine, the MOE hopes to halt the further production of burnt bricks. Community involvement
1 l For administration blocks and teacher houses, the shell model will also be used (and procured with classrooms following
ICB and NCB procedures); cladding will be done by small contractors using NCB procedures.



- 22 -
begins with the proper siting of proposed buildings on land suggested by the community. Limited
land clearing and leveling (saving existing shade-giving trees) is also done by the community.
Community inputs continue with the larger task of digging soil and moulding enough soil-cement
blocks to clad or infill all the shell structures erected by the government through private contractors.
Cement will be financed under the Credit since it will be an expensive item for the communities.
Cement is a key ingredient of the hydraform blocks and will be used for mortar, to complete floors
and to fit windows and doors. Steel door and window frames will also be financed under the Credit
to ensure solidity around the breeze blocks. All these items will be included in the tender packages
for the construction of shell classrooms, and be delivered to the communities when the contractors
bring materials to the school sites. Two MOE-funded hydraform technicians will be present in each
community to direct the production of the blocks, and then to direct the further task of constructing
walls for the shell classrooms. Technical assistance by NGOs will be used to enhance the
community mobilization and training effort.
4.12   Goods: IDA-financed goods including school furniture, equipment, vehicles, and teaching
and learning materials would be, to the extent possible grouped in contracts costing US$100,000 or
more and procured following ICB procedures. Preference of 15% or the applicable customs duty,
whichever is less, on the C.l.P. price would be used for evaluation purposes only. School furniture
and teaching and learning materials valued at less than US$ 100,000 per contract and US$1.9 million
in aggregate would be procured following NCB procedures acceptable to IDA. These items would
involve limited quantities dispersed geographically and spread over time and unlikely to interest
foreign bidders. Off-the-shelf and minor items valued at less than US$ 30,000 per contract and US$
500,000 equivalent in aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national
shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. Other off-
the-shelf and minor items unavailable in Malawi valued at less than US$ 30,000 per contract and
US$ 200,000 equivalent in aggregate may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
international shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions of 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Some off-the-shelf teaching and learning materials up to an aggregate total of US$454,000 may be
procured directly from UNICEF's Supply Division in Copenhagen (UNIPAC) as long as its prices
remain competitive. These items will be packaged into smaller individual contracts for each of the
four academic years of project implementation. Competitive prices are expected since UNICEF
buys in bulk on a competitive basis for several countries and this method of procurement has a solid
track record.
4.13   Bidding Documents: Current IDA Standard Bidding Documents (SBD) and sample Letters
of Invitation (LOI) would be used for ICB procurement and selection of consultants. Standard
Ministry of Works and Supply procurement documents acceptable to IDA would be used for NCB
procurement of civil works. EDM[U will prepare and submit for IDA review SBD for NCB
procurement of goods.
4.14  Consultants' Services: Consultants' services, valued at about US$2.3 million would be
procured in accordance with the Guidelines, Use for Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by
The World Bank as Executing Agency, August 1981. The main consulting service under PEP will
involve the contracting-out and supervision of civil works by a private and independent construction
management organization. Terms of reference, LOI and a short-list of consultants for PICMO were
agreed during negotiations. Selection of a PICMO acceptable to IDA would be a condition of Board
Presentation while signing of a contract with the selected PICMO would be a condition of Credit
Effectiveness.



- 23 -
Table 4
Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(in million US$ equivalent, including contingencies)
Procurement Method
Procurement Arrangements        International    National    Other  Consulting  Non-IDA    Total
- Non ICB/NCB Aggregated as     Competitive   Competitive             Services   Financing
Other                              Bidding       Bidding
1. Civil Works                  4.89           4.19        0.0      0.0        0.93      10.00
(4.65)        (4.00)                                     (8.65)
2. Goods
i) Equipment, Motorcycles,     0.70           0.0        0.30      0.0        0.45      1.45
Cars                       (0.67)                    (0.29)                         (0.96)
ii) Furniture                  0.0           1.16        0.17      0.0        0.0       1.33
(1.10)     (0.16)                         (1.26)
iii) Teaching and Learning     3.92          0.70        0.68      0.0        0.0       5.30
Materials                  (3.92)         (0.70)     (0.68)                         (5.30)
3. Consultancies and Training
i) Technical Assistance        0.0            0.0        0.0       2.28       0.0       2.28
(2.28)               (2.28)
ii) Training
a) Teacher Training          0.0           0.0        2.7       0.0         0.0      2.70
(2.7)                         (2.70)
b) Other Training            0.0           0.0        0.66      0.0         0.0      0.66
(0.66)                         (0.66)
4. Miscellaneous
i) Recurrent Expenditure       0.0            0.0       0.71       0.0        0.80      1.51
(0.64)                         (0.64)
Total                            9.51           6.05       5.21      2.28       2.18      25.24
(9.24)        (5.80)     (5.13)    (2.28)               (22.46)
Note: Figures in parenthesis are the amounts financed by International Development Association
4.15    IDA Review: Contracts for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$500,000 or
more, and for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of US$100,000 or more, would be subject to
prior review by IDA in accordance to Appendix I of the Guidelines. The use of the Bank's SBDs for
ICB is expected to expedite prior review of project procurement documents. As various sections of
the documents will remain unchanged, IDA review will, in practice, be limited to bid evaluation, bid
and contract data and other contract-specific information. The first NCB procurement for civil
works and the first NCB procurement for goods are also subject to prior review by IDA. IDA prior
review of consulting services would be required for: (i) contracts with an estimated value of
US$100,000 or more; (ii) contracts with individuals for US$50,000 or more; (iii) all single-source
selections of consultants; (iv) terms of reference for all contracts regardless of value; (v) critical
assignments; and (vi) amendments to contracts with consulting firms or individuals that result in
revised  contract values greater than  US$100,000  and  US$50,000  respectively.   All other
procurements for civil works, goods and consultant services would be subject to random post-review
by IDA. EDMU would ensure that all necessary documentation is on file and readily available to
facilitate post review.



- 24 -
Table 5
Procurement Account by Years
(in US$ Million equivalent,
including contingencies)
(PPF)    FY97      FY98      FY99       Total
Civil works                     0.82      2.67      5.11      1.41      10.00
Equipment                       0.01      0.97      0.40     0.06       1.45
Furniture                       0.09      0.36      0.69     0.18       1.33
Teaching and learning materials  0.30     1.43      3.38      0.18      5.30
Teacher training                  -       1.16      1.03     0.52       2.70
Other training                    -       0.33      0.34       -        0.66
Technical assistance            0.10      0.65      1.10      0.43      2.28
Recurrent expenditure           0.06      0.34      0.59     0.52     1 .51
Total                           1.39      7.91     12.64      3.30      25.24
E. DISBURSEMENT
4.16   The project is expected to be completed over a three-year period, with the IDA Credit
disbursed over three and a half years, according to the categories and percentages shown in Table 6.
To facilitate disbursements, the Government would open a Special Account (SA) in a commercial
bank acceptable to IDA in Lilongwe for IDA's share of eligible expenditures managed by the
EDMU. IDA would provide an initial deposit of US$1,500,000 to IDA's special account to cover
four months of expenditures. EDMU would be responsible for submitting regular replenishment
applications with appropriate supporting documents for expenditures. Such applications must be
submitted monthly but no later than every three months. All applications to withdraw proceeds from
the Credit will be fully documented, except for (a) expenditures of contracts with an estimated value
of US$500,000 or less for civil works, and (b)US$100,000 or less for goods, consulting firms,
training and incremental operating costs, and (c) US$50,000 or less for individual consultants, which
reimbursement may be made against certified statements of expenditure (SOE). Documentation
supporting expenditures claimed against SOEs would be retained by EDMU and would be made
available for Bank staff review and the independent auditors as necessary.



- 25 -
Table 6
Allocation and Disbursement of the IDA Credit
Amount of the   Percent of Expenditures
Credit
Allocated     to be Financed by IDA
(US$ Million)         Association
Category               Amount                  %
I. Investment Costs
1. Civil Works                      7.43          100% For. & 95% Loc.
2. Furniture                         1.19         100% For. & 95% Loc.
3. Equipment and Vehicles            0.74         100% For. & 95% Loc.
4. Teaching and Learning Materials   4.90         100% For. & 95% Loc.
5. Technical Assistance             2.08               100% Tot.
6. Training / Workshops              3.12               1 00%Tot.
Total Investment Costs              19.46
IL. Recurrent Costs
7. Incremental Operating Costs      0.45       95% through March 31, 1997,
and 80% thereafter
III. PPF                                1.35
IV. Unallocated                         1.19
TOTAL CREDIT AMOUNT                 22.46
Tot. = Total Cost              For. = Foreign Cost         Loc. = Local Cost
Table 7
Estimated IDA Disbursement Schedule
(USS million)
Program Years          PPF         FY97    FY98    FY99
Annual disbursement          1.4         7.4      11.3     2.3
Cumulative disbursement      1.4         8.8      20.1    22.5
F. ACCOUNTING, AUDITING AND REPORTING
4.17   EDMU would be responsible for the project's financial management and would maintain
consolidated project accounts following a system acceptable to IDA. Audits of project accounts, of
scope and detail acceptable to IDA, would be done annually by independent auditors, acceptable to
IDA, and the reports would be submitted within nine months of the end of each fiscal year.
Disbursements under the SOEs would be audited semi-annually.  During negotiations, the
Government gave assurances that: (i) annual audit reports, of reasonable scope and detail, will be



- 26-
submitted to IDA within nine months of the end of the Government's fiscal year; the records and
accounts for all expenditures made on the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be
included in the annual audits; the audit reports would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to
whether the SOEs together with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation,
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals; and (ii) an independent auditor acceptable to
IDA would be appointed under a multi-year contract. In addition to a financial audit, there will be
management and technical audits to be undertaken at the end of the first year of the project to test
whether the proposed project management, design and construction arrangements are being
undertaken satisfactorily and transparently. If necessary, further audits would be undertaken.



- 27 -
5. PROJECT BENEFITS AND RISKS
A. PROJECT BENEFITS
5.1    Specific Project-related Benefits: These would be widespread. Over the three-year period
1996/97-1998/1999, the project would increase effective access to education (as distinct from simply
access to a school)'2 through the construction of classrooms to provide shelter and adequate learning
conditions for about 100,000 children currently taking their lessons in the open air. Most of these
classrooms will be built in rural and underserved peri-urban areas. Mutually-reinforcing qualitative
improvements, in the form of better-trained teachers, an adequate supply of learning material, and
teacher training in the use of textbooks would improve teaching and learning for all primary school
children (about 3 million children) and reduce repetition and drop-out rates. The project would
evaluate titles developed under the Second Education Sector Credit and prepare for second editions
under the Third Education Sector Credit. The project would also support innovative measures such
as school-based supervision and the delegation of pedagogical support from the central ministry to
regional and departmental levels to make the system more responsive to local needs. Local
communities would be required to participate financially and in kind in primary school construction
and maintenance, reducing the burden on the Government budget and increasing ownership and
sustainability. The overall TESC, of which this fast-track operation is a part, would introduce or
continue to support other innovative measures with potentially significant returns, such as: (i)
programs to boost girls' participation especially at post-primary education levels; and (ii)
improvements in students' nutritional status and in environmental and health education.
5.2    Efficiency Gains from Reduced Repetition and Dropout: PEP and the overall TESC will
provide benefits through efficiency gains attributable to reductions in repetition rates as illustrated in
Annex 3c. If average repetition rates drop from the present level of over 15% to 5% over the next
decade, then all other things being equal efficiency gains will result in a reduction of education's
annual share of GOM's total recurrent budget by an average of 3 to 4 percentage points. With
reduced dropout rates, these efficiency gains will be enhanced.
5.3    Sector-wide Economic Benefits: The benefits of this primary education-focused project
could also be visualized from the results of cost-benefit calculations undertaken using the Malawi
1990/91 household survey data. The private rate of return to primary education over no education is
about 23% and this rises to about 28% if school fees and mandatory uniforms are excluded from the
calculation of private costs (which include mainly foregone earnings and other direct private costs of
primary education). The private rate of return to secondary education over primary education is
about 15%. Similarly, the social rate of return to primary over no education is about 20% and that
for secondary over primary education is about 14%. Similar high average rates of return to
education for sixteen sub-Saharan African (SSA) countries are reported in the Bank's 1988 policy
paper on education in SSA where the social rates of primary over no education, secondary over
primary education and tertiary over secondary education were 26%, 17% and 13% respectively.13
Further details on rate of return analyses and other economic analyses are shown in Annex 3a.
12 A di: tin,.tion needs to be made between access to a school, which has increased for the over one million children who
recentl t ot into the system (but still take their lessons in the open air guided by untrained teachers with no learning or
teaching materials) and access to education, with an adequate classroom and an adequate set of other inputs.
13The slightly lower (social) rates of return to education in Malawi in the early nineties compared to those for these 16 SSA
countries in the seventies is consistent with the declining pattern of the returns to education over time as reported by



- 28 -
B. PROJECT RISKS
5.4    No operation is completely free of risk and uncertainty. But it is important to plan and take
risks into consideration to analyze both the potential seriousness of such risks and to identify what
actions might be undertaken to reduce risk occurrence or the problems incurred by risk.  The
following paragraphs show the main categories of risk that PEP faces and identifies actions to reduce
or counter risk.
5.5    Capacity Constraints: Firstly, the Government's capacity to expeditiously implement the
fast-track activities and the overall sector program is not assured. For the civil works components,
this risk would be addressed by transferring responsibility for implementing construction from the
MOE to a private independent construction management organization (PICMO) and communities,
and limiting the Government's role to oversight and quality control. Secondly, the capacity of the
construction industry to build the large number of schools envisaged under PEP is not assured. To
deal with this risk, the preparation and appraisal missions assisted the Government assess this
capacity. It became clear that the traditional way of building (with small contractors, bricks and
mortar, managed by a distant and bureaucratic PIU) put a serious cap on the number of classrooms
that could be built in any one year.  This led to the shell classroom  scheme, which has been
thoroughly discussed and analyzed in Malawi with construction practitioners (architects and
builders).  The design for the steel shell has been finalized (and a model has been built in
Kabwabwa). Improvements in some aspects of the design are being explored. Bank experience in
Ghana has shown that a large construction company was able to erect 2000 classroom shells in 18
months.  The level of detailed planning and technical support provided through PICMO would
ensure that the schedule set (involving up to 2000 classrooms plus auxiliary buildings over 2-3 years)
is manageable and implementable. Advance work on construction has begun unlder the PPF and the
results are encouraging, with community participation very high and the quality of workmanship of
good standard.
5.6    Macroeconomic risks: Firstly, the loss in revenues14 and the rapid increases in education
expenditures (caused by the massive influx of students and the hiring of teachers) exacerbated an
already difficult macroeconomic situation. The Government recognizes the macroeconomic risks
involved in its decision but is committed to human resource development as a means to achieve its
greater objective of poverty reduction. It has put the emphasis on prudent fiscal management at the
economy-wide level, and the need for efficiency and financial sustainability measures at the sector
level. In the Bank's dialogue with GOM, the challenge for fiscal sustainability is under discussion
within the context of the Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) coordinated by the
Ministry of Finance. Under the MTEF, appropriate fiscal policies involving expenditure restraint,
prioritization and revenue mobilization are being explored. At the sectoral level, a simulation model
for education has been developed to assist MOE to assess the viability of alternative efficiency, cost-
saving and resource mobilization options (see Annex 3d). Economic growvth should increase in the
next couple of years. There is a risk, however, that if economic growth is not achieved, poor
economic performance may make it difficult to achieve sustainability with regard to the recurrent
Psacharopoulos, G. (1994) Returns to Investment in Education: A Global Update. World Development. Vol. 22, No. 9, pp.
1325-1343.
14 Just before the abolition of fees, revenues generated from school fees amounted to about US$1.5 million per annum.
However, given the high rates or return to investment in primary education, keeping over a million children away from
primary school because of fees would imply a substantially higher loss in incomes for the economy as a whole from a
productivity perspective. In addition, there will be losses attributable to the impact of education in general and primary
education in particular to fertility, nutrition, health, R&D and environmental awareness.



- 29-
cost implications of the overall education development program. To mitigate this risk, donor
financing of some recurrent expenditures under TESC for the first five years of the program on a
constant or increasing basis is being considered. After that, financing on a declining basis is
envisaged.
5.7    Risks Associated with New and Innovative Programs and Arrangements: The programs
proposed under the project, in particular those to strengthen decentralization and enhance school-
based supervision and in-service teacher training and support, are risky and may not fully reach their
objectives.  A  new  construction methodology and design and innovative implementation
arrangements also involve some measure of risk. Risks in these areas are being addressed through
piloting under the PPF phase and would continue to be addressed during project implementation by
careful monitoring and annual reviews of progress, with the realistic expectation that these programs
may need to be fine-tuned as implementation proceeds.
C. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
5.8   The project would have no adverse environmental consequences.  The environmental
category is C. The 75 new schools (600 classrooms) to be constructed will be small and dispersed in
rural areas. The rest of the 1,000 classrooms will be expansion of existing schools, with little
detrimental environmental effects. Use of blocks made with hydraform machines (based on pressure
on a mixture of soil and cement) and not burned bricks for the in-fills by the communities would
reduce the need for firewood and would therefore also not be detrimental to the environment. The
plantiuig of sapling shade trees and landscaping to prevent erosion as well as the building of latrines,
will have positive effects on the environment.



- 30 -
6. AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATION
6.1    Before negotiations, the Government:
* Submitted to IDA the list of districts and the number within each district where new schools will
be constructed and existing schools expanded, selected on the basis of criteria of poverty level,
enrollment ratios, gender disparities, level of overcrowding of schools and population density
(para. 3.5).
* Submitted for IDA review prototypical architectural designs for the construction of shell
classrooms (para. 3.7).
6.2    During negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it will:
* Maintain the EDMU with adequate professional and support staff, under terms of reference
acceptable to IDA, (including a team leader, an architect/implementation specialist, an
accountant and a public relations specialist) and obtain prior IDA approval for any changes in
EDMU staffing and responsibilities (para. 4.2 and para. 4.3);
X Organize a mid-term review of project implementation, approximately a year and a half
following Credit effectiveness, the results of which review will be incorporated in an action plan,
acceptable to IDA, for further implementation of the project as well as for incorporation into the
TESC (para. 4.8).
- Submit to IDA an implementation completion report within four months of completing the
project (para. 4.8); and
* Submit annual audit reports, of acceptable scope and detail, within six months of the end of the
Government's fiscal year, and ensure that the records and accounts for all expenditures made on
the basis of statements of expenditures (SOEs) are included in the annual audit; the audit report
would contain a separate opinion by the auditors as to whether the SOEs together with the
procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the
related withdrawals; and appoint an independent auditor acceptable to IDA under a multi-year
contract (para. 4.17).
* undertake and submit to IDA, management and financial audits at the end of the first year of
project implementation (para. 4.17).
6.3    As conditions of Board presentation, the Government has:
* Selected a private and independent construction management organization (PICMO), acceptable
to IDA (para. 4.14).
* Submitted the list of sites selected in consultation with communities where new schools will be
constructed as well as the names of the existing schools to be expanded, ensuring that these lists
contain at least 80% of the total number of classrooms to be constructed under the primary
school construction component of the project (para. 3.5).



- 31 -
* Submitted to IDA a prioritized summary of its policies in the sector as a whole in a manner that
clearly demonstrates that a critical assessment of trade-offs and policy options has been
considered to arrive at programs and targets that are affordable and sustainable (para. 2.16).
6.4    As a condition of Credit Effectiveness, the Govemment will:
*  Submit to IDA a signed contract with the private and independent construction management
organization (PICMO), acceptable to IDA (para. 4.14).
*  Submit to IDA an Implementation Manual (para. 4.2).
RECOMMENDATION
6.5    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed project would be
suitable for an IDA credit of US$22.5 million equivalent on standard IDA terms with forty years
maturity including ten years of grace.



- 32 -                                                  Annex I
Page 1 of 1
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
BASIC INDICATORS
General                                                        Malawi                        Sub-Saharan
Africa
GNP Per Capita (US$)                                             140.00                           510.00
Total Population (million)                                        10.80                           559.00
Population Growth Rate                                            3.70                             2.90
Age Dependency Ratio (1993)                                       0.98                             0.94
Adult Literacy Rate                                                                                50.00
Males                                                           45.00
Females                                                         20.00                            38.00
Total Fertility Rate (children/woman)                             7.10                             6.20
Under Five Mortality rate (per 1,000 birth)                      223.00                           172.30
Life Expectancy at Birth (Years)                                 45.00                             52.00
Proportion of Population classified as poor                      * 54.00
(income per capita<USS40)
Sources: Social Indicators of Development 1994;
World Development Report 1994.
British Development Division in Central Africa
(1994)
* National Sample Survey of Agriculture
(1992/93)
Enrollment Data for Malawi, 1994/95:
Percent         Gross         Pupil/Teacher
Level or Type                  Enrollment        Female         Ratio %            Ratio
Primary                                        3,184,069                                            70
Secondary                                        34,180            39                               34
Malawi College of Distance Ed.                   45,220
Teacher Training Colleges                        3,000            39.4                              18
Technical and Vocational Training                 1000                                              14
University                                       3,521            22.0                              10
Source: Ministry of Education; Basic Education
Statistics, 1995.
Education Budget for Malawi:
% of                              Per
1994/95 Budget                    Education                          Student
Level or Type                 (million MK)                       Budget                             (MK)
Total                                            1,095                            100                               344
Primary                                           797                             73                                257
Secondary*                                        160                              15                              2,063
Tertiary                                          134                              12                              16,902
Other (MIE)                                        4
Source: Estimate based on MOE information
* includes MCDEs



- 33 -
Annex 2.a
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of the Educationi System
1~~~~~
~~~~~~~ i
iWI
b~~~~ Xn
*~*       .



MALAWI P'RIMARY F:MIItIATI ON l'ROAl(llT
Primary School Enrollment Pyramid for Malawi (1994/95)
Stanslaid
Males                                         Femaaes
6
6
6i)(.OOO    400,000        200,000                   200,000      40t),000      600,000
-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -
2~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - 
Enrollment
OI



- 35 -                          Annex3
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Dimensions of Economic Analyses Performed
Under the Primary Education Project
a) Rates of Return to Investment in Education in Malawi.
b) Poverty Analysis - Benefit Incidence Analysis of Public Educational Spending in Malawi.
c) Site Selection and Targeting the Poor.
d) Fiscal Impact and Sustainability Analysis - The Recurrent Cost Implications of the Government's
Educational.
e) Efficiency Gains through Reduction in Repetition Rates.
f) Least Cost and Cost-Effectiveness Analyses in Project Design: Analyses of Alternative Classroom
Construction Designs.
g) Least Cost and Cost-Effectiveness Analyses in Project Design: Analyses of Alternative Teacher
Training Approaches.
h) Sensitivity Analysis and the Analysis of the Risks Associated with the Operation.
i) Institutional Analyses: Preliminary Considerations and Issues for Further Analyses under TESC.



- 36-
Annex 3.a
Page 1 of 5
Rates of Return to Investment in Education in Malawi
Introduction: The costs and benefits of education investments can be analyzed in the same way that
these are calculated for other types of projects. In education, expenditures occur during project
implementation, and benefits are expected to accrue over the life-cycle of the graduates.  Our
computation of the rates of return to investment in education in Malawi has been done to help establish
education investment priorities at the margin and to perform simulations and sensitivity analyses (such as
the impact on rates of returns of increased cost recovery at the secondary level). The source of data for
calculating these rates of return to education is the 1990-1991 Household Expenditure and Small Scale
Economic Activities (HESSEA) survey. Since the data was surveyed in a two-year period, there are
discrepancies between surveys: these were adjusted by a deflator which was multiplied by monetary
variables in the analysis to adjust for the different survey times. The amount deflated in each stratum
follows. The survey covered 6,000 households and used 27,706 observations.
Deflators used
Rural Deflators              Stratum  21 = 1.00
Stratum  11 = 0.85
Stratum   I = 1.02
Urban Deflators              Stratum  23 = 1.83
Stratum  13 = 1.93
Stratum   3 = 1.61
Stratum  24 = 1.65
Bomas Deflators"             Stratum  22 = 1.74
Stratum  12 = 1.93
Stratum   2 = 1.61
Variables Included: The variables included in the model are: public cost of primary and secondar7
education, private costs of primary and secondary education, age, education level, wages, and income .
Universities were not included because of insufficient data on earnings/income level of university
graduates.
Public Cost:   Public costs are calculated from previous studies which examine the public expenditure
of the Malawi Government for primary and secondary education. Public costs are in 1990/1991
Kwachas. Public costs do not include private fees since these are paid to the government which in turn
pays for public schooling. Other costs such as pens, books etc. should be included in public costs since
public costs reflect societies cost for each student in primary, secondary and tertiary levels.
Public Costs:   Primary Public Cost per Student  =  39 Kwachas per year
Secondary Public Cost per Student = 287 Kwachas per year
Private Costs (Primary): Private costs one important in assessing two situations: (i) including school
fees in primary schooling and the mandatory purchase of uniforms; and (ii) considering the elimination
l Strata are defined as regions where the survey was conducted. The deflators represent different times within 1990-
1991 when the survey was conducted.
2 Bomas are administrative headquarters of a district; these are considered as urban areas. The following are excluded
from Bomas in the 1990-1991 HESSEA Survey: Blantyre City, Lilongwe City, Zomba Municipality and Mzuzu City.
3 In rural areas, expenditures were used as a proxy for income.



- 37 -
Annex 3.a
Page 2 of 5
of school fees at the primary level and not requiring mandatory uniforms. In this calculation, costs are
annual primary and secondary spending per student in 1990/1991. The costs of uniforms are spread over
a two-year period, assuming each student maintains the uniform for those two years before purchasing a
new uniform. Home economics are priced differently by gender; females in rural and urban areas have
an additional cost (1.00 and 1.50 respectively). Other material costs (pens, books etc.) are calculated on
a yearly basis. Private costs were derived from the following data:
Table X: Private Costs Associated with Primary Education (1990/1991)
Rural        Urban
Uniforms                                           17.50         22.50
Books                                               2.40          2.00
Pens                                                1.20          1.00
Fees                                                4.25          5.25
Home Economics            (females only)            1.00          1.50
Total                        Males                 25.35         30.75
Total                       Females                26.35         32.25
Total Private Costs for primary = 29 Kwachas per year
(Average of: 25.35 + 30.75 + 26.35 + 32.25 = 28.657 : 29)
Private Costs for primary excluding fees and mandatory uniforms = 4 Kwachas per year
(Average of: 3.60 + 4.60 + 3.00 + 4.50 = 3.925  4)
Private Costs (Secondary): Private costs for secondary are based on the current secondary fees of 450
Kwachas in 1994/1995. Deflating uses the International Financial Statistics (IFS) Consumer Price Index
(CPI). Fees for secondary education are 230 (1990/1991) Kwachas. Additional books, pens and other
accessories contribute to the total cost per student attending secondary school at 233 (1990/1991)
Kwachas.
Table X: Private Costs Associated with Secondary Education (1990/1991)
Rural        Urban
Fees                                      230.00         230.00
Books                                       2.40           2.00
Pens                                        1.20           1.00
Total                    Males            233.60         233.00
Total Private Costs for secondary education = 233 Kwachas per year
(Average of: 233.60 + 233.00 = 233.30 - 233)
Age and Educational Level: The data set included individuals ranging from 10 years of age to fifty
years of age; The retirement age is assumed to be 50 years of age. The years of education are assumed
to be: eight for primary and four for secondary.



- 38 -
Annex 3.a
Page 3 of 5
No EducatiQn This refers to individuals who received no formal education from public or privates
sources. These individuals are technically illiterate. Illiteracy as defined by the United Nations is the
ability of a person to both read and write a short simple statement4.
Primary Education: Primary education is set at eight years. Although many individuals take longer than
eight years to complete primary schooling because of lack of resources or time commitments; eight
years the government expectation and its policy goal.
Secondary Education:   Secondary education needs a total of four years; no analysis is performned for
individuals who have not finished secondary schooling.
Wages: The earnings profile can be illustrated by various forms of productivity measures. Wages are the
most typical and classical example of productivity measures. In the HESSEA data set, wages are a
reliable variable in urban areas.
Income: Income is another measure of productivity, where wages are less likely to be available. In
Malawi, 91 percent of the population live in rural areas where the HESSEA wage data may not be as
accurate.  Studies have used income as a measurement for productivity for various countries.5
Expenditures as a proxy for income have been used in the past, (Psacharopoulos et. al. 1993) used
expenditures as a proxy for income in Jamaica and Peru. In some instances income in rural areas can be
misleading; Using the same methodology as the Malawi Poverty Assessment and the study by
Psacharopoulos et. al 19936, expenditure where used as a proxy for income in rural areas where income
figures were not deemed reliable.
Summary of Results: Results suggest an increase in returns by eliminating primary fees and uniform
requirements. As the tables indicate, removing primary fees increased the rates of return to investment
in education from 22.76 to 28.11 in wages, and 21.95 to 28.11 in income. The level of increase, almost
10 percentage points, is surprising. With the elimination of primary fees in 1994, the private rate of
return to primary education has increased substantially. This explains in part the huge influx of children
into the system.
4Shyrock et al. 1976.
5 In a study measuring poverty and income distribution (Psacharopoulos et al. 1993), four countries' (Chile,
Colombia, Guatemala and Mexico) incomes were used instead of wages. This method was used because of poor data on wages.
6 Psacharopoulos, G., S. Morley, A. Fiszbein, H. Lee and B. Wood (1993) Poverty and Income Distribution in Latin
America: The Stora of the 1980s. The World Bank Report No. 27, Latin American and the Caribbean Technical Department,
Regional Studies Program, June.



- 39 -
Annex 3.a
Page 4 of 5
Private Rates of Return to Investment in Education (1990/1991)
Primary over No       Secondary Education
Education         over Primary Education
Using Wages
Calculation including all private      22.76                   15.27
costs (including school fees &
mandatory uniforms).
Calculation with private costs         28.11                   15.27
(except fees and mandatory
uniform).
Using Income
Calculation including all private      21.95                    8.65
costs (including school fees &
mandatory uniforms).
Calculation with private costs         28.11                    8.64
(except fees and mandatory
uniform).
Social Rates of Return to Investment in Education (1990/1991):  The social rates of return to
investment in education in Malawi are shown in the table. Both wage and income-based methods display
a higher rate of return in primary schooling than in secondary schooling. This is consistent with other
studies in developing countries.7
Primary over No       Secondary Education
Education         over Primary Education
Using Wages
Public Rates of Return                  19.88                    14.13
Using Income
Public Rates of Return                  20.02                    7.66
7 Other studies (Psacharopoulos et. al. 1993) illustrate a strong rate of return to investment in education for primary
schooling.



- 40 -
Annex 3.a
Page 5 of 5
Summary Table
Private and Social Rates of Return to Investment in Education
Primary over No Education    Secondary Education over
Primary Education
Wages
PROR, including fees & associated           22.76                       15.27
private cost
PROR: using forgone costs only              36.31                      29.69
Social Rate of Return (SROR)                19.88                       14.13
Incone  **
PROR, including fees & associated           21.95                       8.65
private cost
PROR: using forgone costs only              28.21                      25.20
Social Rate of Return                       20.02                       7.66
Sensitivity Analysis using Wages
No Secondary Increase                                                   15.27
Secondary Fees Increase by 10%                                          14.74
Secondary Fees Increase by 20%                                          14.25
*Expenditure was used as a proxy for income in rural areas where wage data were not available.
(using wages and total income & consideringforegone costs only and includingfees and other
associatedprivate costs of education)
Only urban areas.
9 Everybody between ages of 10 to 50.



- 41 -
Annex 3.b
Page 1 of 4
Poverty Analysis and the Incidence
of Public Expenditures on Education
Investments in human capital are essential to the poor. Their participation in economic growth
and improvements in their standard of living are directly linked to the skills they possess. In Malawi, the
poor rely on publicly provided education to improve these skills. So, the way in which public education
spending is distributed across income groups can have a tremendous impact on alleviating poverty as
well as on decreasing inequalitv. The change in the distribution of education subsidies in Malawi
between 1990/1 and 1994/5 shows that a highly effective way to increase equity of public spending in
education is to increase the share of primary education.
The benefit incidence analysis' that follows provides estimates of per capita subsidies across
income groups by educational levels for 1990/1 and 1994/5. This analysis brings together information
on school enrollments and information on per student public subsidies (see Table 1). The progressivity
in the distribution of education subsidies across income groups is analyzed.
Table I
Annual public recurrent spending on education and enrollments,
by level, 1990/1 and 1994/5
Education Indicator               Primary              Secondarya             Tertiryb
1990/1     1994/5     1990/1     1994/5     1990/1     1994/5
Recurrent Spending (Kwachzas)         54,835    637,523     17,112     73,699     27,229    116,780
(Percentage of'Total)                  45%        71%        14%         8%        22%         13%
Enrollments (Thousands)               1,400. 7    2,902.5    59.7       81.1        7.1        7.5
(Percentage of Total)                 95.4%       97%        4.1%       2.7%       0.5%       0.3%
Subsidy per studentl
(Kwachas in current terms)              39        220        287        909        3,816      15,523
Primary student equivalent subsidy
(PSES)                                1            1           7          4         97          71
aSecondary Level includes Secondary School and AM C. D E
bTertiar,y Level includes Primary Teacher Training, Technical Training and University
Source: HFSSEA (1990/1). MOE (1993); MOE (1995)
'The Benefit Incidence Analysis methodology is used for estimating the distribution of public expenditures across
different demographic groups. The procedure involves allocating per unit public subsidies (such as, per student for the
education sector), according to individual utilization rates of public services. In this way, the incidence analysis brings together
two basic types of information. First, government expenditures on each type of public service are the basis for calculating per
unit subsidies. Second, household surveys provide information on utilization rates (for example. enrollment rates) by
expenditure group, region and gender. Targeting issues are then analyzed using the pattern of government in-kind subsidies
received by the different population groups, which is the result of variability in recurrent expenditures and variability in the use
of services. This analysis measures how well public services are targeted to different groups in the population (such as, the poor,
particular regions of interest. women)



- 42 -
Annex 3.
Page 2 of 4
On average, primary per capita subsidies2 in current terms for 1990/1 are K6.58 a year, at the
secondary level they are K2.22 and at the tertiary level Kl.78. The total education subsidy per capita is
KI0.59 a year. In 1994/5, primary per capita subsidies3 in current terms were on average K61.03 a year;
at the secondary level they are K7.98 and at the tertiary level K12.64. The total education subsidy per
capita was K81.65 a year.
The analysis of primary per capita subsidies a year by income groups indicates that the poorest
quintile receives a smaller subsidy than the richest quintile in both 1990/1 and 1994/5. Even though per
capita subsidies at the primary level do not appear to be unevenly distributed in either school year, these
patterns are a combination of the demographic distribution of primary school-age children across income
groups in Malawi as well as their enrollment rates in primary schools. In the poorest quintile, the
population between 6 and 13 years of age represents 29: while in the richest quintile, this age group
comprises 21 percent of the quintile's population.  If the primary education subsidy were evenly
distributed across income groups in Malawi, it would have to follow this demographic pattern across
quintiles.
At the secondary level, annual per capita education subsidies are more unevenly distributed
across income groups than at primary. In 1990/1, the poorest quintile received a per capita annual
secondary subsidy of less than Kl compared with K5.89 for the richest quintile. In 1994/5, per capita
subsidies are K3.14 and K21.15 respectively.
At the tertiary level, annual per capita education subsidies are the most unevenly distributed of
all educational levels. The poorest quintile in 1990/1 received a per capita annual tertiary subsidy of
KO.1 compared with K6.96 for the richest quintile. In 1994/5 these per capita subsidies are KO.75 and
K49.35, respectively.
The combination of primary, secondary and tertiary education subsidies yields all education
annual subsidies per capita. The poorest quintile in 1990/1 received K6.51 per capita annually in
education subsidies, of which 85 percent were received through primary education. The richest quintile
in 1990/1 received K20.27 per capita annually in education subsidies, of which 37 percent were received
through primary education. In 1994/5, these figures are K56.58 for the poorest quintile, of which 93
percent is received through primary education; the richest quintile receives K137.09, of which 48 percent
was through primary education.
The distribution of public education spending across income groups is shown in Figure I jointly
with the Lorenz distribution of household expenditures for 1990/1 and 1994/5. The diagonal line -- the
2 In 1990/1, estimates of per capita education subsidies by level and income group are obtained on the basis of school
enrollments reported in the HESSEA survey and per student subsidies are obtained from the MOE (1993).
3In 1994/5 there was no household survey available; information on primary school enrollments across income groups
is derived from the change in regional enrollments reported by the MOE (1995) and employing the HESSEA survey as baseline.
Enrollments at the secondary and tertiary levels across income groups were estimated on the basis of the total change in
enrollments between 1990/1 and 1994/5, from MOE statistics, with an equally distributed increase across all income groups
employing the HESSEA survey as baseline.



- 43 -
Annex 3.b
Page 3 of 4
line of "absolute equality" -- joins the points where the cumulative share of the population equals the
cumulative share of public education recurrent spending. In 1990/1 public education spending at the
primary and secondary levels was weakly progressive since their distribution lied in between the
diagonal line and the Lorenz distribution. In 1994/5, public education spending at the primary level is
strongly progressive since its distribution lies above the diagonal line while secondary education
spending remains weakly progressive. Tertiary education spending is as regressively distributed as the
Lorenz distribution in both years.
Figure 1
Distribution of public education spending by level and Lorenz distribution,
1990/1 and 1994/5
100              1990/91                       100                1994/95
/1    80                ~~~~~~~Primary/
Prima/
60  Seconda       6 ~~~~I iSecondary                          /     /
7      '~~~~~OtJ ~ All Education
AllEducatia      /                                                '"
40                    /     /2/ 40                                        / /l
whol                                         7    Hoiuseh/Id
20     - x    -~~~1~ K    ouseo it                                   expenditures
20 ~ ~ 7          -     exPen dits,         20
,- 20  , 0   ' Tertiary
{j~~~~~"Te~rtiar
0                                              0
0    20    40    60    80   100                0    20    40    60    80   100
Cunulative Share of Population                 Cumulative Share of Population
Source: HESSEA (1990/1); MOE (1993)             Source: HESSEA (1990/1); MOE (1995); GOM (J995)
On the aggregate, targeting to the poor of all education public spending improved significantly
from 1990/1 to 1994/5, mainly as a result of the massive surge in primary enrollments among the poor.
The share of all education public spending for the poorest quintile increased from 9.8 percent to 16.3
percent between these years. Although the current distribution of public resources for education is still
weakly progressive, the surge in primary school participation was achieved in a short period. The current
challenge is to maintain existing enrollment rates at the primary level while simultaneously improving
the quality of education.
The incidence analysis by gender indicates that women in both 1990/1 and 1994/5 received about
half of the subsidy received by men through all education public spending. Women received K7.8 per
capita annually in 1990/1 in comparison with K 13.5 for men: in 1994/5 these figures are K63.2 and
K101.2, respectively. Gender disparities are not as wide at the primary level; wider at the secondary
level and widest at the tertiary level. At the primary level, the gender difference is around 25 percent
higher in favor of boys, at the secondary level the subsidy for women is half of that for men: at the



- 44 -
Annex 3.b
Page 4 of 4
tertiary level the subsidy for men is 6 times as large as that received by women. In addition to overall
gender disparities across levels of education, the gender gap is widest for the poorest quintile at every
educational level. At the primary level, boys in the poorest quintile receive a 1.5 times larger subsidy
than girls; at the secondary level the subsidy for men in the poorest quintile is 5.5 times larger than for
women: at the tertiary level men receive all the subsidy. The HESSEA survey reported no females
enrolled.
Cross-country comparisons of the benefit incidence analysis of public education spending for the
poorest and richest quintiles among Sub-Saharan African countries indicate that in 1990/1 Malawi had
the most uneven distribution of education subsidies (see Table 2). This situation improved substantially
in 1994/5. In Malawi, the poorest quintile in 1994/5 receives 16 percent of all public education
spending: only 10 percent was received in 1990/1. The share of the richest quintile in 1994/5 is 25
percent compared to the 38 percent that it received in 1990/1. The change in the distribution of
education subsidies in Malawi between 1990/1 and 1994/5 shows that an effective way to increase equity
of public spending in education is to increase the share of primary education. Improvements in the
distribution of these subsidies are still needed as the share of public resources received by the poorest
quintile remains smaller than their share of the population.
Table 2
Incidence ofpublic education spending on the poorest and richest quintiles,
selected countries, percentage share
Education spending benefiting
Country            Year       The poorest 20% of  The richest 20% of the
the population          population
(percentage share)    (percentage share)
falawi                 1:994/5             16..                   25    :
Malawi 0   0       X1990/1; 1:iiz   0 1i   i:i: f  0: C 38fi:00::  
Cote d'Ivoire           1993               10                     38
Ghana                   1992               16                     21
Kenya                  1992/3               17                    21
Madagascar              1993                9                     44
South Africa            1993               14                     40
Tanzania                1993               13                     23
Sources: Dayton (1995); Demery (1995); Bernier, Chao, and Demery (1994); Castro-Leal (1995a, 1995b);
Demery and Verghis (1994); World Bank (1995).
Note: If public education spending were equally distributed across population quintiles, the poorest and



- 45 -
Annex- 3.c
Page I of 2
Site Selection and Targeting the Poor under PEP
Transparent criteria were used in the selection of districts and communities to locate the new
schools and for expansion of existing schools. Poverty levels, average enrollment ratios, gender
disparities, population density and average student-classroom ratios, were used to rank districts. Before
appraisal, MOE had undertaken a limited school mapping exercise to gather preliminary data which was
combined with data from the poverty analysis for ranking districts in the school location exercise. The
results of this exercise were reviewed during appraisal. An intensive IEC campaign is underway to
explain the objectives of the PEP and the Government's commitment to the poor through the targeting of
poor communities and overcrowded schools for PEP activities. The following table show the results of
the school location exercise.
Results of the School Location Exercise
District               Overall Number of  Poverty           Gross       Gross         Pupil:        Activities
Rank'  classrooms  Level***  Enrollment Enrollment  Classroom               Underway
to be built                Ratio    Ratio: Girls     Ratio        (classrooms
(1600)--                                                       under cons)*"*
Weights (%)                                         0.25        0.25         0.15           0.25             0.10
Chitipa            W                     32         41.9         139         133             67                12
(b)      21                       15           16          15             28                14
(cl    18.4                     3.75            4        2.25              7               1.4
Karongs            ()                    22         25.3         155         143             92                 8
(b)      25                       23          22           21             25                 5
(c)    21.15                    5.75          5.5        3.15           6.25               0.5
Rumphi             ()                    38           53         163         156             86                 4
(b)      20                        7          23           23             27                 1
(c)    17.8                     1.75         5.75        3.45           6.75               0.1
Mzimba            (W                     34         29.4         149         135             87                24
(b)      27                       21          20           17             25               24
(c)    21.45                    5.25            5        2.55           6.25               2.4
Mzuzu              4)                    26         41.1         179         189            146                14
(b)      24                       16           26          28             15                15
(c)    19.95                       4          6.5         4.2           3.75               1.5
Nkatha Bay         (     _               48           55         150         146            102 18
19                        5          21          22             23                18
(c)    17.35                    1.25         5.25         3.3           5.75               1.8
Kasungu            (0)                   20          7.8         190         181            133                20
(b)      28                       28          28           27             17               21
(c)    24.4                        7            7        4.05           4.25               2.1
Nkotakota           )                    26         17.6         178         164            130                 8
(b)      26                       25          25           24             19                 5
(c)    21.35                    6.25         6.25         3.6           4.75               0.5
Mchinji            (9                    60          8.8         134         129            164                It
do)      17                       27           14          14              8                10
(c    15.35                     6.75          3.5         2.1              2                 1
Dowa s)                                  52         24.9         125         123             95                20
(b)      22                       24           l           12             24                19
(c)    18.45                       6         2.75         1.8              6               1.9
Salima             9)                    82         25.4         121                        162                18
(5)      14                       22            6          10             10                18
(c)    12.8                      5.5          1.5         1.5            2.5               1.8
Lilongwe Ur.       9     _            KFW           40.5         139         137            206                 8
()       10                       17           17          18              2                 5
(       12.2                    4.25         4.25         2.7            0.5               0.5
LilongweRR         (a)                KFW           40.5         129         123            lBs                38
(5)      12                       17           12          11              4                271
(9      12.6                    4.25            3        1.65               I              2.7



- 46 -
Annex- 3.c
Page 2 of 2
District             Overall Number of  Poverty        Gross       Gross       Pupil         Activities
Rank' classrooms  Level***  Enrollment Enrollment  Classroom           Underway
to be built              Ratio    Ratio Girls    Ratio       (classrooms
(1600)--                                                  under cons)""
Dedza             ('i                 78        55.2        122         141          104               14
(b)      11                      2          7         20            22               15
(C)   12.25                    0.5       1.75          3            5.5             1.5
Ntchisi           (a,                 46        16.9        142        139           129               6
o)      23                     26         I18         19            20               4
(c)   19.25                    6.5        4.5        2.85            5              0.4
Ntcheu            (a)                100        54.5        116        109           122              10
(b)  5                6           3           5           21               10
(c)    9.25                    1.5       0.75        0.75          5.25
Mangochi         (a)                 104        40.2        120        III           164               16
e>)      8                      19          4          6             9               17
(c)    10.6                   4.75          l         0.9          2.25             1.7
Machinga          ()          KFW                43         123        113           162              24
(b)  9                14         10           8           10               24
)      12.1                    3.5        2.5         1.2           2.5             2.4
Zomba UR          ()          KFW               47.3        167        165           167               12
(b)     16                      9          24         25             7               1 1
(c)   14.85                   2.25          6        3 75          1.75            I.
ZombaR            ()          KFW               47.3        123        114           160                8
(b)       6                     9           9          9            12                5
(c)    9.35                   2.25       2.25        1.35            3              0.5
Chiradzulu       (a)                 120        46.9        III        103           148               9
)b)       2                     11          1          2            14               9
(c)     7.7                   2.75       0.25         0.3           3.5             0.9
Blantyre UR       (a)                 72        46.4        187        180           224              50
(b)      18                    12          27         26             l              28
(c)    16.7                     3        6.75         3.9          0.25             2.8
Blantyre RR       (*)                112        46.4        148        135           193              18
(b)      13                     12         19         16             3               18
()     12.7                     3        4.75         2.4          0.75             1.8
Thyolo           (a)                 104         5t         122        113           181              22
(b)       4                      8          8          7             6              23
(c)    8.85                     2           2        1.05           1.5             2.3
Mulanje          (a)                 148        576         114        106           184              26
(b)       I                      1          2           3            5              26
(C)    5.05                   025         0.5        0.45          1.25             2.6
Mwanza           (a)                  94        552         137        125           140               4
(b)       7                      2         15          13           16                I
(c)    10.3                    05        3.75        1.95            4              0.1
Chikwswa          (a)                 82        35.6        130        108           158               4
(b)     l5                     20          13          4            18                1
(c)   13.45                      5       3.25         0.6           4.5             0.1
Nsanje            ()                 10         55.2        121         93           133              12
(b)       3                     4           5           1           16              13
(c)     7.7                      1       125         015             4              1.3
All               ,               1601                    134         127           140        =
NOTES:
*The lower the ranking the worse-off.
* 75 complete schools (600 classrooms) and 1,000 classrooms
***  Households below the 40th percentile expenditures or whose incomes classify them as poor (based on HESSEA/NSSA
surveys of 1990/91 & 1991/92)
** Classrooms to be constructed by GABLE, 2nd Ed. Credit, and EPEP's PPF. Those under KFW/GTZ and ODA not
considered.



- 47 -
Annex 3.d
Page I of 9
Sustainability Analysis and
Recurrent Cost Implications
Introduction
The Education Sector Policy and Investment Framework (PIF) highlights the goals and
objectives that the Government of Malawi wishes to pursue in the next ten years, and outlines the
programs and policies that will enable Government to attain these objectives. The ability to implement
these policies and programs, however, will be constrained by the availability of public finance within the
country and human resource capacity within the Ministry of Education. This chapter focuses on the first
of these constraints and the potential effect that limited public resources will have on policy formation.
This chapter formulates three scenarios, each representing different macroeconomic conditions
and levels of public enthusiasm and will for education. These scenarios are:
*  Low Scenario. The macroeconomic environment deteriorates and economic growth stagnates or
declines. With high inflation, real government expenditure on education cannot be maintained at
current levels and education policies and programs are cut back.
*  Medium Scenario. The macroeconomic environment is stable and economic growth rises steadily.
While education is a high priority of the government, its program of fiscal austerity and increasing
demands from other sectors, creates a situation where education expenditure rises only gradually.
Education programs are generally maintained, but prioritization is essential and contributions from
the private sector and parents must increase.
*  High Scenario. The macroeconomic environment is stable and economic growth rises steadily.
Consensus exists within the country, and among top levels of Government, that education should be
the country's uppermost priority and should receive a steadily increasing share of public expenditure.
As a result, education programs and policies are expanded significantly.
The chapter examines how each scenario, representing different levels of resource availability,
affects the mix of feasible education policies and programs. It is hoped that the chapter can be used by
MOE to revisit the PIF to ensure that the policies and programs outlined there are consistent and
sustainable with the level of funding that MOE and MOF Planners predict over 1994/95 to 2009/10.



- 48 -
Annex3.d
Page 2 of 9
Simulation Model
An education simulation model has been developed, based on the structure and characteristics of
Malawi's education sector, to project the financial resources required to pursue various objectives and
implement various education policies and programs. The model's flexibility permits parameters to be
changed to reflect prevailing situations and alternative scenarios through the period 1994/95 to 2009/10.
The simulation model consists of four modules:
I)     Projections of enrollment, by level of education, based on school age population, and drop-out,
repetition and promotion rates. Using the enrollment projections and desired teacher to pupil ratios, the
demand for teachers is estimated.
ii)    Unit costs, by level of education, calculated as the annual average public expenditure per pupil.
Unit costs are derived for both recurrent and investment expenditure. Initial unit costs are based on the
reference year 1994/95 and, as different policies and programs are pursued, future unit costs rise or fall
accordingly.
iii)    Enrollment projections are combined with unit costs (and unit cost projections) to determine the
aggregate recurrent and investment expenditures by level of education.
iv)    The summary of education expenditures is mapped against projections of total government
expenditure to determine the shares of education expenditure from the total.
Historical data is used to determine the initial enrollment and unit costs necessary for modules i) and ii)
and for total government expenditure in module iv). Each of the three scenarios thus begins with the
same base year data found in 1994/95.
Three Scenarios: Policy Differences
The basic assumptions and policy variables that comprise each scenario are spelled out in the attached
annex. Some policies and programs are identical in each scenario to provide consistency and less noise,
so that better comparisons of relevant policies can be made. For example, each scenario contains the
same desired amount of learning materials per student. However, the level of cost sharing between
government and parents differs. By holding the former constant, one can better compare the effect of
cost sharing on the education budget. Similarly, each scenario maintains the same primary education
enrollment. That is, it is assumed that all six year-olds enter primary school and that repetition, drop-out
and progression rates are the same. As a result, the effect of such variables as teacher to pupil and
inpector to teacher ratios can be assessed.
However, aside from this, each scenario pursues policies and programs that are very different. Several
major policy variables are particularly important in determining the required financing and in
differentiating the three scenarios from one another, including:
*  the desired teacher:pupil ratio at primary and secondary levels.  Lower ratios will lead to greater
numbers of teachers and a significantly higher government wage bill;



- 49 -
Annex 3.d
Page 3 of 9
*  the period of certifying the present stock of untrained primary teachers. A shorter period of intensive
training will require more resources, and will bring forward the time when the newly-trained
certified teachers will demand an increase in salary;
* the level of cost sharing for teaching and learning materials. The greater the percentage of material
costs borne by government, the greater the level of public expenditure on education;
*  the quantity of additional school facilities (such as, classrooms, teachers' houses, administrative
blocks, boreholes, resource centers) built by government, and the rate at which these are provided;
*  the number of additional secondary school places provided under the planning period; and
*  the expansion of tertiary education and the cost-sharing envisaged.



- 50-
Annex 3.
Page 4 of 9
Table 1: Summary of Education Policies
Policy Variable      Low Scenario         Medium Scenario      High Scenario
Primary              Ratio of 1:60 in     Ratio of 1:60        Ratio of 1:60 in
teacher:pupil ratio    1994/95, increasing to  throughout the  1994/95, decreasing to
1:70 by 2004/05.    planning period       1:45 by 2004/05.
Secondary            Ratio of 1:40 in     Ratio of 1:40 in     Ratio of 1:40
teacher:pupil ratio    1994/95, increasing to  1994/95, increasing to  throughout planning
1:50 by 2004/05.    1:45 by 1999/2000.    period.
Teacher Training     23,000 untrained     23,000 untrained     23,000 untrained
teachers certified  teachers certified in 9   teachers certified
within 12 years and    years and modest   within 4 years and
modest program of    program of school-    program with
school-based support  based support built.   extensive program of
gradually built.                         school-based support.
Cost Sharing         GOM's share of       GOM's share of       GOM's share of
learning materials  learning materials held  learning materials
reduced to 15% by    at 20% throughout    increasing to 50% by
end of planning      planning period.     end of planning
period.                                   period.
Capital Development  Construction of 9,000   Construction of   The construction of
primary classrooms    12,000 primary      38,000 primary
and 45 secondary    classrooms and 75     classrooms and 250
schools in planning    secondary schools in   secondary schools in
period.             planning period.      planning period.
Secondary            Enrollment increase    Enrollment increase    Enrollment increase
Enrollment           an average of 3%     an average of 6%     an average of 7.5%
annually.           annually.             annually.
Tertiary Education    Real expenditure held  Real expenditure held  Real expenditure
constant.           constant.            increase 5% annually.



- 51 -
Annex 3.d
Page 5 of 9
Summary of Findings
Enrollment. From the structure of 1994/95 enrollment and projected levels of repetition, drop-out, and
progression, the model projects that primary school enrollment will decline slowly in the first ten years
of the planning period, before rising in later years of the framework (Table 2). This is the result of the
massive influx in enrollment that occurred when free primary education was introduced in 1994/95. This
caused large numbers of over-age pupils to drop into the system. As over-age students work their way
out of the system and repetition rates decrease, total enrollment will fall. In later years, however, these
factors will be overcome by the growing number of six year-olds entering the system.
Table 2: Summary Enrollments, 1994/95 to 2009/10
Year                   1994/95     1999/2000      2004/05       2009/10
Level
Primary   Population 6-13 years    2,270,015    2,657,218     3,110,468     3,641,029
Total Enrollment      3,184,069     2,840,627     2,552,499    3,166,971
Number of Repeaters      248,665       284,063       176,122      152,015
| Secondary Total Enrollment (I)*  34,180        38,960        46,140        54,780
Admission (new)        12,000       13,445        15,240        19,400
Total Enrollment (II)     34,180       45,096        74,096        86,547
Admission (new)       12,000       14,520        17,520        21,120
Total Enrollment (III)    34,180        49,589        90,131        91,613
Admission (new)       12,000        13,657        18,652       28,824   l
MCDE        Total Enrollment      45,220        44,775        83,121        82,104
Admission(new)        15,000        13,657        22,382       28,824
Teacher Tr. Total Enrollment**        3,000         3,000         3,000         3,000
Tech. Coll.  Total Enrollment      1,000         1,599         2,702        2,203
Notes: * Secondary education-- projected enrollment for the low (1), medium (II), and high (III) scenarios.
* * Teacher training enrollment accounts for students during thier residential course only, not those involved
in INSET.
Unlike primary education where enrollment growth is minimal and is held constant in each
scenario, growth in secondary enrollment is significant and varies in each scenario. In the low scenario,
total enrollment increases at rate of three percent annually, while in the high scenario, enrollment
increases at a rate of nearly eight percent annually. However, despite the growing number of secondary
school places, the transition rate from primary to secondary is steady or falling as a result of the growing
numbers of primary school leavers following the free primary education policy.



- 52 -
Annex 3.d
Page 6 of 9
Education Expenditure
Results of Low Scenario. The results of the low scenario, where education expenditure is most
constrained, are shown in Table 3.  A comparison of unit costs (spending per pupil), by level of
education, indicates that primary unit costs are far lower than other levels of education. But because of
much larger primary enrollment, expenditures at the primary level are significantly greater than other
levels, hovering around 70% of total education expenditure. Unit costs of primary education vary little
throughout the planning period. However, mainly as the result of fluctuations in primary enrollment,
real primary education expenditure falls nearly 20%  from  1994/95 to 2004/05.  When primary
enrollment increases again, expenditures increase to earlier levels. Secondary unit costs fall steadily
throughout the planning period as a result of cost-saving policies necessary under the low scenario.
Nevertheless, as a result of higher secondary enrollment, secondary expenditures increase. University
expenditure is held constant throughout the planning period. The mix of policies and programs pursued
under the low scenario leads to total expenditure increase of 5% at the end of the planning period.
Table 3: Education Expenditure: Low Scenario
PROJECTIONS| 1994/95   1999/2000   2004/05   2009/10
Primary
Unit Cost (MK)               239       233        229       237
Total Expend. (MK million)   796       709        632       797
As % of Total              (77.1%)   (74.9%)   (67.8%)   (74.1%)
Secondary
Unit Cost (MK)               1569      1490       1465      1402
Total Expend. (MK million)   87         87        122       111
As % of Total              (8.4%)    (9.2%)    (13.1%    (10.3%)
Teacher Training
Unit Cost (MK)              4593       4752       5089      5384
Total Expend. (MK million)    14        9          14        11
As % of Total              (1.4%)    (1.0%)    (1.5%)    (1.0%)
MCDE
Unit Cost (MIK)              600       680        688       725
Total Expend. (MK million)   27         30         52        46
As % of Total              (2.6%)    (3.2%)    (5.6%)    (4.3%)
Tech. College
Unit Cost (MK)              4375       4601       4787      4157
Total Expend. (MK million)    4         6          7         6
As % of Total              (0.4%)    (0.6%)    (0.8%)    (0.6%)
University
Total Expend. (MK million)   105        105       105       105
As % of Total              (10.2%)   (11.1%)   (11.3%)   (9.8%)
Total Education Expend.
Total Expend. (MX million)   1033      946        932       1076
As % of Total              (100%)    (100%)    (100%)   (100%)



- 53 -
Annex 3.d
Page 7 of 9
Medium Scenario. Education expenditure under the medium scenario grows steadily. In primary education, both
unit costs and primary expenditure increase nearly 30% during the planning period. Secondary unit costs remain
steady, but increased secondary enrollment leads to a more than doubling of secondary expenditure and a
rise in the secondary share of total education expenditure. University expenditure remains constant. As
a result of this mix of policies and programs, total education expenditure increases nearly 40% in real
terms during the planning period.
Table 4: Education Expenditure: Medium Scenario
PROJECTIONS                  1994/95   1999/2000   2004/05   2009/10
Primary
Unit Cost (NM)                239    274         292       309
Total Expend. (MK million)    796    854         820       1055
As % of Total              (77.1%)  (75.3%)      (69.4%)   (73.5%)
Secondary
Unit Cost (MK)               1569   1456         1468      1520
Total Expend. (MK million)    87    125          169       192
As % of Total               (8.4%)  (11%)        (14.3%)   (13.4%)
Teacher Training
Unit Cost (MK)               4593   4944         5259      5555
Total Expend. (MK million)    14    12           19        19
As % of Total               (1.4%)  (1.1%)       (1.6%)    (1.3%)
MCDE
Unit Cost (MK)                600    703         724       762
Total Expend. (MK million)    27    31           60        57
As % of Total               (2.6%)  (2.7%)       (5.1%)   (4.0%)
Tech. College
Unit Cost (MK)               4375   4643         4869      4240
Total Expend. (MK million)     4     7           9         8
As % of Total               (0.4%)  (0.6%)       (0.8%)    (0.6%)
University
Total Expend. (MK million)    105    105         105       105
As % of Total              (10.2%)  (9.3%)       (8.9%)    (7.3%)
Total Education Expend.
Total Expend. (MK million)   1033    1134        1182      1436
As % of Total               (100%)  (100%)       (100%)   (100%)
High Scenario. The effect of significantly expanding Malawi's education policies and programs is
evident in Table 5. Primary education unit costs nearly double between 1994/95 and 2004/05 and, over
the full planning period, primary expenditure increases more than one and a half times. Secondary
education also expands greatly. Unit cost increases, combined with significant growth in enrollment,
lead to a nearly fivefold increase in real secondary expenditure and a more than doubling in education's
share of total education expenditure. Finally, university expenditure doubles over the planning period.
As a result of increases in all levels of education, real education expenditure increases 180% over the
planning period.



- 54 -
Annex 3.
Page 8 of 9
Table 5: Education Expenditure: High Scenario
PROJECTIONS                  1994/95   1999/2000   2004/05   2009/10
Primary
Unit Cost (MK)               239    330          468       548
Total Expend. (MK million)    796    1056        1424      2011
As % of Total              (77.1%)  (70.4%       (68%)    (69.4%)
Secondary
Unit Cost (MK)               1569   1610         1684      1824
Total Expend. (NK million)    87    256          392       565
As % of Total               (8.4%)  (17.1%)      (18.7%)   (19.5%)
Teacher Training
Unit Cost (MK)               4593   5177         5514      5809
Total Expend. (NK million)    14    13           31        34
As % of Total               (1.4%)  (0.9%)       (1.5%)    (1.2%)
.MCDE
Unit Cost (NK)                600    735         771       810
Total Expend. (NMK million)   27    33           65        61
As % of Total               (2.6%)  (2.2%)       (3.1%)   (2.1%)
Tech. College
Unit Cost (MK)               4375   4643         4869      4240
Total Expend. (MK million)     4     7           13        15
As % of Total               (0.4%)  (0.5%)       (0.6%)    (0.5%)
University
TotalExpend. (MK million)    105    134         168       212
As % of Total               (10.2%)  (8.9%)      (8.0%)    (7.3%)
Total Education Expend.
Total Expend. (ASK million)  1033    1499        2093      2898
As % of Total               (100%)  (100%)       (100%)   (100%)
Education Expenditure within the Macroeconomic Framework
Previous levels of education expenditure were low when compared with many other developing
countries. Data presented in Table 6 show that education was only 8.7% of government recurrent
expenditure in 1988/89. Education expenditures have been increasing steadily since, rising to 17.2% of
total recurrent expenditure in 1993/94 and 4.6% of GDP.



- 55 -
Annex 3.d
Page 9 of 9
Table 6: Education Expenditure
Fiscal Year          Ed. Recurr. Exp.         Ed. Recurrent
as % of Total        Exp. as % of GDP
Recurr. Budget
1988/89                    8.7%                   3.4%
1989/90                   12.3%                   3.4%
1990/91                   13.0%                    3.8%
1991/92                   11.8%                   3.1%
1992/93                   14.8%                   4.9%
1993/94                   17.2%                   4.6%
Education expenditure increased substantially with the introduction of free primary education in
1994/95. The level of resources required to pursue future policies and programs, represented by the three
scenarios outlined in this chapter, is illustrated in Diagram 1. Total Government expenditure projections
are taken from IMF projections.
Diagram 1: Education Expenditure as a Percentage of Total Government Expenditure
50.0%
45.0% -----_ --
40.0%                              ,
. ;A35.0%,;
.30.0% L            -_----- -----------                    Scenario  i.
1l425.0%                     -                        .. Scenario .1
0                                                          S scenario III 1
t15.0%~             
.e10.0%
'        5      3 0 %    6
i] 0.0%                     -4    4   I -  I 1 ,I  ! - !   -' ,  
1 2  3 4  5 6  7  8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16



- 56 -
Annex 3.e
Page 1 of 1
Efficiency Gains through Reductions in Primary Repetition Rates
The effect of reductions in primary repetition rates have been calculated in the model. In one
scenario, repetition rates are constant at 15% throughout the model's timeframe. In a second scenario,
repetition rates gradually decline. In the base year (1994/95), repetition rates are 15% in standards one
throught eight but these rates fall gradually over time so that by 1999/2000 they are 10%, 2004/05 they are
7% and by 2009/10 they are just 5%. The final scenario models repetition rates that fall sharply from 15%
ion the base year to 5% after the first year period and are constant thereafter. The Table below shows the
effect of declining repetition rates on overall primary enrollment and share of education recurrent
expenditure within the overall Govemment budget.
1994/95     1999/2000        2004/05       2009/10
Constant 15% Repetition Rates
Total Primary Enrollment:          3,184,069      2,885,509      2,692,710     3,354,484
Education Share of Total Recurrent   24.97%          39.7%         47.6%          55.4%
Expenditure
Gradually Declining Repetition Rates
Total Primary Enrollment:          3,184,069      2,840,627      2,552,499     3,166,971
Education Share of Total Recurrent   24.97%         39.26%        45.77%          53.0%
Expenditure
Quickly Declining Repetition Rates
Total Primary Enrollment           3,184,069      2,737,375      2,481,044      3,140,775
Education Share of Total Recurrent   24.97%          38.1%         44.8%          52.3%
Expenditure



- 57 -
Annex 3.t
Page I of 4
Comparison of Alternative Teacher Training Programs
COMPONENTS                             MODEL A                         MODEL B
Centers for residential courses   63 district centers        7 PTTCs
17 trainers per center         210 tutors
350 trainees per center        3,000 trainees per intake
20,000 trainees in one intake.
Duration of course            2 years                        2 years (3 mths residential + 21
mths school-based INSET)
Duration of residential phase    2x6 weeks during holidays =  Intake of 3,000 in each of 3
Ix2                            terrns for residential course.
weeks for subsidiary subjects
Trainers                      280 PEAs                       PTTC tutors (working 44 weeks
210 PTTC tutors                per year) with zonal support
250 Primary teachers           from PEA's, heads, and master
331 Secondary teachers         teachers.
trained by PTTC tutors
Role of PTTCs                 Continue with regular intake   No regular intake .
Phasing                       One phase over 2 years         9,000 per year for residential
course.
Use of zonal structures       District-based training, mix of    Subzonal seminars by PEAs;
trainers                       study circles; teacher peer
groups; resource center
materials; master
teachers/mentors.
Target group                  All temporary teachers over two   About 20,000 untrained teachers
years                          over 3 to 4 years plus upgrading
and support for all teachers in
system.
Curriculum                    MASTEP and MCDE modules    Self-study materials. Flexible
Both core and subsidiary       course sequencing.
subjects                       Concentration on core subjects
Supervised teaching            only: subsidiary subjects taught
during INSET after the initial
phase.



- 58 -
Annex 3.
Page 2 of 4
Advantages And Risks, Model A
Advantages of Model A
i. Ensures that school pupils are not without teachers while trainees are on residential courses
(which take place during holiday period).
ii. Eliminates social stigma attached to delayed selection to training by taking all temporary
teachers at once.
iii. Trainees stay in own district during training, and traveling to residential courses is less costly
(though perhaps more difficult to manage, given the numbers involved).
iv. Makes formal provision for training in subsidiary subjects.
v. Schedules substantial guided practice teaching before certification.
vi. Second residential phase allows for reinforcement of on-the-job training received.
vii. Two-year period allows sufficient time to cover content equal to that of the current one-year
preservice course, and avoids stress and fatigue among trainees.
viii.Maintains the modest output of PTTCs to cater for part of the attrition rate.
ix. Provides maximum output (22,000 certificated teachers) in a short time (two years).
Risks Involved in Model A
i. The logistics involved in training 22,000 at one time as proposed, may overwhelm the
managerial capacity of the Ministry of Education.
ii. The model may overstretch MOE's financial, human and material resources, as well as the
good will and morale on which the teaching professions' contribution to free primary
education depend.
iii. Secondary school teachers have different approaches to primary teaching and learning
strategies, and need specific training if they are to be effective as tutors for primary trainees.
iv. Using secondary schools and secondary teachers in training primary teachers may not be
acceptable to primary school heads, advisers, and teachers.
v. Training and support staff at all levels will require adequate incentives and motivation for
additional work during scheduled holidays.
vi. The formation of cohesive representative teams of trainers (tutors, PEAs, primary and
secondary teachers) may prove difficult, and the evolution of team spirit at training centers
elusive.



- 59 -
Annex 3.f
Page 3 of 4
i. Establishing an acceptable and effective monitoring system for a program involving such a
large number of trainees and other stakeholders may be difficult.
ii. Potential tensions may be anticipated between teachers trained under different programs
(MIITEP, the one-year PTTC course, and the forner two-year courses).
Advantages And Risks Of School-Based Inset Programs
Advantages of School-Based INSET
i. Reinforces decentralization of education structures and decision-making.
ii. Provides opportunities for reviewing and revising content and methodologies of teacher
preparation programs.
iii. Emphasizes the practice of teaching rather than pedagogical theory.
iv. Allows trainee deficiencies to be identified and corrected quickly by appropriate support
measures (advice, tutorials, workshops).
v. Contributes to long-term capacity building by empowering heads and teachers, and
demonstrating a trust in their professionalism, with important implications for morale and
performance.
vi. Builds on experience of MASTEP.
vii. School-based teacher training procedures additionally benefit trained teachers and other
educational cadres.
Risks Involved in School-Based INSET
i. Requires good strategic planning, determined implementation, and rigorous accountability.
ii. Threatens, because of its complexity, to over-stretch MOE's planning, financial, human and
material resources, as well as the good will and morale on which the teaching professions'
contribution to free primary education depend.
iii. Thoroughgoing decentralization to local levels creates risks that funds will be
misappropriated and materials misallocated; accountability will be more difficult to monitor.
iv. May be inhibited by delay in establishing zonal resource centers, planned to be in operation
by 1997-98, lack of experience in organizing, managing and operating resources centers, and
their high recurrent and capital costs relative to other program expenditures.
v. Requires high levels of coordination and collaboration among many stakeholders. This may
be difficult to achieve, and may involve role conflicts.



- 60 -
Annex 3.f
Page 4 of 4
i. Necessitates the development of new concepts of continuous assessment at local level, and
valid and reliable standards acceptable to, for example, MANEB.



- 61 -
Annex 3.g
Page I of 3
Cost-Effectiveness And Least Cost Analysis
Of Alternatives During Project Design:
Choice of Primary School Construction Designs
1) How the Shell Model was Selected for Primary School Design
The Primary Education Project (PEP) requires the construction of several thousand high-quality
low-cost classrooms. Working with the staff of the Blantyre-based Project Implementation Unit, Bank
staff and consultants assessed the ways used to build classrooms in Malawi.
A detailed analysis of existing and potential building methods was conducted. The need to find a
new way of building was largely driven by the slowness of existing methods. The traditional way of
building, with burnt bricks and mortar, wooden trusses and corrugated steel roofs provided solid, durable
classrooms. However, these were slow to build, and the capacity to increase the number built each year
was very limited. This traditional building style was draining Malawi's supply of firewood, (needed in
large quantities to produce burnt bricks). Finally, the cost of these classrooms had escalated, reflecting
partly the cost of supporting highly-paid staff, equipment and vehicles at a centrally-located PIU.
Selecting an Appropriate Design For construction with the usual technologies, and with the PIU as the
implementation agency, the cost of building a two-classroom block ranges from 120,000 MK ($8,000) to
200,000 MK ($13,400).
Lowest-cost classrooms are those built by NGOs at a cost as low as 45,000 MK ($3,000) with
input from the communities (the villagers themselves). At the high end, are the high-quality classrooms,
built to government specifications under the management of a Project Implementation Unit which
oversees construction of projects financed by IDA, ADF and USAID.
In selecting an appropriate classroom design, the following guidelines were followed:
Building type must be simple;
Construction method must be ti-ne-e'ficient;
Cost must be reasonable since the model will be replicated thousands of times;
Building must be durable and high-quality to ensure a long life-span; and
Project implementation must be efficient to facilitate speedy tendering and award of
contracts for construction of the classrooms and associated works.
The Shell Model: Because of the serious and immediate need for classrooms, a shell design has been
selected for the PEP civil works. The Bank's Project Preparation Facility, which is acting as a lead-in to
the fast-track project, will construct up to 240 classroom shells, along with houses, administration
blocks, and site services beginning in July 1995.



- 62 -
Annex 3.g
Page 2 of 3
The steel shell design has already been piloted in Malawi, initially by UNICEF, and more
recently under the auspices of the MOE. The Ministry of Works completed designs for additional shell-
type structures in June 1995 and has begun to construct prototypes. The PPF-funded classrooms, to be
built beginning in July 1995, will be steel shells. The MOE and the Bank will consider construction of
alternative shell types if any of the MOW pilots prove to be equal or superior to the steel shell. Any
alternative shell types will be used only if these prove to be as cost-effective, as quick to construct and as
durable as the steel shell design.
A British Council consortium is investigating a variety of building methods for the one hundred
ODA community schools. The Bank's staff continues to closely liaise with the ODA/British Council to
ensure that the experience gained by these bodies can be fed into decision-making on civil works for the
PEP.
The process of putting up the shell is described in the main body of this SAR. The shell model
unites high technology and traditional building skills. The shell model implies a natural division of
inputs to the construction of primary classrooms. By awarding large contracts to the efficient private
sector, Government will move quickly to construct useable classroom shells throughout the country. By
using their own abilities and resources, the communities will complete the classroom shells provided by
Government.
The matrix on the following page summarizes the justification for the selection of the shell-type
classroom.
Construction Option    Cost per two-     Implementation         Disadvantages                 Benefits
lassroom block       Capacity
_ _ _ _ _            ~~~( MK)
PIU builds traditional  120,000 to       300 to 400           High cost of salaries,  PIU is already in place.
classrooms (steel roof on  200,000       classrooms per year,  buildings, vehicles.
wood trusses on bumt                     as shown by past     Capacity too low for
brick walls).                            performance.        large amount of civil
works required
Mix of private           45,000 to       300 to 500           High level of          Allows many players, including
sector/MOE/NGOs build   150,000          classrooms per year.  management required   NGOs,1 to take part in building
classrooms in variety of                                     by MOE.                 schools.
styles.                                                      Capacity to implement
is limited.
Private and independent   70,000         1,000 to 3,000      Coneem that profits     Proved as cost-effective and
contracting authority                    classrooms per year,  would flow to         timely in other African
(PICA), which will take                  based on other      intemational or non-    countries.
on full responsibility and               African examples,    Malawian firms.
risk for price, quality,                 and on steel                                MOE is assured of fixed price
and timely performance,                  construction                                and timely construction of
builds shell classrooms.                industry forecasts.2                         works as contracted.
Community provides
inputs for infill of walls.                                                          Develops sound management,
accounting, planning and
construction skills in all
Malawian firms that would take
______________ _______   ______ _______   ______ ______________ part  in    the    w ork.
NGOs can bring special benefits to any scheme. Bank consultants and MOE staff are planning an appropriate task
for NGOs with construction experience.
2 The Bank will monitor success of shell construction, escalating its commitments as appropriate. Altemative schemes
have been developed which can be implemented as backup construction methods.



- 63 -
Annex 3.g
Page 3 of 3
The following table describes the facilities to be built, using the selected shell approach, at each primary
school site with cost estimates.
Item                      Number   Unit Cost (MK)    Total (MK)    Total (US$)
2-classroom Block           4            80,000        320,000         21,333
Administration Block         1          130,000        130,000          8,667
Teacher's House             2           100,000       200,000          13,333
Pit Latrine                 2            50,000        100,000          6,667
Borehole                     1           75,000         75,000          5,000
Shade Trees                              22,500        22,500           1,500
External Works                                          10,000           667
Total Cost per Site                                    857,500        57,167$



- 64 -
Annex 3.h
Page 1 of I
Uncertainty, Risk and Sensitivity Analyses
Project preparation and planning cannot avoid uncertainty, no matter how good the planning.
Unexpected changes can work to the advantage or to the detriment of the project. Nevertheless, it is
essential  to plan and take uncertainty and risk into consideration to analyze both the potential
seriousness of such risks and to identify what actions might be undertaken to reduce risk occurrence or
the problems risk may pose.
The project faces three main risks. The main risks the project faces are as follows. First, the
Government's capacity to expeditiously implement the fast-track activities and the overall sector program
is not assured.  For the civil works components, this risk would be addressed by transferring
responsibility for implementing construction from the MOE to PICA and communities, and limiting the
Government's task to overseeing and quality control. Second, the innovative programs proposed under
the project, in particular those to strengthen decentralized construction and enhanced school-based
supervision, may not fully reach their objectives. Risks in these areas would be addressed by careful
monitoring and annual reviews of progress, while recognizing that these programs may need to be
modified during implementation. Finally, there are macroeconomic risks. If economic growth prospects
are not achieved, poor economic performance may make it difficult to achieve sustainability with regard
to financing the necessary recurrent expenditure. To mitigate this risk, some consideration is being given
under TESC for donor financing of some recurrent costs on a constant or increasing basis for at most five
years, after which financing on a declining basis is envisaged, leading to entirely national financing in
the long-run.
Sensitivity analysis was undertaken  to:  (i) improve the understanding of the nature and
workings of the project, by seeing more clearly how changes in one thing affect others; (ii) examine
variation in rate of return results by allowing the testing of changes in key variables; (iii) reduce risks by
suggesting areas where particular precautions should be taken; and (iv) indicate areas needing more
investigation to improve knowledge of the values likely to be taken by significant variables, by
simulating the impact of changes in a particular variable. One sensitivity analysis or quantitative process
of seeing what change in the value of a dependent variable is consequent on a chosen change or changes
in the value of one or more of the variables that determines it, was performed under the rate of return
analyses. When school fees for primary education were removed, private rates of return to primary
education over no education rose by about five percentage points. When school fees for secondary
education were increased by 10%, then by 20%, the changes in private rates of return were slight (see
Annex 3b), pointing to the potential for increased cost recovery at post-primary levels of education.
Furthermore, social rates of return should even increase as a result of efficiency gains and the fact that
more public resources may be directed to financing quality-enhancing inputs.



- 65 -
Annex 3.i
Page 65 of I
Education Sector Institutional Planning and Management
It is generally recognized that institutional planning and management, particularly at the school
and classroom level, has a strong correlation with instructional quality and hence with student
achievement. The Ministry of Education, the Bank, and other donors have initiated discussions on
measures which could contribute to improving management of the sector as a whole as well as at district
and regional levels. These measures would include:
i) Strengthening sector planning and management at the central level including (as needed)
realigning the organizational set-up of the Ministry, and rationalizing the functional
relationship between the departments and units at Headquarters and those in regional and
district offices;
ii) Providing in-service training for headmasters, district and regional administrators in basic
management skills
iii) Decentralizing basic teacher support services, especially for the large number of untrained
teachers who entered the system last year, and providing teacher resource centers and related
facilities at district and zonal levels.
EPEP would initiate activities to support these measures, especially in decentralized teacher training and
support; TESC would then join other donors to follow-up the activities begun under EPEP and complete
the measures proposed here.
A preliminary Sector Institutional Assessment (SIA) was conducted earlier this year by Bank
staff from AFTCB. The review undertook an initial assessment of the structure of the Ministry of
Education and how it interacts with other line ministries, the private sector and with community
governing structures. The mission focused particularly on sectoral decentralization and how this process
is linked to government-wide initiatives towards decentralization.  Three working groups on
Decentralization, Partnerships for Education Service Delivery, and Institutional Coordination were
formed to follow-up on the mission's findings and prepare detailed recommendations for improving the
efficiency and performance of the sector.



- 66 -
Annex 4
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Roles, Responsibilities and Relations among Main Implementing Units
MOE is currently reviewing its organization in order to facilitate its own commitment to provide
universal primary school education of good quality. At the same time MOE is expected to meet the very
high expectations of the population regarding education. A first step has been taken through the creation
of the Education Development Management Unit (EDMU) within the ministry. This unit will be
responsible for overall management and coordination of all activities within the PEP project by IDA and
of parallel projects by other donors. The intention has been to limit the number of permanent staff within
the unit to only a few key positions and in link efficiently into existing functions within MOE. An
expanded structure would in future be able to handle larger projects as for example the TESC (Third
Education Sector Credit). It has been recognized, that in an emergency such as at present it would be
beneficial to call on skills and efficiency, from the private sector, to complement government staff in
certain key functions. This strategy could be used as a short term solution or as a long term solution,
without becoming a permanent mode of operation. This implementation strategy is described in detail in
the Implementation Manual. The following paragraphs summarize the main tasks, responsibilities and
relations of the main Implementing Units.
EDMU: The overall responsibility for management, coordination and implementation of EPEP will be
handled by EDMU, the Education Development Management Unit within the Ministry of Education.
The division is headed by a Coordinator, reporting directly to the Principal Secretary. The division has
only a few permanent staff. It has three key functions in addition to the Coordinator. Two of those,
namely the Financial Manager and the Public Relations Advisor are both permanent positions, not yet
filled.   Because of the  urgency  of the  situation  the third  position, the  Implementation
Specialist/Architect, will be filled immediately by a short-term consultant hired on private sector terms.
Coordinating Unit for the Primay Education TDP and the Supplies Unit: Implementation of the
teacher development program will be undertaken by MOE's newly-established Coordinating Unitfor
the Primary TDP (which is integrated in MOE's structure). Key tasks include: drafting conditions of
service for staff, writing recruitment procedures, planning in-service workshops, selecting in-service
training centers, arranging the intended cooperation of PTTC lecturers, and  selecting venues for
materials distribution and meeting places for trainees and tutors.
The Supplies Unit (SU), integrated in MOE's structure, will be responsible for providing teaching and
learning materials, their distribution and management and other textbook-related activities. Most
teaching and learning materials will be purchased through international competitive bidding, a small
quantity of off-the-shelf items will be purchased through UNICEF's Supply Division in Copenhagen
(UJNIPAC). The SU will hire private transporters to deliver these items directly to the schools. In each
school, the learning materials will be handed over to the school committee headed by the headmaster and
including representatives of the teachers, PTAs, and communities. Representatives of political parties,
labor unions, and NGOs will attend as observers. A secure storage room will be constructed in each new
school. Donors, NGOs, and local communities will be encouraged to construct these secure store rooms
in existing schools; MASAF funds could be used for this purpose. A guide for the management of
textbooks will be prepared and distributed to all primary schools. The SU will set up



- 67 -
Annex 4
Page 2 of 3
a computerized procurement and distribution system to keep track of stock levels in each primary school.
With assistance from the Coordinating Unit for the TDP, MIE will organize seminars to train Primary
Education Advisers (PEAs) in the use of textbooks. The PEAs, in their turn, will train teachers in the
effective use and management of textbooks
Advisory Board: This is a semi-formal forum, chaired by the PS. The Coordinator of EDMU is the
secretary. The Board meets monthly. All core members represent different functions within MOE,
primarily functions dealing with Planninig, Teacher Development and Supply. The Team Leader of
PICMO should always participate. Board members can vary, according to the stage of the project. The
Board can at any time call participants from other Ministries involved in the project the (as for example,
the Ministry of Economical Planning and Development, Ministry of Finance and Ministry of Works ).
Other ministries, dealing with some form of education, such as the Ministry of Youth and Ministry of
Women, Childrens Affairs, Community Services and Social Affairs ( MOWCASC ) should be
represented when appropriate. Twice yearly, or more often if needed, the Board will expand to include
members also from Local Government as well as representatives from the private sector, NGOs, their
umbrella organization CONGOMA and others. The Board is a body for monitoring, sharing information
and giving advice
PICMO: To carry out the substantial civil part of EPEP under fast-track conditions it has been decided
to engage a Private and Independent Construction Management Organization (PICMO), to handle the
overall coordination and supervision of implementation. A very clear distinction has been made between
the planning and design aspects and the implementation aspects. All inputs regarding types of design,
scope and locations of projects are given as briefs by the Implementation Specialist/Architect within
EDMU to PICMO for implementation.
PICMO shall be an established firm, or a joint venture of established firms, with demonstrated
experience in similar projects. Experience in Southern Africa region is preferable but not mandatory.
Joint ventures involving a local firm are encouraged. PICMO will designate a Team Manager who will
report directly to the Coordinator of EDMU in the Ministry or to his designated representative.
PICMO will be responsible for:
taking instructions from EDMU on scope of work, sites, etc
programming construction works
preparing bid packages
prepare bid evaluation reports
submitting recommendations to the Central Tender Board
preparing individual contracts
supervising works in the field
certifying the quality and value of work executed
preparing disbursement applications
reporting to EDMU on progress, cost, delays, etc
co-ordinating borehole, landscaping and material delivery activities
maintaining project accounts for local payments
certifying that works are completed and preparing a completion report for each site
generating replenishment applications for the special account
See annex 5 for detailed terms of reference.



IPEP Implementation Organization Chart
Minister
Principal
Secretary
Controller of                                                                                                                                   A sory                                           Aid
Education                                                                                                                                       Board                                       Coordi-
nation
.. ,        . . . . . .   ... .. .....................     ......  . . . .....     .. ....................     .........I.............. ........ .......    ...................I............. ...... 
Apex Agency:                                                                                  Development                              IDA:             Other             Other
Teacher Devt.                 Supplies                   Planning                             Developag ment                            PEUDnnrioto
Program                      Unit                       Unit                            Management Unit                         [ 7
00
Public          Financial         Implem
Relations         Manager         Specialist'
Architect
Private &  Independent
.onitruction Management
Organization, (PICMO)
Sites



- 69 -
Annex 5
Page I of 4
Terms of Reference for a Private and Independent Construction Management
Organization (PICMO)
SCOPE
The Republic of Malawi has requested the International Development Association (IDA) to finance a
project that will help finance some urgently needed primary school activities within the Government's
Education Sector Policy and Investment Framework.
IDA is responding to the pressing demand for classrooms by allocating major portions of the proposed
project to primary school infrastructure. The project would finance the construction and provision of
furniture and equipment for 2000 primary classrooms. Of these, 600 will be in 75 new sites (new
primary schools) mainly in rural areas: the others will be used to expand existing schools with
overcrowded classrooms. The project would finance the construction of an administration block, two
teacher houses, two pit latrines and a borehole in each new school. Construction will follow the shell
model, which, though new to Malawi, has a track record in Africa, notably with the Bank's ongoing
primary school project in Ghana. The shell model is a low-cost high-quality classroom construction
design. Ministry of Education (MOE), throughi a private and independent construction management
organisation, will put up shells (foundation, slabs, steel columns, and roof), which communities will
complete with in-fills using blocks made with hydrafoam machines or other local materials. This shell
can be constructed very quickly, permitting school children to move to the shade and sheter of a
classroom shell, even without the in-fills. District officials will help mobilize the community in
completing the classroom shells. Orientationi sessions of 2-3 days will be held for key officials from
each district, with community leaders to instill a sense of community ownership.
BACKGROUND
The Government of Malawi has done much to develop the education system since Malawi gained
independence in 1964. The World Bank has been active in assisting Malawi's education sector: the first
project was approved in 1967. Five additional education projects have been completed since then and
one project is current (the Second Education Sector Project). These projects primarily focused on
expansion of primary and secondary education, teacher training, strengthening management and
planning. Although Malawi's education system has benefited considerably from the assistance of the
Bank and other donors, such support has not produced the desired impact.  A well-thought and
comprehensive policy has been lacking.
In 1994, the Bank began to prepare a new operation, the Third Education Sector Credit, which will
pursue an integrated sector approach (ISA) to support the Government's program for the development
and improvement of the sector as a whole. Through this approach, IDA will share in financing a time-
slice of the Government's overall program specified in the Ministry of Education's draft Sector Policy
Framework Paper (SPFP). Most donors active in the sector support the approach and have already
committed resources to finance parts of the Government's program.
During the preparation of the Third Education Sector Credit, the democratically-elected Government
announced (in June 1994) that all primary school fees would be abolished as of the beginning of the new
school year in October, 1994. While this decision was consistent with the Government's overall goal of



- 70 -
Annex 5
Page 2 of 4
poverty reduction through economic growth and investment in human capital, it resulted in an abrupt
influx of over one million additional students into the primary system and necessitated the hiring of over
20,000 new teachers. These were mainly recruited from secondary school leavers, who were given only
a two-and-a-half weeks of 'induction" before being dispatched to schools. Retired teachers were also
called back to help. Government estimates that about 38,000 additional classrooms will be required to
accommodate this influx of children. At present classrooms are severely overcrowded and thousands of
children take their lessons in temporary facilities such as churches, mosques and even under trees. It is
common to see classes consisting of two or even three hundred children in a small shed. While access to
education has increased, the quality of education has fallen: many young children have no learning
materials available and only a few young untrained teachers to guide them. Unless these pressing needs
are quickly addressed, there is a risk of losing the public's enthusiastic support for primary education.
Given the urgency of this situation and at the request of the Government, the Bank has agreed to put on
'fast-track' processing some urgently needed primary school activities of the Third Education Sector
Credit. These are within the Government's Education Sector Policy and Investment Framework. This
Fast-Track Primary Education Project (PEP), amounting to approximately $US22.5 million, will have
three major components: classroom construction, provision of teaching and learning materials, and
selected activities for strengthening teacher skills. These components are not only urgently needed, but
are also fast disbursing, well focused and relatively simple to implement, and have significant up-front
work already done. The Government is highly committed and enthusiastic as shown by the dramatic
increase in the share of education of its total budget (from about 18% in 1994 to about 24% in 1995 for
the recurrent budget).
This project is therefore being developed as a fast-track forerunner to the development of a full-blown
integrated sector operation aimed at assisting the Government of Malawi to implement a time-slice of its
ten-year education sector development program. Within this framework, the project will finance key
elements of the program to provide a rapid response to the current Malawian educational crisis.
The specific objectives of this fast-track operation are to: (i) ensure that the quantitative gains in
enrollments obtained with the introduction of free primary education are maintained through the
retention of newly-enrolled children in the system; and (ii) improve the quality of primary education
through providing textbooks, training and pedagogical support to untrained teachers.
FUNCTIONS
The consulting firm (to be called PICMO--Private and Independent Construction Management
Organisation) will designate a Team Manager who will report directly to the Team Leader, EDMU, in
the Ministry of Education, or his designated representative. The Team Manager will be responsible for
the performance of all members of the consulting firm assigned to this project.
The team will be based in Lilongwe, Malawi. Extensive travel throughout the country to project sites
will be required throughout this assignment.



- 71 -
Annex 5
Page 3 of 4
The team will develop a working knowledge of the relevant Malawian laws, the project architectural
design and construction drawings, the physical sites designated by the EDMU  and the material
requirements of the community for all the sites.
Within two weeks of the start date of this assignment, the Team Manger will submit to the Director,
EDMU, for review and approval: an overall implementation schedule showing the phasing of proposed
bidding packages, over the 3 year life span of the project ,a detailed construction schedule for a typical
site ,a bill of materials by site and in aggregate, a procurement plan to facilitate having the required
materials on-site to permit construction of the infill panels by the community within the above schedule,
and a PICMO staffing plan including CV's to provide adequate supervision of the work. The Team
Manager will be responsible for updating these schedules and plans and will have them available as
required by the Team Leader, EDMU.
The Team Manager will submit a monthly written progress report to the Team Leader, EDMU. This
report will detail actual progress against the schedule, proposed schedule changes with appropriate
justification, work plan for the following month and problems requiring management action. The Team
Manager will discuss in person or via phonie the project status with the Team Leader, EDMU, on
Tuesday of each week. To avoid delays or crisis situations, it is the responsibility of the Team Manager
to bring significant problems to the attention of the Team Leader, EDMU, promtly and not wait until
scheduled meetings or reports.
Upon approval of the items listed in para. 3.4, the PICMO team will implement the necessary
procurement procedures in accordance with IDA Guidelines and Government requirements. This
involves notification to bidders, preparation and issuance of tender documents, receipt and evaluation of
tenders and submission of recommendation of award to the Director, EDMU, for review and further
processing.  The procurement implementation must be completed in a timely manner to permit
completion of construction as scheduled.
The staffing plan shall present the construction supervision effort including the staffing for each
construction site, the means of transportation to the site, site staffing and the time and duration of each
site supervision task. All such costs are to be included in the fee. The Government will not bear
additional costs for housing, commuting or other such costs in Lilongwe or at the construction sites.
The Team Manager and hiis staff shall coordinate the performance, scheduling and allocation of all other
consultants retained by the PICMO on this project and sliall recommend changes to modify or
supplement the tasks.
The PICMO shall supervise the actual setting-out of the construction sites and the soundness and
completeness of construction .
The PICMO will ensure that contractors comply with the specifications and drawings.
The PICMO will be responsible for ensuring that all materials for the community are available wheni
needed. The PICMO will upon approval, of the Director, EDMU, recommend and implement special
actions as appropriate to facilitate on-time availability of materials.



- 72 -
Annex 5
Page 4 of 4
The PICMO will certify the quality and completeness of the contractor's work and that the structure is
ready for occupancy uponi completion.
The Team Manager will certify the contractor's invoices and recomimienid periodic paymenits based upon
performance milestones.
At the final completion of each contract package, the Team Manager shall submit to the Team   Leader,
EDMU, a final report which includes a schedule of start and completioni dates  compare  to  planined,
reasons for any delays, final costs for each site,and any other   intormationi whicih may have a beariig
on future packages of work.
QUALIFICATIONS
The consulting firm shall be an established firm, or a joint venture of established firmis, which have
demonstrated experience in similar projects. Similar experience in Southern Africa region is preferable
but not mandatory.
The consulting firm shall provide comprehelisive services in accordance with the functionis listed here
through a single point of contact to be known as the Team Manager who is to be a full-time employee of
the consulting firm and possess at least ten years of construction maniagement experience.
The consulting firn  is to have available qualified staff to provide field supervision of the works in
accordance withi the constructioni schedule. This staff shall have written and verbal skills in the English
and Chichewa languages at the level required to effectively commurnicate with the communities and the
contractors.
Joint ventures involving a local firn are encouraged.



MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1995         1996          1997          1998          1999         2000          2001          2002
ID    Task Name                                            01234Q               Q230Q4J  JQi2341234120304010203040Q10Q2030Q4010Q203Q4 Ql
1    MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
2        IDA PROCESSING STEPS
14        CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT
47        LEARNING MATERIALS AND TEXT BOOK ACTIVITI
52        TRAINING COMPONENT
66        MISCELLANEOUS
60        ONGOING ACTIVITIES
Task                                   S -----ummary                           Rolled Up Progress
Project:                              Progress                                RolledUpTs
Date: 12/22/95UpTs
Milestone                              Rolled Up Milestone Q
_ _ _ _   _ _ _   _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _  _ _  _  _  _  _             _  __age _ _ _ _  I
Page 1_ o
_ _ _     __._ _____ _ _                _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _   _  _ _  _  _  _  _  _   _  _  _  _  _      _                                                      U.



MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1995          1996          1997          1993          1999         2000          2001           2002
ID    Task Name                                             01 0Q20Q3Q41Q0 lQ20Q30Q40i  Q21Q31Q41Q1 0Q20Q30Q40Q1 1Q21Q31Q41Q1 0Q21Q31Q41Q1 1Q21Q31Q41Q1 0Q20Q30Q401I
1    MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
2        IDA PROCESSING STEPS
3             Initial EPS
4             FEPS/IM                                                    .
5             Appraisal Mission
6             Yellow Cover Review
7             Invitations to Negotiate
E             Start Negotiations
9             Board Approval
10            ESTABLISH EDMU                                         *   10/2
11            Select PICMO
12            Prepare Project Manual
13            Submit to IDA SPFP
14        CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT                                                                                       _
47        LEARNING MATERIALS AND TEXT BOOK ACTIVITI
52        TRAINING COMPONENT
56        MISCELLANEOUS
60        ONGOING ACTIVITIES
Task                      _Summary                                              Rolled Up Proress
Project:                               Progress                                Rolled Up Task _
Milestone          *Rolled Up Milestone X                                                                                                     rr 
Il1
Page 1 



MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1996          1996         1997          1998          1999          2000          2001          2002
ID    Task Name                                            301 02|03|Q4 Q1 0Q2|030Q40Q1 Q20Q30Q40Q1 0Q20Q30Q40Q1 Q20Q31Q4 Q1 0Q20Q31Q4 Q1 Q2030Q401 0Q20Q3|4  1
1    MALAWI Pl<IMARY EDUCATION PROJECT*_
2        IDA PROCESSING STEPS
14       CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT._
15            Site Selection YR1 (96)
16            Construct Classrooms
17            Build Admin Blocks
18            Constr. teacher houses
19            Construct pit latrines
20            Construct bore holes
21            Cladding of Classrooms
22            deliver furnRure
23            Site Selection YR2
24            Construct Classrooms
25            Build Admin Blocks
26            Constr. teacher houses
27            Construct pit latrines
28            Construct bore holes
29            Cladding of Classrooms
30            deliver furniture
31            Site Selection YR3
32            Construct Classrooms
33            Build Admin Blocks
Task                                    Summary                                  Rolled Up Progress
Project:                               Progress                                Rolled Up Task
Milestone                               Rolled Up MilestoneKl
Page 1



MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1995          1996          1997          1998          1999           2000          2001          2002
ID    Task Name                                               01Q20Q30Q40Q10IQ2103104IQ10Q20Q30Q410234  123Q40Q1Q20Q30Q4Q1Q20Q30Q40Q10Q20Q34  1
34             Constr teacher houses
35             Construct pit latrines
36             Construct bore holes
37             deliver furniture
38             Site Selection YR4
39             Construct Classrooms
40             Cladding of Classrooms
41             Build Admin Blocks
42             Constr teacher houses
43             Construct pit latrines
44             Construct bore holes
45             Cladding of Classrooms
46             deliver furniture
47        LEARNING MATERIALS AND TEXT BOOK ACTIVITI
52        TRAINING COMPONENT
56        MISCELLANEOUS
60        ONGOING ACTIVITIES
Task                                     Summary            _                     Rolled Up Progress
Project                                Progress                                 Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                Rolled Up Milestone 0                                                                                   q>
Page 2



MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
1995    I    1996            1997     j    1998           1999           2000     I    2001           2002
ID    Task Name                                                0 1Q21Q30Q401034Q10203|041011021031040Q1
1    MALAWI PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
2         IDA PROCESSING STEPS
14        CIVIL WORKS COMPONENT
47        LEARNING MATERIALS AND TEXT BOOK ACTIVITI
48             Procure learning materials
49             distribute learning material
50             prepare manuals for mat mgt
51             print training modules (Teacher Training)
52        TRAINING COMPONENT
53             mobilize DEOs/Comm Leaders
54             Conduct Workshops for MIE staff                               .                                                                                                                t
55             Staff development for trainers
56        MISCELLANEOUS                                                          _
57             Purchase Hydraform machines                                          4/1
58             Purchase Computers
59             Purchase motorcycles
60        ONGOING ACTIVITIES
61             Prepare materials for SB inset
62             prepare teaching and learning materials
63             School based inset                                                                       -
64             Sub-Zonal inset                                                                          -
65             Training of trainers on text book use
Task                                      Summary                                    Rolled Up Progress
Date: 12/22/95                           Progress                                   Rolled Up Task
Milestone                                 Rolled Up Milestone
_   ____   _ _              __                   ___                                      Page 1



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Components - Totals Include
(MK '000)
Policy
Development,
Project
Primary School                      Learning        Management
Construction     Teacher        Materials and          and
Program      Development    Textbook-related    Strengthening
Program          Activities        of EDMU           Total
I. Investment costs
A. Civil works                                         179,515.2                                  -                -      179,515.2
B. Equipment                                            11,057.6        11,206.4             1,179.8          1,592.4     25,036.2
C. Teaching and leaming materials                              -       38,709.6             55,205.6               -      93.915.2              00
D. Technical assistance                                 31,747.7         1,592.7             2.555.2         3,624.6      39,520.2
E. Teacher development                                         -       48,238.6                   -                -      48,238.6
F. Other training                                              -        2,276.9              3,483.7         5,832.0       11,592.5
G. Fumiture                                             23,710.9              -                   -                -       23,710.9
Total Investment costs                                   246,031.4       102,024.1            62,424.3         11,049.0     421,528.7
11. Recurrent costs
A. Maintenance ofclassrooms                             12,583.0              -                   -                -       12,583.0
B. Operation & maintenance of equipment                  1,852.5        3,847.5                   -                -        5,700.0
D. Operating costs                                       3,797.3          236.4              2,307.8           362.6       6,704.1
E. Other operating costs                                       -              -                   -            362.6         362.6
F. Other salaries                                        2,178.5              -                   -                -        2,178.5
Total recurrent costs                                     20,411.4         4,083.9             2,307.8           725.3       27,528.3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                      266,442.7       106,108.0            64,732.0         11,774.3     449,057.0
Taxes                                                    9,355.3          560.3                42.9            101.4       10,059.8
Foreign exchange                                       115,261.3       47,327.8             54,507.5         3,418.9     220,515.4
00
0a 



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Expenditure Accounts by Financiers
(US$ '000)
International
Development                                                           Local
Government          Assoociation        Communities            Total          Foreign  (Excluding  Duties &
Amount      %       Amount      %       Amount       %      Amount       %      Exchange   Taxes)      Taxes
1. Investment costs
A. Civil works                           469.        4.     8.728.      86.       885.       8.    10.083.      40.      5,523.     47098.      461.
B. Equipment                             488.       33.       959.      66.                          1,448.      5.      1,356.       51.        40.
C. Teaching and learning materials          0.              5,296.     100.                          5.296.     21.      4,769.      527.
D. Technical assistance                    0.               2.203.     100.                         2.203.       8.       489.      1.714.                  sI
E Teacher development                                       2.703.     100.                         2.703.       10.               2,703.
F. Other training                                             661.     100.                           661.       2.       156.       505.
G. Furniture                              66.        5.     1.264.      95.                          1.330.      5.                 1,264.       66.
Total investment costs                    1,024.       4.    21,817.      92.       885.        3.    23.726.      94.    12,294.    10.864.      567.
11. Recurrent costs
A. Maintenance of classrooms                                                      681.     100.       681.       2.                  681.
B. Operation & maintenance of equipment   46.       15.       265.      85.                           311.        I .     140.       170.
D. Operating costs                        20.        5.       354.      94.                           374.       1.         I.       371.         0.
E. Other operating costs                   1.        5.        19.      95.                            20.       0.         I.        18.         0.
F. Other salaries                         122.     100.                                               122.       0.                  122.
Total recurrent costs                       190.      12.       638.      42.       681.      45.      1,511.       6.       144.     1,365.         1.
Total disbursement                         1,215.      4.    22,455.      89.      1,567.       6.    25,238.     100.    12,438.    12,230.      568.
In
o l
oo



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Procurement Arrangements
(USs '000)
Procurement Method
International     Local
Competitive    Competitive   International       Local         Direct       From U.N.    Consulting
Biuding        Bidding       Shopping        Shopping      Contracting     Agencies       Ser ices        N.B.F.         1otal
A. Civil works                            4.885.0        4.191.0               -              -                                                      926.4       10.002.3
(4.650.8)     (3.997.2)                                                                                                (X.648.0)
B. Equipment and materials                  703.7              -            69.9          225.7              -              -             -          448.8         1.448.1
(670.8)                        (67.4)        (221 1)                                                                    (959.2)
C. Furniture                                    -        1.159.6           118.5           52.7                             -             -              -         1.330.8
(1.101.6)        (112.6)         (50.1)                                                                  (1.264.3)
D. Teaching and learning materials        3,921.4          698.5             9.7         212.8               -         45() 0             -              -        5.296.4
(3.921.4)       (698.5)           (9.7)        (212.8)                      (4 4.(0)                                    (5.296.4)
E. Teachers training                                   -                       -              -        2.703.2              -             -              -        2.703.2
(2.703.2)                                                  i2.703.2)
F. Other training                                              -               -                        661.9               -             -              -          661.9
(661.9)                                                    (661.9)
Ci Technical assistance                         -              -                              -              -                      2.284.0              -        2.284 0
(2.284.0)                    (2.284 0)
H Recurrent expenditure                         -              -               -              -         706.5              -              -          804.9        1.4114
(638.7)                                                    (038.7)
Total                                     9.510.1        6.049.1           198 2         491.1         4.071.6         454.0        2.284.0        2.180.1       25.238.1
(9.242.9)     (5.797.3)        (089.7)         (483.9)      (4.003.8)        (454.0)      (2.284.0)                   (22.455.7)
0 
(1> 
W x



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Table 1. Seventy-Five Primary School Construction Program
Detailed Costs
Parameters (In %)
Phy.
Base Cost (MK '000)               Cont.  Foreign   Gross
Unit    95/96   96/97    97/98    98/99    Total       Rate    Exch.  Tax Rate
1. Investment costs
A. Construction
Classroom construction (600)                      amount  3,840.0  5,760.0  10,320.0  4,080.0  24,000.0       5.0     75.0       5.0
Administration block                              amount  1,560.0  2,340.0  4,192.5  1,657.5  9,750.0         5.0     75.0       5.0
Teacher houses                                    amount  2,400.0  3,600.0  6,450.0  2,550.0  15,000.0        5.0     75.0       5.0
Pit latrine blocks for students                   amount   1,200.0  1,800.0  3,225.0  1,275.0  7,500.0        5.0     40.0       5.0
Borehole                                          amount    900.0  1,350.0  2,418.8    956.3  5,625.0         5.0     20.0       5.0
Shade trees                                       amount    270.0    405.0    725.6    286.9  1,687.5        5.0       0.0       0.0
Extemal works                                     amount    120.0    180.0    322.5    127.5    750.0        5.0      0.0        5.0
Subtotal construction                                        10,290.0  15,435.0  27,654.4  10,933.1  64,312.5
B. Furniture
Fumiture for admin. blocks                        amount    480.0    720.0  1,290.0    510.0  3,000.0        5.0      0.0       5.0
Furniture for classrooms                          amount    720.0  1,080.0  1,935.0    765.0  4,500.0        5.0      0.0        5.0
Subtotal furniture                                            1,200.0  1,800.0  3,225.0  1,275.0  7,500.0
C. Orientation workshops                            amount    308.7    463.1    829.6    328.0  1,929.4         5.0      0.0       0.0
D. Design and construction management (supervision)  amount        -  2,690.4  4,484.0  1,793.6  8,968.0        5.0     30.0       0.0
E. Cladding by communities                          amount    926.1  1,389.2  2,488.9    984.0  5,788.1         5.0      0.0       5.0
F. Provision of cement for cladding, and Frames     amount    205.8    308.7    553.1    218.7  1.286.3         5.0     75.0       0.0
G. Mobilization of communities by NGOs              amount         -    392.0    728.0    280.0  1,400.0        5.0      0.0       0.0
H. Purchase of hydraform machines                   amount         -  3,080.0  3,080.0        -  6,160.0       5.0    100.0        0.0
L. Training in the use of hydrafoam brick making machines   amount  1,000.0  -       -        -  1,000.0       0.0       0.0       0.0
Total Investment costs                                         13,930.6 25,558.3  43,043.0  15,812.4  98,344.3
II. Recurrent costs
A. Maintenance of schools                           amount    293.3    733.2  1,521.3  1,832.9  4,380.6         5.0      0.0       0.0
B. Maintenance of hydraform machines                amount         -    246.4    492.8    492.8  1,232.0       5.0     50.0       0.0
C. Salary of hydraform machine operators (56)       amount    224.0    336.0    602.0    238.0  1,400.0        5.0       0.0       0.0
D. Operating costs for NGOs                         amount      32.0     48.0     86.0     34.0    200.0       5.0       0.0       0.0
E. Operating costs for orientation workshops        amount    102.9    154.4   276.5    109.3    643.1         5.0       0.0       0.0
F. Operating costs for hydraform training           amount    160.0    240.0    430.0    170.0  1,000.0        0.0       0.0       (.0         , >
Total recurrent costs                                            812.2  1,757.9  3,408.7  2,877.0  8,855.8
Total                                                          14,742.8  27,316.2  46,451.6  18,689.4  107,200.                                  . 
00



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Table 2. Additional 1000 Classrooms
Detailed Costs
Parameters (In %)
Phy.
Base Cost (MK '000)               Cont.  Foreign   Gross
Unit   95/96    96/97    97/98    98/99    Total    Rate    Exch.  Tax Rate
I. Investment costs
A. Construction
Pit latrines                                  amount            3,750.0  7,500.0  1,250.0  12,500.0     5.0     40.0      5.0
Classroom construction (1000)                 amount           12,000.0  24,000.0  4,000.0  40,000.0    5.0     75.0      5.0
Subtotal construction                                            15,750.0  31,500.0  5,250.0  52,500.0                                         k
B. Furniture for 1000 classrooms                amount            2,250.0  4,500.0    750.0  7,500.0      5.0      0.0       5.0
C. Orientation workshops                        amount             472.5    945.0    157.5  1,575.0       5.0      0.0      0.0
D. Design and construction management (supervision)   amount      1,793.7  3,587.4    597.9  5,979.0      5.0     30.0       0.0
E. Cladding by communities                      amount            1,417.5  2,835.0    472.5  4,725.0      5.0      0.0       5.0
F. Provision of cement for cladding and frames  amount             315.0    630.0    105.0  1,050.0       5.0     75.0      0.0
G. Mobilization of communities by NGOs          amount             270.0    540.0      90.0    900.0      5.0      0.0       0.0
Total investment costs                                             22,268.7  44,537.4  7,422.9  74,229.0
I. Recurrent costs
A. Maintenance of classrooms                    amount             448.9  1,346.6  1,496.3  3,291.8       5.0      0.0       0.0
B. Operating costs for NGOs                     amount              30.0      60.0     10.0    100.0      5.0      0.0      0.0
C. Operating costs for orientation workshops    arnount             157.5    315.0     52.5    525.0      5.0      0.0       0.0
Total                                                               22,905.1 46,259.0  8,981.7  78,145.8
C Q
Di
00
ux 



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Table 3. Learning Materials and Textbook-related Activities
Detailed Costs
Parameters (In %)
Phy.
Base Cost (Mk '000)                    Cont.    Foreign       Gross
Unit     95/96      96/97      97/98       98/99      Total      Rate       Exch.    Tax Rate
I. Investment costs
A. Purchase of learning materials through UNICEF  amount                   -          -          -                   5.0       100.0        0.0
B. Purchase of learning materials              amount    2,747.5    3,361.4   30,252.3           -  36,361.20        5.0       100.0        0.0
C. Freight and distribution                    amount           -      504.2    4,537.8          -    5,042.1        5.0        55.0        0.0
D. Strengthening of the supplies unit (SU)
Computers, software, and printers           amount           -      208.5        52.1          -      260.6        5.0      100.0        0.0
Vehicle                                     amount           -       706.5          -          -      706.5        5.0       95.0        5.0
Technical assistance                        amount           -      753.6       188.4          -      942.0        5.0       70.0        0.0
Manual formaterials management              amount           -       100.5       25.1          -      125.6        5.0       70.0        0.0
Training                                    amount           -      741.0       185.3          -      926.3        5.0       70.0        0.0
Subtotal strengthening of the supplies unit (SU)                -    2,510.1      450.9          -    2,961.0
E. Training in use of textbooks (MIE)
Technical assistance                        amount           -       94.2       219.8          -      314.0        5.0      100.0        0.0
Training                                    amount           -      423.9       989.1          -    1,413.0        5.0        0.0        0.0
Guides (materials)                          amount           -        23.6       55.0          -       78.5        5.0        0.0        0.0
Subtotal training in use of textbooks (MIE)                     -      541.7    1,263.9          -    1,805.5
F. Textbook evaluation (CERT)
Studies, data collection                    amount           -       164.9      164.9      219.8      549.5        5.0        0.0        0.0
Total investment costs                                      2,747.5    7,082.2   36,669.8      219.8   46,719.3
IL Recurrent costs
A. Operating costs                             amount           -      423.9      423.9      565.2    1,413.0        5.0        0.0        0.0
Total recurrent costs                                             -      423.9      423.9      565.2    1,413.0
Total                                                        2,747.5    7,506.1   37,093.7      785.0   48,132.3
00



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Table 4. Teacher Development Program /a
Detailed Costs
Parameters (In %)
Pby.
Base Cost (MK '000)                      Cont.  Foreign    Gross
Unit      95/96       96/97       97/98       98/99      Total      Rate    Exch.   Tax Rate
1. Investment Costs
A. Malawi integrated in-service teacher education program (MIITEP)
Sub-zonal seminars /b                                                               amount            -           -    5,600.0           -    5,600.0        5.0      0.0         0.0
Printing of training modules/c                                                      amount      1,582.2    8,198.9    8,198.9            -   17,980.0        5.0    100.0         0.0
Projects, assignments, and examinations                                             amount            -           -    1,500.0    1,500.0    3,000.0         5.0      0.0         0.0
Mid-term evaluation of MIITEP /d                                                    amount            --                      -    1,000.0    1,000.0        5.0     50.0         0.0
Staff development /e                                                                amount            -      800.0       800.0           -    1,600.0        5.0     50.0         0.0
Subtotal Malawi integrated in-service teacher education program (MIITEP)                           1,582.2    8,998.9   16,098.9    2,500.0   29,180.0                                            1
B. Pedagogical support for teachers
School-based in-service training /f                                                 amount            -    2,820.0       940.0       940.0    4,700.0        5.0      0.0         0.0
Materials for school-based In-service training                                      amount            -    2,820.0       940.0       940.0    4,700.0        5.0    100.0         0.0
Sub-zonal in-service training /g                                                    amount            -   10,140.0    3,380.0    3,380.0   16,900.0          5.0      0.0         0.0
Teaching and learning material packages for teachers /h                             amount            -    4,200.0    1,400.0    1,400.0    7,000.0          5.0     50.0         0.0
315 Motorcycles for PEAs                                                            amount            -    8,189.1       455.0       455.0    9,099.0        5.0     95.0         5.0
Subtotal pedagogical support for teachers                                                                -   28,169.1    7,115.0    7,115.0   42,399.0
Total Investment costs                                                                                1,582.2   37,168.0   23,213.8    9,615.0   71,579.0
11. Recurrent costs
A. Operating costs                                                                    amount             -       90.0        30.0        30.0       150.0      5.0       0.0         0.0
B. O&M of motorcycles                                                                 amount             -      818.9       864.4       909.9    2,593.2        5.0     50.0         0.0
Total recurrent costs                                                                                       -      908.9       894.4      939.9    2,743.2
Total                                                                                                  1,582.2   38,076.9   24,108.2   10,554.9   74,322.2
NOTES:
s& TDP eabracca MnrTEP and Pedagogical Support. Most MIITEP activities will be carried out under TESC.
\b Bseginaing on AprilH97, after 3 months' reidential program (commencing Jan.97) (I from 5695 to 5600)
\c First batch of modules under PPF
\d Afte half (9,000) go thlush the program
\e For trinen at TTCs. PEAs, Headreachers. Includes regional activities.
f PEAs, Heads, and Deputy-heads
Ng PEAs Head-tenchers, and Experienced Teachers
\h to be placed in schools.                                                                                                                                                                         X
00
00



Malawi
Primary Education Project
Table 5. Policy Development, Project Management and Strengthening of EDMIU
Detailed Costs
Parameters (In %)
Phy.
Base Cost (MK '000)                Cont.  Foreign    Gross
Unit 95/96   96/97    97/98   98/99   Total   Rate   Exch.   Tax Rate
I. Investment costs
A. Vehicle /a                                          amount  -        353.3    353.3       -    706.5  5.0       95.0    5.0                  oo
B. Office equipments /b                                amount  -        270.8    270.8       -    541.7  5.0       95.0    5.0
C. Training for EDMU and PU staff                      amount  -        353.3    353.3       -    706.5  5.0       100.0    0.0
D. Studies, beneficiary assessments, SCC               amount  -        588.8  1,177.5  588.8  2,355.0  5.0        30.0    0.0
E. Broadening policy dialogue and strengthenining planning unit amount  -  1,570.0  1,570.0  -  3,140.0  5.0        0.0    0.0
Total Investment costs                                            -     3,136.1  3,724.8  588.8  7,449.7
II. Recurrent Costs
A. Operating costs /c                                  amount  -        117.8    117.8       -    235.5   5.0      10.0    3.0
B. Other operating costs /d                            amount  -        117.8    117.8      -    235.5  5.0        10.0    3.0
Total                                                              -    3,371.6  3,960.3  588.8  7,920.7
".5
00
i n



- 86 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 4
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Training on the Use of Hydraform Machines
Held at Nathenje Residential Training Centre
and Mwatibu full Primary School
Introduction
Primary school enrollment has increased tremendously in the past two years as a result of the
new policy of free primary education. To respond to this development, the rapid construction of a large
number of classrooms is a priority. This requires the use of a flexible construction technique which can
be achieved either by adopting modified designs or using alternative materials of low cost but high
durability. One such material is the Hydraform Pressed Soil-Cement Block.
These blocks can easily be produced and used for construction without firing. A hydrafrom block
(+250mmx220mmxl 15mm) weighing +12kg is made from soil mixed with cement in the ratio of 5-10%
of cement by weight and mixed with water to attain an optimum moisture content for maximum
compactive effort. This mix is compressed by a hydraulic unit which molds the interlocking shape of the
hydraform block which can be cured for 7 days or be used immediately. Cost savings of up to 50% and
70% in external and internal walls have been reported and unconfined compressive strength of up to
1 ON/mm is obtained.
The use of labor-intensive technique creates room for community participation for men and
women, especially during preparation of soil and actual construction periods. This is already in line with
donor community ownership requirements as regards implementation of development programs in
developing countries.
Malawi accounts for 5% of energy consumption in fuel wood for the burnt brick industry, but
clay burnt bricks are produced at the expense of trees and forests which have incurred a 3.5% p.a.
deforestation rate. Land has been degraded to the point that some effects are being realized. The prices of
clay burnt brick have since been sky-rocketing as a result of scarce and expensive fire wood for kiln-
firing, making it extremely difficult for both rural and urban communities at large to but. It is logical that
technologies that can solve shelter (whether classrooms or houses) problems in Malawi while preserving
and sustaining the environment should be given the greatest priority.
The Ministry of Education (MOE) decided to use hydraform blocks for the construction of
classrooms and supplementary units in primary schools. However the production and use of hydraform
soil-cement blocks requires a sound technical background and training. Accordingly a training program
for hydraform block making was designed and conducted with the assistance of World Bank funding as
part of the Primary Education Emergency Program(PEEP).



- 87-
Annex 8
Page 2 of 4
General Objective of Training
The overall objective of the training was to enable candidates drawn from the Ministry of
Education to acquire skills in producing and using soil-cement pressed blocks to facilitate the fast
construction of low-cost classrooms and supplementary units.
Modules:
The course has eighteen modules including:
1.    Site establishment
2.    Soil excavation
3.    Soil
4.    Soil testing
5.    Soil preparation
6.    Soil cement designs
7.    Water-soil/cement designs
8.    Mixing cement to soil and soil/cement to water
9.    Hydraulic forming diesel air cooled machine
10.   Operations of machine
11.   Maintenance of machine and consumable
12.   Squad training in machine operation for block making
13.   Curing
14.   Foundation
15.   Block laying
16.   Window and door frame fitting
17.   Truss fitting
18.   Quality control in block technology



- 88 -
Annex 8
Page 3 of 4
Background of Participants
Twenty-four (24) male mechanic and bricklayer participants were drawn from twelve selected
pilot centers. Each center was represented by a bricklayer mechanic. One participant could not
understand English. The qualifications of the participants are indicated in table 2 and table 3.
Table 2 Trade and Qualifications of Participants
Name                                 Trade               Qualification
1. Bongwe B.               Mechanical Technician       STD 8
2. Chiirwa G.              Mechanical Technician       JCE
J. Gondwe W.Z.             Bricklayer Technician       STD8
4. Kalima H.               Bricklayer Technician       JCE
5. Kamloza S.D.A.          Bricklayer Technician       JCE
6. Kapasule A.M.           Mechanical Technician       STD 8
7. Katete E.               Bricklayer Technician       MSCE
8. Kayuni B.M.K.           Bricklayer Technician       MSCE
9. Khwiya F.               Mechanical Technician       JCE
10. Luganga J.R.B.         Mechanical Technician       JCE
11. Madise G.E.S.         Bricklayer Technician       MSCE
12. Majawa D.C.            Mechanical Technician       STD8
13. Makupete D.            Bricklayer Technician
14. Manyethera F.          Bricklayer Technician       JCE
15. Mkandawire E.Z.        Bricklayer Technician       JCE
16. Mlima K.               Bricklayer Technician       STD8
17. Munthali V.E.          Mechanical Technician       JCE
18. Nkhoma A.O.M.          Bricklayer Technician       MSCE
19. Nkhoma B.              Mechanical Technician       STD8
20. Phinifolo Y.           Bricklayer Technician       STD8
21. Seula M.J.             Bricklayer Technician       JCE
22. Stande D.K.            Mechanical Technician       JCE
23. Simeji M.              Mechanical Technician       JCE
24. Simoni A.              Mechanical Technician       STD8
Table 3 Distribution of Level of Qualification
Frequency                    Qualification
1                           none
8                           STD8
11                           JCE
4                           MSCE



- 89-
Annex 8
Page 4 of 4
Training Course
The training was conducted at Nathenje Residential Training Center (NRTC) for the theoretical
sessions of the course and at Mwatibu full Primary School (MFPS) for the demonstrations and practical
sessions. The training commenced on 18th August 1995 and ended on 31st August 1995. The training
was designed and conducted by Dr. M.M. Bizaliele and Mr. G.K. Kululanga.
The details of the course are shown in table 2. The training was initially conducted in a
classroom to cover the theoretical components of the course in a participative manner before going to the
field for demonstrations. Visual aids, manuals, leaflets and course modules were used and given to
participants to enhance understanding of the subjects covered. Examples and demonstrations were
conducted. About 60% of the training time was devoted to field work. Because their work will involve
working with communities in the field-group participation was simulated to reflect conditions likely to
be experienced in the field.
After every lesson, the participants were requested to evaluate the day's lesson in terms of
approach of lecturer, contact with participants, language used, relevance of topic taught, approach taken,
methods used, use of handouts and clarity of lesson; whether the lesson was too difficult or too simple,
whether there was enough time available. This helped to modify the subsequent lessons to meet the
participants needs.
Control Measures
At the end of each module, the participants were evaluated to determine the extents to which
they had understood the lessons individually and as a group through practical and oral exercisers. This
helped to establish the extent to which specific objectives were fulfilled.
Observations
The participants were all keen to learn and understand particular items of the course, the
candidate who came late lagged behind his fellow participants. The only candidate who could not speak
English delayed the group because the lessons had to be repeated in Chichewa for his benefit.
Output of Training Programme
Important issues related to the technology in soil-cement pressed block making were presented
and participants have acquired sound skills in quality block production and laying, machine operation
and maintenance. All the specific objectives listed have been met. The training program is considered a
good example of staff development.



- 90 -
Annex 9
Page I of 2
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Key Project Performance Indicators
1995/96 1996/97 1997/98 1998/99   All
INDICATORS*                                (PPF)
1. Construction Program
Classrooms                                                             96    452      848     204    1600
Cladding of classrooms                                                 96    452      848      204    1600
Administration blocks                                                   12      19     31       13      75
Teacher houses                                                         24      38      62       26     150
Pit latrines                                                           24      113    212       51     400
Boreholes                                                               12      19     31       13      75
Furniture                                                            2880   13560  25440   6120  48000
2. Learning materials and textbook-related activities
Procurement of learning materials                                             50%     50%
Distribution of learning materials                                            50%     50%
Manual for materials management                                              100%
Printing of training modules for teacher training                      9%    46%    46%
Materials for school-based in-service training                                60%    20%    20%
Teaching and learning material packages for teachers                          60%    20%    20%
3. Training
Mobilization and orientation for DEOs and community leaders           50%    50%
two weeks workshop for MIE staff on effective use of textbooks               100%
Orientation of 300 to train teachers on effective use of textbooks            50%    25%    25%
Staff development for trainers at TTCs, PEAs, and headteachers                50%    50%
School-based in-service training for PEAs, heads, and deputy-heads            60%    20%    20%
Sub-zonal in-service training: PEAs, head-teachers & experienced teachers     60%    20%    20%
4. Miscellaneous
Hydraform machines                                                     28
Vehicles for SU and EDMU                                                     100%
Computers for SU, EDMU                                                       100%
Motorcycles for PEAs                                                          315
B. Process
PEAs- frequency of visit
Primary teachers qualified (%)                                        58%    58%
Frequency of headmaster-teacher interaction
Computerization of the Supply Unit                                           100%
textbook evaluation                                                           50%    25%    25%
Set-up of PICMO                                                       80%    20%
C. Outputs/Outcome
Number of primary student places : all                               5760  27120  50880   12240  96000
Primary student places: female (%)                                     47      47      48       49      48
Pupil-permanent classroom ratio                                       153      150     143     142     147
Repetition rate (%)*                                                    17      15      13      11
Dropout rate (%)*                                                       17      15      13      11
* 1993/94 rates reported (MOE). Govemments target is to reduce these rates to 5% by 2005.
These and oter indicators will be monitored to ensure improvement in intemal efficiency.



- 91 -
Annex 9
Page 2 of 2
The Government's policy for educational development lays down specific targets for
indicators such as enrollment ratios, teacher-pupil ratios, class size, number of pupils per textbook, pass
rate of the primary school leaving certificate. These and ot'ier indicators (input, process, and output) will
be monitored regularly during this and the upcoming TESC projects' implementation to assess their
contribution to the Government's plan, and for their long-term impact.
Key Sector-wide Performance Indicators
Most Recent         Year          Data
Indicators                                            Estimate                        Source
Inputs
Finance
% of expenditure from total GOM budget                                                                  2 1    1994/95    MOE
% of GDP assigned to education                                                                          7.5   1994/95     Pov.Prof.
% of ed. development expend. from total dev. budget                                                       8     .         MOE
% of ed. recurrent expend. from total recurrent budget                                                  25
% of education expenditure assigned to primarv                                                          73
 of education expenditure assigned to secondary                                                         i 5_.._.._..
% of education expenditure assigned to tertiary                                                         12        ..        ..
Teachers
Number of primary teachers                                                                          45,765        1994/95    MOE
Number of secondary teachers                                                                          2.672    1993/94
% of pritmary unqualified teachers                                                                      42    1994/95
Primary pupil-teacher ratio                                                                             6i    1994/95
School buildings & facilities
Number of primary classrootms                                                                       20,036    1993/94    MOE
Number of primary schools                                                                            3,118    1992/93        ..
Pupils per primary classrooms: permanent                                                               154    1994/95
Instructional materials & equipment
Students per textbooks (Chichewa, Math, English)                                                         3    1994/95    MOE
Primary: proportion with access to desks                                                                 7    1994/95
General Attendance
Primary enrollment: all                                                                          2,860,819    1994/95    MOE
% of girls in printary                                                                                47    1994/95
% of girls in upper-primary (Std.6-8)                                                                 42    1994/95
Primary Gross Enrollment rate (GER)                                                                                         .     -
Female                                                                                                127    1994/95    MOE
All                                                                                                   134    1994/95
Secondary schools: total enrollmnent (Formsl-4)                                                     45,990    1993/94
% of girls in secondary schools                                                                         39    1993/94       ..
MCDEs: Total Enrollment                                                                             56,319    1993/94
% of girls in MCDEs                                                                                      3    1993/94
Secondary Gross Enrollment rate (GER): 1987-1992                                                         4           1994 SiD
Outputs/outcomes
% Literacy rates: all                                                                              45                     BDDCA
Female                                                                                           30                     BDDCA
Percentage reaching Std.4 (1987-1992)                                                              69                1994 SiD
% completing primary w/in normal period (1981/82 class)                                                 19                    USAiD.
Official PSLCE pass rate                                                                                79       1994     MOE
% of transition rate (PSLCE)                                                                       12            1993
Official MCE pass rate                                                                                  65       1993
Dropotit rate: all                                                                                             1993/94
Males                                                                                                       1993/94
Females                                                                                               17    1993194
Dropout rate Std.6-7: All                                                                               14     1993/94       .
Males                                                                                                       1993/_94
Females                                                                                               18    1993/94
Primary repetition rate: all (1987-1992)                                                                       1993/94
Av'erage number of years taken to complete primary, males                                                13    1993/94         USAID
Average nuimber of years taken to complete primary, females                                            16.!   1993i94          USALD



- 92 -
Annex 10
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision activities under the proposed project would be carried out by the EDNMU under the
direction of the Team Leader and by the PTDPCU and the Supplies Unit. The supervisory functions
would include:
(a)   initial review, recording and forwarding of:
i. all procurement orders
ii. all disbursement requests
iii. special accounts expenditures/reimbursements and statements of expenses;
(b)    preparation of annual implementation budgets;
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contracts documents;
(d)    preparation of monthly financial statements;
(e)    preparation of progress reports on all aspects of project implementation;
(f)    monitoring of key performance indicators to be agreed during negotiations;
(g)    arranging for the annual audits of project accounts and SOEs; and
(h)   liaising with IDA supervision mission.
In addition to field supervision as specified below, IDA staff would spend an estimated 4 staff-
weeks per annum at headquarters during the early implementation years reviewing and commenting on
procurement documents and disbursement requests, and a further 3 staff-weeks per annum over the
course of project execution for reviewing reports and audited accounts and for IDA support for project
implementation.
A mid-term review of GOM and IDA would be undertaken around September 1997. The TOR
would be prepared by IDA and agreed with GOM prior to the review date. The review will assess
physical, institutional and financial progress of the first 1 1/2 years of project implementation as
measured against targets that were agreed at negotiations. Based on the reviews, the program will be
adjusted to be consistent with the targets as revised according to experience gained by the time of the
mid-term review.



- 93 -
Annex 10
Page 2 of 2
IDA Supervision Input
Approximate             Activity                       Staffing               Staff Weeks
Date
3/96       Project Launch Workshop    Task Manager                             8
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Disbursement
Education Specialist
Textbook Specialist
Architect/Implementation Specialist
6/96       Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             4
Architect/Implementation Specialist
Financial Analyst
9/96       Annual Review              TaskManager                              5
Architect/Implementation Specialist
Textbook Specialist
Financial Analyst
Education Specialist
3/97       Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             4
Architect/Implementation Specialist
Financial Analyst
9/97       Mid-Term Review            Task Manager                             8
Disbursement Officer
Procurement Disbursement
Education Specialist
Textbook Specialist
Architect/Implementation Specialist
3/98       Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             3
Financial Analyst
9/98       Annual Review              Task Manager                             5
Architect/Implementation Specialist
Textbook Specialist
Financial Analyst
3/99       Supervision Mission        Task Manager                             8
(Preparatory work for the  Disbursement Officer
Project Implementation    Procurement Disbursement
Completion Report          Education Specialist
Textbook Specialist
Architect/Implementation Spec.



- 94 -                          Annex 11
Page I of 2
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Procurement Packaging and Phasing of Civil Works
Advance work on design and construction was begun under the PPF. Bids for the first 3 schools
were openned on October 13, 1995. On October 27, bids on the next batch of 9 complete primary
schools were openned. For the PEP, the appraisal mission planned for a fast start by packaging the first
procurement into smaller packages that will be bid under the faster National Competitive Bidding
(NCB). Most bidders will already be familiar with the construction technique and with the tender
documents themselves, having placed bids on similar buildings at the PPF stage. During these first 6
months of the PEP (probably between March and August 1996), when the Education Development
Management Unit (EDMU) and the Private and Independent Construction Management Organization
(PICMO) are new to the tasks, the procurement is of a modest amount, and all of it NCB. During the
subsequent three 6-month periods, the construction activity gears up, procurement packages become
considerably larger, and ICB is used in most cases, while continuing with NCB and smaller procurement
packages for isolated areas. During the last 6 months, the proposed procurement tapers off, with a safety
net period of six months at the end to wrap up any incomplete construction, without having to extend the
closing date. ICB will be used for about 70% of the civil works, and NCB for about 30%.
The spreadsheet which follows this page describes the proposed packaging by region and divided
into 6-month segments. Combinations and division amongst the currently proposed packages are
encouraged, at the informed discretion of the PICMO.



Proposed PEP Procurement Packaging for Civil Works (construction of Shells)
Northem Region         Central Region         Southem Region                        All Malawi
Prolecl            Complete  Classrooms for Complete  Classrooms for Complete  Classrooms for Complete  Classrooms for
Mofeths             Primary      existing    Pnmary      existing     Prirnary    existing    Primary      existing
Months             Schools    schools       Schools    schools )    Schools    schools.)     Schools    schools.)
Number              2           20          4            40          4            40         10           100
1 to 6  Cost (US$)    14,400       70,000    228,800       140,000    228,800      140,000    572,000       350,000
Sub-total                 $184,400                $368,800                 $368,800                 $922,000
Number              4           40          8            80         :             80         20          200
7 to 12  Cost (USS)   228,800       140,000    457,600      280,000    4St,6W0       280,000   1,144,000      700,000
Sub-total                 $368,800                $73 6O0       ''73tj6dO                         $1,844,000
Number              5           60         10           120         10           120         25          300
13 to 18 Cost (USS)   286,000       210,000    572,000      420,000    81Z,OW        420.000   1,430,000     1,050,000
Sub-total                 $496,000  .                                                              Z., j ..2,0O  $2,480,000 |0
Number              5           60         10           120       . iV:::       : A20        25          300                      U
19 to 24 Cost (USS)   286,000       210,000    572,000      420,000    57Z000       .420,0O0    1,430,000    1,050,000
Sub-total                 $496,000               79200            ,-    $99200                    $2,480,000
Number              4           20.                      40.  .0                  40         20           100
25 to 30 Cost (USs)   228,800        70,000    457,000    .j0,000    4$700                     1,144,000      350,000
Sub-total                 $298,800                S59Z,600        ... ...    $597,600             51,494,000
Number              0            0          0             0          0            0           0            0
31 to 36 Cost (US$)         0            0          0             0          0             0          0             0
Sub-lolal
Number             20          200         40           400         40          400         100         1,000
1 to 36  Cost (US)    1,144,000    700,000   2,288,000    1,400,000   2,288,000    1,400,000   5,720,000    3.500.000
Total Cost              $1,844,000               $3,688,000              $3,688,000               59,220.000
o _
It',



- 96 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Further Details on Past Education Projects
The first Education Project - Cr. 102-MAI, which closed on March, 1980 focused on secondary
school expansion, primary teacher training, and introduction of technical subjects in secondary schools.
All objectives, except for the last were achieved.
The second Education Project (Cr. 590-MAI, closed on June, 1982) was approved in 1975, and
accomplished its project objectives, namely, primary teacher training and expansion of secondary
education. But one component, the establishment of 'model' primary schools was not carried out, since
the necessary community participation was not organized effectively.
The third Education Project (Cr. 910-MAI, closed on May, 1986), begun in 1979, concentrated
on the expansion and improvement of primary education and primary teacher training, and the expansion
of correspondence/distance learning facilities. In addition, the Project endeavored to establish an Institute
of Education (for teacher upgrading), and to strengthen of educational management and planning. While
the Project was successful in meeting its objectives, reduction of primary school enrollment disparities
amongst districts was not achieved.
The fourth Education Project (1123-MAI, closed on December, 1986), approved in 1981, was
concurrently carried out with a focus on secondary education expansion, and secondary teacher output at
the university, both of which objectives were successfully fulfilled. Preparation of a National Education
Plan and pre-investment studies were undertaken under the Project. In 1983, the fifth Education Project
(1330-MAI, completed on September, 1990) was approved. This was directed to improvement of
primary education, expansion of primary teacher training, expansion of regular secondary education as
well as the Malawi College of Distance Education (MCDE), and increasing the number of trained
accountants: all of these were achieved. Preparation of a school mapping survey and studies regarding
delivery and utilization of books were also undertaken.
The next project, the first Education Sector Credit (1767-MAI, closed on December 1994), was
approved in 1987. The objectives were; primary school expansion and quality improvement, expansion
of secondary schools, and institutional development. The Project achieved mixed results. Most of the
planned primary and secondary school expansion was carried out, with some shortfall. The MOE
headquarters, and MCDE's organization were significantly strengthened and improved, and the
Government successfully increased education's budget share beyond the target of 15.5% to 17.5%.
Teacher upgrading through JC/MCE certification, and the merging of the two national teacher
examination systems was also carried out, and post-primary cost recovery and university loan schemes
were initiated.
But, the upgrading of underqualified teachers (due to logistical problems), and textbook
provision (due to changes in the curriculum), were not undertake, but were completed in the follow-up
project. In addition, studies planned under the Project were not satisfactorily done.



- 97 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 2
Under the first Education Sector Project, it was a major assumption for primary school
construction work that communities would mold bricks. However, the bricks were often not available or
not sufficient when needed, and the quality was often sub-standard. There were also varying levels of
commitment among communities. This resulted in delays and high costs since bricks had to be purchased.
As a consequence, not all classrooms and teachers' houses were completed, (a drop of 29% from what was
planned).
The clear lesson is that the Bank should realistically assess the level of community involvement in
the designi and implementation of Bank-assisted projects, and accordingly formulate a flexible framework
for community participation through which awaiting communities' contribution for school construction will
not cause project delay. Using this experience the EPEP is taking a different approach to community input.
The project will construct classroom "shells", consisting of a foundation, frame and roof, and the
communities will provide the in-fills (walls, windows etc.). This has two benefits: first, communities'
participation will come in after shell completion; thus the shell construction will not be affected by possible
delays in the response of communities; and secondly, these shells can be used without the in-fills so that
children who are taking their lessons can immediately use these classroom shells.



- 98 -
Annex 13
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Structure of Tuition and Fees and
Other Associated Costs of Primary Education
Structure of Tuition and Fees
Std I   Std 2    Std 3    Sto 4    Std 5  St: 6     Std 7     Stcea
Rural
Tuition   2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00       4.00      4.00      4.00
Add'tl fees   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
School Fund      .5     .5      .5      .5       .5         .5        .5        .5
Total    3.5     3.5     3.5     3.5      3.5       5.5       5.5       5.5
Urban
Tuition   2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00    2.00       4.00      4.00      4.00
Add'tl fees   1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00    1.00      1.00      1.00      1.00
School Fund      .5     .5      .5      .5        .5        .5        .5        .5
Maintenance      1       1        1       1        1         1         1
Total    4.5    4.5      4.5     4.5      4.5       6.5       6.5       6.5
USD
Rural   .50      .50     .50     .50      .50        .79       .79      .79
Urban    .64      .64     .64     .64      .64       .93       .93       .93
Source: U.S. AID GABLE (mnseo)
Estimated Primary School Private Expenditures of Schooling
I Y CyIratt                                Awrag.UrftPrceI
NI _Nd (rmin)       R to d Purchas            Estrrtz     l
Rural   Urbn Poor Otw Urtan   Ru     Urrn
Uniform             1 in 2 yrs        30%      50%      100%     35.00    45 00
Exercise Books       15 on average     0%        0%      60%      2.40     2.00
Pens                2 peryear            2        2        4      1.20      1.00
Fees                 I time fee      100%      100%     100%      4.25      5.25
Home Ec. Materials    1 per girl      20%      20%      100%      1.00      1.50
Totals                                                           43.85    54.75
June 1994 USO                                                     6.26      7.82



- 99 -                                Annex 14
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year and Quarter Ending   Quarterly      Cumulative       Disbursement
Disbursements   (US$m)            % of Total
(US$m)
FY 1996             Sep-30-95            0.1              0.1               6
Dec-31-95            0.3              0.4
Mar-31-96            0.4              0.8
Jun- 30-96           0.6              1.4
FY 1997             Sep-30-96            1.0              2.4               39
Dec-31-96            1.4              3.8
Mar-31-97            2.0              5.8
Jun- 30-97           3.0              8.8
FY 1998             Sep-30-97            3.5              12.3              89
Dec-31-97            3.0             15.3
Mar-31-98            2.5             17.8
Jun- 30-98           2.3             20.1
FY 1999             Sep-30-98            1.0              21.1             100
Dec-31-98            0.8             21.9
Mar-31-99            0.5             22.5



- 100-
Annex 15.a
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Technical Assistance Services
Project Component               Technical Assistance Service       Number of  Duration in Staffmont
/ Subsector                                                      Persons*       by Status / Type
Foreign    National
1. Primary School               - Orientation Workshop by MOE Staff          10                    30
Construction                  - Private and Independent                     7         36        216
Construction Management Org.
- Mobilization of Communities by NGOs        30                    60
- Hydraform Training                         2                     4
3. Teacher Development         - Staff Development for PTDP/MOE               2                    24
Program                     - Conducting Residential Courses for Heads     2          2
and Lecturers of TTCs
- Training of PEAs, Heads & Deputy-heads       5                    5
in Organizing Training & Supervision
- Training of Tutors, PEAs & Heads in         4           1         3
Assessing Students through Projects,
Assignments & Exams
- Evaluation of Program for PEAs & Heads      3           6         12
3. Learning Materials and       - Strengthening of the Supplies Unit          1          3
Textbook-related Activities    - Training in use of Textbooks             41         0.5        10
- Textbook Evaluation                        12                   60
4. Policy Development, and      - Studies, Beneficiary Assessments,          II          10        100
Strengthening of EDMU         Systematic Client Consultation
- Broaden Policy Dialogue/                   4           2         12
Strengthen Planning Unit
- Support to Project Management Team in      2                     16
EDMU
* TAs needed in addition to those trainers already in system (within MOE, PTDP, MIE, CERT & MANEB).



- 101 -
Annex 15.b
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Summary of Local and Foreign Training
Project Component                  Type of Training            Number   Duration in Staffmonth
/ Subsector                                                   of         By Status/Type
Persons
Foreign     National
1. Primary School              - Orientation Workshop                  100                      10
Construction                 - Mobilization of Communities by        500                     35
NGOs
- Hydraform Training                     60                     30
2. Teacher Development         - Staff Development for PTDP/MOE         50          15          40
Program                      - Conducting Residential Courses for    250                     25
Heads and Lecturers of TTCs
- Orientation of DEOs, & DDEOs in      100                      30
MIITEP Management
- Training of PEAs, Heads & Deputy-   6,300                    1,950
heads in Organizing Training &
Supervision
- Sub-zonal INSET & Supervision of    20,000                  71,000
Untrained Teachers *
- Training of Tutors, PEAs & Heads    6,500                    650
in Assessing Students through
Projects, Assignments & Exams
- Evaluation of Program for PEAs &    6,300                    1,890
Heads
- Audio-visual Equipment Training for   14                       1
TTC Staff
- Sub-zonal INSET for All Teachers    48,000                  14,400
- School-based INSET for All Teachers   48,000                28,800
3. Learning Materials and      - Strengthening of the Supplies Unit     7          10
Textbook-related Activities    - Orientation of 300 PEAs in Use of   300                     75
Textbooks
- Workshop for MIE Staff in Use of      40                      20
Textbooks
4. Policy Development, and     - Training for EDMU & PU Staff           4          2            4
Strengthening of EDMU       - Broaden Policy Dialogue/Strengthen
Planning Unit                         6           2           12
* With students spending 15% of their total available time on INSET.



- 102 -                              Annex 16
Page I of I
MALAWI
PRIMARY EDUCATION PROJECT
Documents in Project Files
1. Malawi: The Capital and Recurrent Expenditure Implications of "Free" Primary Education,
Preliminary Draft, Peter N. Ngomba
2. Basic Education Statistics, 1993: Planning Division, MOE, Malawi
3. Basic Education Statistics, 1994: Planning Division, MOE, Malawi
4. Malawi: Preparation of a Component for Strengthening School Inspection and Supervision, Office
Memo, Ward Heneveld, December 12, 1994
5. Inspection and Supervision of Education: Creating Conditions for Improving Learning in Schools,
Report, Ward Heneveld, et.al., June 13-24 1994
6. Report on Proposed Community Schools, Mark Bray, ODA, September, 1994
7. Primary Education in Malawi Ways Forward; Report, June6-10, 1994
8. Gable Social Mobilization Campaign, A paper by Zikani Kaunda, July-September, 1994
9. Girls' Attainment in Basic Literacy and Education Phase II: Economic and Financial Analysis, by
Ashok Chakravarti, ACV Consultants, Lilongwe, August 30, 1994
10. Malawi: Fiscal Implications of Primary Education Policy by P.J.Dearden, ODA, November 9, 1994
11. Malawi: Education Expenditure Overview by Lynn lion, prepared for M. Wodajo, November 13,
1994
12. Malawi Social Action Fund: Systematic Client Consultation. A Report on the Research Findings.
Draft Report, 1995
13. Teacher Development for FPE in Malawi: Interim Discussion Paper, German Agency for Technical
Cooperation, Confidential Report, June, 1995
14. Study Tour to Senegal and Ghana to Study Community Based School Construction Program: July2-
July 15, 1995. Mrs. H.G. Kawalewae & MCH Jere
15. World Bank Project Preparation Study: Education Sector Credit III - Malawi. Canadian Malawi
Education Consortium. Hickling Corporation, Hendrik Wiebe Associates, March 31, 1995
16. Malawi: Public Education spending, Policy Changes, and the Poor; 1990-95. F. Castro-Leal, June
1995, Draft
17. Who Benefits from Public Education Spending in Malawi? F. Castro-Leal, October 1995, Draft
18. Malawi Primary Community Schools Project 1995-2002, British Development Division in Central
Africa (BDDCA), November 1994
19. Gender Appropriate Curriculum Development in Primary Education in Malawi, Bettina Moll-
Druecker, Dora Mwalwenje, MIE/USAID/GAC Program, July 1993



IBRD 27693
CIITI PA
(32)
37 ~   ~~~~~~~~                                                                                         ~         ~~~~~~~~ R  146 (o A
(22)
MALAWI
I38)                        NUMBER OF CLASSROOMS
TO BE BUILT UNDER P.E.P.
(22)  NUMBER OF CLASSROOMS
)         .;L e                        PRDISTRICT
(60) -A .6H /   pTA                              -    DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
(_ (60)   /    BAYl
iX     (48)                             -     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
_   I,,:          KILOMETERS 0   20  40  60  80  100
KNKHOTAKOT.A                                _
PASIJNC;I          (26)                              MILES 0      20     40      60
(20)
(A  MA
[82)
-    9     I~~~~KFW)  eLILONGWEl 
The  boundories, colors,                                            NTC
denominations and  any
other information shown                                               18rKW
on  this  map   do   notAIA
imply.  on  t e  part of
The World  Bank  Group,                                                     IK
any judgment on the I-eal 
status  of any  territory,
or any  endorsement
or acceptance of such                                                               ZOMBA
boundaries.?                                                              /  \\   (KFW)
*K@As\KE9Y    <5O"LIA                                       L     .      T       F
*KENYALA
Guaubi 2  .    <                                   <~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~120
TANZANIA            M,-'ANJI
X   X            ,. t . AQ                      CH~~~~~~~~~~~I KViAYxA  9    0  
k~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ *. - -                                                                                          3 
-  -           1 MOZAMJ3OUE                       -                    NA:e
ZIMBABWE
NAMIBIA           J
BOTSWANA A                                                                   5
{   r   MADA0A%CAE                                                                          1
DECEMBER 1995









IMAGING
Report No:       15127
Type: SAR



