Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 6531-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJEC.
May 7, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their offical duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Brazilian Cruzados (Cz$)
US$1          - Cz$ 23.88  (April 20, 1987)
Cz$ 1         - US$0.0419  (April 20, 1967)
Weights and Measures
Metric System
Fiscal Year
January 1 - December 31
Abbreviatiois and Acronyms
BNDES     - Banco Nacional de Desenvolvimento Economico e Social
National Economic and Social Development Bank
CBTU      - Companhia Brasileira de Trens Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Train Company
CFP       - Comissao de Financiamento da Producao
Agricultural Production Financing Commission
CIP       - Conselho Interministerial dos Precos
Interministerial Committee for Price Control
CTRIN     - Comissao do Trigo Nacional
National Wheat Commission
CVRD      - Companhia Vale do Rio Doce
Rio Doce Valley Company
DER       - Departamento de Estradas de Rodagem (Estatal)
State Roads Department
DERSA     - Desenvolvimento Rodoviario, S.A.
Highway Development Corporation
DNER      - Departamento Nacional de Estradas de Rodagem
National Federal Roads Department
EBTU      - Empresa Brasileira de Transportes Urbanos
Brazilian Urban Transport Enterprise
EFVM      - Estrada de Ferro Vitoria-Minas
Vitoria-Minas Railway Company
ERR       - Economic Rate of Return
FEPASA    - Ferrovia Paulista, S.A.
Sao Paulo Railway
GEIPOT    - Empresa Brasileira de Planejamento de Transportes
National Transport Planning Agency
INPC      - Indice Nacional de Precos ao Consumidor
National Consumer Price Index
MDU       - Ministerio de Desenvolvimento Urbano
Ministry of Urban Development
MIS       - Management Information System
MT        - Ministerio dos Transportes
Minist-y of Transport
OIS       - Operations Information System
PORTOBRAS - Empresa de Portos do Brasil, S.A.
Brazilian Port Enterprise
RFFSA     - Rede Ferroviaria Federal, S.A.
Federal Railway
SEP       - Secretaria de Planejamento do Estado de Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Planning - Sao Paulo State
SEPLAN    - Secretaria de Planejamento
Federal Planning Secretariat
ST        - Secretaria dos Transportes do Estado de Sao Paulo
Secretariat of Transport - Sao Paulo State
SUNAMAM   - Superintendencia Nacional da Marinha Mercante
National Agency for Merchant Marine



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT             FOR OMCL41 USE ONLY
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
I.  PROJECT SUMMARY ............. ............ ........................        1
II.  THE TRANSPOR: SECTOR .............3
A.   An Overview in the National Context               ...                 3
B.   Transport in the State of Sao Paulo                                   4
C.   The FEPASA Railway, an Overview                                       6
Do   Country Sector Strategy   7....... ..........................         7
E.   Bank Experience in the Sector                                         7
III.  THE FEPASA RAILWAY  ........                                               8
A.   Organization and iinances                                             8
B.   Economic Role of the Railway                                         10
C.   Tariffs and Marketing                                                11
D.   Operations and Maintenance ...............................1..        1
E.   Personnel Management and Training                                    13
F.   Investment Program 1987-1991 ........................ .......        14
IV.  THE PROJECT *.o .......... .... ........... ............ .....            15
A.   Project Objectives and Rationale ...........................    15
B.   The Policy and Institutional Development Action Program . ..    16
(-i)   Actions to be Taken ...*................    16
(ii)   Targets .........            ......................   ..      19
C.   Project Description           .......................................    19
(i)   The Rehabilitation Program           ...........................    19
(ii)   The Technical Assistance Program           .....................    20
(iii)   The Training Program .................................        20
D.   Project Cost and Financing ..,.............................         21
E.   Project Implementation, Disbursements and Audits         ...........    21
F.   Procurement        ...................... ......................    24
G.   Projected Financial Performance ..................... .......    25
H.   Project Economic Evaluation           ................................    26
I,   Project Risks ....@        ............................o......eeo.    26
V.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION          ....................    27
This report is based upon the findings of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil in September 1986. The mission comprised Messrs. J. Cellier (Project
Officer), J. Baigorria (Railway Engineer), T. Markus (Financial Analyst),
D. Klaus (Loan Officer) and Consultants Messrs. J. Bergouignan (Railway
Operations Specialist), R. Carruthers (Railway Economist) and P. Lindemann
(Training Specialist).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfotmance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page No.
TABLES
2.1    National Transport Output by Mode, 1980-1986           .....................    30
2.2    Federal Investments in the Transport Sector .....................         31
2.3    Some Key Characteristics of the Brazilian Railways          ..............    32
2.4    Sao Paulo State Freight Transport Output by Mode, 1975-1985 .....0        33
3.1    FEPASA Income Statements, Total Operation, 1980-1993          ............    34
3.2    FEPASA Fund Flow Statements, 1980-1993 ..........................         35
3.3    FEPASA Balance Sheets, 1980-1993            ................................    36
3.4    Price Structure of Petroleum Automotive Fuels  .......,       ...........    37
3.5    FEPASA Traffic, 1975-1993 ..........................          ,,,  ,  38
3.6    FEPASA's Operating Statistics, 1980-1986            ........................    39
3.7    FEPASA's Motive Power, 1986 .......        ..............................  41
3.8    Summary of FEPASA's Motive Power Requirements, 1987-1993  ........    42
3.9    FEPASA's Rolling Stock, 1986        ....................................  44
3.10   Summary of FEPASA's Rolling Stock Requirements, 1987-1993 .......    45
3.11   FEPASA's Investment Plan, 1987-1991            .............................    46
4.1    Project Cost Summary .                                                    47
4.2    Action Program, Technical Assistance and Training - Cost Table t.    48
4.3    Araguari-Santos Corridor - Cost Table ...........................         49
4.4    Broad Gauge Corridor -Cost Table             ...............................    50
4.5    Meter Gauge Corridor -Cost Table ...............................          51
4.6    Track Plants, Workshors and Rolling Stock - Cost Table ...........        52
4.7    Project Financing Plan .....................                        .    53
4.8    Action Program, Technical Assistance and Training - Financing
Table           ,.,    54
4.9    Araguari-Santos Corridor - Financing Table ......................         55
4.10   Broad Gavue Corridor - Financing Table                                    56
4.11   Meter Gauge Corridor - Financing Table                                    57
4.12   Track Plants, Workshops and Rolling Stock - Financing Table .....,   58
4.13   Estimated Schedule of Disbursements                                       59
4.14   Allocation of Loan Proceeds .....................................    60
ANNEXES
I      -  Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector in Brazil 1............  h
2      -  FEPASA Financial. Performance           .................................    67
3      -  FEPASA Costing, Tariffs and Marketing .                                77
4      -  FEPASA Freight Traffic Forecast ..............................    81
5      -  FEPASA operating Performance            .................................    91
6      -  The Rehabilitation Program 4444444444.4444444.*44444....444444    93
7      -  The Technical Assistance Program ......4444      .................   107
8      -  The Training Program 4 44444.4...4 44 4   115
9      -  Economic Evaluation of FEPASA's Investment Program                    119
10     -  Econotnic Evaluation of the Project and Project Components            125
11     -  Economic Evaluation of FEPASA's Electrifica:ion Project               141
12     -  ProjA'ct Implementation and Monitoring ........................    155
13     -  Selected Documents and Data Available in the Project File ....   161
CHARTS
1      -  Organization of the Ministry of Transport  ...................    162
2      -  Organization of the Sao Paulo State Transport Secretariat             163
3      -  organization of FEPASA                                                164
MAPS
IBRD 20356   -  BRAZIL - Railroads
IBRD 11571R1 - BRAZIL - Sao Paulo State Railroads



BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY Rk~'ABILITATION PROJECT
I. PROJECT TSUMMARY
Borrower:       Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (FEPASA)
Guarantor:     Federative Republic of Brazil
Amount:         US$100 million equivalent
Terms:          Repayment in 14 years, including three and one half years of
grace, at the Bank's standard variable interest rate.
Project        The project would provide assistance to FEPASA in the
Description:   implementation of (i) an action program for the financial
rehabilitation and the improved commercial performance of the
railway and (ii) an investment component designed to increase
transport efficiency in the three main railway corridors
leading ti' Sao Paulo and to the port of Santos. The action
program includes measures for an organizational and financial
restructuring of FEPASA, the rationalization of railway
operations and improved corporate and business planning,
appropriate tariffs and effective marketing and cost-control,
upgraded operations and maintenance management systems, and
effective personnel management and training. The investment
component essentially incluces the rehabilitation and
improvement of the most critical line sections, yards,
telecommunication systems, rolling stock and workshops, and
track maintenance and intermodal facilities.
Beneficiaries: Quantifiable project benefits would be realized by FEPASA in
the form of cost savings on train and yard operations and on
track maintenance, and, because of the competition with the
trucking industry, they will, to a large extent, be passed
over to the railway users. Substantial benefits would accrue
particularly to agricultural, industrial and export producers
in the areas of influence of the three corridors. The action
program would support Federal and State Government and
FEPASA's management efforts to turn the State railway into a
financially and commercially viable enterprise.
Risks:          Project benefits could be aff_cted by lever-than-expected
economic performance, particularly in the agriculture and
export sectors in the regions served by the project corridors,
and by unexpected delays in project implementation. However,
assuming that the transport demand is 20% below the forecast
and project costs are 20% higher than the estimates, the
project would still have a 14% rate of return. An appropriate
project monitoring system would be established to minimize the
risks.



-2-
Estimated Costs: 1/                                     -US$ Million …
Local    Foreign    Total
Civil Works                                         34.7        19.6      54.3
Materials                                           36.5        45.9      82.4
Equipment                                           24.2        50.4      74.6
Mechanical Works                                    13.7        15.6      29.3
Technical Assistance                                 7.0         2.7       9.7
Training                                             1.5         0.8       2.3
Total Base Cost                                    117.6       135.0    252.6
Physical Contingencies                               8.6         9.0      17.6
Price Contingencies                                  6.8         8.0      14.8
Total Project Cost                                 133.0       152.0    285.0
Financing Plan:                                          --      US$ Million-
Local    Foreign    Total
IBRD                                                 -         100.0    100.0
BNDES                                               69.3        38.5    107.8
Cofinanciers                                         -          13.5      13.5
FEPASA                                              63.7         -        63.7
Total                                              133.0       152.0    285.0
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                       86      89     90      91    92    93    94
Annual:                      9.0 2/ 15.0   24.0   25.0   ,0   7.0    3.0
Cumulative:                  9.0 2/ 24.0   48.0   73.0  90.0  97.0  100.0
Rate of Return: about 21%, basel on an evaluation of the investment
component, which represents 94% of the total project cost.
1/ Including estimated local taxes and duties totaling US$45.8 million.
2/ Including initial deposits into the Special Accounts totaling US$5.0
million.



- 3 -
1I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   An Overview in the National Context
2.01      Brazil's rapid economic growth in the 1960s and 1970s, the
development of widely spread agricultural and mineral resou es, and the
large industrial base led to unprecedented increases in transport needs.
Transport output growth exceeded the average GDP growth of 7.5% per annum,
with freight and interurban passenger trafric increasing at an average 9% and
13% per annum respectively. Freight traffic stabilized with the recession in
the early 1980s, w'iereas passenger traffic continued to grow, but at a much
slower pace. With the economic recovery beginning in 1984, traffic growth
resumed at annual rates on the order of 6 to 7% (Table 2.1). Transport growth
in the medium term is expected to be close to GDP growth. Road transport
remains the dominant mode, with 55% of total freight and 95% of interurban
passenger traffic, but the railways have increased their participation in
freight transport from 17% in the early 1960s to 24% at present, specializing
in fewer commodities and longer hauls. Coastal shipping, virtually stagnant
for many years, developed after 1973, specializing in liquid- and dry- bulk
cargoes, and Brazilian flag particlpation in foreign trade incroased
markedly. Inland water transport, although not very significant countrywide,
is important in the Amazon basin and has developed recently in the South.
2.02      The management of the sector is shared among the Federal, State and
Municipal Govermnents, generally through large subsectoral agencies and
public enterprises under the jurisdiction of the (Federal) Ministry of
Transport and the State Secretariats for Transport (Chart 1). The National
Highway Department (DNER) administers the interstate trunk highways, while
the State Roads Departments (DERs) and the Municipal Governments are
responsible for other highways and the teeder roads. The Federal Railway
Company (RFFSA), a consolidation of 18 independent regional railways,
recently curtailed its commercially non-viable inter-city passenger services
and spun off its passenger train systems in the major metropolitan areas into
a subsidiary, the Brazilian Urban Train Company (CB,U), and it now operates
mostly freight services in Southeastern, Southern, and part of Northeastern
Brazil. The Sao Paulo State Railway (FEPASA), under the State Government's
jurisdiction, operates mainly freight services on a rail network which serves
the country's most developed region, formed by the State of Sao Paulo and
neighboring areas, as well as some passenger services, including in the Sao
Paulo metropolitan region. The large mining group Companhia Vale do Rio Doce,
which is under the Ministry of Mines and Energy, owns and operates two
essentially ore-carrier railways in the Southeast and in the North. The
administration of ports and inland waterways is handled by PORTOBRAS, a
Federally owned holding company which controls individual port companies and
agencies, and shipping is under the National Merchant Marine Superintendency
(SUNAMAM).
2.03      Public investments in the sector were directed, during the past two
decades, toward expanding the capacity of the transport system in line with
demand growth, and particularly toward construction and paving of the network
cf primary highways. After the 1973-74 oil shock, more emphasis was put upon
the development of rail and water transport. The Steel Railway and deep-sea



- 4 -
ports at Sepetiba and Tubarao were undertaken in conjunction with the
expansion of the steel industry, and specialized terminals were built in the
Southern ports to enable the expansion of agricultural exports. Considerable
resources were also allocated to shipbuilding programs and to developing a
national merchant marine, and programs were started to increase the capacity
and efficiency of the passenger train systems in the major metropolitan
regions. In the early 1980s, public investments were scaled down drastically
(Table 2.2). The completion of the Steel Railway was postponed, and port
investments were geared to the completion of integrated industrial projects
(the Tubarao steel mill and the Albras-Alunorte aluminium projects in the
North) and the Sepetiba coal terminal. The only significant new investments
made during this period were the recently completed Northwest Highway and
Carajas Railway, which were part of tne integrated Northwest development
program and the Carajas iron ore project respectively, both with Bank
support. The emphasis has also gradually shifted from new construction to
maintenance and to the rehabilitation of essential facilities. However, the
Government's austerity program and the containment of the tariffs of the
revenue-earning entities led to the postponement of needed maintenance and
rehabilitation works sectorwide and to the deterioration of substantial
portions of the transport system.
2.04      The railway subsector, including RFFSA and CBTU, FEPASA and CVRD's
two railways, currently represents a combined network of over 30,000 km and a
total annual output of 86 billion ton-km, 13 million inter-city passengers
and 560 million metropolitan passengers (Table 2.3). Over the past two
decades, with the development of the paved highway network, the railways have
lost significant shares of the inter-city passenger, break-bulk and short-
haul freight markets to the competitive road transport industry. Meanwhile,
they have been given a key role in the Brazilian Economy by the mining and
industrial development in the Southeast, and the expansion of the
agricultural frontier to the West, away from the major consumption centers
and ports, as well as by the recent growth of exports. The railways have
therefore gradually specialized in the transport of a few bulk products over
long hauls. However, Government control over railway tariffs and intervention
into RFFSA's and FEPASA's operations and investments, combined with the
railways' institutional weaknesses in many areas - particularly planning,
marketing and cost control - have led to recurrent deficits, to inappropriate
investments, and to excessive borrowing. In 1985, RFFSA management and the
Federal Government, with the support of the Bank (Loan No. 2563-BR),
undertook a comprehensive action plan for the financial rehabilitation and
the commercially oriented operation of the Federal railway. The project would
assist FEPASA's management and the Sao Paulo State Government in implementing
similar objectives.
B.   Transport in the State of Sao Paulo
2.05      The economy of the State of Sao Paulo accounts for about 40% of
Brazil's GDP. It is highly diversified, with about 50% of the labor force
employed in services, 40% in industry and 10% in agriculture. The State's
contribution to external trade is also significant. State exports represent
about 40% of the country's export total, and more than three-fourths, in
value terms, are manufactured products or semi-processed goods, the balance
being primary commodities.



2.06      Transport output in the State, measured in freight ton-km,
represents about 27% of the national transport output. It increased, in line
with the State GDP, at about 7% per annum in the second half of the 1970s,
decreased slightly during the recession, and had recuperated previous growth
rates beginning in 1985. Road transport accounts for 73% of the freight and
96% of the passenger traffic (Table 2.4). The railways, however, including
most of FEPASA's system and some sections of RFFSA's lines, have succeeded in
increasing their share of the freight market from 13% in the mid-1970s to 21%
at present, specializing in the transport of bulk cargoes such as petroleum
products, cement, industrial inputs, grain and soya products.   The remaining
freight transport (about 6%) is mostly liquid fuels moved by pipelines
between port terminals and the refineries. Port traffic for both domestic
coastal shipping and maritime external trade, the bulk of which is through
the port of Santos, totals about 30 million tons. Althougn air transport and,
to a Linaller extent, inland water transport have been developing rapidly,
their shares of the freight market remain marginal. In the medium term,
transport output in the State is expected to increase in line with the State
GDP, i.eo, at annual rates on the order of 5 to 6%.
2.07      The transport system in the State is well developed, with a road
network comprising about 20,000 km of primary highways, of which 90% are
paved and 8% are motorways, and 175,000 km of mostly unpaved municipal feeder
roads. The State Highways Manag2ment Project-Sao Paulo, which is currently
being processed, would assist the State Government to rehabilitate and /or
strengthen about 3,000 km of primary highways which have deteriorated as a
result of ncadequate maintenance and higher-than-expected traffic. The
railways have about 6,000 km of lines in the State; approximately 5,000 km
constitute FEPASA's network, and the rest are owned and operated by RFFSA
(Map IBRD 11571R1). Pipelines total about 1,400 km in length, and the port of
Santos has 11.5 km of quays. The airport system consists of three major
airports under Federal jurisdiction and 23 regional airports under the
State's jurisdiction.
2.08      The State's institutional organization in the sector is similar to
the Federal structure. Overall management responsibility for sector policy
and for coordination among subsectors is vested in the Secretariat of
Transport (ST), headed by the State Secretary for Transport, who reports
directly to the State Governor. Subsector management responsibilities are
4elegated to State agencies and to public enterprises. In particular, road
transport and State highways are administered by the Roads Department (DER-
SP), with the exception of toll motorways, which fall under the Highway
Development Corporation (DERSA). FEPASA, the State Railway, and the Sao Paulo
Airways (VASP), which is the second domestic airline, are under the
Secretariat's jurisdiction. The administration of ports and inland waterways
is vested in the Department of Waterways (DH), and that of regional aviation
in the Department of Aviation for the State (DAESP). The organizational
structure of ST is flexible; the State Secretary is assisted, in its policy
definition and sector coordination functions, by several permanent advisory
units staffed with a small number of highly qualified professionals and by
ad-hoc committees (Chart 2). In particular, the policy and planning advisory
unit, assisted by private consultants and public agencies such as GEIPOT and
the Sao Paulo Institute of Technology under long-term contracts, coordinates
sectoral planning. Coordination with the Federal Government is made through
GEIPOT and ad-hoc committees.



- 6
C.   The FEPASA Railway, an Overview
2.09      FEPASA was formed in 1971 by the merger of five separate rail:oads;
it is owned basically by the State of Sao Paulo. The network, which consists
of about 5,200 km of trackage, is organized into three main corridors which
converge toward the Sao Paulo metropolitan region and Santos: the Araguari-
Santos corridor, which originates North, in Minas Gerais; the broad gauge
corridor, which serves Northwest Sao Paulo State and part of Mato Grosso; and
the meter gauge corridor, to the West and toward Mato Grosso do Sul (Map
IBRD 11571R1). About 1,300 km of lines were electrified more than 40 years
ago: the rest of the system is diesel o erated. FEPASA owns about 500
locomotives and 13,000 wagons, and it h. a staff of about 20,000.
2.10      FEPASA is predominantly a frclght, heavy-haul railway. Over 80% of
the railway's operating revenues are derived from the freight business, and
about 90% of the freight traffic consists of a small number of bulk
commodities, mostly petroleum products and automotive alcohol, minerals,
cement, grains and soya products. Freight traffic increased at an average
annual rate of 14% during the second part of the 1970s, and it stabilized at
about 20 million tons (7.0 million ton-km) during the early 1980s. It started
to increase again in 1985, although a number of bottlenecks in the system,
including the poor condition of important line-sections and of a large
portion of the locomotive fleet are preventing FEPASA from attending the
demand fully. Freight traffic is forecast to increase at an average 5% to
6% p.a. in the medium term, provided the bottlenecks are removed, and then to
gradually stabilize. FEPASA's long-distance passenger traffic has been
decreasing constantly; it is now about six million passengers p.a. Passenger
commuter traffic in the metropolitan area increased rapidly, after 1978, to
close to 87 million p.a. at present, as a result of the capacity investments
made in the system.
2.11      FEPASA's freight business has generally been lucrative, with
freight revenues covering operating costs including depreciation, and
generating a cash surplus more than sufficient to compensate for the cash
deficits of the metropolitan and long-distance passenger services. The
railway, however, has constantly incurred losses because of its enormous
interest and other financial expenses. The Federal control over railway
tariffs and inappropriate interventions of the State Government into FEPASA's
investments and operations, together with FEPASA's own inefficiencies in
various areas, particularly planning, cost-control and management, led the
railway to rely excessively upon borrowings and quickly drove its debt to the
practically unmanageable level of about US$1.6 billion equivalent. The State
Government has recently signed an agreement with FEPASA to service and
capitalize FEPASA's obligations under the debt contracted prior to the end of
1986, assumed payment responsibility for future debt until FEPASA is
permitted to operate on a commercial basis, ane undertook to establish an
adequate normalization system for the efficient operation and the
rationalization of the commercially non-viable services and for the
appropriate financial compensation of FEPASA.  The Federal Government has
confirmed that the gradual tariff freedom which was granted to RFFSA would
also apply to FEPASA. The present project has been designed to support the
full implementation of these decisions, together with the necessary
institutional adjustments within FEPASA, with a view to achieve the financial
rehabilitation of the railway and to establish the conditions for its
operation on a basically commercial basis.



-7
D.   Country Sector Strategy
2.12     Transport policy in the second half of the 1980s, which is outlined
in the New Republic's First National Development Plan and in supporting
transport policy papers, should aim primarily to improve the efficiency and
performance of both private and public transport operators and to support the
country's agricultural growth, export development, and energy conservation
objectives. Priority is to be given to the financial rehabilitation of the
public enterprises and to the rationalization of their operations, and to
improving pricing, marketing and management, through greater reliance upon
market mechanisms. Emphasis would be put upon facilitating external trade
through improving operatiot,1l efficiency and intermodal coordination in the
export corridors and in the port systems, and upon ensuring adequate
transport in the agricultural regions. Public investments in the sector
should be focused upon the rehabilitation and maintenance of essential
facilities and upon cost-effective improvements to existing systems rather
than new construction. The Bank's strategy for the transport se.tor supports
these objectives; their implementation would be carried on with the project
as well as through continued sector dialogue with the Government.
E.   Bank Experience in the Sector
2.13      The Bank, until the m!d-1970s, supported the expansion of the
transport system, with five loans totaling US376 million for highways, three
loans totaling US$296 rmiillion for railways, and one loan of US$45 million for
ports. After 1975, Bank lending in the sector shifted toward the maintenance
and rehabilitation of the primary hignway network with two loans totaling
US$324 million, and toward the improvement of the secondary and feeder roads
systems, with three loans totaling US$319 million and with transport
components of 14 agricultural or rural development projects. In the early
1980s, the Bank also supported the construction of the Northwest Highway, of
the Porto-Alegre metropolitan train, and, through the integrated Carajas Iron
Ore project, of an 890-km railroad in the Northern region. In 1985, the Bank
approved a loan to the Federal Railway (RFFSA) to support its financial
rehabilitation and broad policy and institutional reforms for its operation
on a commercial basis. The Bank's experience with these projects, all of
which but the ongoing Third Feeder Roads, the Federal Highway Sector, and the
Federal Railway Projects are completed, has been successful, with, besides
physical investments, significant achievements in strengthening the
institutions' capabilities (Annex 1).
2.14      The Bank made a loan to FEPASA in 1975 (Loan 1171-BR for US$75
million) to finance the first two years of the railway's 1975-1979 investment
plan. The project was completed in 1982, after substantial delays and
reformulation. The project performance audit report 1/ concluded, in
particular: that the investment program, at an estimated cost of about US$1.6
billion, which the project supported was too large for FEPASA to implement
and was lacking an indication of priority among the numerous individual
investments; that control over executili was inadequate; but that, although
1/ Issued with Secretary's Memorandum M-86-844 of July 17, 1986.



- 8 -
FEPASA failed to achieve the targeted traffic and financial performance, the
project clearly contributed to significant improvements in the railway's
properties and train operations, to large increases in freight traffic, and
to reductions in staff and other cost savings. Th. design of the new project
has been influenced significantly by this experience. In particular, FEPASA's
investment program for 1987-1991 has been limited essentially to the
rehabilitation program, which constitutes the investment component of the
project, and to the completion of its ongoing electrification and
metropolitan train modernization projects; investment expenditures would
total about US$600 million over the plan's period, which is consistent with
the railway's expected fund-generating capacity. Also, an appropriate
monitoring system would be established to plan and control the project's
execution effectively.
III. THE FEPASA RAILWAY
A.   Organization and Finances
3.01      FEPASA is a public corporation controlled by the Sao Paulo State
Government (virtuallv all the shares are owned by the State) through ST. It
is managed by a Dire-torate of eight directors, appointed by the State
Transport Secretary; the President of FEPASA is the chairmaut of the
Directorate. An Administrative Council, with representatives from various
Government entities, controls FEPASA's management. FEPASA is organized into
six functional departments, namely Transportation, Technical, Planning,
Finance, Administration, Legal and Patrimonial, and a recently created
department responsible for the operation of FEPASA's metropolitan train
system; each department is headed by a director (Clart 3). Freight and long-
distance pas3enger services are also organized into seven regional units
headed by superintendents appointed by the President. FEPASA has recently
undertaken the task of separating the administration and the finances of the
socially oriented metropolitan train services, which have recently been
expanding rapidly, from the essentially market-driven businesses. The
Government is expected to exercise a more direct control over the operations
and finances of the metropolitan train department, while providing FEPASA
with the required management autonomy to operate its commercial businesses.
The project would provide support to FEPASA and to the Government to complete
and consolidate this reorganization (para 4.05).
3.02      FEPASA has been operating at a loss since it was created in 1971
(Tables 3.1 to 3.3 and Annex 2, Section A). The metropolitan train operation
and the long-distance passenger services have been the main sources of the
losses, while the freight business has been relatively lucrative. The annual
working surpluses of the freight business (about US$26 million equivalent),
which has not been subject to normalization payments, have, over the past
five years, been sufficient to cover the relevant depreciation costs and to
generate an operating surplus before interest of about US$8 million
equivalent. The two other operations had, on the average, operating losses of
US$12 million for the metropolitan train and US$10 million equivalent for the
long-distance passenger services respectively. The State Government makes
normalization payments to FEPASA for these two operations, but these payments
have been insufficient to cover the losses adequately. FEPASA and the



-
Government recently undertook to establish an appropriate normalization
system. The State's decree No. 26.772 of Februmary 18, 1987 provides the
legal framework for the new system. The project would provide support for an
actiont program for the gradual rationalization of these services and the
implementation of the improved normalization system (para 4.06).
3.03      Rationalization programs were carried out by FEPASA's successive
managements. Several branch lines with low traffic densities totaling about
700 km were de-activated in the late 1970s and early 1980s, and long-distance
passenger services were gradually reduced from about 11.5 to 6.0 million
train-km p.a. Of more significance, FE.PASA's staff has been reduced from
about 36,000 in 1'171 to about 20,000 at present through various rationaliza-
tion measures in operations, track and fleet maintenance, and administration.
Further rationalization measures are still needed, however, from both the
commercial and economic viewpoints, on the few remaining low-density branch
lines with unfavorable prospects in the medium term, which make up a total of
about 350 line-km in length, and, more important, in the long-distance
passenger services. However, the Government has consistently required FEPASA
to maintain such commercially non-viable services for social reasons. The
improved normalization system, which would be established under the project,
would require the State Government and FEPASA to regularly review the costs
and benefits of maintaining such services and clearly specify the individual
services to be maintained at the Government's request, and the Government to
make the appropriate normalization payments to FEPASA. Such mechanisms,
together with appropriate pluriannual plans and financial performance
targets, would achieve the gradual reduction, the rationalization, and the
efficient operation of FEPASA's remaining, commercially non-viable services
(paras 4.06 and 4.07).
3.04      FEPASA has had to borrow on an increasing scale, and essentially on
the more expensive short-term basis, mainly to finance investments and to pay
off debts. These heavy borrowings led FEPASA to a practically unmanageable
financial position. With accumulated debts reaching about US$1.6 billion
equivalent at the end of 1985, annual interest, financial fees and payments
of principal have been exceeding the company's annual revenues, and both the
State and the Federal Governments, as guarantors, had to service the
company's debts. It is estimated that FEPASA would have to pay some US$2.3
billion equivalent in principal and interest to meet its obligations over
1987-1991. The main problem has been that, with Federal control over railway
tariffs, and with investment decisions often made at Government level without
taking full account of FEPASA's priorities and fund-generating capacity, the
company could not operate as a commercial enterprise. In order to alleviate
the situation and to establish an appropriate framework for an effective
financial management of the company, the State Government recently signed an
agreement with FEPASA to pay and capitalize all FEPASA's debts guaranteed by
the State and contracted prior to January 1, 1987, and assumed responbility
for servicing the new debts to be contracted from 1987 onward until FEPASA is
permitted to operate on a commercial basis. The State Government also
undertook to negotiate with the Federal Government the latter's possibl
participation in the proposed financial restructuring of FEPASA and has
decided to sssume responsibility for payments of Federally guaranteed debts
~aitil completion of these negotiations. The project would support the full
implementation of these and other measures for an appropriate management of
FEPASA's debts (para 4.05)v.



- Ju -
B.   Economic Role of the Railway
3.05      FEPASA has gradually specialized in the transport of heavy bulk
products. With the development of the paved highway network, FEPASA lost
significant shares of the break-bulk, short-haul and passenger markets to the
competitive road transport industry. Meanwhile, industrial development in the
Southeast region and the expansion of the agricultural frontier to the West,
as well as the recent growth of exports, particularly through the port of
Santos, have given FEPA3A a key role in the regional and national economies.
FEPASA's freight traffic increased very rapidly, at average annual rates of
about 14%, in the second half of the 1970s, then stabilized at the level of
20 million tons and 7.0 billion ton-km during the 1980-1984 recession. With
the economic recovery, freight traffic started to increase again, reaching
22 million tons and about 7.2 billion ton-km in 1986, but FEPASA has been
unable to fully attend the demand for its services as a result of the various
physical and operational bottlenecks which are discussed in the following
sections. The lower costs of the railway for large volumes of bulk products,
whicl-, on the average, are ranging between 40% and 70% of trucking costs,
have been the major factor of FEPASA's traffic growth (Annex 3), The
allocation of traffic between road and rail transport has been distorted in
the past because of inadequate rail tariffs and diesel oil prices. However,
the price of diesel oil is now well above international prices (Table 3.4),
With other recent adjustments to road user charges, road vehicles are now
charged for at least the routine and periodic road maintenance costs
attributable to them, and there are no major distortions in the traffic
allocation. Petroleum products and automotive alcohol, some minerals and
other heavy industrial inputs, construction materials, grains and soya
products, sugar and fertilizers make up the bulk of FEPASA's freight
business; the 15 major products now represent almost 90% of total freight
traffic (Table 3.5).
3.06      FEPASA's freight traffic is expected to increase at rates close to
GDP growth in the medium term, i.e., at about 5 to 6% p.a., provided that the
major physical and operational bottlenecks are removed. As part of project
preparation, FEPASA developed a traffic forecast which was based both upon a
comprehensive transport study carried out by ST to update the State transport
plan and upon the market surveys which FEPASA undertakes and updates
regularly for operations and investment planning purposes (Annex 4). Over the
project's implementation period, the demand for petroleum products and
alcohol is expected to increase at about 3% and 5% p.a. respectively, and
FEPASA's traffic of these products would increase at slightly higher rates as
a result of the increasing proportion of longer hruls. The demand for, and
FEPASA's traffic of, industrial inputs are forecast to grow at rates close to
or below GDP growth, ranging between 2% and 6% p.a. The recent expansion of
agriculture in the Center-West subregions, which are served by the railway,
offers FEPASA good prospects for the transport of grains, soya and their
derivatives; with the project's investments and action programs, FEPASA would
be expected to increase its traffic of soya beans and pellets by a total of
almost 2.0 million tons over the seven-year period (Table 3.5).
3.07      FEPASA's long-distance passenger business has become marginal; it
decreased from 14 million passengers in 1975 to about 6.9 million in 1986,
and it now represents less than 3% of the company's total revenues. With the
exception of a few specific services, the railway is unable to compete



- 11 -
successfully with the bus and air transport induistries. This traffic is
expected to continue to decrease, at a rate of about 5°. p.a., since FEPASA
and the State Government are committed to rationalize these services further
through the improved normalization system and appropriate rinancial targets
(para 4.06). The metropolitan passenger traffic has increased rapidly from 44
million passengers p.a. in 1979 to about 87 million in 1986 as a result of
the capacity investments made in the system. Metropolitan traffic is expected
to continue to increase with the completion of the ongoing modernization
program, although at the slower pace of about 5% p.a.
C.   Tariffs and Marketing
3.08      Railway tariffs and, to a large extent, contract rates are
controlled by an interministerial committee (CIP), which determines the
prices of commodities and services in Brazil. Since a uniform tariff policy
is applied to the various railways, FEPASA has benefited from the global and
selective real term tariff adjustments which were made prior to and after
Board approval of Loan No. 2563-BR to the Federal railway (RFFSA). Until
recently, freight revenues were sufficient to recover the relevant operating
costs, but the price freeze which was established with the Cruzado Plan in
February, 1986, would have resulted in about an 8% real term loss of freight
revenues in 1986. FEPASA has taken short-term measures including the revision
of its discount policy and special contracts to recuperate this loss; as a
result, by the end of 1986, average revenues had increased by about 5.911, In
early 1987, two tariff adjustments were authorized, which, by April 1987 as
compared to March 1986, increased the average freight revenues by 14% and the
long-distance passenger revenues by 23% above the inflation for the
corresponding period. Average revenues, however, are still below average
costs for a number of the main products, while, for a few products such as
petroleum and alcohol, they are comparatively high (Annex 3). Further tariff
increases will be needed for the financial rehabilitation of the company,
and, since tariffs require substantial restructuring, the increases should be
made through appropriate selective adjustments, consistent with a new
cost-related, market-based tariff structure to be develonpd (para 4.08).
Passenger tariffs also need to be increased, although the rationalization of
the passenger services, which will he monitored through working ratio and
reducing normalization payment targ2ts, will have a greater impact on
FEPASA's finances (Annex 2).
3.09      FEPASA sales efforts are essentially directed toward the
satisfaction of the customers' short-term transport needs, which are
monitored by the Commercial Superintendency of the Transportation Department,
and toward maximizing production with, the available resources. The marketing
function will therefore have to be strengthened, with teclhnical assistance,
to emphasize the profit maximization objective. In particular, FEPASA needs
to maintain more comprehensive market information for strategic planning
purposes and to strengthen sales planning and control to support corporate
objectives. Also, the company's cost accounting system, which produces
average commodity traffic costs, will have to be improved to produce line-
specific and individual origin-destination traffic costs and to provide the
appropriate cost information for marketing and for tariff monitoring purposes
(para 4.08 and Annex 3).



- 12 -
D.   Operations and Maintenance
3.10      FEPASA's operating perfor:mance has been mixed since 1980, following
substantial improvements made during the last decade; overall performance,
however, as compared to that of other railways in developing coulntries,
remains satisfactory (Annex 5). In particular, the availability of the diesel
and electric locomotives decreased (from 79% and 71% in 1980 to 66% and 68%
in 1986 respectively). Of greater significance, their reliability and
effectiveness deteriorated, further affecting their productivity, despite the
relatively good and improving utilization of the available locomotives
(Table 3.6). Wagon productivity is also low, with average turnaround times
remaining at about nine days as a result of demurrage in terminals. Train
compositions have continued to improve, the average net train load now
reaching 726 tons. The major improvement, however, was in staff productivity,
as a result of the substantial staff reductions. The main factors affecting
FEPASA's operational performance, besides difficult natural terrain
conditions, have been the recent economic recession and Government austerity
program which, with the associated fund shortages and import restrictions,
led FEPASA to drastically reduce the maintenance of the locomotive fleet and
to defer essential track renewals and infrastructure rehabilitation works at
a time when the unusually heavy rains of 1982-1984 did catlsiderable damage.
The project would support action programs for improvements in FEPASA's
operations (paras 3.11 to 3.17).
3.11      Operations management responsibilities are vested essentially in
the regional units, and central staff is mainly responsible for interregional
coordination. FEPASA employs two data systems, for operating and for revenue
accounting, based upon a central mainframe computer system, and data input is
through separate communications networks of microcomputers and teletype
terminals, or directly keystroked at the company's headquaters. Locomotive
and wagon movement data processed on the mainframe computer are at least 24
hours behind real time and therefore can be used essentially for statistical
or analytical purpose. FEPASA recently undertook to prepare for th-
development and implementation, in coordination with RFFSA and CODESP, of a
real-time operations information system (OIS) which, by improving locomotive
and wagon control, including control of wagon interchanges with RFFSA and the
Santos port and of demurrage at terminals, would particularly contribute to a
more effective use of the rolling stock. As part of this plan, FEPASA
management would also revise the organization and procedures for operations
planning and control, and consolidate the regional units as appropriate. The
project would provide support to FEPASA for the appropriate development and
implementation of the system (para 4.09).
3.12      FEPASA's motive power currently consists of 491 locomotives, of
which 140 are electric and 351 are diesel-electric units. About three-fourths
of the electric units are over 40 years old, and more than half of the diesel
fleet is over 20 years old (Table 3.7). The condition of both fleets has
deteriorated significantly during the past five years as a result of aging
and of FEPASA's inability to perform the necessary heavy overhauls and
rehabilitation works because of fund shortages and import restrictions.
FEPASA's strategy to improve the availability and reliability of its
locomotives is. in the short term, to carry out the deferred general
overhauls, accidental repairs and rehabilitation of diesel units and
components; then to gradually retire and scrap older electric and diesel



- 13 -
units when subject to a major failure and to replace them with the electric
locomotives which have been purchased as part of the electrification project
and will be gradually delivered over the next few years (Table 3.8). FEPASA
has also undertaken to strengthen preventive maintenance (para. 3.13). The
preceding measures are expected to gradually improve the average locomotive
availability from 67% in 1986 to 80% by 1993 (para 4,11). FEPASA also
operates a fleet of almost 13,700 freight cars, of which about 1,200 are
owned by shippers and 1,200 are used for FEPASA's own account transport needs
(Table 3.9). Although almost 40% of the fleet is over 30 years old, its
general condition is good. FEPASA has no other plan for new car purchases in
the short term than 230 specialized units for petroleum products since
substantial productivity increases are expected from the operations
management action program (Table 3.10).
3.13      Locomotive and freight car repairs and maintenance are carried out
in four main workshops, ten locomotive sheds and 22 freight car ancillary
shops. FEPASA has, since 1971, gradually been rationalizing the ill-matched
facilities inherited from its five individual predecessors, consolidating
specific tasks at specialized facilities. However, additional measures are
needed to improve maintenance effectiveness, including the revision of
locomotive and wagon maintenance cycles in line with verified actual
requirements; the further consolidation of some types of major works on
locomotives, wagons and components; the concentration of locomotive and wagon
maintenance into fewer sheds and ancillary shops; and the renewal and
complementation of workshop and shed equipment and tools. Also, a
computerized rolling stock maintenance MIS should be established as part of
the OIS to improve the planning and control of maintenance. FEPASA recently
started to reorganize rolling stock maintenance by placing both repair and
preventive maintenance activities, which were previously divided between the
Technical and the Transportation Departments, under a Gereral Superintendent
for Maintenance who reports to the Transportation Director, and to prepare a
maintenance and repair plan to define the above-mentionned measures. The
proposed project would help FEPASA to consolidate the reorganization and to
finalize and implement the maintenance and repair plan (para 4.09).
3.14      Track maintenance has been insufficient over the past several years
because of fund shortages; expenditures for that purpose decreased from about
20% of the company's revenues in the mid-1970s to between 4% and 9% in 1980-
1985, and only 86 km of rails were purchased in the same period. Erosion
developed on many line sections in mountainous terrain, especially where
drainage systems are insufficient, as a result of the heavy rains which
occurred in recent years. The poor condition of the infrastructure led to a
rapid deterioration of the superstructure, in particular on the important,
high-traffic sections; rails suffered damage because of poor ballast support
as well as from wear on sections where steep gradients and sharp curves
prevail. FEPASA's maintenance strategy, which consists of carrying out
selective track renewals, using heavier rails with welded joints on high
traffic-density sections, and using the released rails to renew secondary
lines and yards, is adequate. Maintenance effectiveness, however, needs to
be improved through increased mechanization and better planning and control.
The project would, by providing appropriate funds and technical assistance,
help FEPASA to gradually reduce and eliminate the backlog of track
maintenance and to strengthen its track maintenance management system
(paras 4.09 and 4.13).



- 14 -
E.   Personnel Management and Training
3.15      FEPASA's existing personnel management tools and systems do not
permit an appropriate organizational dimensioning or an effective personnel
management. FEPASA's recruitment and training policies for both staff and
management need to be revised and based upon new criteria, especially
regarding dimensioning, job content, and recruitment and training
alternatives, consistent with the targeted market-driven operation of the
railway. The essential personnel management tools such as promotion and
career plans, performance and potential evaluation, and monitoring, cost
control and evaluation of training need to be established or improved. FEPASA
would then need to gradually restructure its entire institutional training
program in line with the revised policies. For the short term, specific
training programs for managers from section chiefs to superintendents -
focusing upon organization and rationalization of work, marketing and
management and data systems - should be developed further and implemented to
support the project's implementation. The personnel management and training
component of the project, with appropriate technical assistance, would help
FEPASA to design and implement these actions and programs (para 4.10).
F.   Investment Program 1987-1991
3.16      s?EPASA's 1987-1991 investment program basically consists of:
(a) the present project, which would be completed in 1993 (Chapter 4 and
Annexes 6 to 8); (b) an ongoing electrification project, financed by a
foreign consortium and scheduled for completion by 1989; and (c) an ongoing
metropolitan train modernization project, financed by BNDES and scheduled for
completion by 1990. The electrification project consists of the
rehabilitation and strengthening of existing power systems in the broad- and
meter-gauge corridors, the electrification of the 524-km Ribeirao
Preto-Samarita section of the Araguari-Santos corridor, and the improvement
of signaling and telecommunications on sections being electrified; a total of
80 electric locomotives have been ordered for the three electrification
components. The metropolitan train project consists of the improvement of
train control systems, the modernization and construction of stations
designed to improve integration with other systems, and the remanufacturing
of some old electric multiple units. The total cost of the program is
estimated at about US$626 million equivalent, the three main components
representing 45%, 43% and 9% of the total cost respectively (Table 3.11). The
investment program would be financed from the proposed Bank loan of US$100
million (or 16% of the program cost), loans from BNDES (25%), suppliers'
credits (38%), State Government capital contributions (11%) and FEPASA's own
resources (10%). FEPASA's average annual investments under the program would
be about 50% higher than those achieved during 1980-1986; the program,
however, with the proposed action program, would be well within FEPASA's
financial and implementation capacities, and it is consistent with FEPASA's
investment requirements.
3.17      FEPASA's investment program for the non-metropolitan businesses,
i.e., the rehabilitation program (the present project) and the
electrification project together, taking into account the sunk costs of the
electrification project, was found at appraisal to have an estimated economic
internal rate of return (ERR) of about 13% (Annex 9). The estimated ERR of
the present project is 21% (para 4.27 and Annex 10). Regarding the
electrification project, which was about 44% completed at the end of 1986, it



- 15 -
was found that the two rehabilitation and strengthening components had
estimated ERR, including sunk costs, of 10% and 11% respectively and that the
new electrification component had an estimated ERR of about 8% including sunk
costs; however, the remaining investments for the latter component, excluding
sunk costs, would yield an ERR on the order of 40%. Since: (a) the remaining
investment to complete the new electrification component would yield
satisfactory returns and the component's estimated ERR, including all sunk
costs, is only marginally below 10%; (b) the alternative of cancelling the
contracts would, at this stag(, lead to excessive compensation payments to
contractors, with no benefits from the considerable sunk investments; and
(c) the alternative of extending the completion schedule would result in a
lower rnet present value for the project; the fixed installation works of the
three components should be completed as scheduled. In order to improve the
project's cost-effectiveness, FEPASA has undertaken to renegotiate with the
consortium some of its aspects, including the delivery schedule of the
locomotives (Annex 11). The metropolitan train modernization project was
found at appraisal to have an estimated ERR, including sunk costs, of 21%
(Annex 9).
IV. THE PROJECT
4.01      The main purpose of the proposed project is the financial
rehabilitation of FEPASA and the establishment of the necessary conditions
for operating the railway on a commercial basis. The project was designed to
provide support to FEPASA and the Sao Paulo State Government in implementing
the required policy and institutional adjustments, as well as the needed
rehabilitation of essential railway and intermodal facilities.
A.   Project Objectives and Rationale
4.02      The objectives of the project are: (a) the financial rehabilitation
and improved commercial performance of FEPASA; and (b) increased transport
efficiency in the main corridors leading to Sao Paulo and to the port of
Santos. By achieving these objectives, the project would contribute to more
efficient resource use in the transport sector, particularly through further
specializing the railway in the services for which it has a comparative
advantage over road transport. It would also facilitate agricultural
development and external trade through more efficient transport services
between the agricultural frontier, the industrial metropolitan region and the
country's major port.
4.03      The Bank's involvement in the project would help to implement the
appropriate mix of policy and institutional adjustments and of physical
investments necessary to gradually turn FEPASA into a commercially viable
railway. In particular, it would help to ensure an adequate separation of the
metropolitan train operation and the resolution of the debt problem,
streamline the railway's and the Government's respective responsibilities,
focus expenditures on necessary rehabilitation and maintenance rather than on
new construction or purchases, and adhere to appropriate operational and
financial policies and targets to achieve the stated objectives. By helping
to establish the conditions for an effective management of the railway, the
project would also contribute to the Bank's public sector management
objective for Brazil.



- 16 -
4.04      The proposed strategy includes a policy and institutional
development action program and an investment component to be financed under
the project. The action program would consist of the implementation of
policies and actions for: (a) an organizational and financial restructuring
of FEPASA; (b) the rationalization and improved operation and financing of
FEPASA's commercially non-viable services, and effective corporate and
business planning; (c) appropriate tariffs, marketing and cost-control;
(d) the development of the operations and maintenance management systems; and
(e) effective personnel management and training. The investment component
would consist of FEPASA's rehabilitation program, and of technical assistance
and training programs which would support the implementation of the action
program (paras 4.12 to 4.15).
B.   The Policy and Institutional Development Action Program
(i)   Actions to be Taken
4.05      The organizational and financial restructuring action program aims
at establishing an appropriate organizational and financial framework to
achieve the project's objectives. It would consist of consolidating the
recent organizational restructuring which separated the socially oriented
metropolitan train operation from FEPASA's freight and long-distance
passenger businesses and of implementing an appropriate plan for the
management of FEPASA's debt. It was confirmed and formalized in an agreement
between the State and FEPASA dated February 28, 1987, that past debt payments
made by the State on behalf of FEPASA would be capitalized, and that future
payments of the State-guaranteed debt contracted prior to January 1, 1987, or
of any new debt necessary to complete investments already contracted in 1986,
would be assumed by the State and capitalized through increasing the State's
equity in FEPASA when debt payments (for both principal and interest) are
made. The servicing of any other new debt would be FEPASA's responsibility,
unless otherwise agreed between FEPASA and the Government under the
normalization system (para 4.06). The Federal and the State Governments also
undertook to study and define the treatment of FEPASA's Federally guaranteed
debt not later than November 30, 1987, as per an adequate action program
included in a Protocol signed by the relevant parties, and dated February 28,
1987. It was also confirmed during loan negotiations that FEPASA would:
(a) limit its future borrowings, as a percentage of internally generated
funds, to the targets shown in paragraph 4.26; and (b) maintain separate
accounts and operating and capital budgets for the metropolitan train
operation, refrain from transferring funds to this operation from its other
revenues unless it is required under normal business compensation practices,
and complete the separation of the balance sheet items by the end of 1987.
4.06      The normalization and planning action program aims at streamlining
respective 'EPASA and State Government responsibilities regarding the
operation and development of the railway's services, at gradually
rationalizing operations and at consolidating the company's market-based
corporate stategies and plans. It would first consist of setting up an
improved normalization system providing for an appropriate financial
compensation by the State to FEPASA for FEPASA's losses on the commercially
non-viable services which the State Government would require FEPASA to
maintain. The new system, as part of the annual budgeting process, would
require: FEPASA and the State Government to review the costs and benefits of



- 17 -
maintaining individual such services for social or regional development
purposes; the State Government to clearly define, in quantitative and
qualitative terms, the commercially non- viable services which FEPASA would
have to maintain during the forthcoming budget year; FEPASA and the State
Government to agree on the normalization payments, i.e., the financial
compensation, which the State Government wou.d make to FEPASA for the
purpose; and FEPASA's and the State Government's respective responsibilities
to be stated explicitly in the budget document. In order to reduce the amount
of Government subsidies to users and to promote the rationalization of
FEPASA's operations, the proportion of the normalization payments in the
total corresponding operating revenues would be gradually reduced. The State
Government: (a) issued decree No. 26.772 of February 18, 1987, regulating the
normalization system in a manner satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) presented
a policy statement, satisfactory to the Bank, regarding FEPASA's commercially
non-viable services: comparative costs to low-income users and costs to the
State under the respective transport alternatives would be the main criteria
to be used in determining the services to be maintained under the
normalization system. It was confirmed during loan negotiations that FEPASA
would: (a) reduce and/or rationalize its commercially non-viable passenger
and freight services to achieve the working ratios targets shown in paragraph
4.26 for the respective long-distance passenger, metropolitan train, freight
and total businesses, and to contain Government normalization payments for
the long-distance passenger and freight services, as a percentage of
corresponding operating revenues, below the limits shown in paragraph 4.26;
and (b) by September 30 of each year, forward to the Bank, for review and
comment, the normalization arrangements for the forthcoming budget year.
4.07      The normalization and planning action program would also consist of
preparing a pluriannual plan for FEPASA's metropolitan train, aiming at
defining an appropriate institutional organization for this operation,
consistent with the urban transport policy action plan being carried out by
the Ministry of Urban Development (MDU) under the aegis of the Bank-assisted
Fourth Urban Transport Project, and at an appropriate coordination of
FEPASA's and CBTU's mass t-ansit systems; of defining a Government
medium-term strategy and a plan for the rationalization and financing of
FEPASA's long-distance passenger services; and of consolidating FEPASA's
corporate objectives and business and operating plans accordingly. It was
confirmed during loan negotiations that: (a) the State Government and FEPASA
would, in coordination with MT and CBTU, prepare the pluriannual plan for the
metropolitan train and present it to the Bank for review not later than
December 31, 1987, and implement it thereafter; (b) the State Government and
FEPASA would prepare the pluriannual plan for the railway's long-distance
passenger services and present it to the Bank for review not later than
December 31, 1987, and implement it thereafter; (c) FEPASA would prepare a
corporate plan and present it to the Bank for review not later than June 30,
1988, and implement it thereafter; and that (d) FEPASA would analyze the
feasibility of its new investments in accordance with technical and economic
criteria satisfactory to the Bank, and, by November 10 of each year, discuss
its pluriannual investment program and financing plan with the Bank, and
revise it accordingly thereafter.
4.08      The tariff, marketing and cost-control action program aims at
maximizing FEPASA's net revenues through more effective and selective
marketing, and improved tariffs and cost-control. It would consist of



- 18 -
appropriate tariff adjustments and of the definition and implementation of a
market-based, cost-related tariff policy; of the development and
implementation of an adequate sales planning and control system based upon
improved market, competition and cost information systems; and of the
implementation, in association with private firms, of a pilot program of
construction and operation of intermodal grain terminals at FEPASA's main
railheads. It was confirmed during loan negotiations that the Federal
Government's policy of gradually freeing RFFSA's tariffs would also apply to
FEPASA, which would enable FEPASA to start adjusting freight tariffs in early
1988, and to set freight tariffs on a commercial basis upon completion of the
revaluation of its assets and of the development of a cost-related market
based tariff structure by the end of 1988. It was also confirmed that FEPASA
would: (a) adjust freight tariffs and rates and passenger fares to achieve
the working ratios targets shown in paragraph 4.26 for the respective
freight, lotig-distance passenger, metropolitan train and total businesses;
(b) develop, in coordination with RFFSA, a cost-related, market-based tariff
structure, present it to the Bank for review not later than December 31,
1988, and implement it thereafter; (c) develop an appropriate sales planning
and control system, not later than July 31, 1988, and put it into effect
thereafter; (d) upgrade, by December 31, 1988, its cost-accounting system,
including through a revaluation of fixed assets on a technical basis, to
provide and disseminate appropriate cost information for the individual
services; and (e) finalize joint-venture arrangements for the construction
and operation of intermodal grain terminals at FEPASA's main railheads,
present them to the Bank for review not later than July 31, 1988, and
implement them thereafter.
4.09      The operations and maintenance management action program aims at
increasing operating efficiency and maintenance effectiveness by modernizing
FEPASA's management systems and strengthening the planning and control of
operations, locomotive and wagon maintenance, and track maintenance. A
computerized operations information and control system (OIS) would be
developed to improve locomotive and empty wagon distribution, train
formation, billing and invoicing, and the management of wagon interchanges
with RFFSA and the Santos port. The recent reorganization of locomotive and
wagon maintenance would be consolidated through a revision of maintenance
schedules and plans, the consolidation of workshop facilities and sheds, the
development of a computerized management information and control system
(MIS), and appropriate reassignment and training of personnel. A computerized
MIS would also be developed, and the organization, methods and procedures for
track maintenance planning and control would be streamlined. It was confirmed
during loan negotiations that FEPASA would undertake not later than
December 1, 1987 and complete not later than June 30, 1989: (a) the
consolidation of the organization of operations and maintenance and the
development and implementation of an OIS and a locomotive and wagon
maintenance MIS; and (b) the development and implementation of a track
maintenance MIS.
4.10      The personnel management and training action program aims at
consolidating FEPASA's personnel management system, at restructuring and
updating FEPASA's ongoing institutional training programs and at developing
and implementing the specific training programs which are essential for the
successful implementation of the project. Basic personnel management tools,
including organizational dimensionning and job descriptions, career and



- 19 -
access planning, performance and potential evaluation would be introduced
and/or strengthened. Existing permanent or semi-permanent training programs
would be reviewed in the light of present corporate objectives and
reformulated as appropriate. The training component of the project would
consist of four specific training programs for middle-management personnel
and for operating and administrative staff in the areas of organization and
methods, management, and information systems, which would be developed and
implemented with external assistance from specialized consultar:ts and
institutions (para 4.15 and Annex 8). It was confirmed during loan
negotiations that FEPASA would undertake not later than December 1, 1987 and
complete not later than December 31, 1990 the development and implementation
of such personnel management and training programs.
(ii) Targets
4.11      The implementation of the action program would be monitored against
the following operational performance targets, which were agreed during loan
negotiations, and against the financial performance targets shown in
paragraph 4.26. It was confirmed during loan negotiations that FEPASA would
give the Bank an opportunity to review its operating and financial
performance and its overall investment program and financing plan annually.
______-------------------------------------------------------__---------____
Operational Performance Targets             1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
______-_______________________________________________ -__________________
1. Freight Traffic (billion net ton-km)      8.0  8.8  9.8 10.1 10.4 10.7 11.0
2. Locomotive Availability (%)                70   73   76   78   79   80   80
3. Locomotive Utilization (%)                 67   69   70   72   73   74   76
4. Loco. Productivity (million gross ton-km) 64   68   76   84   86   88   88
5. Freight Car Availability (%)               91   91   92   92   93   93   94
6. Freight Car Turnaround Time (days)        9.0  8.3  7.5  6.8  6.7  6.7  6.7
7. Average Wagon Load (net tons)              45   45   45   46   46   46   47
8. Maximum Number of Staff (in '000)        20.0 20.0 20.0 19.7 19.5 19.2 19.0
…------------------------------------------------------------------__--------
C.   Project Description
(i)   The Rehabilitation Program
4.12      The Rehabilitation Program, which is described in Annex 6,
includes: the rehabilitation of infra- and/or superstructure on critical line
sections, the rehabilitation or expansion of yard and intermodal terminal
facilities, the improvement of the railway's telecommunication system, the
purchase of track maintenance equipment and materials, the rehabilitation of
locomotives and components, the purchase of specialized wagons and equipment
for workshops.
4.13      The track rehabilitation program would consist of infrastructure
works including earthworks (about 2.0 million m3) for the stabilization of
cuts and embankments, the improvement of the drainage systems on about 70
line-km, the construction of retaining structures (about 9,000 m3), and the
construction of about 6.5 km of track-bed for sidings to facilitate train
crossings; and of superstructure works including the replacement of rails,
sleepers, fastenings and/or ballast on a total of about 580 line-km in the



- 20 -
Araguari-Santos corridor, 916 line-km in the Broad-Gauge corridor and 494
line-km in the Meter-Gauge corridor, and the superstructure for the
above-mentionned sidings (Map IBRD 11571R1). The yard and intermodal terminal
program would consist of the rehabilitation or improvement of yard facilities
including a total of about 50 km of yard track and yard utilities, and of the
construction or expansion of four intermodal terminals at FEPASA's main
railheads, including silos of static capacities ranging from 6,000 to 17,000
tons to facilitate intermodal transfers of grains and grain produets. The
telecommunication program would consist of replacing existing wire systems
wiLh radio systems on a total of about 1,067 line-km in the three corridors
and with a fiber optic system on the 246-km Sao Paulo-Sorocaba-Campinas trunk
route. The track maintenance program would consist, besides the above-
mentioned action program, of purchases of track plant equipment, track
machinery, spare parts, and track materials, essentially rails and switches.
The motive power, rolling stock and workshop program would consist of the
general overhaul of 51, rehabilitation of five, and re-engining of 15 diesel
locomotives, the rehabilitation of traction motors and generators, the
purchase of locomotive spare parts and of 230 specialized wagons, the
rehabilitation or improvement of workshop buildings, and of the purchase and
installation of workshop equipment.
(ii) The Technical Assistance Program
4.14      The technical assistance program was designed to help FEPASA and
the Government to implement the action program. Consultants and/or
specialized institutions would be financed under the project to assist in:
preparing the medium-term plans for the metropolitan and the long-distance
passenger services and FEPASA's corporate plan; upgrading FEPASA's
cost-accounting and information system and developing a cost-related,
market-based tariff structure and an appropriate sales planning and control
system; consolidating the organization of operations and maintenance and
developing the OIS/MIS; and in developing effective personnel management
system components and training programs. The scope and timing of these
technical assistance components, and the related resource requirements are
defined in Annex 7 and in Table 4.2.
(iii) The Training Program
4.15      The training component has been designed to support the
implementation and the gradual consolidation of the major policy changes and
institutional reforms included in the action program, in particular the
consolidation of the organizational changes for the separation of the
metropolitan train and for operations and maintenance, the strengthening of
marketing and cost-control, and the development of FEPASA's operations and
management information systems. It consists of: advanced in-service training
for about 470 managers, from superintendents to section chiefs, and about 800
operations and administration supervisory staff in organizatici and methods,
basic management skills and specific skills for the marketing, operations and
maintenance functional areas; in-service, job-specific training for some
10,000 operational and administrative staff; and training of managers and
staff for the implementation and operation of thie management and data systems
for operations, maintenance and personnel, which will be developed under the
action program. Management personnel will he directly involved in the
detailed design and implementation of the training of their subordinates. The



- 21 -
proposed loan would provide financing for: (a) consultant services (aboat 60
man-months) to assist FEPASA in the planning and monitoring of the training
program; (b) technical assistance from specialized experts (about 50
man-month) for the detailed design of specific training courses; (c) specific
courses and seminars to be provided by training specialists or specialized
institutions in Brazil or abroad (Annex 8).
D.   Project Cost and Financing
4.16     The total cost of the project is estimated at about Cz$ 6.8 billion,
equivalent to abotit US$285.0 million, including US$275.5 million for the
rehabilitation program, US$6.9 million for the technical assistance program,
and US$2.6 million for the training program. The foreign exchange cost
component is about US$152.0 million, or 53%, and the tax component is about
US$45.8 million, or 16% (Table on the next page and Tables 4.1 to 4.6), Total
project cost includes physical contingencies for US$17.6 million, or 7% of
base cost, and price contingencies for US$14.8 million (or 6% of base cost
plus ohysical contingencies) estimated on the basis of the disbursement
schedule and of the following forecast of price escalation for both local and
foreign expenditures expressed in US dollars: 3.0% in 1987, 1.0% in 1988-1990
and 3.5% thereafter. Base costs correspond to April 1987 prices. The costs of
goods are based upon supplier quotations for similar Brazilian made or
imported items. The costs of civil works are based upon detailed engineering
designs and prevailing unit prices. Cost estimates for consultant services
are based upon prevailing local and foreign man-month rates; they provide for
the cost of local transport, office equipment and other minor items and,
where appropriate, international travel and per-diem.
4.17      The project would be financed from the proposed Bank loar of US$100
million (or 35% of the project cost), loans from BNDES totaling US$107.8
million equivalent (or 38% of the project cost), suppliers' credits totaling
US$13.5 million equivalent (or 5% of the project cost), and FEPASA's own
resources in an amount of about US$63.7 million equivalent (or 22% of the
project cost, Tables 4.7 to 4.12). During loan negotiations, agreement was
reached on: (a) the project financing plan; and (b) the guarantee of the
State and Federal Governments regarding all the necessary counterpart funds.
FEPASA has presented appropriate evidence of the feasibility of the proposed
co-financing arrangements and an appropriate action program to formalize
them. BNDES' board of directors have approved BNDES' loans for the project.
It was also agreed, during loan negotiations, that: (a) the Bank could
exercise its remedies if BNDES' loans were not effective by November 30,
1987, or if they were suspended or terminated; and (b) retroactive financing
in an aggregate amount of not more than USS1.0 million equivalent will be
available for consultant and training expenditures incurred after May 1,
1987, and before the date of the Loan Agreement.
E.   Project Implementation, Disbursements and Audits
4.18      Project implementation would be the responsibility of FEPASA, which
has the appropriate capabilities. The various action program,; would be
carried out by FEPASA's respective head office departments with support from
the regional units and with the external technical assistance; the State and
the Federal Governments would participate, as previously indicated, in some
of the action programs. The investment program would be executed by the



- 22 -
BRAZ IL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
ProJ.ct Cost EstImates and Bank Financing
(USS mIlllon equivalent)
Bank Partlclpatlon
Local     Foreign      total          US$m   5 of Total
A. Clvil Works
Rahabllltatlon of permanent way Infrastructure              10.0          5.4       15.4            9.3          60
Rehabilitatlon of permanent way supstructure                 6.9          3.8       10.7            6 4          60
Welding ot raIls                                             0.5          1.1        1.6            -            -
Rohabilltatlon of yard track                                 6.8          5.6       10.4
Rehabilltatlon or expansion of buildings                     0.4          0.2        0.6                   -
Installation of telecommunicatlon systms                    59           5.2        9.1            -            -
Construction or expanslon of terminals                       2.2           1.3       S 5-
lmprovement of accesses to termlnals                         1.2          0.6        1.8
Rshabllltatlon of utility system                             0.8          0.4        1_
Sub-total ClvIl Works                         34.7         19.S       54.>           '5.7          29
B.   #.trIals
Ral Is                                                      15.7         29.2       44.0           35.9          80
Sleepers                                                    16.5          8.9       25.4           12.7          50
Fastenings                                                   5.0          7.1       10.1            8.1          80
Ballast                                                      1.1          0.6        1.7            -            -
Other                                                        0.1          0. 1       0.2            0I           80
Sub-Total MaterleIs                           36.4         45.9       82.4            6,8          69
C. EquIpment
Switch"                                                      1,4          2.6        4.0            3.2          SO
Telecommunication equIpment                                  8.0         '8.5       26.5
Workshop equipment                                           2.1          6.2        8.3 5          S.0 
Track machinery and plant equipment                          1.7          5.1        6.8            2.7          40
Cargo transfer equIpmnt                                      0.5          1.1        1.6            -            -
Wagons                                                       6.0          9.2       15.2            -            -
Machinery spare parts                                        0.1          0.7        0.8            -            -
Locomotive spare parts                                       1.0          3.5        4.5            -            -
Cooputer hardware                                            3.4          3.5        8.9            -            -
Sub-Total EquIpment                           24.2         50.4       74.6           10.9          15
0. lMechanlcal Works
Rehabilitation of locomotives                               12,8         14.8       27.6
Rehabilltatlon of motors                                     0.9          0.8        1.7
Sub-Total  echanlcl Works                     13.7         15,6       29.3            -            -
E.  Technical Assistance
Studlos                                                      0.2          0.1        0.3            0.1          50
Engineering and work supervision                             4.5          1.5        6.0            3.0          50
Development of manageent systes                              23           16 1       3.4         -_7             50
Sub-Total Technical Assistance                 7.0          2.7        9.7            4.8          50
F. Tralning of PSr3onnel
Oayvlopxent & monItoring of training programs                0.5          0.2        0.7            0.4          50
Implementation of tralning program                           1.0          0 6        1.6            1.1          60
Sub-Total Tralning of Personnel                1.5          0.8        2.3            1.5          65
8ase Cost (April 198? prices                                      117.6        135.0     252.6            89.?
Physical Contingencies t/                                    8.6          9.0       17.6            5.6
Price Contingencies 2/                                       6 8         _.0        14.8            4.7
Total Project Cost                           13350        152.0      2S5.0          100.0          35
eas        .6.       . 20asS                        s
1/  Physlcal contingencies: from 5% to 10% overaging 7$ of base toots.
2/ Price contingencles for both local and forelgn costs were calculated over the Sta'idartj
proftlie disbursemnt period of seven years. at 1% for 1IW71  15 for 1988 to 1990, sind
3.50 thereafter.
Source.  FEPASA and mission estimtes.
May 1987



- 23 -
Engineering (track rehabilitation and maintenance, yard, and telecommunica-
tion programs) and Tranisportation (motive power, rolling stock and workshop
programs) Departments, with support from their regional units and from the
Admii.tstration, Finance and Planning Departments. The intermodal terminal
program would be executed jointly by FEPASA (through its Transportation
Department) and private firms in joint ventures. A Project Coordination Unit
would be established, under FEPASA's President, to assist in coordinating the
various organizational units. FEPASA, with technical assistance, would
develop and maintain an effective organization and a monitoring system for
project implementation, including appropriate reporting to the Bank
(Annex 12). During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on: (a) a project
organization and monitoring action plan, including the reporting require-
ments; (b) the project time-schedule, including the procurement time-schedule
(Chart of Annex 12); and (c) outline terms of reference for the technical
assistance and training components. It was agreed that FEPASA would: (a) as a
condition for loan effectiveness, put into effect the project organization
and monitoring system; and (b) thereafter maintain organizational arrange-
ments and the project monitoring system satisfactory to the Bank and staff
with adequate qualifications for the implementation of the project.
4.19      Project implementation and disbursements, based upon the seven-year
standard disbursement profile for railway projects, were scheduled over a
seven-year period, and therefore the loan is expected to be fully disbursed
by June 30, 1994 (Table 4.13). Within the 35% level of cost-sharing, the
Bank would disburse for (Table 4.14): (a) civil works (rehabilttation of
permanent way infra- and superstructure) at the rate of 60% of total
expenditures; (b) purchases of materials (rails, concrete sleepers,
fastenings and welding portions) and (c) purchases of equipment (switches,
workshop equinment, and track machinery and plant equipment) at the rate of
100% oc foreign expenditures or, for the bids won by local manufacturers,
100% of local expenditures (ex-factory costs excluding taxes); and
(d) teenhical assistance and (e) training of personnel at the rate of 50% of
local expenditures for consultants residing in Brazil and for training in
Brazil, or 100% of foreign expenditures for other consultants and for
training abroad.
4.20      Thl crder to reduce the time period during which FEPASA would
pre-finance tne Baiik's share of project costs, two Special Accounts in US
dollars, wit':i iniltial deposits of US$3.5 million and US$1.5 million
respectively, would be established in the Central Bank and in a bank,
acceptable to the Bank, for the local and foreign expenditures,
respectively. Withdrawals in amounts below the thresholds established in
paragraph 4.23 would be on the basis of Statements of Expenditure, showing
the payments made by FEPASA; the supporting documentation would be retained
by FEPASA and would be available for inspection during project supervision.
In order to ensure consistent availability of counterpart funds, FEPASA would
establieh, in a local commercial Bank, a Project Account, in Brazilian
Cruzados, with a guaranteed credit line in as large an amount as required by
the project, but not less than US$1.0 million equivalent. The establishment
of the Project Account in form and substance satisfactory to the Bank would
be a condition for loan effectiveness.   During loan negotiations, it was
confirmed that FEPASA would: (a) make regular deposits to the Project Account
to ensure the availability of sufficient funds for the project expenditures



- 24 -
of the forthcoming months, according to work and procurement schedules;
(b) continue to retain independent _uditors, acceptable to the Bank, to audit
its accounts, including the project accounts, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles; (c) forward the annual audit reports to the Bank not
later than five months after the end of the fiscal year; and that (d) the
Special Account would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the
Bank.
F.   Procurement
4.21      Procurement arrangements are summarized as follows:
Procurement Arrangements
Estimated Cost in US$ million
Procurement Methods
'vxpenditure Category           ICB         LCB       Other       Total Cost
A.   Civil Works                       -        62.8                      62.8
(17.9)1/                 (17.9)
B.   Materials                        79.9      11.2                      91.1
(61.5)     (1.3)                    (62.8)
C.   Equipment                        12.1      63.1        8.82/         84.0
(8.5)     (3.5)                    (12.0)
D.   Mechanical Works                 -         28.5        4.72/         33.2
E.   Technical Assistance             -          -         11.3           11.3
(5.8)3/        (5.8)
F.   Training of Personnel             -         -          2.6            2.6
(1.5)3/        (1.5)
Total                     92.0      165.6       27.4          285.0
(70.0)    (22.7)      (7.3)        (100.0)
1/ Figures in parentheses indicate proposed financing by the Bank.
2/ Supplier credits.
3/ According to Bank Guidelines.
Goods financed from the Bank loan would be procured by FEPASA through
international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with "Bank Guidelines
for Procurement" (May 1985), except that, for contracts of US$400,000
equivalent or less, which would be too small to attract foreign firms not
already represented in Brazil, the award would follow local competitive
bidding (LCB) procedures, satisfactory to the Bank; the related documentation
is in the project file. The Bank-financed portion of purchases under LCB
would not aggregate more than US$5.0 million including contingencies. Local
manufacturers are likely to compete for most items to be procured under ICB
and, since they are often competitive in the world market, as much as 50% of
the orders to be financed from the Bank loan might be awarded locally. Local



- 25 -
bidders would be granted a margin of preference by adding 15% (or the
applicable custom duties, whichever is lower) to the CIF value of the foreign
bids. 1/
4.22      The value of the civil work contracts would normally vary between
US$200,000 to US$3.0 million equivalent. Since these works are
geographically scattered and scheduled over the entire seven-year
implementation period, they do not lend themselves to being combined into
larger contract packages. These contracts would be awarded under LCB
procedure3s, acceptable to the Bank. There is a sufficient number of
experienced Brazilian contractors, and LCB procedures should achieve
meaningful competition. Nevertheless, foreign firms would be allowed to
participate in LCB.
4.23      All contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of
US$250,000 or more, and all contracts for works estimated to cost the
equivalent of US$2.0 million or more, which overall would represent about 77%
of all Bank-financed goods and civil works, would be subject to the Bank's
prior review of the procurement documentation. Consultants, which are
expected to aggregate about US$9.7 million, would be selected and engaged
following the Bank's "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants" (August 1981).
These procurement arrangements were confirmed during loan negotiations.
G.   Projected Financial Performance
4.24      FEPASA's financial performance, even without tariff adjustments,
would gradually improve as a result of the proposed physical and operating
improvements, increased freight traffic and appropriate normalization
payments for non-commercial services (Annex 2, Section B). During the
seven-year project implementation period, the company's revenues from the
freight business would increase by 58% and the working costs would decrease
by some 11%; operating costs, however, would increase with the asset
revaluation scheduled for 1988. Normalization revenues would increase
substantially in 1987-1988, with the appropriate payments to be made by the
State Government under the new normalization system, but they would gradually
decrease thereafter through the planned rationalization of the long-distance
passenger services and efficiency improvements in the metropolitan
operation. FEPASA's working income would increase, reaching about US$75
million equivalent by 1993, and its working ratio would gradually improve
from 1.20 in 1986 to .69 by 1993 (or .76 without normalization payments).
All the working surplus would originate from freight operations; in 1993,
long-distance passenger services, without tariff adjustments, would result in
a working deficit of about US$6 million equivalent, and, for achieving a
working ratio not worse than 1.0, a 50% revenue increase, or equivalent cost
saving, would be necessary. The metropolitan services would break-even with
the normalization payments.
4.25      Operating losses would be reduced by about 32% over the period
despite the asset revaluation, and the overall results, including interest
1/ A local bidder is a Brazilian firm (or a consortium) offering goods
containing components manufactured in Brazil and representing at least 50%
of the value of the complete goods.



- 26 -
costs, would improve considerably as a result of the financial
restructuring. FEPASA, however, would still incur an overall loss of about
US$50 million in 1993. In order to turn overall losses into profit by 1993,
an additional 20% increase in revenues, equivalent to an annual average
increase in real freight tariffs of about 2.5% over 1987-1993, would be
needed. Although its funding position is expected to improve, FEPASA would
still have to rely on short-term borrowings during the next two years. With
the assumption and capitalization by the State of its pre-1987 debts, the
railway's long-term debt obligations in 1993 would be about 38% less than in
1986, and its debt/equity ratio would improve from 46/54 in 1986 to 28/72 in
1993. It was agreed during loan negotiations that FEPASA would take all the
necessary tariff and/or cost saving actions to ensure that, by the end of
1993, its total operating revenues, including normalization payments within
the stipulated limits, would cover all its costs, including depreciation of
its revalued assets, and interest related to the post-1986 borrowings.
4.26       FEPASA's financial performance would be monitored against the
following targets, which were agreed during loan negotiations:
----------------------------------------------------------__-----------------
Financial Performance Targets                  1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993
--------------------------------__--_------__----------------------__--------
1. FEPASA Working Ratio 1/                      .93  .84  .77  .75  .73  .71  .69
2. Freight Business Working Ratio 1/            .93  .84  .75  .70  .67  .64  .61
3. Long-Distance Passenger Working Ratio 1/ 1.6  15  1.4  1.3  1.2  1.1  1.0
4. Metropolitan Train Working Ratio 1/          1.4  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0  1.0
5. Maximum Normalization (% Op.Revenue) 2/   12   12   10    8    7    5    3
6. Maximum Borrowings (% Int.Gen.Funds) 3/  3404/3404/ 80   45   40   40   40
7. Collection of Accounts Receivables (Days) 60   60   60   60   60   60   60
-----------------------------------------------------------------------__----
1/ Including normalization payments within the stipulated limits.
2/ Normalization payments for long-distance passenger and freight services
only, as a percentage of the corresponding total operating revenues,
including payments for the long-distance passenger services to reduce to
no more than 25% of long-distance passenger operating revenues in 1993.
3/ Excluding Bank loan and funds borrowed from the Federal Government for
servicing Federally guaranteed debt.
4/ Based on the 1987-1988 combined results.
H.   Project Economic Evaluation
4.27       The investment component of the project was evaluated overall, and
the major individual investments were evaluated separately (Annex 10). The
economic evaluation of the project overall was based upon estimates of both
train operating cost savings to be derived from the project's investments and
total transport cost savings related to traffic which would transfer to road
transport if the project were not implemented. Since project components are
highly interdependent, the economic evaluation of the individual components
was based only upon those train cost savings which were directly attributable
to them; results are therefore conservative. In summary, the net present
value of the benefits from the project's investments is estimated at about
US$110 million equivalent, for a Jiscount rate of 12% and under base cost and
traffic assumptions, and the project's ERR is estimated at about 21%. The
estimated ERRs of the main project components are: 16% for the track program;



- 27 -
24% for the yard and intermodal terminal program; 18% for the
telecommunications program; 30% for the track maintenance equipment program;
16% for the locomotive overhaul, rehabilitation and re-engining program; and
about 28% for the workshop program.
I.   Project Risks
4.28      Although the traffic forecast upon which the economic evaluation is
based represents a best estimate under presen. economic prospects, actual
traffic could be lower if the economic recovery in Brazil and/or the
international demand for the project region's exports are below current
expectations. Assuming that the demand for transport remains, during the
period of analysis, 20% below the forecast, the project would have an
estimated ERR of 17%. Although project cost estimates are based upon detailed
engineering designs, unexpected delays in project execution or changes in
factor prices might lead to higher costs. If, in addition to the 20%0 lower-
than-expected traffic, investment and maintenance costs were 20% higher than
the estimates, the project would still have an attractive ERR of 14%. The
project, which essentially includes the rehabilitation of existing railway
facilities, would not have any adverse impact upon the environment.
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01      During loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the following:
(a) (i) The State to assume and capitalize FEPASA's State-guaranteed,
pre-1987 debt as per agreement between the State and FEPASA dated
February 28, 1987; (ii) the Federal and the State Governments to
study and define the treatment of FEPASA's Federally guaranteed
debt not later than November 30, 1987, as per Protocol dated
February 28, 1987; and (iii) FEPASA to limit its future borrowings,
as a percentage of internally generated funds, to the determined
targets (para 4.05);
(b) FEPASA to maintain separate accounts and operating and capital
budgets for the metropolitan train operation, refrain from
transferring funds to this operation from its other revenues unless
required under normal business compensation practices, and complete
the separat.on of the balance sheet items by the end of 1987
(para 4.05);
(c) FEPASA to: (i) reduce and/or rationalize its commercially
non-viable passenger and freight services to achieve the determined
working ratios targets for the respective long-distance passenger,
metropolitan train, freight and total businesses, and to contain
Government normalization payments for the long-distance passenger
and freight services, as a percentage of corresponding operating
revenues, below the determined limits; and (ii) by September 30 of
each year, forward to the Bank, for review and comment, the
normalization arrangements for the forthcoming budget year
(para 4.06);



- 28 -
(d) (i) the State Government and FEPASA to prepare a pluriannual plan
for the metropolitan train and a pluriannual plan for the railway's
long-distance passenger services not later than December 31, 1987;
(ii) FFPASA to prepare a corporate plan not later than June 30,
1988; and (iii) FEPASA to analyze the feasibility of its new
investments in accordance with technical and economic criteria
satisfactory to the Bank, and, by November 10 of each year, discuss
its pluriannual investment program and financing plan with the Rank
(para 4.07);
(e) the Federal Government's policy of gradually freeing RFFSA'j
tariffs to also apply to FEPASA, to enable FEPASA to set freight
tariffs on a commercial basis upon completion of new tariff
structure (para 4.08);
(f) FEPASA to: (i) adjust freight tariffs and rates and passenger fares
to achieve the determined working ratios targets for the respective
freight, long-distance passenger, metropolitan train, and total
businesses; (ii) develop a cost-related, market-based tariff
structure not later than December 31, 1988, and implement it
thereafter; (iii) develop a sales planning and control system not
later than July 31, 1988; (iv) upgrade its cost-accounting system
not later than December 31, 1988; and (v) finalize joint-venture
arrangements for the construction and operation of grain terminals
not later than July 31, 1988 (para 4.08);
(g) FEPASA to undertake not later than December 1, 1987 and complete
not later than June 30, 1989: (i) the consolidation of the
organization of operations and maintenance, and the development and
implementation of an OIS and a locomotive and wagon maintenance
MIS; and (ii) the development and implementation of a track
maintenance MIS (para 4.09);
(h) FEPASA to undertake not later than December 1, 1987 and complete
not later than December 31, 1990 the development and implementation
of a personnel management and training program (para 4.10);
(i) (i) operational performance targets; and (ii) annual Bank reviews
of FEPASA's operating and financial performance, investment program
and financing plan (para 4.11);
(j) (i) the project financing plan; (ii) the guarantee of the State and
Federal Governments regarding all the necessary counterpart funds;
(iii) cross default clauses for BNDES' loans; and (iv) retroactive
financing (para 4.17);
(k) (i) a project organization and monitoring action plan, including
the reporting requirements; (ii) the project time-schedule;
(iii) outline terms of reference for technical assistance and
training programs (para 4.18);
(1) (i) FEPASA to maintain a Project Account in Cruzados with a
guaranteed credit line of not less than US$1.0 million equivalent;
and (ii) auditing arrangements (para 4.20);



- 29 -
(m) procurement arrangements (para 4.23);
(n) FEPASA to take all necessary tariff and/or cost saving actions to
recover, by the end of 1993, all costs, including depreciation and
interest, from operating reventues (para 4.25); and
(o) financial performance targets (para 4.26).
5.02      The following would be conditions for loan effectiveness:
(a) FEPASA to put into effect the project organization and monitoring
system (para 4.18); and
(b) FEPASA to establish a Project Account irn form and substance
satisfactory to the Bank (para 4.20).
5.03      Subject to the above, the project provides a suitable basis for a
Bank loan of US$100 million. The terms would be 14 years, including three and
one half years of grace.
May 7, 1987



- 30 -
BRAZIL                               TABLE 2.1
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
National Transport Output by Mode, 1980-1986
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986
Freight                      352      339      353     355      391      424      447
(billion ton-km)
Highways                     208      205      212      215     219      228      231
Railways                      86       79       78       75      92      101      105
Marine (Coastal               44       42       50       52      64       78       89
Pipelines                     12       11       11       12       15      16       20
Aviation                        1       1        1        1        1       1        2
Share of Total ()            100      100      100      100     100      100      100
Highways                      59       60       60       61      56       54       52
Railways                      25       24       22       21      24       24       24
Marine (Coastal                13      13       14       15       16      18       20
and Inland)
Pipeline                       3        3        3        3       4        4        4
Aviation                       0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Passengers                   434      452      471     489      508       529    550
Highways                     410      427      444     461      480       499    517
Railways                      12       13       13       14      15        16      16
Aviation                      10       10       11       11      10        11      14
Underground Rail               2        2        3        3       3         3       3
Marine (Inland)                0        0        0        0       0         0       0
Share of Total (%)           100      100      100      100     100      100
Highways                      95       95       94       95      95       94       94
Railways                       3        3        3        3       3        3        3
Aviation                       2        2        2        2        2       2        3
Underground Rail               0        0        1        0       0        1        0
Marine (Inland)                0        0        0        0       0        0        0
Source:  GEIPOT, Anuario Estatistico dos Transportes, 1986; estimates for 1986.
May 1987



- 31 -                           TABLE 2.2
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Federal Investments in the Transport Sector
(in million Cz$ at June 1986 prices 1/)
Shipping and
Year      Highways    Railways    Ports    Shipbuilding   Others          Total
1976       10,075       18,394      2,400         7,200        6,878      44,947
1977        9,418       12,778      1,906         6,504       4,709       35,315
1978        7,435       10,507      2,827         6,792       4,766       32,327
1979       10,555       14,491      2,890         6,984        3,202      38,122
1980        8,813       11,458      2,362         7,843        1,968      32,4h4
1981        7,982        9,619      1,714         7,483       2,213       29,011
1982        6,994        7,978      3,859         6,422       4,042       29,295
1983        5,741        8,424      2,357         6,562       4,387       27,471
1984        4,915        4,080      1,464         9,427       4,330       24,216
1985        3,932        5,354      2,466        4,043        3,721       19,516
1/ Converted to Cz$ based upon the value of the ORTN/UTN.
Source: Ministry of Transport
May 1987



- 32 -
TABLE 2.3
BKAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Some Key Characteristics of the Brazilian Railways 11
RFFSA     CBTU    FEPASA   EFVM    EFC    TOTAL
Network length (km)                 22,587       600    5,072      773   890   30,163 2/
Of which electrified (km)              643       390    1,515      -      -      2,548
Employees (thousand)                    67        19       20      -       3       118
Tons transported (million)            81.9       -       20.9    75.0   5.0    182.8
Ton-km (billion)                      36.8       -        7.3    38.0   4.0       86.1
Of which iron ore (billion ton-km)  13.6        -         -       32.0   3.6      49.2
Average haul length (km)               450       -        350      510   800       470
Passengers, intercity (million)        6.1      -         5.0      2.5   n.a.    13.6
Passengers, suburban (million)          -        488       75       -     _        563
1/ 1985 data
2/ Including "Estrada de Ferro Amapa and
Estrada de Ferro Campos do Jordao
Source: RFFSA, CBTU, FEPASA and CVRD.
May 1987



- 33 -                            TABLE 2.4
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Sao Paulo State Freight Transport Output by Mode, 1975-1985
(in billion ton-km)
1975                 1980                1985
Ton-Km       %       Ton-Km        %      Ton-Km        %
Highways               54.2       80         70.5      76         69.2       73
Railways                8.8       13         17.0      18         19.7       21
Pipelines               4.7        7          5.1       6          6.0        6
Total              67.7      100        92.6      100         94.9     100
_   =-
Source: State Secretariat of Transport (estimates)
May 1987



BUL
8HMA  RailvAy              tadim  Poject
FEPAM lrtt SUtazin-Tc*al OF'°ti0'
(pLL1 19t7. CZ$ tLLlitm)
1980       1981       t992        1983       1984       15   . I8i 187                    19          1989       1990       1991        1992       JwQ3
RVENUE5                                                      AIbMl                                 Pe1Iu1zmry                                     Fracst
Fretqht     2816.0     2990.7  ; 247.t        28t 2.8    2976.0      3250.6     307.3         86       3791.3     4180.5                 450 t.1    46'9.       485b.0
Passancer      214.7      220.9       221.3      151.9       145.9      136.1      125.8       115.5       79.2      ;83.         8'.4       91.7       96.3       101.1
Suburban       64.6        79.3       74.5       61.8       53.3        65.3       69.8        73.0       77.0       90.8        84.2       88.3       p2.6        97.1
Other      10)3.       75.2       186.6      21S3.       53.8       136.3      129.0       128.0      t28.'      128.n       i "B.n     123.6      128.0       228.0
Sub-total                3198.5     3366.0     3730.0      3239.8     3229.0     3588.2      3396.8     3599.0     4065.4      4471.8     4639.7     4814.1    49WM.2       5182.2
Normaalzation
-pavment *ereved      351.2        97.2      425.2       320.1      133.5      155.6       222.2      *56.6     1013.6       922.5      809.2      694.4       585.5      498.9
-outstand. for year       160.6  ; 73.1          59.2        37.3       87.0       122.1      89.4        97.0       95.2        71.4       67.0        62.7       58.8       56.9
Total norealization            511.8      470.3      484.4       .57.4      220.6       277.'      311.7     1053.6      1108.9      993.8      876.3       757.0      644.3       555.8
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES            3710.3     3836.3      4214.4     3597.3     3449.6      3865.9     3708.5     4752.7      5174.3     5465.7      5516.0    5571.1    5639.5        5738.1
EXPENSES
Salaries and mases     2218.5      2456.4     2616.3      2330.2     2093.2     2219.8      2867.5     2913.9      2893.4     2859.9     2823.0      278'.2     2759.8     2715.5
Fuel      344.0      380.1       382.9      374.6      402.7       377.2      359.5       392.8      398.1      316.6       293.6      309.       323.7       339.8
Electricity       42.3        70.6       68.5       62.5        62.7  7 9.7           90,4        93.3      109.6       153.1      166.9      175.2       184.0    .n.3
Spares and eaterials       31  3      325.7      312.8       262.9      256.        331.8      332.0      254 7      271.0       281.9      281.0       289.6      298.7      3N0.0
Other(incl.contracts)       2ts.t      269.1      374.8       352.1      293.7       798.6      800.0      740.5       681.1      621.8      562.2       502.7      443.4       384.0
Total l rhino Ervenses          3133.2     3501.0      3755.3     3382.3     3108.6      3803.2     4-49.4     4395.2      4353.3     4231.7     41.6.7      4063.0     4009.6     3940.6
Depreciation                229.6  . 25.6         621.6       645.4      725.8       791.2      859.7      983.7      1278.5     2S91.3     2767.6      3840.0     2881.B     2889.6
Provision for d.debts             0.6        1.8         3.5        2.9         1.1        1.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
TOTAL WERMII   E1rfESES             3363.4     3829.2      4380.4     4030.6      3835.5     4595.4     5308.2      5378.9     5631.8     6922.9      6894.3     6903.1     6891.4      6830.3
1IN16 I       IICOE/L°SSM            577,1      334.5       459.1      214.9      34t.0        62.7     -741.0       357.5      821.0     1234.0      1389.2     1508.0      1629.9     1797.4
OPtRATINl IN IIIE.fLOSS)             346.8         7.1     -166.0     -433.4      -385.9     -729.5    -159.7       -626.2     -457.5   -1457.3    -1378.1    -1332.0    -1251.9   -1092.2
let Non-Operatin Income        738.0     1271.8      2467.9      355.5      t14.0       524.2      728.0      728.0       728.0      728.0       728.0      728.0      728.O       728.0
Interest      406.1     2879.7      2448.0     1170.2     1877.0      3205.0     6101.8     4443.4      3493.0     26tS.7      1995.4     1564.4     1078.0       8S3.4
Other Fin. rEpenseslincome    -2920.3       591.2   -1406.1       5581.B   -588S.1   -2865.0           0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0
Other Fin.lExpensesl/Incote 1    -509.4       -171.7   -1984.7       -553.8      156.2      -522.5        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0
AWAL PR9IF17;iILDSS)               -2751.O    -1I81.2    -3537.0      3779.7   -7877.8   -6797.7   -6973.5   -4341.6    -3222.5    -3344.9    -2645.7   -2168.4    -1602.0   -1197.6
ftrline Ratio
-wttt  normalizatioe           84.4        91.3       89.1        94.0       90.1       98.4      120.0        92.5       84.1        77.4       74.8       72.9        71.1       68.7
-without normalization            98.0      104.0       100.7      104.4       96.3       106.0      131.0      118.8       tO7.1       94.6       88.9       84.4        80.:       76.0
Operating Ratio
-with normalization            90.7        ".8       103.9       112.0      111.2      118.9       143.1      113.2       108.1      126.7      125.0       123.9      122.2      119.0
tthtout normalization           105.2      113.8       lij.4      124.4      118.8       128.1      156.3      145.4       138.5      154.8      148.6       143.4      138.0      !11.8
Normalization as I of Op.Rev.         13.8       12.3        11.5        9.9         6.4        7.2        8.4        22.2       21.4       19.2        15.9       13.6       11.4         9.7
Freight & Pass. Normalitation
as Z of Op. Rev.               11.4       10.3        8,9         6.3        4.3         4.3        5.0       11.7        12.5      13.1         8.3         6.6        5.0        3.4
1/Poetatery adtustmewts representing realized values
Smea: MAS& anl d atrm esdtas. FIiwm  suject tD s                           Ezt   dLffrwi:s.
Apu   1987



OWAL
FEPASA RAUJ-.V WU&nlnUMW Pr2r
FEPASA FTnd Flow State,ts
(April 1967, ;c$ mUlit)
1980       1981       191         1913        184        195  ,    3S8b           87        1988        1919       1190        1l9        1992        1993
SOU9ETS                                              7PelmiTtmary                                                                                    FM   t
Operatino lfIncmeieLossl      346.8         7.1      -166.0     -433.4      -385.9     -729.5    - 159. 7      -626.2     -457.5   -145'.3    -1378.4    -1332.0    - 25.9    -1092.2
Met no'-cperataoI incose       738.0      1271.8      2467.9      355.5       114.0      524.2       728.0       128.0      n28.0       728.0      ?28.0       ?28.       '289.      728.0)
DepreCiation       229.6      325.6       621.6      645.4       725.8       791.2      858.7       983.7     1278.5      269l.3     2767.6      2840.0      28"1.8     2889.6
Pro;lslons         0.0        1.8         3.5        2.9         1.1         1.0        0. ,        0.0        A.0         0.0         0.0        0.          0.0        0
Subtotal                 1315.0      1606.4     2926.9       570.5      455.0       586.q       -13.0     1095.5      1549.0     1962.0      2117.2     2236.0      2357.9      2525.4
yearly nore,payst. vutstand.        160.6      373. 1       59.2        37.3       87.0       122.1       89.4        97.0       952         71.4        67,0       62.7        58.8       56.9
Wors.rec d.re prev. years                               149.4       87.4        11.8                  122.1        89.4       97.0        95.2       71.4        67.0        62.7       58.8
Other Fn.rEDpenses)'Intome        -509,4     -171.7    -1984.7      -553.8       156.2      -522.5        0.0         h.n        n,n         n.a        0A          ^n0.0                  9 n)
TOTAL INTERNAL CASH SEMERPTI84        b45. 0    1061.6      1032.5        &b.8      536.0       -57.7       ]9.7      1077.9     1550.8      1985.8     2t21.r      2240.4      2362.8     2.577,3
*04sS
For 1nvestwnts               '7974       355.7       606.6       467.0      517.9      2043.5     3     473.4  4488.4    4638.5      2n70.5      1026.8      672.0       552.1       110.5
For Debt sevzce             1)6P.5      '953,.9    318'.5       191,4      2536.8     1504.2    11310.8      6325.2      40o8.5      3625.8     2535.9      1597.2      991.8       640.8
Total Loars               2347.8      430°.6     3790.1       658.4     3054.7      3547.7    14684.2    11013.6       8726.9     5696.3      33562.8    2269.2      1543.8       751.2
CAPITAL r01p1RBUTIO1                  247.4      1169.0     1960.3      1801.9      1866.5    3,384.6      7618.7     5157.8      6213.3     5842.2      4985.5      4.4    .     7 ,        49! .4
OECRE9SEA fISCqEASfi It [ASI           51.1         9.0       75.5        93.5      -84.8        -5.2      483.5       192.7   -1432.1    -2A10.3        -'95.3      201;.6          4        T                          I
TOtAL SG7JCES              3291.4      6549.1     670e.4      262n.6     5373.4      6869.4    22806.1    17442.0    15059.0    11514.6        9974.6      8959.2     -7el        680'.*
APPLICATION
Investtmnt%-P,o,ett         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0       601.8      1965.3     1337.3      1253.8      831.0       69. I       127.1
-Oth.mr     939.2       897.6     1666.4      1573.3      1129.9      956.3      3373.4     4007.0      3066.2       00).6       23.8         7.2        n.0          .2
Irterest                  406.1     2879.7      2448.0      1170.2     1877.0      3205.0     6101.8      4443.4      3493.0     2615.7      1995.4     1564.4      1078.0      833i.4
Loari Redeevtion
P'oJert        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0         0.0      -16.1      1014.0      991.       1071.7
-other     1780.0      2987.2     z575.7       877.3      2206.9     2614.9    12B27.7      87268.6     6479.1     6490.2      65e0.6      5513.2     416:.:      47!5.7
-other 1onQ tern        14.7       14.7        12.5       -1.1         2.9        15.5        0.0         n.0        0.0         0.0         0.0        0.0         0.0 °.0
Change in morking Capital          151.4     -130.1         4.8     -999.0       156.8        77.9      503.2       121.1       55.3        77.2       37.1        29.2        28.q       30.'
70TAL APPLICATION            3291.4      6549.1     6707.4      2626.6     5373.4      6869.4    22806.1    l'442.A    150Os.3    11514.0        9e74.6     8959.2      7752        78n.9 
S&twz : FASA aul   t lsuio  etintes. f1giut  g&jeact to riagdiog affetre m.
ril 1987



UAZIL
(Arl IW7, C1$  UIUM1)
1979       1990       2991        l2         1m         1                      Ila7 r      917        19E9       18          90         1991    1992          1993
ASSETS                               it                                                                       ftk11ezy
Cash                  83.4        74.4      t49.9       56.4       141.1      146.3    -337.2    -529.7         902.2      2912.5     3707.9     35nt.2      3432.9     340Q.0
RECEIVAIlES
Trade                 467.2       900.8      565.9      566.6       651.0      674.2       378.9      417.0      466.2       515.4      535.1      555.5       576.8      598.7
less Prov for O.Debts                    5.3        4.3         5.8        5.1         2.7        1.8        n.8         0.9        0.8        0.8         0.8        0.8        0.9         0.8
net Trade Recetiables                  461.9      896.5       560.0      561.4       648.3      672.5      379.1       416.2      465.4      514.6       534.3      554.'      576.0       597.9
State Bov*t.
for per.-wavs                    0.0        0.0      147.2       154.2      143.4       138.9        0.0
Cap. Contrib.                  t60.0      752.3        0.0       239.2      234.2       67.7         0.0
bior"ljzatjon                  495.8      621.6      224.0        37.3       87.5       149.4       89.4       97.0       95.2        71.4       67.0        6,.7       58.8       56.9
Other                 280.8        82.6      172.4        13.9     1823.0        1.8         1.9        1.9        1.9         1.9        1.9         1.9        1.9        1.9
Total froa State 6.                  926.6     1456.5       542.6      444.6     2289.2       357.8       91.3       98.9        97.1       73.3       69.0        64.6       60.7       58.8
STtC                               633.0      523.0       385.0      507.5      286.6       '22.4      400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0      400.0      400.0       400.0      400.0
OTiER                              *B6.7      229.8       74t.1      162.9       147.8      392.6      310.4      310.4       310.4      310.4      310.4       310.4      310.4       310.4
ZNWSTNEMTs                              3.8        1.0    l     .1        1.3         2.4        3.8        3.8         .8         3.         3.         3.98        3.8        3.8         3.8
tDTAlt CtRREIT ASSETS                     2295.4      3181.2     2379.7     t534.1      3513.5     1895.4      946.5       699.5     2178.9     4214.7      5025.3     4839.8     4783.'    4770.9
LOW  TERM RECFT4BLES                        32.Y      1098.4      965.9      875.2       622.1      45,4      45t.4       451.4      451.4      451.4       451.4      451.4       451.4      451.4
FilEt ASSE5                          3545;.8    45631.D   54769.9    73931.5    81826.2    87617.0    90990.4    95599.2   100630.7   1-4683.2 125960.8   126 79.0   1217t4.1 l ?725.4
less Depreciation                        813.0      1212.5     2023.0     295.7       4t56.3  5791.7        6250.4      7234.1     8522.6    I120.9 1.7971.5    16811.5    296'73.Z           .-3 
NET f :tFED 4SETS                      3464r.8    44430.5    52746.9    70083.0    77669.9    ri225.3    94740.0    88365.1   92128.1   2t34?9.3  2111I9.3   109987.5   107795.   105042.5
TOTAL ASSETS                                  37259.0    48680.0    56'e2.5    73:45.2    e1905.5    8457'.t   86037.9    895:6.0    94748.4   118145.3   117466.0   1;5278.7   113030.9   110264.7
LIAPILItiES apd tAPTAil
Cutrrent Liabilittes
Accounts payable    IQI            1.7      1768.8      1175.4     1446.9     1609.1      1339.7      395.5      300.6       304.1      296.0      271.6       265.8      260.5       255.2
5alaries. Soc. sec.                  166.4      269.8       289.4      309.3      131. 0      3730.7     239.0  . 42.8          241.1      238.2      235.3       232.3      2S0.0       226.3
Other                  68.6        28.5       34.4        12.0     1516.0    49.8           49.9       4*.8             49.t       49.      8 4 9.9  49.8            49.S*9   * 9
Total Current Liab.           t           254.'     2067.0      149".2     1768.2      3456.2,    1(Z0.2      68.2        601.2      595.0      574.0       556.6      547.8      540.1       531.'
Lonai term liabilites                    21426.7    30583.0    32088.3    31399.7    34872.7    3692.9    38748.4    41493.3    43741.1    42977.2    39945.5    35697.4    31277.0    26220.9
Equity
Capital                 7377.1     7317,1     7377.1      7377.2     7377.1     7377.1      7377.1     7377.1     7377.1      7377.1     7377.1     7377.1    '377.2       7377.1
Cap.Trsf.                 1269.9     3109.4     46t9.4      6730.4     9756.5    12135.4    19754.1    24911.9    31125.2    36967.4    41952.9    46200.8    4997'.i    53469.6
Capital Reserve        Y          82.!     3481.1      3481.1     3461.1     3481.1    3481.1       3481.1     3491.1     3481.1      3481.1     3481.1      3481.2     3491.,     341                       >
Revaluation PReserve                6727.7     7521.8    15953.9    27105.3    3695'.3    42858-.   42859.6            .6    42858.6   64573.1    64573.1    64573.1   64573.1    64573.1              x
Profit/fLoss'                        -4270.5    -5459.5    -396.5    -5216.6   -13094.4   -1"92.1   -26865.6   -31207 2   -34429.7   -37774.6   -40420.4   -42539.9   -4190.8  -45398.4                            w
TOTAL LIh?LIT1ES a4 EQUITY                    2M9.0         6.0    5692.5    73245.2         1305.5    94572.;    9S037.9    69516.0    94746.4  1ti145.3   1174lt.0   115278.7   113030.9   110264.7
: IFAtt. md .nm  ettnt. FigoW  aubt* jet t .owIlr diffCtar.
411 1987



- 37 -                        TABLE 3.4
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Price Structure of Petroleum Automotive Fuels 1/
(as of April 1987, in USS per gallon) 27
Gasoline "C"         Diesel Oil
Ex-Refinery Price                                 0.86                 0.55
Distribution Charges
and Retailer's Margins                         0.13                 0.13
Taxes and Para-Fiscal Charges                      1.35                 0.18
Retail Price                                      2.34                 0.86
Retail Price
(Net of Distribution Charges
and Retailer's Margins)                        2.21                 0.73
International Price 4/ (c.i.f.) Santos)           0.50 5/              0.45
I/ Prices in effect since April 15, 1987. As of July 24, 1986, the
Government introduced an additional 28% charge upon the price of
gasoline; this charge would be paid back to the users after a three-year
period.
2/ Exchange rate: US$1 = Cz 23.88
3/ 73 RON gasoline, retailed in a blend of about 20% of anhydrous biomass
alcohol (RON = Research Octane Number).
4/ As of the Third Quarter of 1986
5/ 95 RON Gasoline
Source: Ministry of Transport and mission estimates
May 1987



RP AS;Af;I, q    iy Mitti*an ProJect,
FWASA Traf ic, 197-2SS3
a. in thoumd tons
actuaI                                             fo rc at                                          malu.astJe _ r t 
Ckowities   197s    1s0D    29          2994    15    19o6    2997    2998    1999    190    2S91            1       1903 197S-O lSI4  197548  198t8
_   _   _-   _   _   _                                      - -                                                      -S -   - 4 x s X
flarohwa p.   24KD    4578    3817    3667    3717    3w7    39M           404D    4170    4310    4410    4S2D    463        13.2    -2.5      4.3      2.4
Alcol             °      782     94    2499    21 25       2       3       311 a    338     3M       3a2     3730    am       n..    24.7    n.-.        4*S
Cost             32      22S     1i39     No        4      669     740      76D      780     8W       810     8        83D    47.7    29.9    31.8       3.1
euxlet          173      967     742      731     812      91So       1(            1       2I2      lI=D    lIM      lI=     25.8      9.1    28.8      3.3
L.harbom        378      751     948      912     95       884     970    114D    2124      2240        1240          1240    14.7      2.8      8.0     6.0
Phoqphnt          0    1168    1332    28S8    2E1    1s6m         210D    216D        0    2        23ED    2410    2470    n.o.       5.5    n.e.      6.4
Sulfur           29      14D     2R1      284     35l      349      37D     39D      40      42D      43D     44D      4ED    37.0    15.4    25.4       3.7
Co"nC          S928    1913    1432    1SS1    1412    1720   1im          17W      I=|)   29102D1D 2D0s     15.9    -1.7                        6.9     2.7
Wood            213      39D     372      448     44       414      S40      7       SOD       s      640     6D       610    12.3      1.4      6.2     7.1
VIst            578    S22      2023    124   178    1237    239D    149D    1600    172D    1760   2VW0    1640    16.7               0.6      7.6     5.1
Corn            us       WI      719      182     221      513     48D      49D    6a0       60      68D      7CD      710      1.8    -1.8    -0.2      4.8
SO"             297      M67     5S1      S42     722      e8      S1D              14ED   13D    2mo9    2660    173D    15.8         1.4      7.7   25.2
Pol lets        470    2247    1641    14E5    2622    1117    2DeD    2170    229D    241D    26)    23D3   274D    21.5    -1.8                8.2    23.7
Su_r            654    135    2          14D  9J 8         953      2      I        1       1330    230D   2390    142         19.7    -6.3      3.5     S.9
Fortili ar      577    143   6 22 S1       1      731      924       W 9     D   1gD    i0O          2)    210    1170    20.0    -7.1           4.4     3.4
Oim-r          2181   2314    3177    271        2718     32       3(30     336D            360    379D    3J8D    390D    1.3          1.6      1.4     2.9
Total         20541            234       3      2                242               215     29721D 90                 39m       14.9     1.5      7.4     6.0
b. In miIlion ton-Im
a - *ctual                                         forec-at                               -_wMrot"-
Cmodities   15    28           1         89    2i        1        l2ow    1996     1       1990    29t      1991    199  I1S1-   19905  17p58D  299
Fstrola  p.   1225 1 956    2517    1490  6 1             298    II        2510  16         1680D    172     1760 D   28D1 0 .3    -3.2          2.7     1.S
Alcohl            0     223      479      749     742  eE2         SW      I9       I=      1030    114D    2YlO    D21  0    n.u.    29.6       n.-.    9.2
CoI              10      64      128      172     174      257     140      140      2SD    l20       2OD     180      16     46.0    26.1    28.4       0.3
luxitO           54      179     217      214     2        2S1     24D      240     240      26D      2J0     29D      2m     27.1      6.9    25.3      0.1
Lmtinm           71      140     2        178     14       2SD     110      20D                0 2D   2JD     29D      29D    14.5      1.2      7.0     8.2
"MOM              0     ass      6        SR      774      73      S9       m       goo      99DD    2010    240D    IO       n.-.      2.6    n.s.      4.6
Sulfur            6       #5      12      1        SO       22     130      2   19    0      210      280     280      110    74.1   -21.8    22.5    33.9
C_nt            294     414    3am        34s     86       310     34D      31D     420      430     440      40D      470     7.1    -1.9      2.1      3.5
waed             so      95       95      114     111       So     140      14D    l2D       l20      280     170      170    13.9      0.3     6.3      8.2
asmt            32F     5        440   396        So18             490    SD        50        0  6O S a0              680   a2.1       1.2     6.0      1.2
Cern            26       29O     291       76      de      227     210      22D     290    3S0       a        30 310    D     -5.S      2.6    -1.4      6.0
So"             116      32      278      279     3                410      440     610      340     6D0      90              22.3    -3.6      7.6    2D.6
fble t1         178     4C6    54       478      572      446     810    10        2o      ID      nUS      22      1280 2.1           1.6     8.6    28.0
Sugr            242     en       518      4D1     325      299     39D      440     49D      410     490      49D      am     18.3   -10.0       1.9     7.6
F_rti iIx       224     02D      237      2E8     336      4X      380      410       D      MD   SSSD        SD 5D           22.6    -7.0      5.5      4.0
Oors            771     873      799      786     814      o76    9M0D    10        10D     1200    2.280     18       210     2.5      0.1      1.2     4.7
Total          3EOP    7390    67sm              7279    7208    Wm        88      9e00   101D   2043D   107)   l22W          14.1    -0.4      6.0      6.3
Sourom: FPASA and mission estintes 
Mly 1987



- 39 -
TABLE 3.6
Page 1 of 2
1AIL
FEPASA RAiM  REABILIICON PR cr
FEPASA's Operating Statistics
1980      1981       1982     1983      1984      1985      1986
Total PDute (km)
Metric                                       3,422     3,453     3,464     3,473     3,473     3,473     3,436
Broad                                        1,632     1,599     1,599     1,599     1,599     1,599     1,599
Total                                    5,054     5,052     5,063     5,072     5,072     5,072     5,036
Electrifiel                                  1,156     1,098     1,38      1,099     1,99     1,099     1,111
Non-electrified                              3,898     3,954     3,965     3,973    3,973      3 973    3,924
Total                                    5,054     5,052     5,063     5,072     5,072     5,072     5,035
Total Staf                                    19,422    19,356    19,874    19,603    19,255    19,443    19,542
Traffic
Passerger-nmnbers
:3uhrban                                  56,413    57,511    56,167    63,019    72,839    77,009    86,908
Interior                                   5,159     5,883     5,240     4,617     4,936     5,085     6,867
Passenger-km (mLllion)
Mbtan                                      1,072     1,093     1,067     1,197     1,384     1,463     1,651
Interior                                   1,335     1,467     1,306     1,130     1,188     1,069     1,290
Freight
ns (000)                                  20,100    19,673    21,473    20,644    20,956   20,898    22,003
Tons--km (million)                         7,380     6,893     7,293     6,799     6,998     7,279     7,206
Train-ln (0)0)
Pasegr-eiburban                              2,325     2,505     2,427     2,318     2,632     2,671     2,892
Passenger-interior                           5,818     5,692     5,488     5,168     5,613     5,773     5,696
MIde                                           106       122        66        35        33        30        19
Freight                                     11,229    10,831    10,744     9,928     9,831    10,199    9,851
Diesel                   5,658     5,305     5,225     4,825     5,007     5,373     6,100
Electric                 5,571     5,526     5,519     5,103     4,824     4,826    4,751
Service                                      1,119     1,121     1,214     1,545     1 360     1,296     1,082
Total Train-km                          20,606    20,271    19,939    18,994    19,469    19,969    19,540
Total Locamotive-lm (000)
Diesel                                      17,912    16,845    17,346    17,217    17,043    17,459    16,359
Electric                                    12,208    12,270    12,219    11,16A    11,C'l   10,986    10,735
Mbtor cars                                   7,259     8,419     8,5'5     8,162     7,819     3,132     9,137
Autmoxtive                                      65         -                   -         -         -       -
Total                                   37,714    37,534    38,124    36,543    35,9?3    36,577    36,231
Fteight (rev         in      a        (million)
Wago-4nm (million)
Loaded                                       178       170       175       158       158       159       153
H,ty                                         120       116       119       104        95        90        86
Total                                      298       286       294       262       253       249       239
Of itich: FEPASA's agons                         262       252       250       224       218       214      205
Private wagons                          36        34        44        38        35        35        34



- 40 -
TABLE 3.6
Page 2 of 2
UlAZUL
FEPAA RAILW  REAUX1ATIGN PRUF
FEPASA's Operating Statistics
1980     1981      1982     1983      1984     1985       1986
Gross Trailing Tor-o  (mion)
Passenger (including subirban)            2,794    2,776    2,608    2,681    2,747    2,834        2,890
Fteight, reven>-ea:rning                 13,469   13,011    13,606   12,317   12,149   12,281    11,935
Mixed                                        30       28        15        8         5        7          4
Service                                     369      226       217      267       241      239        220
Tbtal                              16,662   16,041   16,446   15,273   15,142   15,361    15,049
Gross ton4m (incxluing locos) (billion)
Passmsenr (including suburban)            3,445    3,433    3,282    3,320    3,440    3,542        3,576
Freight, revue earning                   15,53B    14,999    15,750    14,252    14,010   14,169    13,726
Mixed                                        40       40        21        12        8        11         6
Service                                     476      337       334      416       374      366        329
Tbtal                              19,499   18,809   19,387   18,000   17,832   18,088    17,635
iDcOatives in Stock
Diesel                                      370      369       367       364      363       361       361
Electric                                    140      139       147       146      146       146       146
%btor cars                                  146      174       lhU      14n       140       140       138
Automxtive                                   4         4         4        4         4        4         4
loamotive Perfomaxnce
Locmntive Availability (%)
Diesel                                       80.0     78.4      77.0      780      70.9     67.4    65.6
Electric                                     70.8      72.4     72.1      68.5     66.8     68.2    68.0
I.oCawtive Utilization (%)
Diesel                                       56.0     56.1      58.6     60.6      63.5      65.5    63.7
Electric                                     71.0     73.2      72.1     70.8     70.5      68.2    67.0
lsawtive Productivity
(million gross tomH  p.a.)
Diesel                                       49.9     46.(      48.0     45.9      45.3     45.5    44.1
Electric                                    45.2      50.1      50.0     42.6      41.3     39.8    3B.0
Freight 1hon and naiin Performance
7 loaded to total wign-4wa                   59.7     59.4      59.5     60.3      62.5     63.9    64.0
it . wagon srevenue-erning)                13,400    13,341    13,258    13,184    13,070    12,446   12,808
Wgon-days in use (000):
FEPA'8s wgons                           3,826.2  3,854.3  3,830.2  3,918.3  4,217.3  4,219.1  4,234.3
Private ixons                             397.1    430.6    439.9    395.7    392.3    376.0   440.7
lotal                               4,223.3  4,284.9  4,270.1  4,314.0  4,609.6  4,595.1  4,675.0
Aver.ge Wagon Load (tons)                     42.3      42.4      42.9     43.8      44.1     45.8    47.1
Nb. of Rgons loaded                         476,305  465,927   500,849  475,476  485,956  472,250 476,448
1ign-4am per wiago-day in use                  70.6     66.7      68.9     60.7      54.9     54.2    50.9
Net ton-km per wagort-day in use              1,748    1,609    1,708    1,576    1,518    1,584    1,536
tUgon tumnarourzd (days)                       9.2       9.7       8.9      9.5       9.9      9.7      9.8
Wigon-4un between turuaroumW                   648       646       613      575       541      526      511
Average no. of wagons per freight train:
loaded                                       16       15        16       16        16       16       16
Eupty                                       10        11        11       11        11        9        9
SoLrce: FEPASA
May 1987



UtAZIL
FPASA RAIM  ID2iABXrATI1 PFKE)Cr
RWASA's lttIe Poer (1986)
MIRC GJIiE                                                                      5D  CAIJ
l-leetric                                             -tlectri-
Mb. of I        Seria  N.   Mw    fdel            HP's    Years in Service    Nb. of lceas    Sera NtD. W               del      HP'S    Years in Sevice    Total Fleet
25            200D        GE       1-0-1   2320              40                4             6100        GE       2-0-2   3818               46
20            2050         1       1 1        2330           40                4             6150        EST      2-40-2   3618              46
30            2100        GE       B-B        1840           18                10            6350        GES      C*C        43S6            19
20            6370        GE       2-C+0-2   3818             46
5            6410        1EST     0*C        1521            59
5           6450         GE       2-1).O-2   4650            35
9            6500        GE       NB          458            62
B            6510        GE         B         458            39
eb -Total     75                                                                             65                                                                            140
Dimi                                                                             Dl
10           3100         GE CB   U6C          600           35                17           7000         G1       SW9,GP18   1750            28
21            32X00          CB0   U12B       1200           29                18            7050       (GM       GI2        1310            27
7            3500        GE AM   RSa          500           29                36            7760        LEW      [13/PA      770            19
36            3600        04       aX          875           26                23            78 0        E        U20C       2n               9
30            3650       (M        OR         1310           29
25            3700         W1      IEELS       770           18
15           3750         I"       IEfI      1120           18
113            380         CEWA    U20C        2000           10
Stb4btal    257                                                                               94                                                           351
ITL          332                                                                             159                                                           491
Source: WPASA
May 1987
"-1



WRAZ
WEPASA RA1lhW SEI8IaUIATAIC PNDJEr
S9uary of  iWSA's DMesl loc eotiveRRairmnt, 1987-1993
-Actual                                                         Frcs
1981     1982      1983      1984      1985      1986      1987     19'8      1989      1990      !991      1992      1993
A. Total Freight Trafftc (billion tonm-m)                 13.0     13.6      12.3      12.2      12.3      12.0      13.4      14.6     16.1      17.0      17.2      17.4      17.8
8. Total diesel frel*ht traffic (b ilion tor-u)
Metric                                          7.3       7.6       7.0       7.1       7.2       6.8      8.6       7.2       6.1       5.0       4.8       4.8       4.8
Boad                                            0.7       0.8       0.8       0.7       1.0       1.1       1.0       1.3      1.9       2.1       2.1       2.2       2.2
C. herage train loa  (tons)
Metric                                         1,587     1,689    1,707     1,651     1,S65     1,619     1,843     t,730     1,625    1,405     1,425     1,451     1,464
Broad                                         1,000     1,143     1,143     1,0(      1,250     1,222      982       970       953       9L4       989     1,0))     1.03
D. Total train-hr (million kn)
Metric                                          4.6       4.5       4.1       4.3       4.6       4.2       4.7       4.2      3.8       3.6       3.4       3.3       3.3
Broal                                           0.7       0.7       0.7       0.7       0.8       0.9       1.0      1.3       2.0       '.1       2.1       2.1       2.1
E. Avrage nD. of locanotlveF per train
Meteic                                          1.8       1.95      2.03      1.98      1.93      1.90      2.00      1.90     1.79      1.69      1.72      1.75      1.78
Broad                                           1.42      1.41      1.38      1.33      1.40      1.44      1.40      1.38     1.36      1.33      1.37      1.41      1.46
F. Total loco--km (dillion kms)
tetric                                          8.3       8.8       8.3       8.5       8.9       8.0       9.4       8.0      6.8       6.1       5.9       5.8       5.9
Broad                                           1.0       1.0       1.0       0.9       1.1       1.3      1.4       1.8       2.7       2.8       2.9       3.0       3.1
C. ND. of freigtht Iocrotives
1etric                                          150       151       145       152       157       149       143      125       107        90        90        90        90
Broad                                            22        24        23        20        23       30        24        24        25        26        30        33        37
H. Averaw amrvial mileage ('OOt) Io pa.)
Metrtc                                         55.3      58.3      57.2      55.9      56.7      53.7      65.7     64.0      63.6      67.8      65.6      64.4      65.6
Br.a                                           45.4      41.7      43.5      45.0      47.8     43.3      58.3      75.0    108.0    107.7        96.7      90.9      83.a
1. PrrdLttvity O(illicn gcrtx  tcru p.a.)
Mptric                                         48.7      50.3      48.3      46.7      45.9     45.6      60.1      57.6      57.0      55.6      53.3      53.3      53.3                      1
RtSme                                          31.8      33.1      34.8      35.0      43.5     36.3      41.7      54.2      76.0      80.8      70.0      66.7     59.5                      4
J. Ayailatblity (2)
Mftric                                          0.79      0.78      0.79      0.70      0.66     0.63      0.69      0.72      0.74      0.77      0.77      0.78      0.78                     1
Brarxi                                          0.77      0.74      0.76      0.73     0.71      0.73      0.73      0.74      0.76      0.77      0.78      0.79      0.80
K. tttUlzatton of availability (O
MFrtric                                         0.56      0.59      0.61      0.64      0.66     0.65      0.66      0.67      0.69      0.70      0.71      0.72      0.73
Brrar                                           0.57      0. 6      0.58      0.60     0.62      0.60      0.62      0.63      0.64      0.66      0.7V      0.74     0.79
L. t9*. of Imns  to be retirei, of Aiid,:
Freight:
Peter(*)                                          -         -         1         3         1        -        12        15        20        12         2         2         2
Brnad(*)                                          -         I         1         2         1        -         -         -         -         -         5         5        5
M. ND. of locc  to be Pwdhased:
Broad
N. P'aaerer tocatotivs,
Meter                                           10.3      6.3       9.6       8.3       8.3       8.9      8.3       8.3       8.3       8.3       8.3       8.3       8.3
Brad                                            18.8     ZO.3      20.0      19.5      19.3     19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      19.0      15.0      12.0     10.0
0. Otwtr lucomattve, of d itch:
Service trains:
Meter(**)                                       112       115       116       108       102       109       91        94        92       102       100       98        86
Bras(**)                                         58        54        54        56       52         45       51        51        50        49       44        39        32                   >
P. Total '&nler of diesel toe,wti '
Meter                                           272       272       271       268       267       267      242       227       207       2C0       198       196      194
Broad                                            98        95        95        95       94        94        94        94        94        94       89        84        79
1*) FreiWt ard m1tch                                                                                                                                                                               0,
(*) Sewice mu  witch 
S&Cls: IPPMA's Statiltis nia P11mntm DlartBaits  and  aloan esti-int.
iw 1987



ERAZ
MP. ' RAAMY RNAB     rIA N PWlJCT
Summay of FRASA's Electric lccmtite  Rqlr               7-1993
---- Actual  F oreat
1981     1982      1983     1984      1985      1986      1987     1998      199       1990     1991      1992      1993
A. Total Freight Tmffic (tilIon twrkm)                   13.0     13.6      12.3      12.2      12.3      12.0     13.4      14.6     16.1      17.0     17.2      17.4      17.8
6. Total electric freit traffic (billion tona)
Metric                                          2.8      3.0       2.5       2.5       2.2      2.2       2.9       3.9      5.7       7.4       7.6      7.9       8.2
Broad                                           2.2       2.2      2.1       1.8       1.9      1.9       2.1       2.0      2.0       2.4       2.5       2.7      2.8
C. Awerage train load (tons)
1tetric                                         9D3    I,O04       962       962      880       880       906       975     1,056    1,156     1,169     1,179    1,206
Broald                                          917      880       840       818      826      826        828      845       870       907      924       940       959
D. Total traln-Ire electric (iUlion klm)
Metric                                          3.1       3.0      2.6       2.6      2.5       2.5       3.2      4.0       5.4       6.4       6.5      6.7       6.8
Brod                                           2.4       2.5       2.5       2.2      2.3       2.3       2.5       2.4      2.3       2.7       2.7      2.9       2.9
E. &merage no. of locartt9m  per train
Metr1c                                          1.77      1.82     1.80      1.81      1.76     1.72      1.63      1.50     1.39      1.35      1.35      1.37     1.40
aral                                            1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00     1.00      1.00      1.00      1.0o     1.o0      1.00      1.00     1.00      1.0O
F. Total loco-4= (mU1Ui  kIm)
tAtric                                          5.5       5.5      4.7       4.7      4.4       4.3       5.2       6.0      7.5       8.7       8.8      9.2       9.5
Broad                                           2.4      2.5       2.5       2.2      2.3       2.3       2.5       2.4      2.3       2.7       2.7      2.9       2.9
G. ND. of fredght 1ocawtie
Metric                                          66        66        66        64       63       64         59       64        70        76        73        71       71
Srrd                                             34       38        42        40       40       44         43       41        40        42       44        48        52
H. Avera  amnul tidleag  ('eOU0 1 p.a.)
Mrtric                                         83.3     83.3      71.2      73.4      69.8      67.2    88.1       93.8    107.1    114.5    120.5    129.6    133.8
Brr d                                          70.6     65.8      59.5      55.0     57.5       52.3    58.1      58.5      57.5      64.3      61.4     60.4      55.8
I. Prcsdurtlvlty (mdllton K,   tonria p.a.)
Mletrtc                                        42.4     45.5      37.9      39.1      34Aq      34.4    49.1      60.3      81.4      97.4    104.1    111.3    115.5
Brow                                          64.7      57.9      50.0      45.0     47.5       43.2    48.8      48.8      50.0      57.1      56.8     60.4      53.8
J. AmU*ilabiUty (2)
Metrtc                                         69.8     70.7      69.0      65.4      67.0      66.0    70.6       74.2     77.8      81.6      82.7     83.5      84.7
Broad                                          75.6     73.6      67.9      68.4     69.4       70.0    73.0      76.0      79.0      82.1      83.2     84.5      85.0
K. UtU{tzation of availabillty (2)
ttetric                                        79.0     79.0      77.0      77.0      74.0       7       79.0      79.0     79.0      '9.0      79.0      79.0     79.0
Brtxe                                         62.0      60.0      61.0      60.0     59.0       59.0    60.0      64.Q      68.0      72.0     74.0      76.0      79.0
L. No. of locos D be retired, of whidc:
Freight:
Meter                                            -         -         -         -        -         -         6        6         6         8         5        5         5
Brcilrt (*)                                      2         -         -        _         _         _        6         6         7        8        2          2         2
MF. No. of 1cr to be ptrdwhed:
Meter                                            -         -         -         -        -                  11        9         9         9         2        2         3
Broad                                            2         2         6        -         -         -        4         4         6        8         3         3         3
N. Pasaeter loomnottves
Meter                                            8         9         7        9         9         9        15        16       12         8        8         7         6
Brmi                                             17       18        20        21       21        18        13        13       13        12        12       10         9
0. Otbwr locotivea, of kichd:
Service trairn:
Meter(**)                                        2         1         3         3        4         3         6        3         5         3        3       2.8       2.2
Bromad(**)                                       13        9         9        10        9         8         6        6         6         5        4       3.0       1.0
P. Total timber of electric tocamtives
Meter                                           76        76        76        76       76        76        80       83        86       87        84        81        79                  M   r
Broad                                           65        66        71       70        70        70       62        60        59        59       60        61       62                   fD  r
(*) Freiht ard sitch                                                                                                                                                                               0
(**) Sevic  ain  witch 
S5ura: PRAS's Statistic  and P1'1mg D          qparu,s asn mission eatites.
Pky 1987



FEPASA RAnM     RMBnXrAnoN Pr
PEPASA Ibliuig Stock, 1986
11tric                         Go - -              -         d! G
lb.   Years In Servic    ND.   Yeas in Servic    ND.   Year in  teb    NO.   Ya  in SerVice    AP                     Nkweme
1. &s                          225             8                                     952            26
56            8                                        1            36
1,642            17                                   1,671           45
2,022            33                                       2            47
255            39
430            55                                     12)            49
9ab-ibtal        4,200                        430                      2,626                        120                       6,826         550
2. G*dola
543            9
971            13
156           D0                                       I)           39
464           41
tdhb-lbtai       1,514                        156                        464                         10                       1,978         166
3. Taothetval                   63            10                                      94            17                                      157
4. lbper
350             7
501            14
Sub-Tbtal          851                                                                                                          851
S. Cattle                       68            27                                                                                             68
6. Flat                        959            24          277            42          258            38          105            37         1,217         112
7. Tank                        232            10                                     144             9
973            13                                                                 17            40
1           33
Sub-Total        1,205                          1                        144                         17                       1,349          18
8. (ttemr                                                  70            3S                                      22            55                        92
iuL              8,860                        934                      3,586                        274                      12,446       1,2I8
Source:  FF2ASA
mby 1987



in'ASA RAZIMW RIMBIWVa7IG4 PUIaRM
Smory of FMASA's Ftelit Wg  Requite.1    ,  1987-1993
)itual                           _Fo
1981     1982     1983     1984     1985     1986     1987     1988     1989     1990     1991      1992     1993
A.  ltal FreW  Traffic (tillon tm)                   7.1      7.4      6.9      6.9      7.1       70      8.1      8.9      9.8      10.3     10.4     10.7     11.0
.Aeam  hmo lotd (toJn)
Ibtrtc                                     42.7      42.8     43.9     44.1     44.9    45.2      45.5     45.7     45.9     46.1     46.3     46.7      47.0
Broad                                      38.7     43.1      43.6     43.9     45.0    42.3      43.5     44.0     44.5     45.4     45.6     45.8     46.6
C. No. of  gm  available
M1trjc                                     8,392    8.036    7,882    8,126    8,083    8,066    8,687    8,699    8,707    8,710    8,736    8,874    9,034
Brad                                       3,530    3,495    3,439    3,507    3,292    3,288    3,435    3,610    3,780    3,958    3,969    3,982    3,990
D. 3alabUIlty (Z)
Metric                                     89.3      85.9     85.2     88.3    89.7    91.2       90.6     91.2     91.8     92.3     92.8     93.4      94.0
Brosd                                      89.2      88.5     87.6     90.7     90.9    91.0      91.6     92.2    92.8      93.3     93.6     93.8      94.0
E. ltal Ioa m     o Wk (Milllion)
tbtric                                     132.1    136.4    121.9    125.2    123.0    117.2    138.9    147.7    157.3    166.8    168.2    171.5    172.9
Ba I                                        37.8     38.5     35.9     32.3     35.7     40.2     41.4     47.5     53.2     58.4     60.8     62.0      63.4
F.    hera  loed fator (1)
Metric                                      59.2     58.5     60.1     60.0     55.0     63.0     70.0     70.0     70.0     70.0     70.0      71.0     71.0
Drawd                                      60.2      63.6     60.5     62.0     62.0    67.4      71.0     71.0    70.0    69.0       70.0     70.0      70.0
C. lT3WWMW4  (0111ot0)
Metric                                     223.2    233.3    202.7    208.7    223.6    185.2    197.1    211.0    224.9    238.7    240.3    241.9    243.5
Brod                                       62.8      60.5     59.3     52.1     57.6     59,      57.8    66.9      76.0     85.0     86.8      88.6     90.5             1
R. Averep azulmiala   ()
Metric                                      26.6     29.0     25.7     25.7     27.7     23.0    22.7      24.3     25.8     27.3     27.5      27.3     27.0            v
Blroad                                      17.8     17.3     17.2     14.9     17.5     L6.1     16.8     18.5    20.1      21.5     21.9     22.3    22.7
1. Pma!<tivity (net tD  per %Won)
Metric                                     667.3    721.8    672.4    676.8    680.4    655.4    725.2    793.2    826.9    884.0    881.4    890.2    896.6
arS                                        424.9    457.8    465.3    399.2   486.0    517.6   524.0    554.0    687.8    656.9    705.5    738.3    726.8
J. ND. of  0   retired, of *xic:
Revema zungw:
Metric                                       90        51       26      151      245       36        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Brcsd                                         2        8       25       188      140        0        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
frtrk                                          1       26       10       16       32        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
Broad                                        16        9         1       12        9        -        -        -        -        -        -        -        -
K. WWn Purdies
Metri                                         -        -        -         -        -        -
Brad                                          -        -        -        -        -         -      230        -        -        -        -        -        -
L. Total no. of  cps
FEPASA:
etric                                 9,384    9,309    9,257    9,104    8,861    8,825    8,838    8.838    8.838    8,838    8,838    8,83      8,83S
Bod                                   3,957    3,949    3,927    3,728    3,596    3,586    3,816    3,816    3.816    3,816    3,816    3,816    3,816
Pelvate:
titr                                   g909      888      824      811      808      995       3O0     800       800     800       800     td        800             t
Brad                                    453      437      430      416      399      392      400      400      400      400      400       400      400
Metric                                  834      884      958      949      933      930      900       900      900      900      90D      900      900
Bsrad                                   294      288      290      279      274      265      270      270      270      270       270      270      270             C
Scu: PFASA's Statistls art Planditg lDrtents ad mission estirstn.
)t 1987



- 46 -                                                TABLE 3.11
BRAZ IL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEPASA Investment Plan, 1987-1991
Summary Cost Table
(current US$ million)
Total
Coep leted                                             Total                  Remaining
Progras S Projects              end 1986   1987      1988     1989      1990     1991  1987-91   1992    1993    Cost
A. The Project                                             22.0     81.9      56.7     54.4    35.7  250.7    29.0   5.3   285.0
a. Rehabilltation Program                                 20.3     79.3      54.8     53.5    35.7   243.6    29.0   5.3   277.9
1. Araguarl - Santos  Corrldor                            2.7     16.6      18.2     22.4    13.7   73.6       8.4   1.7    83.7
2. Broad - Gauge  Corridor                                0.4      7.4      11.4     10.0    12.0    41.2      12.7   1.9    55.8
3. ieter - Gauge  Corridor                                1.5      9.2       8.3      9.6     8.2    36.8      6.1   0.9    43.8
4. Track Plant Equilp. Machinery & Materlals              0.1      6.9       7.4      6.4     0.9    21.7      0.9   0.8    23.4
5. Workshops and Depots                                            5.4       3.3      1.1             9.8                     9.8
6. Motive Power and Roillng Stock                        15.6     30.5       2.9      3.0     0.9    52.9      0.9           53.8
7. Coeputer Systems                                                3.3      3.3       1.0             7.6                     7.6
b. Tecnilcal Assistance Program                            1.4       1.7      0.9      0.5             4.5                     4.5
c. Training Program                                        0.3      0.9       1.0      0.4             2.6                     2.6
S. Completlon of Electrification Project         206.9   128.6    117.    22.9         0.0     0.0  268.9       0.0   0.0  268.9
1. ElectrIfieation Rlbelrao P.- Samarlta 1/   104.5    82.8       68.6     18.7                     170.1                  170.1
2. Strengthening of Broad-Gauge System           9.3      6.3      9.4                               15.7                    15.7
3. Strengthening of Mster-Gauge System           6.7      6.5      4.8                               11.3                    11.3
5. Electric Locomotives                         86.4     33.0     34.6       4.2                     71.8                   71.8
Sub Total                                       206.9   150.6    199.3    79.6        54.4    35.7  519.6    29.0  5.3   553.9
C. Completlon of Metropolitan Train Project       19.4     18.6    18.0       17.7                     54.3                   54.3
0. Other 2/                                                17.8                                        17.8                   17.8
Total                                                   187.0   211.3      97.3    54.4    35.7  591.7    29.0  5.3   626.0
fINANCING PLAN
Total              Sources of Financing
Cost       Bank     $NOES  Private    Govt    FEPASA
- The Project                                   285.0   100.0    107.8       13.5             63.7
- Electrification Project                       268.9                      226.4      42.5
- MatropolItan Train Project                     54.3              35.3               19.0
- Other                                          17.8              11.6                6.2
- Total                                         626.0   '90.0    154.7    239.9       67.7    63.7
Sree: FEPASA and mIssIon estimates
17     I   signalling and telecommunicatlons investments
2/ essentiaTly coplet1on of thlrd rail project
May, 1987



-  47 -                                         TABLE  4,1
RAZI L
FEPASA RAILVY HDI41LITATION PROJECT
Project Cost Swmry
(US '000)
TRACK
PLANTS.                PhYsical
POLICY I                                                WORKSHOPS a            Continsencies
INSTITUTIWAL  RASUI-SANTOS  BROAD GAUGE  METER GAU6E   ROLLING                   -
DEVELOPINT       CORRIDOR       CORRIDOR     CORRIOOR       STOCK      Total      Z   Amount
I. INUESTMENT COSTS
A. CIVIL WORKS                          -           25259        15 798        12,608          622    54,287   9.1   4P957
B. MATERIALS                            -           39N04?       170302        15,680       10.340    82.372    5.0  4s119
C. EQUIPMENT                       6W9               7006        134257        8,418        39,030    74,611    5.9  4W377
D. MECHANICAL WORKS                                      -            -             -       29027)i  2.9275   10.0  '2928
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE             3786             2.585        1880          1,050            -    9,756   10.0    976
F. tRAININ6 OF PERSONNEL            2P260                -            -             -            -    2v260   10.0    226
Total INvESTMENT COSTS                12,946           73,900       48,237       389211       79,267  252,561    7.0  17.582
Total BASELINE COSTS                   12t946           73.900       489237       38,211       79,267   2525661    7.0  17582
Ph.sscal Cantmnksies                   950           S5173         3,816        2.944         49699    17,582    0.0       0
Price Contingencies                    550            4,713        30773        2.568         3,2113   14,888    6,8   1.016
Total PROJECt COStS                    14.446           93,76        55r827       43,724       897249  M285030    6.5  M8M598
-rz==:s::u   ::::a::    _:z=a:: ::z::rs::  ts===:a:   r-_3                        : sr::z:-:=
Taxes                                2r318           13,612        9,076        7,094       137004   45,904    6.4   2949
Foreign Exchange                     6.083           43.217       279279       219095       54.363   152,037    6.l  9.551
April 30, 1987 09:28



BRAZIL.
FEPASA RAkILVIY REJWILITATION PRDCTr
Table 10. POLICY AND) lt4STIfMIO1NPL DVB1OPIEI  ACTION PROGRAI4 TEO#4ICM. ASSISAN4  AND TRAINING
Dotal ed Cast Tables
US$5 '000)
bo*   9 or  .3 MI SS  f. tinl
00.3  .------------------------.--- …  ---        …        ----    -   -------                 --  -  -----   --  ----. -------   ---.---   ---------   -------
A. ~~~~~i2*24*  -  1L  £413 i ~        ~       ~         --- -----                                   t~tfW
-~~~t,ffutmm.a1mIW39ft                       out46-4*33                      gft  "?  11  T"         tm      SW           "a- 40  3  434        i    to"   lo  220        0134  34It f                t    mI    lo  240           4.2    193o   g %           30    L&   0..          9.35 Alm
-34 1244326*I3.)gmn o                                      *9-393       34                                -      .            an2       Jo                                     tie3   t3       333us                                                 a0  I33          33      239    9.34.25          9.2        4* 1
-6139.   444*24     MM=t    no13                          39-4=3        A    2      -    -    -    -      -    A 6        7    6 3 0            -           - -         -     342      99    333                                -      4             342    M3        43      MO9   9.   0.24         0.3        II11
9-1111133or        38. c  .3994 no               73- -                                                    --      a    I I    in1                                               4*   Sit  Xs7                                            in6          2    299    1*    64 M02                          9 ,        r
-------------3  .*..1.... -                -.
-3023 WL93       OM,.3    m334          944t              46-4*2              34   A26         -     -    -            7        -      6      4       4          tat94                -t   92          97249                                        1   -  337  43  222 S      3     4.2   0.4        9.13       is
-  -   tEta. u  inw   Scolas  aW  -   a. a       9    -    -           49   1*0           1.490  3.439    49       -    -    -   4.499         -   .203  3.343    US        -    - -   -.3----.---2,4-? --3------                          4.----- -.-- -
-   I9 am.23 4964*2*5M a              o               46-H*3       a4  41    S    2        -    -    -   146       6       49 42                   44 -"      -           400     3    1  339       3 2  9      -    -    -       353          334    43         t*3   153    45   0.34            Is        la
-4*$M  .    2433F4 "M714         M      Atil               9*0          34         12 47 3     -        -      39     3       14      49     60        9     --          -   3W.400 2  1      I9I3     373    46     -    -    -   3W3              L33     M5       2I   3.0         4.3   91.4      4.5        40
~-fM.       As M.    01 cm               413   13     gh       m               St4J94.43JA                                                    3,00      M3     -    -    -   2.80,11   433 2.134.2*9    441    -                      14             .39  3.13         4420   3,.2 4.9M                  .1        t
34*42a*23.e 14*332do-amE    24   do   AS   -4    -    -                                                   -   123     3.    340      2  3     40 in    .        .     .     .  3 do   4M     IQ      M4    .4       .    .            M 4*3               sn        333       39    0.1  9.23        0.12       la
2-2.W.I9*052    anS              I34  9MmVAN                                                                                    300 D.4 - -    340    240M-M  M                 36 3VA   1 2 4 M        0      349    -    -             M 4          M3     333       M3       39     01    .          01
-wt.3 133133              UMfA0?                                           U     47 9    M                        to         3.333.3   444   .1                 - .  - M3..94,  .                3.92    M.4     M.4    -    -    -                           us.4M1 6.493  4440  2.339  24.to
244*2                                                                                                                           4.20o1amml n      6      i    . .         M .3 to 4    3,1M  -    -    -  MD94   lie*   3.3     M.4     2.9  -    -    -  M444  44344 W 2333      UV44.441                 .1 
46'.2 30. 340 49:,?



9MZIL
PEPASA MAILVY IENWILITATION PROJCr
BES.C-PYAVAIILABLE                                                                                                             Tbe2fWIM~SURO
....... . .. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~     ~     ~     ~    ~     ~    ~     ~     ~    ~    ~    ~     ~    ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~.3   ..,4                               .6 ..                                     4,
4.                  inn9
-iam      IIu       anSu      minn ass  s            .3                                             In o 3*  4 so            7     £     22?     79      45      444      204    39           2.1        914    .92                     43      m1      -    .20         3rtm    1.40      13     3.9r0'  .1  3.J2        4.3'      1C
-~~~24. U 313  0~~~~~~~         92            -   4.497   3~~~~~~l.90   4                     L409   0.1                     100     4u       -t so             a          , bin2 4                        123                          :a       1.41  .20   202         3  .u3        0.2  9.33      0.22 
0444          M      U     -                                                                                                                 4     32       .40 51            6     1             .0        4   *.390   2.33gm3499   3.524    2336          .  sst          .92 1.9          3.30..n.
4mU  W                                  15.4         LO.9      . 32.1          ml3 2.    9.7       9          W6.    9.J        0     In2    $13      020     9 4        ft       1.42              In 3 3103       I 42        .4    3 9        2- 220        793   .30        BB   :..42   9.13  0.Z2       0or        St
I U20104. team154                                                  39       V 3                                     3*  301         -   2190    I.09         -      .              . 0.W               27         t  ,3k   .                     .   .3          2.90.   '.401       TN4  1.411   4.00  0.         0.37      St
-91CINI    a"33                                    196         3. 40 5.34          31.49 02.9    954       MO49       9-   0   4.92      32   9.46   1.049   60492       r 1.1212,22      .22          937 4.20    S.W.   Z.4    S1.3   1.40               7.9           5      39       4.2 Z.9 9.              .1       9.?       9
4         U963039  1301                            15.4                  to 349   1 10    .211      40       34     -    23       4      t94    720      lb    2*1t3   3.39    lit            4.422    It2     39      91   2.23    t424    Uk              USS4R       2.40      49       3.  S1.0   0.     0.1          9.3       02 
4po       U 94923964. 5.9211                        MO.           32      4.                 2.                     -      24     .       4      -       39t43              -      ."     -   3,43     P7t     3       427    .2          .      .          ,400        3.2"4     22        3M     .90 4- .92   9?        4.3,      4
-"Om*  v  UAW                                     O~041 2    1        to       34       344340                                2      2      2.      3134    272     14             at01    23     416      US      49      3      41             232 23              344       234          C      cis.203   2.32      a
*   .39049t M590313U.                          to.x         9.5         0.     1 c    0.2                             W     M.        2      22      11       9       -                     44-2                    4       '       - --                              2L20      .                   IAs .13 .1       0.2,      1
-E3.0493.                                          15.4          2.'   21.2      15.1     29.7     32.      3.2-         P.7 24.1         a0    310    21        419     220      a0     -   330        42     292     29      43      29  0 a          -1.2912" 9                us 4     23     3m   4.9    *.s         0.37      at
.4LNNM   a   mu                                      a2      4        33       a0       2?        9           3    4.9,      00     90      3M      29      232     44            VA93     90     149      9       1       3       4       ..2                9       3         41193.2                      91.
-C39. 53Et,32 900325                                 )2.4                         2.31                                           4               9        9                                      9       -     70      12        ...   32                                 392     96        SI     Si-9.1 0.32,ci        9.32       5
04-0.4.2   ~~~~~tu                                                                                                                  1.430,  9.33   A.44    I4,17     7415  SAOW       . 632     2,29t  9.432  22.20   L2.71     0.63   2.20          - 9            3.96  33.2417   9.92   310.1
04.344.9 ~~~94  904                                                                                     2.917  23.490  33.152  33.4.2   0.1W   2.45        . 90.533  2.290  21.343  31.301  37.493   2.00 MISS bw  ~ 113'-.J3.404  03.491   19. 74 3  39.420 r.33.293 . 03.493
9. 94   t.~0 ow9                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                '
3. 3    45911.322Wa                                          I721                                      0.        16 27I 22         n,             .m     sw         0     1           :    .      3             .7? MS           3p      M      m     $la         2U      1452     J=      $IC       61035          0  ,      V
4633 O219 0   33 x39       90  ,-Am             SI                                    44       23      9724         70 22           2             .9 393           4 4,~                          27       - 37? 119             39      13     71 4.6             .3      .1       .3      .        0.2  0.32      9.3IS
-3. 0 3. 90 ~~~~~~~~~~53 30 3453451  30. . . .         .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .          .         .          .          .          .          .          .          . 0.3  0.32   0.22   1)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Io   .,  33 In    39  t 02
*223913390Ua13omit, P.,                          L     0 go.3                     3. 0I  2.2.236 t                                       to       3      10       2 34 i  3  0            .     2       2       9      31       3      29          *         149                  X4        2      43      9.1  09.3                1)
39921am       . 132ttu                                                                                                             323    354   2434   2.343        192   3t      8     44        34.0       90    2.09   1.464   44.   X1       IN3   I.22       z2        41.11   2.31s    .21
UN. NIF1 4=11'32 gm
-4inU~~~~2U~~~I65o                            I.9.    4.7                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                         0.37      a
saw399     64   39315 533*                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       LI9........   4.32  0.33  CO
C. a mIr f 34          am
-3010011139011       4.9925                                          P.      2        n3       24      137     274            SU 1374 4.M 4                 9       61       37   .  3.     ?2.                   22      4m3 32 .44                     0 W  2.22..0    2404    S9                          LI24.  9.32    5.1       El
04.1111100 in594339   Si 31339                                                                            s?     zm    46                       .   .MD   2,4       4to    3,15  4327    W3    9,9                 in0   3W3       15   23?   43.2        932  33.17        4.000   2.349    3.r6  1.39lLs 
-goto"    or mm                        80~~45 F.34      as     34       W0       240      to.     t3s  32       99    7.2      331    19  3    M X    3       45    in       is   2.192     I 3 4   "       371    W5       no0   01        71   NM9           so    3.47       932   7.79     0.3  3.22       0.42      la
.390719045as                  9  *11x                we-01011        32      32       32        1        32                    44            a      92      .4               4.                   3.    14        Z        2      14      3 2.-                 774          94      .4       43     224    9.35.8n         4.22      7
S04.944  so"115111 A 4545393                                                                                                                    242    43      13      SO      45    30       90   2.39    1220      49      410A     42     197    432     15   3.43           22    .41        -.3 2.
ffw MOM cm" ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~720 443  496992 3904,927 I-.390                                                                                                   WAS 0 .74 243992903.463431.422 3.22 sa.22   G6217 20.PA133 2.w 13,2120
&"I,  0. 21407 49727tI



-t~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.....  -----------                                                 - -------                ----                                                               ...-----   ..................   ......                                                .   ..    ..... 
-t
aI-Z   AU-       Ol-at  caa           i- W Cc- IS      -c e"-Z      it-i Z"      t M WE-  i.r   M-t:    t- mis -ot la         in la         t  tifc-s  at                                                                                                                                    tartMS11135   W,
v     g.0  .o    tm-a   ICo-       CIZi  cmt           w-a   tt.s   CW-lt~                    01      a             a- ttsoo Mr-s0OW 0  rn-    "I-    I   Ia1                   _     M        aC        z         t     ot      a       O act  ccSil                                   VWmt  AltUi  iOOFc
do      csa         -ct  s-o    n-a    a.        sn-    c.-          ZIt-a   a0      iat-t    rt-1                                Cm-a   f      tm-t    SA-                                         i      ivtM f   ctl   at   -                                 C                          MUWS 'NU5A  SWWiS -
C)      it-:       -e6  I,s   *1t  itrtI   -tv-i                        - ft   .`Zt~ofl-   ltiC-   40al                          at-it  nt'-I  Afl-   4flt                                   Z     0 di          "a ti   t     -       -                                                 SSln             U       
el      ti- '      -C      fOaU        if       9C       at      t     t              *             a        o      *zi          tit      -S--                    t     wi      St     -       'itt                                                              A                ~i ~                       l    L    f
04-    IW.   WI-*   "WE  t.;    "S  te.-I   ZEF"'  "U's  obi    ZO      W'L      0                                                                                                              w~~~~amata Go ms   u  t`1131
P*V    tort    i34    tm-c~~~. ...  ic----a-----                                            ::         .          a        -s      r       its-imB                                                                                                                aa
*51 CL  itt   SW-.          SW,.                            ito    tWt*   ftit    *Ctf--                                 cC    m-C      S Ur                                                                                                      sm  itiOltsi 5          Sims-ci
Al      -t           it-       Cmt   44it        Wa      act-:       st"                    -         t     Qc      sic          La..                    -       ct             asC    it                              -                                          a                iSdM 3U       W AO  OMiafl000
odt-t   Cii     dk-C   tK5           in                     cit     OtM      Ut     halt         so-          -       i          ttt   iii      nrc                                                                                                       iso    it OtItW 5            toeimiS
C  SIC  Unit    Sr            SC      .1          cc~     ~       ~      ~~~~~~ ~ ---     ---  ---  -C ---   --c ------i    ca-                                                                              I:      Vt      -S                    lU siStIttauiiS
IC      WeO       2l   t-    ca9t tW-            st      1t          a-                             var      cm W   O.. -t                                        i     is.  v   at           'at%  C                  -       sC                                            tutluti  cc imSKO  U   SOt h
10      STi-a     SltS  iT.    tto'C     C       l-i      c "f i-    u ztm-                  ViP.a'                               ,CC -                    T                                        roi q  i                                                                   mm   -a     n Asucnato    Iatmiufifl
Ln                                      PK~~~~~~t-CC l-   is-A £on'.          SL'CC          cc.    ott-   oti-t   tO-.   Mi,              stt-           a,      is-      i' o,ciS                                                                                                                           SJEU i    '         t
C  tt~~~~*  iIicc-st.t       I~.....  ........             -----   --- ---  ------ -                                    at--- ---      ..a.?.            -      -                                      s ,-.-----s--scamn-----
siC  cs-c  got-i    i_-_ a,              'c. .... t          t --a        ------    - - --t----cc                                                        v       s       it     -     s     a                    t      as      C                          0m.aS w
C  ct-c  CtCc(it  fCC-C   CCI     i~~i-i   VS.         ttC            C lia    cc             itt.     5            al Si                  *6 iis   t      ao     Si -t      51   tli         -      a i           f      t        t      -                                           sStit
a3      :5-c      a'cc-s az             :       IC       IS           t                     -       C       5:      i VA          cit      -- cZ6.               a      COKl    a             i-i ts-vs                aZ       mt    ii        ist              c-a                             am       u0 m'"ura-
Cf      Ct        ii ci'                iC                           at                     0       C       5       C       -      t 91          - MT                   a       t       -o a t a5 tiO                  15       5i      c-a     to      -        05i s                                @
cc  a-s     Oats-cwl    Is        t         It     ct         o"I                             ot        I     Ii           tS T                    t   t        tat,Sitc                              *-O     TC        1         I I    i-                -                       SsS3kfWlA CI#
a  n-     a-.s-- is           sc        Wi    aet          L.a                      a:     sat     Et      -              o                     cItl    Ct   'SOuc                                             o      a       Cs       -               (lit                                 tEW      SSA A 3 i-m
CS  "t   ~~t  ca-c   tti-t   act  a:      ca-sMI      CsICo                           "a      a       at           *t-    -        -at             sa    a4        tt           at     .      -          aci     sat   i-W. cs                     n-asrnsW-$sai tflin Gh                                 -
at      a-c         s 0W tw            to,               W a         w                        t     cit    :zT      at           OKa      -      a         i     cit    tit      a                  O"a-c   -:         i     t scat   c-czitriC         -         IC                        iIC Uh tWS
ts  itt  tiC   tAt   I-ti-i  itS  OtI'C  ici-:  Ca-,         csc     rat~SI  cot-    at-: c:             :stt-    -       :       sa      t ct d.c-   t          -      ttcnc             ist ti'Ji   CZ                 Vt                                          JI       '33     a f
sc-  aCt     nos-:   us-         :Co             to     a-   ats    SOlP ta i it:    r-:                      at tttOt L61  iot               p             't S  Cit'                       iwt4,1          'a                                               sudCXShAD  tWtKO
C                              at -t- n ti t:            VEo           -             i        :     aa      cc       tt c          t-             t      set     ccititt         on     tat    o    £4-,c              a         t      it      U       a       Uoisumsa Init*                         iiiiilIfl-9130
la   cilo   a C "O  Io  of   t7  TV  tt                                              ts                                 tz                          iz~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ca stiS
asi        010     V      Ii    TtWiT            K .  CoIA  at otla  t               Cii  t:at    cas         at    a.:    . Zs  cist   testl  zlii                 a       at~         Cast nOt t     co        GEl at   l    t asS      an    els   Cil   tIi'4W                           WIU9   Dd*tUA
s-in."   -4ri-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Z  ia-tic  t'5                                                                  … -                  -~~~~~~~~~~t                                                                          1-
a                        0~~~~~~~E.,  EiiVO6 i5    -t-i"_   ii6U_  0iafl    -stOM,sflq ..to' '"'                                                              -    ,      74Ut.      .
to    tow        S i
(ODO. MW)
oiqveL 1003 POII'tOO
uouawio  iavo cTV0dG  icj  .gqsj
±331*OWNd ?El±III*01 AW1Ib  WVS3.i
liz vHs



StAZIt.
FEPASA RAlLVA'r REK#ILITATION PROJECT
Tabla 40. WinR WGEU CORRIO(M
Detatt.d Cost Table
(US$    Cl1000).~o  ':  ~..2
... ...   ..  . .  .0
W  I l*431W43   1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~v'l                                                                                                                                    1~1-
-tam1. OF  I*24I49143I93                            Q           36      94       -                                                        60~4    -                         -                 I3                    .     .0                                                 .1             .92
.2w349014143y  'sloI                                          0.7      *.m             os      oj 2s179                            4      3      '      2             91        1 I,24        5     32      9      6      3     12     - 19               4"     .'                        t , 2242      5
0218190  194                                                                                                  13 9345 334?   426 a93u jet                .    1634   22   0.424    224         2'  m.e    9             32S 11.31                      203   2*7?7                    2.        z
-983)144399.09989.  116.8            258        4    17.1    44,7     29    -    217.4   9.9            24)     36   252    54       278    -   l.99m               53    19 ,49   412          29    -   2.282          41.e..           292M.9309.0.=5                1.1'Su
O-l"          3.93 F1                                 69          9      3         - 244        224      -           91    /3      72    *23        -91    183           -         .4 MS            .         o 3  4.19  1.122                12         27       .3       .2    74        .292             .'      ,
-19 "      UU 94190kw119                            44.9        ,     M4t.    189              403    294    - 0.414   0.9               M 24    9     197  4s7    193           3,29          0    t1      -1    23t    49      12        2.112        .494     l         24.   0.411   9.t, 0.~ 9,.11            40
.9tml    P   44E   94. 9441                         199          .   5me57    21.4 It                  .    -   21.4   1.9        M.t334           4.1       .3           -     743               01.2    14   -   1-    573s                           -  340     S    I.9       573t  4.99   4.'r    9.97        6
OF34   wa if6                                                             Pt I'          425                                                              1                 .9                .1      u     53      u 34)4t 99                                          .     w    9.99  9.43       9.:       99 
-Palms   21.                                        18.9       .3    2.7 I5            2.      2.2                 2.4.26.2         4 M          2.  3   23    2       . 1         221X            2431     9     23    24                 1 399         976      331     145   i3340. 49.,              9.2.,     9?
4122413p,t0                                               3       3       26     11      39      7    .      49     .        2      7      3     43      0      32    -.21             6      9      2      2       3     1 SW2                     4      92         1.49.9.5                     .3       9
Am n                  411   106                                                                      $23   :.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0.4   5.23 955
cmIt.001933 P9985243~i                                                                                                 ..   .   .-. ..-                                          .--:.-                                -
7.24'196.2 8989444~ ~ ~~~~~~~~T.I                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           34-3.   3.   #  7
or301138004031323                               3                           3     23      902 n                      244     '7          :.S4     242n    134                 4                     .123   234      4                  .3 8I2    .24                 378   M.1       4.3 99         0.25      1
32t243U72399974                                  04 IFo.r0                             0.      02.5         .          14          3       0    1s       4      9      4    .       9        0      5     15      21     19     4     .     44             2     33         9      42    0022E9D2                 9
0.2.14 t10474091124LsMl                                  0 :314                           011                       44        I      3          252    IS         5         3.29       :02     s'3:.&9:0.1                                                                                             I 
.OVA 942T            091P331 Tom3                                                         .       .          .        9                                  on                        299 .3                    74        :do95IVO                          6       936      147     a 2 09.05  0. r,      0.1       CZ
11443at                                         a          1       $        6              7530 6                                                    -      .      .Mid     1,30              .0    4 7                                             2174"b   0322                    010n              s      e
.C=M. 0 UTMM IF $19110                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 o-ft~~~~:~~,,'3~  944   8.103 8.22 C
S*-tA.1 SVOI$fwAlm  mm                                                                  M 'L. 1." 1.113  4,311I  3,)~~~~~ S7t     ~ 1,4"            .      3 .M    ,2444361                     1.9           444-1  7.9
11*40k..  Ev~~~~~~~~~~ W                                                                          1,197  7,03~~~~~~~2  3.41              144 t0   go 43       227    57.:   3.4    285    299u  1.9-    ~ 4.v6          110179  t.64    .40   4.23l
944.949.   I 7 .84 ......      133140
0. 21mm198123it I'M84
pIWniAu mjttm.    39 13   To. m                   8           .      2        4      2        3 20       1      2'2.                   9   1.444oil      2.2    7.494  493   7.43  M24  1.31    437073 .5941                           .74 Mt        1   2.4        2.24.in          P.2  or1       4.17       M
4swit Mp W itTLit,                   43.4W328   I3    8    12   234                 1 8 .34427                       to42.o  too428         o3   33817211.43                    9922929 319287 15 946                                       379   433    23. 463  0.14.3    9.2   '2a
:2  3 25  22   t94    2so    21 23            03      9    '371    312    339    215  39 9.53           174 19    414      24    0.754
144.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.31.5                                                                                                                                                              7
.....--~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~..... ........ ...- -- --- ----------  -                                                                                                                                                 -----      ..     --       ---4
04.::3 .) 1907  9902'76                                                                                                                                                                                         u                                              C       3        II 
..... ...... .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~81



ft~~Jr.!!n~~~~gr                                                      BRA~ZIL
COP              0       11BL                                                          FVA RILVAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
E~~Ui~~I1fl~~q~~i                               Table SD. -PADc PANTS. WRI(SKSS AND RULING STOCK
Detailed Coet Table
(US* *mC)
3.00 m  ON .2,  f.t.74
-------                                       14.  740....L. ----------44*94                                                    3.091    S..
60     ,    ",I"  I     W   f.                                                    ---- ------------------             - ...... ..34..1                           7... .-20
1. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w~~~~~~k
tw.  Km flW  31F.   400t M3400
no KW f2I3U51                      433 VA         4.1     I     - -          -     '''                                                            6     4                          5        4            3     ~.2'5           ,4      9
~~m  w i~ ~uo.               tm 31    -    a        to   £5 -t VA  to        *3  to            .    .015                       .*      .19673433                            .0       .2      7    .0   .0   .13'           .4
-946~~~l30TW33'40I$          4301.tar      125   1)0  :25  5       112  -    1W    1    257    23     1.  173  IC L    - 16    5    122   to            1944 14                        3      -    1      0 30   .12
-9U60402                               60      -629   .1   .1                 -j.9  .4               .0   .60326                 -1.30        .   .1   .4   25             .-ILS            .54 .7. 1.2  1.0   -0  *74
P001  V                                                                                 *30 - - 4  0404   9 2   97     1    0    1 0   322 "I               03         670t9o IN     7,30     S.'.     3      0    0 '2   .5        '.     4
-~pB.31usofWUS  601       -          50   103   09 3          53  7..       -          200  094  54   160 33  1.2W       -     -   53   2K   29134 324  2.0S9S 2S    223  .69  )02 ..C    7.L                      £
AU"                          IM926  1.0     2.2   0.91   -            - 24m  25              41     I                                     09     2      -    -     -- 16            2      5     IO    703:.2            .5     1
0300114,9212412  .4W                                                                               -    -  -  8957      -701603.0  2109                                     .1   1.so9.50
C 3053 omo 03110 m~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~203                                                4                                                                                        
Uoftlf0.11b 60  4310  317  3  7-5  0                                0     404-2.411  3.362   761-3.53                                                            03   406   270  3.03   1.1  0.5   0.25    3 4a  34  11.3    05  t.
-0330410 3321 ~~ 2.39  311  -    2  4  4               73  0        -   60  2.34 2.39                  4.2W     -  2.03  2.079  2.492        -  - 5.106      2.43   770   750  5.L,.41  0 of0.7   3.25 c
-2430023 if 015340930 ~L9    300  3    73-22 14.1                                 711  113-1.19   32  226-4.90                                                                 971   02   7911.093 -200.2          0.25 
-mwl.mpinPlI  tWO  9   9    20   39  39  00   -    27  3    440    53    30   0    93   60   - 4.53   032   732  610   607  907  93?  - 5470                4.402 2--5------- -3......0.0429  3   0.25    49
3 193  311  40   240-7.20  44  27360  9.240-12.100 4.029  9.503-L2.30                                                                                  9.11o  3.53?    .1M 25.5In*4    I 7.4    0.r    U.245  20-f    A.101 Zl.
S. "t""40 31106009463                                                                                J24   7.V42  &.M0  2.%3M                 1451.4   .7    .6740   4    5        53            23   10003   33
7.043                                                                                      19,147. 40.93 12,204 9.349 4.4M25 it3to.03 t0  76.5074 2577  0.74-I  1343306   .02399   2  0.  34.40    "M22  t5.70  V794400   . 
32.2 3. 330 467
.M040  mum                                   Nftt J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~w  *An   S-W                                             !.261  3.4a  fow~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
,Kw& oxna a on 3m um  km?  13   36  2  40   6.30  dso                    21.4N  7AU 17.237                            24.2n    12.1213  &M    3.sW~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t.
40mimso 0 MU not"  MT  J t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r
4100MM 0 =31: in tom;  tw  5 JV Su                                                                                                                             g.3~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
UK M     - -                                                   145  1.03    74                                                      '71         0.  .7.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0



- 53 -                                                             TABLE 4.7
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILI*.Y REHAILITATION PROJECT
Project Financing Plan
(US$ '000)
WDRJD SW         MNKS       COG INWAIERS    VIPAA      8ovenU.,t    Total                       Loale
-    -------     ----  - -  ---    ---- -  -  --  -   -   ------   ------  -  Extl.  Duties  I
Aauw.t  I   Mo,gt  I   MO.mt  I   Amsmt  I   Aguit S   AomAt  I   Por. Fxc..c   fem.)   Tax"
A. CIVIL WORKS
REIIAILITATION OF PERIIIEN  VAT INFRASTRUCII          10.752  60     5.376  30         -   -    1,79   10        0   0    1M9M      6       6.272    MM96      2.61
REHABILITATION OF PERIVWE   WAY SUPfRITRTURItE         7. 142  60    3.571  30          .-    1,190  10          0   0    11.903    4       4.166    5,951     1.795
WELDIRS OF AILS                                            -  -        5128 30          .-    1.23270            0  0      1.761    1       1.232      229       299
RENAIILITATIWO OF YARD TAC                                 -   -     9.054  75 i-                3.019  25       0  0    12,072    4        4.z25    6.036     1.011
REHABILIYATION OR EXPANSION OF NILNINS                         -.      53!  75             -.      177  25       0  0        706    0         246      354       106
INSTALLATION OF TELECOM. STSTENS                           - . -    8,22  80           .-       2.206  20       0   0    11,020    4        3.660    5,514     1.654
CONSTRUCTION OR EXPASION OF TERNIIIIA                      -  -      3.024  75          -   -    1.008  2        -   -    4.03      1       1,411    7.016       605
IORNIENT(f ACCESSE1To TERNINMLS                            .-        1,553 75          -  -        51825         0   0    2.070    1          725.   3.035       311
REHABILITATION OF UTILITY SYMTIS                               -       99  75              -.    332  25         0   0     1.326    0         464      463       199
Sub-Tot! CIYIL WMRK                                      17.894  78    33.454  53          - - 11.47   16           0   0   62.620   22       22,603   30 759     9.458
D. MATERIALS
RtAILSVI 39. 02 O                                                                       -        9.926  20       0   0   49.628   1 7      32.28    8.933      8.437
SLEhER                                                13,952  49   12,180  43              - 2.4067   1          0   0   26.200   10        9,070   13.536     4.794
FASTENINGS                                             6.92  80      1,119  10              -    19119  10       0   0    11,190    4       7MM3    1.455      1.902
IXMLT                                                      -       -  1.43175           --         477 25        0  0      1.90     1         668      954       286
OTHER                                                    166 80          -                *         41 20        0  0        207  0           145       27        35
Subr-Tot.. MATERIALS                                     62.7M   69    14.730  16         -        13.630  15       0   0   91,132   32       30.774   24,90     15.454
C. EQUJIIET
SWdITCHES                                              3,626 80          -                 -      96 20         0  0      4,532    2       2.946       816       770
TELEOIIMICATION EWUIPINT                                     -.   23,976  75           - -      7.93  25        0   0   31,971   It       22.37      4.156     5.435
IMIRIRI EWJTP3ENT                                      3,445  60     2.72   30       635   7      272   3       0   0     9.076    3       6.37        906     1.361
TR  ACK IMCNER  AIO KIM  EQUIMENT                      2,987  40                   3,36   45    1,120  15       0   0      MM46     3      5.601       747     1.120
CARGO TRAROFE  EQUIPMNT                                    -  -      1.392  75          --         464 25        0   0     1.856    1       1429       241       316
WAGON                                                      --    10.916  70            - .   4.676  30          0   0    15,594    S       9,356    3.587      2,651
NINM         VW YSANPARTS                                  -             -   -       69580        174 20        0   0       6so    0         73          0       130
LICONOTIVE SPARM  PARTS                                    -               -       4.6061  80    1.015  20      0   0    5.076    2        4.061      254        761
C0JP¶J mu,mRIM                                                       4.909 65                   2,643  35       0  0       7.552    3      3.776    2.492      1.26
Sub-Total EQUIPIIWN                                      12,058  14    43,917  52     8.751  10  19.266  23        0   0   83t992   29       56.963   13.200    13.89
0. MECHAICAL 11(66
REHAILITATION OF LOCOMOIVES                                         14.50  47      4.776  15   11.950  36       0  0    31,276   11       16.675    9.930      4.691
RE.4AILITATION OF NOFTOMI                                  -         1166  60          -  -       777 40        0  0      1.943    1         971      680        291
Sub-TOtaI MECHAICAL MM-                                                15.716  47     4.776  14  12.727  36        0   0   .3.#219   12      17,U47  101,59       4.903
E. TECHNICAL ASSISTANC
STUDIES                                                  16850            -                       168530        --          336    0          84      202         50
ENOIMEEINO AND WM  SUPRVSION                           3.072  50                           - 3,072  50          0   8    6.145    2        1?536    3.687        92
DEVELOPHENT OFNAMEIMN   STMAS                         2N60   54          -                      2.194  46       0   0     4.800    2       1.509    2.572        720
Sub-Total TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                            5.847  52         -             - -   5.435  48          0   0    11.281    4          (29    6.460     1.t692
F. tRAINING OF PERSONNEL
CEVELUMENOFTRAININ8 PROGMIS                              377  so         - -                      377  50       -  -        753    0         188      452        113
IIDWLENATION OF TRAININS P8098MB                       1.100  60         -                        733 40        0   0     10M3     1         733      625       275
Stub-Total WRINING OF PERSOIIJ                            1,476  57         -   -         -        111   43        0   0     2.586    1         921    1.277        368
Total Dish.urseunt                                        100.047  35   107.817  38    13,527   5   63,639  22       0   0  2195030  100      152.037   67.189    45,304
MSn,   no  :2A=    33:  fl53a4 Xn        1S; tE        8tU         S    CC      ZZ*   f3*5z    SSdb
April 29,#1997  17101



e~ST~~PYAVAIiLABLE
FEPASA RAILVAY FEHABILITATION PROJEC
Table 10. POICY AND INSTITrILq9.LMVWM ACTION PROMRAM, *TE**ICAL ASSISTANCE AND 7MINlNG
TotW. 3,gludu.                                               33t33wftO $   sMsU
3I9    3993   199     I99   999  999  999  To3.      '98   1994    393   999  19M  999. 193 lTal   I98   I99    13   3990 1991 192 3123 Total   I91  1t9    t93   t99  9991 192  9 1.1.1t.
~~~~  C~~~... ....nnz .                         n.         .   .        te.a:zz                    ~     zn. ~. *               a *.
t. IJOSlENT COSTS
-PPV. 3IIW "l      to;u lg  "Aw                                      134     34              -    -     -    -     368 67         3?      -       -            -      4                                         -      -    o7-   -9-?                           -     84
42,1.W  L403F-SlSTMI   PASSlEmBfJf                                   134     34                                    la8    a7      7       -         -84                                              -                      67      97                                 34
-MM9 ff  31145  UW9WAE "A.4                                          134    2r,       -      -                     339    67    so?       -            to   -        6                                                 -    6.7   902                       -169
S68-Tot.1  MMIZ*TIU          99u    .79  13T33"M                        402    273                              -     631   201,   III                            -    328                                                   - 797    337                            -    328
t.Cm 9SNA. let" An ilirm adIeu ?1110"
-OPSIM0196 O   CMI INVMTUMSnn- to                       I"                                          1 3295                                                                                              3      7       -    -    -              
104-hI.9 CS! mm, t*tw  -  rIu  -*5-U-----U----- m--------  --- -
C.WI9ATIU CM 3   38EP T        sm 4     WM  m     t     RI              25B   407                                     '"-66    iz   3"-            -    -    -    -    n03    943                                                                                         2
-KUMI WII. O  lMmaSSTM NIS                                             7  99  97 244 - - -  37 2- 230 3   16 2  - -  -333 It399  - -    424
4UE3   I UK   ia. V=  CUWUIEI   Ms1                                    -  3."6  3.97    9         -    -     -       7     -    11             2    - -    -        2I7                                                                     9 2                        i
-FEWM   do   TASK. v   Cmit   :11511,   -      3#741  3,21'.1     M  -          -     -  1.22  -    -      -                                    2,It?  2#141 M9 -. -9  2-43  449W-1-1499I  77                3921       --   --    --  14
muss  IIUIinl 519W  ~~~~~'in                    47- --81 ---  7 -  3-- 2----    ---                    --                                                               ----1.4 3,339                                            --263
WtoetSPVTM NOMS 35913 KIM. s7umLs                                                                   -    - I-"         28    M4    790  126    -    -    -    828        -   .19  2,349  64       -    -    -  4,909    3t  1,3n9  3,383  446                    I    .30
I. m mimussn.,                    lM  T   "WI
simma   ?MM     omm   mu                       13       34        W                          4-- 3     67    179    304    -    -    -    -    44137917                                                             904          -          -     4
-3Wt.WI11C913C1OF381UU  MM11                                                I           0    P    -     -    -     7      60    144    904   49    -    -    -    3/7--    -t*                                                                     037
-WL. OF SCIISC WAD   RAMM                   179    SX       ns        M        - -              10'   $29    46239    -    -    -                                                                   n     234309N8
-is4- -       USf -----------  -       MNIadlpi                       -      ----                                                                    -     -   -      --      -     -                             -                            W19        -             
ZATIN   I WATOW   9   PIUM  20   205     207     20  -     -     -  M    134     102     tU    Ift  -     -     -                                              999  4 9    595 to   3t    -    -    -  1.9
-ido  z*1ul  Mim   401191130 WIN SmeL                                 243    9  20     7 M    W 2   -               IN5   134    102    J"4  315    -    -    -    46--134    1e2    iwis4                                                              -    -    -
5.6.-low SMELT  18t aLlIS sum  ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  -- ---------                                                                                                                                            ------------- -------
Tout UNISOM   costs                                   1~~3400  5,921 5.14B  9.941    -    -    -  94.446   31   3.43   9.043  SAN   -    -    -  3.336             2,313?  2.141  640    -    -    - 4,79231   .6539 1                                  S.103
1.*91.9   5.924  5.96    1,946                                                                            -            14.446   75   1.483   I0 3.53        -    -    -  all"          2,339  2.141  649     -    - -   .9 4#       36t   2.329  3,94   75    -    -    -5.3
----- --29.   --3937 ---37:07    -                                                                                     …-------- --- -------- -------                                                                                                            …   -…-



0lt        £61 $ 161 $    I 1iPbt               zz             o         r t             C- Ott    64z0 04              13-    T-or.    £1    £00         $401     CrVt    050-   hOt           404      010-14    60I   £01-   pwlOt            %#.;             'Up9                                     U*±*O*4SV.0±0±
4.                          I9. .      I ...   . to     -                                ...-   -_ 00 .r    2_-            -            -        -- -                   _1-                      8-    -                    .-  Ot-  .   --   CI   I  t.-  -                                 10    14.                        ±it 2*40 Ji   5
00        1     00        I      SI       01 M             t-                                                                               I a  11  10         04       W         W 14  .                     W     t~          gig0      1±       '1         1       008Ms'160M 9                                        '0SW   JD    OV1W±*4
Ott       -t   x-1  or            ol      WE       it               M.11    t-       t-4   4-t  UK              &1   Nz                                                                                        --,It   %         v      -1  "   Pt /as                   003% 0tUiwM                                                         M        tolg'-"
-  .  .      .         .                                               o±flz~~~~~~~~~~~~-   ......   ........ S
.               ±~r.~1nht 0± 0*432W    OM                % 300 1t  4
gm #Uit a#$£0mS  't
V                        . ~~~~~~~~~-------          -- ..    I.....  ..                                                                                                                               ......1 --    &1 ~   .    ......41qt.00....A7...
slgangu  At^3 IS  oU*               
0019      -      & 0±    o       P 0      410  0        0    1  t 6                  6*tzz    6IP          l-It L-Ot.                    --f           6f-       tl $  010 .         1-0      1                0!.t  E -9         It       tI       Ott         rI II                                                            son$P104BIU *4      O-<
Ln                   ---110 --       .        .        9        t        ~       (       40 ---- --    ..0....                                                 p... ....   -_ __ .... .... -t                               .....     ---' 1-      1-        .. ....                           .0        1111*014.404±* 
Ul                     0ltO           4          tl     4h'l  1111 UZ            fit04    Z-ft -           -                    -119       - tl   1 6           011o-Z        ±tlf  "14O   vlto-         v.W-$  ft,01    we£         CIS'41Ip-                     B Sotp            1£1       1611OM14                                                0±09*6         NBv
-  -                     .                .        -      00061. ..... ....t.1-- 0-0--.  ----   .....                                                                                                    ----             -- - 0------                 - *'      -61    -----uoiUa                                                       h
Ito  -  41    700      11£     OPt~ ~ at         076 061                   0                                 U15  t4    ott    04  4L..                                                                                                                                                               mists wipZ.hrOtt  000                 -
10t'0                    901     £41      of~    1a         00     M60       -       it       80£      so1     $.       fIor     Ito    Z"~       -      t II     l       PA9 tI &0  I WP  EZt64                4!t1               00          0      *1        Oi .      60'                                          pon   t±   4SW 3 JD           tI 01,
ot0                                       E  I I   0 0      1±                                                                          of  40 6 0 7  1    zi-    1 4      4         O       O         h         0                   t      60        It        1.        r        Et                           *316 UY0C0Y1t 
610    -                         IN -     1£    0          to   4tO-    t                     67    0 07                l #601010'w-s                     1       .    149          M       SC0    £10    ±60±1                    I     a1            A.60                6       to                     sostt$olOtItV0W
tn  ir  Err  EZZ  '6  64  it    Sts  it  EZI    I,-  46  #Z  11     421-t  rt    44        M-(   SU          =        44        40M                         #C'~~~~~q                     tot       lit                           419to -skil          009&Y*4a16OM0,
WK  SZ  ztl-i  PA, I  *11-1  bii  41                 OtM:            tvilt  L"-.  ctj-,   V"#'*  -351              1#4                          KO-1  WSK          Irl-o    zall ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~6r-o M  Fan   A   noolod,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U6640*3
K"i  qv  IIA   , too-f                        owl Ur-.' -                                                                                                                   kuM  qaaT~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O A 00 014f0W
1400 601'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l.t6vW                                                                                                                                                                        uau
M.,  W  101  ~~61    91:        I-N      M      Ut 1 0 t .6~1n              on      IsIlxI                               .              i     Io       iti        M Tt r            "                                                                                                                                                                              -
-----    ------  ...    .....  ----    ----                                                                                                                                                       -    -----ut,ooj
,-?                         -   IK                                              oc   91                 Z.~~~~~IOIAN~    O.f-~1'vS                   Ot  919Go'.L
ol                                                                                                                                                                                A9                tE   "S   IS?                                                                 SIMUS V^rM JD 101V±1IU7MY"41sn~  YsV4a
E  o'     I    tie                 0       08,    Ul         =       "I        *     Ill't           4     Z   9       t          0      4Z                                                         MIss$11i s11JV3



BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWkY REWBILITATION PROJECT
Table 30. BROAD OAtJM (XRIOOR
FInancing Table
3w197 2O   100         IS"0    19       31902    31,93  Souol    11'  31T0   309    3440         3991   193  93 1.4.3         ;-,         3'I'   3993   3113    7 103 .07'~Uf    I9     1,49    '1           19     3193    3.  4"I!.
UI9~~~~               I. I.0013100  3.41
-Em93L11471060M9I W31(At                              i's    29       303      304      I3'l    333            3.43034733              343:II 30       74'               04       S:     I'      43     II$     3s      3'             4:3    :3       9       3                     3A2          143
CONS. OF 00T1430       0IUin3.                                                 63                                63                            3                          3'                             to                             la
-~~~70.093A19t31UU~~~~~~~~~~~t33043  .  .        .        .      i     ---t ----  ----         -                                           .......                     ....  ..           : .    ..........'..   .   ----   --  ..  .    ...                           ...
I34 W 3U$1WJC       mm                            344    4*4        WI3    *4                393s            MU753  t44    344    363              43  707          31419      73    33:    30?    244    116    103                09"    3e      44      *i     o1      3'      34           :03
i.t     t.4144   1,1        4.            3.03                                                                      III    US332. 303 ¶  734 ..45.43A3I I                                                                    -
-via= a  8"'m                                 .   ~~~43    M    13                             311                                                                                 3034    9 3                        1               . 14  4 032:94
-pWEziISDm             lOIla.3                                  I       9        3        3                       It4                    7       3      3                                                                                               I 3 .. ...     3I      I                     - 
*30I1E*4OF      . MI                                           It     it        47       22                      334.9                                                                           Z31     3.'                                                   2      32      34                  333
409ASL30l3U lF IM71                                                   493      707      41       --            7,333            4330344               VA33333           ).,93            3t    3434             0        7              4               '     4       '      *:                   M:
.a39H    973OF                                          .      3 3    114       07       43        .       .     '9              4      644            39    .            173              3     3.4    'I       7       .                7             2      3      3.                    .      3
344-'.4"3        $111C     OM                               - '"        MS 1.11073 6094  "3.43      903       .   2,733            70   4,36   4.33   2.097  779         1- W               us4* -  4   I3.1  2.4723  3.11   373        4.94             :32   .-41     PI'   439    343            3,703
U-..491  0                                        740  3.630   '.706   01.1t3   4.033   3,747           2. 3734    144  11449  4.721  4439  3,374  477           P. 3433      *     300  1.793  :,94  *33          373       .   :.o*      :0    :0 3D .7-'1     t* A     '     34 7    .    -4
0.. 14*64*a U39li 133303
3. lII=M 03093311 NM
.?9I. 031tow.3 ot   334T 39333                                474     443      344        .        .         . 34419                                                                    300    333    '3                              :.24            SO3.   3.~   06          . 
.U033.314131901333170711               .      31       74       .        . ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~---- --- ----  -.  ..                                                         34...   ... ........ ...         3....        ..6-     ----   ----.........                   3...
s.o-lou   Wm  as 911333  mu                                    3.349      754      us4    374                     4.3199.3.34,2   33                                                                       3341  3In        .            3.3070                   ..     0       44                 1.334
2. 131m 9i3t33 Mom
W 5  CAM    mm.3  3301                                  so       sr,     434                             63*3..                                                                    42"    433    327                           3.33             343    I4      310                           in3
.31~~533  09 3344*0330333.34           .  3,403   3437~....  ........    . . .           - ..                                                                     . ....3 ----- ----  ----3...              4......    ...  .....  ....                                 ........
~~-1o4.3  iWO  9~~~~~~~~13.3l1 ~~~~~4  .  3,373 ~~~~~~~*--9-----4---  ----.                                                                          .       3.... 4 .. .7..  ... 3...2 ...3  ....      .      .      ....     0 .....   3....    ..   ...  ....    ..  ......
1434-7    TIMM  as54    309o03  133034                            3.313   33493      094      374                    1  ,1444.3.193  3,.32                                                                    43    332                . 7.053        .   3,33      11    293       44                3.2
C, fn1COm1wI4u 310333
.PMCM    OF 93n,g31111n0                                          43     339,      49.30                                                                                                            19      so                            ISO33           to3    30      33                           so 3
-MWI OF 3 M33    373033                                    .                           . 3443  0.31  33  334.112 .141 4.334  .407 34,303   .                                                                                                                                   43.o 314  3.3
-331i3A133 09 333133. 0737930    ~ ~ ~ ~... .....     .....  .            .-                                                                                                             ----------- -3-  ..7.  ...7  ...3 .       .. .......   .   .. .....  .....   --- ---7
$&-1V..3 1937MNM3334        13p 7333                                 43      339       43   3,39    33.343  I93   310.4,13.360 4                                                                               30  4,136  0.53   3,470  34,3                 3       30     33  3.37'  :.643  44   4.044
-=MMUSwan m3133UNa   Mom                                  34      31      31       34       37        .             2 7437         27      20      20     it        - -      3in              .                                                2         27      II      33     31       .           Is$
so-outsow11I 909      0U     an31T31                         337    3400   4          43       49      37        3 334         4      394    239    33    334344          1   3.444  M                   .              .              .A .M   49    304    :79    233    234    346   f.   t.09
104*3   3R M         a                                            77  7.314  33,30   10,014  13.4   33,073  3.974  Z3.17   733  t.2331  4.934  3.33  3.330k A"3   23  33.43                     4.331  9.31"   3.349  o.4"   9.99    S."7  793            3  3.094  3.43  1.41#  :.:33  2.99.  903  13.33
---  -  -     -  --- - -  --- ------ ------ --------    -.-- ------  ...... ....                                                                                         -    -  ----- ------- -  -  --. .. . .    -- ---     -- - -   -- - - - -   - .... ..     ..- - - -- --.  .. ..... . 
Aip"I 29. 9017 37340



OAZIL
FEPASA RAILVAY FHASILITATION PROJECT
Table 40. METBR CAME EONIO
FinAncing Thbl.
790     333m    39    3994   3993   s?   Mlto ts.             w     aim     I"t,   Ito   IV"   I"2 n"s  tou.t           I'r  394     :03      990   29    399 2"   :32m      . "     99   39 3,1111 9r   3390  3933   3302  39  3.I..
,lOilIbI  £ h490~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  3333~~~~~                                                                                                                                .  ..  .
sau.~~~                    4 t9v! can
3      3...  ....
31633.303334n3                                               4 47    A 73 37 37                                  .7335                  92 m           434                ,34 : 3?                 333            79 5a5?                               2         47         4          0         3
I2. funcm VW
-cam           303. 9     UM   1_1                        793.2                4,394     3.7             -    7,    44         434      .       .            -  1,73 43543    244    .14           -  3.        32        -         743        to- 
_____                        ~~~~~~~~~-ernIeW    rsu 44I3.      I                       330   7,7        47    3       34         -   -     5.J37     3 *749        43               1          7       II        o    IS       Z 10 459 44  -    4345.                            42       4 A3I    337                       in34
9in309a4431m of 3"m                                                 .3 4 .         -    .                   .                          .                                           .55 -~      3    .    .    .            .    . .      .           4.    .    3 ..    .                 .
41339335  *334.3.431                         19134           3534433                 -    -       1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5.25333                                          15273343                      -      594--  7---  ----4----4- 4....3..................3..4
tonafrxm   NM3a   37&  3n  44   37I    P                                                  34135?   6    13 42   60 15                                33-                 -       ---- 333 ?     Z    3  l        .31   1 t 2                  9    %i    It   . 27
...9373 .........4 .                                                                       4..-                        .         .......                                                                                  .7                                  234          37        --      7
4010101      0 SUM                                    44    3343             47 W    61        9          .43    2?I'M7.           . 5 .   6 .     335 -. .                      3 1139      2    17  3 44    3     t17    -     5W?       5     3         0 444       43      20     -    11
-.3in3V3                                            7342"   4914447- n                            -. 3.344)Is    344473 ml                                  -3.44. 773543.33                                       -         ,-A4    .  4 .~ ..                           .      .
POISON.     a 43133176 .                                 3.APt449    3193  2.2    4.22                  -    23.3       m       $4,7    043   449235 37                  .42*   23        972    33  2.3    3.3    232 - 3.3                    3      3      2It  -7   49          99     -
_P~~  o&*Am  it  170   33  ml  to  m                                                             Z2  tU   25  213  ift                                S"    7   44    0  VI   41                               I"~~~~~~~U
0.*40.        4  443    3swims',?                                          3.5    7,9    .134   3.7              4.43    I4II 3   3,444   .33           ,03 43            3.3 273.5                33229 3.3               54 is4.39             44  34         27    47      3      32 -I..15
8.33    m u                                                    w 7350760                                                                                                 .      I     4       12       7       7is                          3     13        7 1          1 
no1w03333 MD 3m                                                       S 4                                 .t2    n 3   0 1
-in313332330131330335,in3wa  -    -2.325       254    349         -    -   3.7.34.3,594                                                                               374    330        -    -   3*439       -       -4ft  2  39  V  23   59  33 4-          434
V333399W                                           is3Ot3i.    -  so 2   -   -   -  -                           a  3.- -29 -   -   - -                                                                                                  .2.9           . .           .93.
DinW.Ca    4355943                                          -       -                -7   -                    57
3~~~i433   314  ~~~~~~~313133T                  ..   ....:  ....  ..        .   . ..           --------                                                                                            .-               -             .:..                                  ....
%6-W      AISZr#           N 6   ftm                                                                                                                             Jr,33  5   J   W2 -M         M     43 AD      9 M    4S      44 -25     3.7       43   IM29   02 4 75          1       33        I.05
V331135.4433355                         -55333334 ..........     ... .... ... .7......-54-----                                                                                                                    .                .3 - 3 ..... ..  ..-........
9in   U  303. tt303S ST                                      wn    .7           i-s     t57  s','t  t*33*  4    24t                                      .430As-n 10     U      .VM  J          .    M.3     I.7   1.94f   2.7347    4.3   44          13342    473  3         473    69   357   -7.2
-3WTOM       tWU     313139... A-                                                       3     53M                                                                                           34        4       49    4        9   37 243                    3     34    7       32.s7 4               *
3~3.3.    ......  ..n1 2     0313 .......3                                             47   ,99473            4374.
m.ull do wini MSm
.-...-                              .    -~~~~~~~~~..-...  ..  ....-.. ..-.. -..  ..    ...-..    -.---..-..--.----.                                                .    - - --.- - - -...-.- - - --                                                      . -. . .... .3
m-t3 9,  99     mm7   3m#ltVa                                      1        274                " 2t       6           -                                                                   o               ,9         I       t  4            .3      B       1            2 7       5      I
2. %mm* omnITY NM ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~       ~         ~        ~         ~        ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~9



OUT tat .4z 1-*
-  - -------- -------------                                                                                                                                                                   -- -------              ------------ -------  ... --------                                  ......
ltv "S.0 109.1 toe-I                W.a m                                                                                                                sm  143usm  tn
7a ;7                                                                                 t,v,-E, 0-1 1-                                                      a-94" M-ps"    -M ff,9- 4,t,v,   I-ow'-t                                                                . .......
-- ---- ------ - ----- ------- ------
- -       ------- ---- -                                                               -- -----  ...... .-         ....
U-    9'k  W-TT  9556-   IN'll             M    tU   ZWZ  Zft-  009-1  $91   M"it                                          sk-ti  ZU-0                                                                00-M   -    4"         406    OU-Z   04'?   U*41  E"'Sl                                     M S M"Tmv 4w  tau  W11.101 t#Wl 'Ps
oil-ti                                           CK,.  WV                                                 SW"  3wt A jmklr
vu"                                  lik"9 DU                                                                    to                                                                                                   U04 MA Owl A samu.
WI m                                911                                 411  :04  M   9K                                                                                                                                                                                                              Mot"  0100 umo ofixe A "UNJURSIMP
VM,t                                             401-t   too
to-I  GO Z  stolt                                                  smi on no  A affifel(HIV
sto-I   -    -    -    -          -                 "I"    -                                                                                                                                                             .       .         %    -    a"       tsl$    as        on       .        .
On                                                                                          smal
It.                       'It     1'r    ni                  90.1   -           -     -    UL.:  091.1  lis                                                                                                                                                                                                                           mvi 40K  UCN  a  ouittivAotit
t"  VA   OK                                          -   09  4tZ                                                                                                                                                                                                                                OM JIM A TAWBO UkIM
VI                                                                                                          tv.."                                             it.-It K4-4                                       Ms 92im  GM am   iailow
ft-4                                      401-f   vTg-:   -                                                                                                 Oa       Oa..                                                                                                                                                                               .................
Ct  ZOT  Ott                      99                                 W    La                W-i                             Z46 EU-T                so'.                      C"  VWT M-1-   W-4                                            ba-I 9%-t OM                                                            WM  go saam
.. . ... .... .... .... .. .  ...                                                                  .....  ...  ...                                ..... ..
Di
00                                                                                                                                                                                                                             6          t    WWO                                          ca-f Vl"V                                                            Lrjwm  AD MM&
ZE            CZ, -Z                    Eff  06 Zo I                 ot                         M    le   *W
Sladn aft 6401500 A
rz                    tm                                                                                                                                                       ti       rAt                                                     'law s i ativAllievas
ZVf-,                     at-I  ga-I  'V-t                   W V            tfi  'it  4u       Z%-T  k'N    at                  -        -     -                                                   41,  KZ-t  lf"t  W.*                 US-12  VU    94    U4    UT-9   410,    SU-9   til ---                    swtnlvp $W  LM OM  -L9§wmj a"     *m   t"*l
.... .... .. ..  .... . ....... ....                         - - ---- -----                                                                  . ..... ....
or   ro  I-  4  a    49                                                                                                                                                       It.? rr Ot 9tz If:  F.'                                   WI M  9K   Qr  SK    M                                                                          SNUUS 'ADA SAM13 0 BRONU
ZOI .   4  3                                                                                                                                                                                                    -                                     tik  M                                                                                 SBMM AD MINI-
zo                                                                                                                                                   so  *d           ILI  4tf                       WI  OtS E#A
us                                                                                                                                                                                                                          W-f                                                                                Sim  NNW.
us-Z me 7I                     W
ri  f  sz   Of   $Z                           SO             tri M   tit  411  9    to)                                                                                                                                  I"             "t              di                          fft                                  $104 T"  Amme AD NKC"
Ca                                                                                                                                                            #Q   W-tM                      %9-9                           M-t Oa   VU                                                             auto" IXL Jo SWOU
swinLa SW Iowa* -loadw Wu 011t, 9
fit                               91                        ftf                                                                                                                                                          ciz                                                     oft   V"                                               'ANW1413 LMU MM  A NACMd
SM UPAUS301 'I
061 alt
.  ...... ..                                                                  ....... ..                                                        .. .... .... ...... . .
slit ,lVI 4.1  O"I                 341    ftt        ?-I-t Cal Z"l I"t  0";    Mist    Ubt  L"T    1-01 E"t Udt I"t O"I 6"t    061                                           C"t &W          Wbt  064t    4186,    nit   86t    1,01 E"t  Z"t    t"l    O"I    A"t
.. ...................... ...... .             .... ... ... ....                                                           ---- - - ---------              ........ . . ........ - ------ - - - ------- -    ..
Simmm"m                                                     113ho                                                   on tim                                                             v4pt-I "I"I
----- ------- ---                        . ........ .. ....... ...................                                                      ...    .... .........                                       ----------- ---------
;00 Ca,
--j -4 "*IW--)
cooo. ssn)
a I qS.L 6u 1 olm
)OW ON11MV OW SdMWM 'SAWId WM  '05 ol
13TONd NOIIVI1119WM AWAIIVV VWaJ
14-M



- 59 -                      TABLE 4.13
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ million)
IBRD                      Estimated            Estimated              Estimated
Fiscal Year                 Semester              Cumulative             Cumulative
and Semester              Disbursements            Amounts            as % of Total
1988
December 31, 1987             6.5 1,                 6.5                     6
June 30, 1988                 2.5                    9.0                     9
1989
December 31, 1988             6.0                   15.0                    15
June 30, 1989                 9.0                   24.0                    24
1990
December 31, 1989            11.0                   35.0                    35
June 30, 1990                13.0                   48.0                    48
1991
December 31, 1990            15.0                   63.0                    63
June 30, 1991                10.0                   73.0                    73
1992
December 31, 1991            10.0                   83.0                    83
June 30, 1992                 7.0                   90.0                    90
1993
December 31, 1992             4.0                   94.0                    94
June 30, 1993                 3.0                   97.0                    97
1994
December 31, 1993             2.0                   99.0                    99
June 30, 1994                 1.0                  100.0                   100
Assumptions
Loan Effectiveness: September 30, 1987
Loan Closing Date: June 30, 1994
1/ Including initial deposits into the Special Accounts totaling US$5.0 million.
Source: Mission estimates
May 1987



- 6n -                           TABLE 4.14
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Amount of the
Loan Allocated                     x of
(Expressed in                 Expenditures
Loan Category             Dollar Equivalent)             to be Financed
(1) Works                    15,700,000          60%
(2) Goods                    67,700,000           100% of foreign expenditures,
and 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost excluding taxes)
(3) Consultants'              6,300,000           (a) training abroad:
services and                                      100% of foreign expenditures
training                                     (b) training in Brazil:
50% of local expenditures
(5) consultants:
50% of local expenditures
for consultants residing
in Brazil, and 100% of
foreign expenditures for
other consultants.
(4) UInallocated             10,300,000
Total     100,000,000
Source: Appraisal mission.
May 1987



- 61 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
FEPASA RIILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Bank Assistance to the Transport Sector in Br .zil
A.   Highways
1.        The First Highway Project (Loan 567-BR, US$26 million, October
1968) T;as instrumental in setting the framework for Bank involvement in the
Brazilian transport sector. Together with this loan, the Bank reached
agreement with the Government on a Plan of Action which included, among other
things, the reorganization of DNER, the revision of road-user charges, the
reduction of railway deficits and the improvement of port administration.
The project included detailed engineering, construction, paving, and
supervision of seven road sections totaling 429 km in four states; the
project was successfully completed in September 1972, about a year later than
expected. The delay was mainly due to design changes and problems with
earthworks. Despite cost overruns in some sections, total project costs were
lower than anticipated. The audit reestimated rates of return for the roads
were, except for one road, equal to or higher than the appraisal estimates;
they ranged from 14 to 40% (PPA Report No. 1026 dated February 12, 1976).
2.        The Second Highway Project (Loan 676-BR, US$100 million, May 1970)
included construction and paving of 2,136 km of roads, detailed engineering
of 2,369 km, and feasibility studies of 3,256 km. The project provided
technical assistance to strengthen the planning and supervisory capabilities
of DNER. Problems were encountered during construction, and delays
occurred. As a result, the project was not completed until August 1976, two
years behind schedule. Final cost was about 6% above appraisal estimates.
The audit rate of return for the project was higher than the appraisal
estimate (36 as against 27%), mainly because of much higher-than-anticipated
traffic growth. This was the first major road project carried out entirely
by Brazilian firms under strict specifications and quality controls agreed
with the Bank. The experiences gained by the Brazilian construction industry
and DNER during the execution of the project were considerable, as
demonstrated by the performance of followup projects (PPA Report No. 644,
dated June 21, 1977, based on the PCR dated October 27, 1976).
3.        Feasibility and engineering studies included under the Second
Highway Project formed the basis for the Third and Fourth Highway Projects
(Loan 813-BR, US$89 million, April 1972, and Loan 854-BR, US$51 million,
August 1972). They included construction of 1,849 km, paving of 681 km of
roads, and related supervision. Civil works in both projects faced the same
problems encountered during the Second Highway Project. Completion of both
projects, initially scheduled for 1976, was at the end of 1977.
Underestimation of physical quantities and acceleration of inflation in 1973
and 1974 caused substantial cost overruns. Reestimated rates of return,
however, were considerably above appraisal estimates: 45% and 29% against
25% and 16% respectively (PCR dated May 30, 1978, PPAR No. 2571 of June 8,
1979). The PPAR noted that inadequate detailed engineering for these two



- 62 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
projects contributed to substantial quantity and cost increases. It also
pointed out deficiencies in traffic forecasting.
4.        The Fifth Highway Project (Loan 1075-BR, US$110 million, January
1975) set the basis for Bank involvement in road maintenance, rehabilitation
and strengthening. The project included (a) construction and upgrading of
612 km of federal highways; (b) highway maintenance and rehabilitation
programs in the States of Minas Gerais and Rio Grande do Sul and technical
assistance to DNER to improve maintenance planning; (c) Phase I of a Weighing
Station Program; (d) detailed engineering for road construction, upgrading
and rehabilitation; and (e) feasibility studies for three new highways
totaling about 900 km.
5.        The project achieved its original objective in upgrading, and
increasing the capacity of, congested road links included in the project,
although these works were completed with about three years' delay, largely
due to the poor performance of the contractors and major design changes on
two of the roads because of geological problems. Also, the final cost of
civil works exceeds appraisal estimates substantially. The technical
assistance, which helped to improve maintenance planning and management, made
a useful contribution, although it achieved less than expected, partly
because the systems developed by consultants were regarded as too complicated
and did not take into account the local conditions and the level of
development. Largely because of inadequate project preparation, the weigh
bridge program was delayed substantially and only partially completed.
Because of substantial change in the design concept, the program exceeded the
anticipated cost significantly. The implementation of the program was
continued under the Sixth Highway Project. The PCR was issued on May 8,
1985.
6.        The Sixth Highway Project (Loan 1557-BR, US$114 million, August
1978) provided continuity to the Bank's involvement in rehabilitation and
maintenance. The project included (a) rehabilitation of about 2,300 km of
paved federal highways and the execution of the detailed engineering for
about another 3,000 km of rehabilitation works; (b) a highway maintenance and
rehabilitation program in the State of Parana; (c) Phase II of the Weighing
Stations Program; and (d) consulting services to the Road Research Institute
(IPR) to carry out research into pavement overlay design and to GEIPOT to
complete research studies necessary to improve the Highway Design and
Maintenance Model.
7.        Project implementation was delayed from the start, and DER-SP's
highway rehabilitation program was suspended for almost a year because of
lack of counterpart funding. The reactivated program also progressed slowly
because of the erratic availability of funds. The progress of the Parana
highway rehabilitation program was also affected by low level funding, but
both programs started to accelerate after mid-1983 with the backing of the
Bank's Special Action Program, and were completed in the second half of
1985   The weigh bridge program continued to have difficulties and delays
under this project, and even a reduced target of 73 weigh bridge stations
remained incomplete under the project. The still remaining 12 stations are
being constructed with the Government's own resources. Although DNER's
pavement research program suffered delays, it was completed satisfactorily in
late 1984 and a new standard for pavement overlay design has been introduced



- 63 -                        ANNEX I
Page 3 of 6
for federal highways. The strengthening of DER-Parana maintenance operations
was completed successfully. The project as a whole was completed at the end
of 1985. The PCR was issued on March 20, 1987.
8.        The Northwest Region Development Program, Highway Project (Loan
2062-BR, US$240 million, November 1981) consists of (a) the construction of
the Campinas-Ariquemes section (about 1,084 km) of the Northwest Highway,
364-BR; (b) a program for strengthening Rondonia State Highway Department
(DER-RO), including construction of district buildings, acquisition of
equipment and technical assistance; and (c) two feeder road programs with
BNDES in the States of Rondonia Jnd Mato Grosso, which include construction
and improvement of about 1,000 km of roads.
9.        The construction of the Northwest Highway, after initial delays due
to inadequate funding, started to accelerate in the second half of 1983 under
the Bank's Special Action Program, and was completed in late 1984, about a
year ahead of appraisal schedule. The program for strengthening the State
Highway Department of Rondonia has progressed slowly. Consultants assisting
the program were mobilized with two years' delay, and there were
interruptions to the program in early 1985 in connection with the overall
review of various aspects of the Northwest Region Development Program. The
feeder road component of the project has been completed. In mid-1985, the
Bank agreed to use about US$60 million of loan savings for an emergency flood
rehabilitation program in six Northeastern states. This program is expected
to be completed by mid-1987.
10.       The Federal Highways Sector Project (Loan 2446-BR, US$210 million,
June 1984) provides assistance in the implementation of a series of programs
included in DNER's 1984-1987 Investment Plan. The components of the Plan
supported by the project are: (a) highway rehabilitation program for the
federal highway network; (b) road safety program covering improvement of high
accident locations, pavement marking, highway safety campaign and purchase of
equipment for highway police; (c) training program for DNER and state highway
maintenance personnel; and (d) technical assistance for a pavement management
system, an equipment management system, and highway research studies.
11.       The project made slow progress during the first year.  However,
with increased budget allocations from mid-1985 onward, implementation has
accelerated, particularly the highway rehabilitation component, and presently
about 80% of the loan has been committed by contracts already awarded. The
highw.y safety and training programs are behind schedule, but DNER is making
efforts to accelerate the implementation of these components as well.
B.   Feeder Roads Projects
12.       The Secondary and Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1207-BR, US$55
million, March 1976) represented an innovative approach to the problem of
channeling Bank support toward the improvement of secondary and access roads,
whjch, in Brazil, is the responsibility of the states and the municipali-
ties. The project was conceived as a line of credit extended to Brazil's
National Economic Development Bank, BNDES, to finance roughly 50% of the
subloans extended by BNDES to DERs or to municipal consortia to carry out
secondary and feeder road programs in support of agricultural production.



- 64 -                         ANNEX I
Page 4 of 6
The subprojects are prepared and evaluated in aceordance with agreed and well.
publicized criteria embodied in a mantual.
13.       The loan helped finance 18 subprojects in 12 States comprising
5,400 km ot roads and 110 separate bridges, The project was slow in starting
because beneficiaries took more time than anticipated to familiarize
themselves with the procedures and to establish their working relationships
with BNDES. Implementation has also been slowed by financial problems.
A reformulation of the subprojects under the First and Second Feeder Roads
Projects was made to reduce the scope of individual subprojects, in line with
the capacity of the subborrowers, so that all subprojects could be completed
by June 1984 for the First Loan and by the end of 1985 for the Second; and
to provide additional financing for 13 of the ongoing 16 subprojects in order
to restore the participation of BNDES/IBRD to its initial level.
Supplementary subloans for subprojects under the First Loan were financed
under the Second Feeder Road Project. The project was completed in mid-1984,
with three-and-a-half years delay (PCR issued on June 14, 1985, draft PPAR
dated September 23, 1986).
14.       The Second Feeder Roads Project (Loan 1730-BR, US$110 million, June
1979) was intended to provide continuity to the program assisted by the Fi-st
Project. The 19 subprojects in 13 states made up a total scope of about
4,900 km of roads and 370 bridges. Lack of counterpart funds slowed down
implementation in 1982 and 1983. The Bank's Special Action Programn helped to
accelerate the implementation. The project was completed and the loan fully
disbursed by the end of 1986, in line with the appraisal schedule. The PCR
is under preparation.
15.       The Third Feeder Roads Project (Loan 2224-BR, US$154 million) was
approved by the Board ir. December 1982, and the loan was declared effective
in June 1983. The project is supporting the continuation of the National
Feeder Roads Program, administered by BNDES, as well as significant policy
development and institution-building efforts for BNDES. The project consists
of provision of subloans for the construction, improvement or rehabilitation
of a total of approximately 8,000 km of roads for a total cost of about
US$450 million over the period 1983-mid 1989, including technical assistance
for advisory services and training of staff to improve the maintenance
capability of subborrowers. The progress of implementation is behind
appraisal schedule. The appraisal onlending target (30 subloans to commit
the entire loan amount by mid-1985) was 78% achieved at the end of 1986 and
physical completion was about 45%. Major problems have been the debt
situation of a number of States and State agencies, which li;ait their
borrowing capacities, shortages of counterpart funds, and some weaknesses in
the management of the Program by BNDES.
C.   Railways
16.       The First Railway Project (Loan 786-BR, US$46.0 million, 1971) was
to finance the railway portion of the MBR (Mineragoe : Brasileiras Reunidas)
iron ore project (partly financed by Loan 787-BR) to carry 10-12 million tons
of iron ore annually from the Aguas Claras mine to the Sepetiba ocean port
terminal. Although traffic started as planned in July 1973, it was hindered
by operational problems, such as derailments on the Central Line, whose



- 65 -                         ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
rehabilitrtion (financed by RFFSA) took longer than expected. Also, delays
were encountered in the bridge strengthening program and in completing new
workshr( '.. The traffic situation improved in 1974, reaching the forecast
level / the end of the year. The project was also to assist the railway In
promoting more profit-oriented activities and to stimulate better
management. However, the project did not address the institutional isstues of
RFFSA, and, in the end, the Bank's dialogue with the Government on this
subject had to take place largely outside the loan's context. The project
was completed in December 1977, about three years behind schedule (PPAR
No. 4258 dated December 30, 1982).
17.       The Second Railway Project (Loan 1074-BR, US$175.0 million, January
1975) financed thie first two years of RFFSA's 1975-1979 investment plan and,
in addition, included a program of technical assistance, The main objectives
were to enable RFFSA to meet future demands, particularly in transporting
iron ore and steel products in the Central, and agricultural products in the
Southern, regions. Assistance was also provided for the rehabilitation and
modernization of the suburban passenger services in Rio de Janeiro and Sao
Paulo. In addition to track rehabilitation, the project Included purchase of
signaling and telecommunications equipment and rolling stock for the suburban
services in Rio and Sao Paulo, as well as workshop equipment. The project
was cor-pleted in December 1981, about two-and-a-half years behind schedtule.
In retrospect, it appears that the project, which included a large number of
individual projects for a total estimated cost of about US$3.2 lillion, was
too large for the railway to implement, and the time schedule was clearly too
optimistic. Many components had to be reformulated and/or postponed. For
institutional development, the measures and actions which were essentially
internal to RFFSA were successful. Regarding broader questions of policies
and relationships with the Federal Government, the difficulties involved were
underestimated, and the appraisal objectives were mostly not achieved (PCR
issued on June 22, 1983, PPAR No. 6295 dated June 20, 1986).
18.       The Third Railway Project (Loan 1171-BR, US$75.0 million, October
1975) financed the first two years of FEPASA's 1975-1979 investment plan.
The objectives of the loan were to: (a) rehabilitate and, as necessary,
expand the system; (b) improve the operational and financial performance of
FEPASA; (c) improve suburban passenger services in the Sao Paulo area; and
(d) strengthen urban transport coordination in tne Sao Paulo area. During
implementationl, it soon became evident that the program was too large for
FEPASA, which, in any case, lacked the necessary funds. In mid-1977, the
Bank and FEPASA agreed to redefine the project. However, the redefinition
waa complicated by the fact that the loan funds were thinly spread over a
large number of irems for which the bidding process was already advanced;
redefinition was completed only in early 1980. The implementation of the
redefined project progressed satisfactorily until its completion in October
1983 (PCR issued on June 29, 1984, PPAR No. 6295 dated June 20, 1986).
19.       The Federal Railway-Export Corridor-Project (Loan 2563-BR,
US$200.0 million, signed July 1985), includes a policy and institutional
development (action plan) component for the rationalization of the
railway's operations and network and normalization of non-commercial
services, tariff restructuring and better cost-accounting, and more effective
operations and maintenance management; and an investment component for the
rehabilitation and improvement of railway and intermodal facilities in the



- 66 -                          ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
Goias-Minas Gerais and the Parana export corridors. The procurement of goods
and civil works is about four months behind schedule, but civil works have
started, beginning 1986, in the two corridors. Progress under the various
action plans and programs has been mixed, but overall satisfactory
(Supervisicn Report, February 17, 1987).
20.       Other Railway Projects or Components.  The Bank has also made a
loan (Loan 1839-BR, 1980, US$159 million) to support the Second Urban
Transport-i'orto Alegre-Project, which included the construction of a
metropolitan rail mass transit systemn in Porto Alegre; the PCR was issued on
April 29, 1987. The Bank also participated in the financing of the Carajas
Iron Ore Project (Loan No. 2196-BR, 1982, US$304.5 million) which included
the construction, now completed, of an 890 km railroad in Northern Brazil for
the purpose cf exporting iron ore.
D.   Ports
21.       For the port subsector, the Bank has made one loan to PORTOBRAS
(Loan 756-BR, 1971, US$45 million). This loan assisted the Santos Port
Authority in constructing a container terminal and some 53 km of railroad and
in providing consultant services for engineering and management studies. In
addition, the loan provided for consulting services for improvement of the
National Department of Ports and Waterways (DNPVN) and for an overall Port
Study. After substantial delays in implementation, involving changes in
project scope and large cost overruns, the project was completed and the loan
closed officially in 1980 (PCR issued May 16, 1983).
May 1987



- 67 -                         ANNEX 2
Page i of 6
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEPASA Financial Performance
A.   Past Financial Performance
1.        For over a decade, FEPASA depended upon Government subsidies to
meet its operating deficits, to service its debts and to undertake capital
investments. Without receiving normalization payments from the Government,
the railways would not have been able to recover the working (cash) costs of
the operations. However, with the normalization payments (although reducing
to 7% of the operating revenues in 1985 compared to 14% in 1980), FEPASA was
able to cover its working exp;enses and contribute about 70% to the
depreciation costs. Nevertheless, the working surplus was not enough to
cover, on the average, more than 15% of the railway's interest bills. Taking
into account operating, depreciation and financial costs, the railway's
average annual losses since 1980 were about US$180 million.
2.        Operationwise, the suburban and intercity passenger services have
been the sources of the losses, while the freight operation was relatively
lucrative. Over the last five years, the annual working surpluses of the
freight operation (which was not subject to normalization payments) were
sufficient to cover the relevant depreciation costs, but they were not enough
to offset the losses of the passenger and suburban services. These two
services, during the last five years, could not even recover their working
costs from operating revenues, including nc  alization.  While the freight
operation had an average annual working surr    of US$26 million and
an operating surplus (before interest) of about US$8 million, the passenger
and suburban services averaged annual working losses of US$14 million and
operating losses of US$22 million. FEPASA's annual interest costs kept
increasing between 1980 and 1985; the 1985 bill, about US$134 million, was
about 83% of the total operating revenues, including normalization.
3.        FEPASA, in addition to being responsible for operating the suburban
rail mass transit services which constantly resulted in losses, was faced
with the major problem of the railway not being able to function fully as a
commeircial enterprise with autonomy regarding investment, tariff and
marketing decisions. Investment decisions were made at Government level,
often without taking into account the railway's priorities and/or fund-
generating capacity. Because of this problem and of the Federal Government's
tariff restrictions, which kept revenue increases lagging well behind the
cost increases, and because of the continually deteriorating value of the
Cruzeiro, over the last decade, FEPASA had to borrow at an increasing scale
to meet investment and operational fund requirements and to refinance debt
payments. As a result, the railway's debt obligation reached an unmanageable
level, and the State and Federal Governments had to pay FEPASA's annual debts
regularly. The railway's accumulated debts, at the end of :985, reached some
US$1.6 billion, and it is estimated that, during the next five years, FEPASA
would have to pay some US$2.3 billion in principal and interest to meet its
obligations.



- 68 -                           ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 6
B.    Future Financial Performance
4.          Based upon the projected traffic, a financial forecast was prepared
in constant February 1986 values, for the 1987-1993 project implementation
period. Forecast assumptions are shown in Section C. The projections
reflect the anticipated costs of future operations, including the impacts
FEPASA's investment program and of the various action programs under the
project. However, in order to assess the extent of the tariff/revenue
actions that are needed to achieve realistic financial objectives, the
projected revenues are based upon December 1986, tariffs. A summary of the
forecast is shown in the following table; details are shown in Tables 3.1 to
343.
FEPASA's Projected income Statenent
(CZ$ million)
1986 1/ 1987   1988   1989   1990   1991   1992   1993
Revenues
Freight                 3,073   3,382  2,781  4,181  4,340  4,506  4,678  4,856
Passenger                 126      116     79      83      88     92      96    101
Suturbi passenger          70       73     77      80      84     88      93     97
Other                     128      128    128    128    128    128    128    128
Normalizatian             312   1,054  1,109    994    876    757    644    556
Total Operating Revenues    3,709   4,753  5,174  5,466  5,516  5,571  5,639  5,738
Working Expenses           4,449   4,395  4,353  4,232  4,127  4,063  4,010  3,941
Depreciation                 859      984  1,279  2,69   2,768  2,840  2,882  2890
Total Operating Experses    5,308   5,379  5,632  6,923  6,895  6,903  6,892  6,831
Working Income/(Loss)        (740)    358    821  1,234  1,389  1,508  1,629  1,797
Operating Incomel(Loss)    (1,599)   (626)  (458) (1,457) (1,379) (1,332) (1,253) (1,093)
Net non-operating Ihncme     728      728    728    728    728    728    728    728
Interest                   6,102   4,443  3,493  2,616  1,995  1,564  1,078    833
Annual (Loss)              (6,973)  (4,341) (3,223) (3,345) (2,646) (2,168) (1,603) (1,198)
Working ratio                1.20     .93    .84    .77    .75    .73    .71    .69
Niornmlization (as % of
Operating Revenue)        8.4    22.2   21.4   18.2   15.9   13.6   11.4    9.7
1/ Prelimiay estimtes
Source: FEPASA an mission estimates
April 1987



- 69 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 6
5.        Between 1986 and 1993, FEPASA's operating revenues from the freight
business are expected to increase by about 58%. During that period, FEPASA
would reduce its reliance upon non-freight revenues and, what is more
important, upon the subsidy-type normalization payments. In 1993, freight
would provide about 85% of the total revenues and long-distance passenger
services about 2%. Suburban services, the finances of which would be
separated, for all practical purposes, from the rest of FEPASA, and would be
the responsibility of the State Government, are expected to represent about
1% of the revenues. The 1993 normalization, 68% of which is related to the
suburban services, would represent about 10% of the operating revenues,
compared to 22% in 1987 when the new normalization system is expected to be
introduced. The normalization payments for the freight and long-distance
passenger services, would, in 1993, be less than 4% of these two services'
operating revenues, compared to almost 12% in 1987. To ensure that FEPASA's
reliance upon normalization would reduce at a practical rate to an acceptable
level, the annual normalization payments related to freight and passenger
services, as a percentage of the two services' total operating revenues, are
targeted to gradually reduce to no more than 3% by 1993, including no more
than 25% for the long-distance passenger services alone. The gradual
reduction of the normalization payments would require the gradual reduction
and/or rationalization of FEPASA's commercially non-viable services.
6.        Operating costs are also forecast to increase in the next seven
years but at a lesser rate than revenues. The working costs would, in fact,
decrease by some 11% between 1986 and 1993, as a result of improved
productivity, project investments and the various rationalization measures
included in the action program. Personnel remuneration in 1993, because of
some modest reduction in the number of employees, would be auout 5% less than
in 1986, but it still would remain the most important single cost item
with almost 70% of the total working costs. Fuel and electricity usage,
about 14% of the working cost in 1993 (compared to 10% in 1986), as a result
of the higher traffic, is expected to increase by about 19%; spares,
materials and contract work (about 18% of the 1993 working cost) are forecast
to be 39% less than in 1986, when a large volume of deferred maintenance
works took place.
7.        With the forecast revenue increases and the modest working cost
reductions, FEPASA's cash generating capacity would improve. The 1993
working income is projected to be about US$75 million, compared to a working
deficit of about US$31 million in 1986. All of the 1993 working surplus
would originate from freight operation; in 1993, long-distance passenger
services are forecast to result in a working deficit of US$6 million
equivalent, and the suburban services would break even with the
normalization payments. For the passenger services to maintain a working
ratio of not more than 1.0, tariffs should be increased by about 50%. The
railway's working ratio in 1993, including normalization payments, is
expected to be .69 (.76 without normalization payments), compared to 1.20 in
1986 (1.31 without normalization payments); and between 1987 and 1993, the
internally generated surplus would be about 90% of the value of FEPASA's
identified investment program. To maintain the railway's cash generating
capacity, FEPASA's working ratios, including normalization payments, should
gradually decrease to .69 for the entire business, .61 for the freight
business, and 1.0 for the long-distance passenger services and for the
metropolitan train, by 1993.



- 70 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 6
8.        While the cash generating capacity of FEPASA would improve
markedly, operating losses compared to 1985 would reduce only modestly
because of higher depreciation charges. In the past, FEPASA's depreciation
costs have been understated because of partial asset revaluations and unduly
low depreciation rates. As part of the action program, by 1988, the railway
is expected to revalue its fixed assets and adjust its depreciation rates to
have them reflect the appropriate useful life of the assets. As a result,
the operating losses, which would decrease in 1987 and 1988, would increase
in 1989, but they would then decrease again gradually. The 1993 operating
loss is forecast to be US$46 million equivalent, about 30% less than in
1986. Also, the overall results of FEPASA's operation, including interest
costs, would be considerably better than in the previous years. As a result
of restructuring the railway's finances, and with the State Government
assuming part of FEPASA's debt obligations, the railway's interest bill would
be drastically reduced after 1986. The 1987 interest bill would be about 28%
less than in 1986, and in 1993 it would be reduced by an additional 82% to
about US$34 million. The overall loss in 1993 (US$50 million equivalent)
would be about 80% less than in 1986. Details of the projected income and
fund flow statements and balance sheets are shown in Tables 3.1 to 3.3, and
the projected income statements for the freight, the long-distance passenger
services and for the metropolitan train are shown in Tables 1 to 3 of this
Annex.
9.        During the next seven years, FEPASA's funding position is expected
to improve. Since the State Government would assume the pre-1986 debts and
would capitalize them as the annual debt payments become due, the railway's
long-term debt obligations would be reduced from CZ$38.7 billion (or US$1.6
billion) at the end of 1986, to CZ$26.2 billion (US$1.0 billion) in 1993, and
the debt/equity ratio would improve from 46/54 in 1986 to 28/72 in 1993.
However, FEPASA, during the next two to three years, would have to rely on
short-term borrowings in the order of CZ$850 million (US$36 million).
Because of the substantial fund requirements, close monitoring of the
utilization of the railway's financial resources is essential in order to
ensure that borrowings would not lead, as in the past, to unmanageable debt
obligations.
10.       The overall financial results, even without further real tariff
adjustments, are expected to be considerably better than in the past.
However, FEPASA would not be able to turn its overall losses to profit
without additional tariff adjustments, or equivalent cost savings. An
estimated 20% increase in total revenues, or about 23% increase in freight
revenues (or equivalent cost savings), would enable FEPASA to eliminate its
1993 overall loss completely. The bulk of the additional revenues would have
to come from freight customers who would have to absorb an annual average
increase of real freight tariffs of about 2 to 3% during the next 7 years for
FEPASA to achieve an overall break-even by 1993.
11.       The sensitivity of FEPASA's financial performance to higher working
costs, to increases in project costs and to lower-than-expected traffic has
been tested. Since FEPASA is expected to adjust charges to maintain its
financial targets, the results are expressed as tariff inreases that may be
necessary to offset adverse impacts upon finances. For example, if, in 1993,
working costs were 15% higher than forecast, some 25% additional revenue
would be needed to achieve break-even. With 15% lower-than-expected fruAght



- 71 -                         ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 6
traffic and no increase in costs, the additional revenue would have to be
31%.  A 15% increase in the project capital cost would require an additional
revenue of about 17%.
C.   Financial Forecast Assumptions
a.   General
12.       The financial forecasts are based upon constant, April 1987 values,
and, for the purpose of comparison, the 1980-1986 results are shown in the
same values.   Separate Income Statements have been prepared for the freight,
passenger and suburban services (Tables 1 to 3 of this Annex); the Fund Flow
Statements and the Balance Sheets represent the results of the entire company
(Tables 3.2 and 3.3). To develop the next seven years' forecast, the
following major assumptions have been considered in addition to FEPASA's past
financial performance.
b.   Traffic and Revenues
13.       Traffic data are shown in Table 3.5 of the report and Annex 4
summarizes the rationale for developing the traffic forecast. All revenue
projections (freight, passenger and suburban) have been based on December
1986 tariffs, as the February and March 1987 tariff adjustment's impact upon
the traffic is not evaluated as yet. Other revenues and the (net)
non-operating income were forecast at the 1986 level. In calculating
normalization payments for the suburban services, the total deficit, with the
exception of depreciation, was used, and, for passenger and freight, an
overall estimate was developed, taking into account possibilities for
improving passenger services in the broad-gauge system.
C.   Costs
14.       The cost projections have been based on operating conditions
related to the traffic forecast and adjusted to reflect the savings and
improvements resulting from the next seven years' investments and action
plans. Where past costs were the basis for - or materially influenced -
projections, adjustments were introduced to avoid possible distortions due to
past budgetary constraints (e.g., deferred maintenance).
Personnel cost - first-quarter 1986 actual salaries were used with
0.5% annual increase to reflect increases due to merit and longer
service. For rolling stock, workshop, electrification and
signaling maintenance staff, an additional 0.2% annual increase was
applied to reflect better productivity. Numbers of employees have
been projected separately for freight, passenger and suburban
services and separately for the main areas as follows:
0.) permanent way for freight and passenger services no change,
suburban services, 25% reduction between 1986 and 1993;
(ii) Rolling stock maintenance (freight services only), 5%
reduction between 1987 and 1993; (iii) electric and signaling
maintenance 2% reduction for suburban Pervices only; (iv) stations,
25% reduction for passenger services, 7% for freight and 10%
increase for suburban services; (v) train crew a total of 1.5%
increase; (vi) administration an overall reduction of i5%;



- 72 -
-ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 6
Fuel and electricity costs were based on February 1986 prices. The
projected traffic was assigned on a gross ton-km/passenger basis to
new and old electric traction, diesel traction or unit trains
(suburban services only). The 1985 fuel/electric consumption was
applied to the forecast traffic; however, the new electric
locomotives were assumed to consume 25% less electricity than the
old ones. No price changes were projected;
Materials and spares part costs were based on the 1983 and 1984
actual purchases (in 1985 and 1986, considerable usage took place
for defer.ed works) and increased by about 3% per annum;
Other costs (including contract work) were reduced by 1993 to the
average of the last six years, which was considered to be a normal
level;
Depreciation costs were projected on the assumption that asset
revaluation would be completed by mid-1988. For adjusting the
asset values, as a basis, the differences between the book and
renewal values (estimated by FEPASA for costing purposes) were
used.  The following depreciation rates were applied to the various
asset categories:
Superstructure  -   3.3%
Infrastructure  -   2.0%
Locomotive       -   5.9%
Rolling Stock   -   4.0%
Equipment        -  10.0%
Other           -   5.0%
Financing/Interest
- Borrowiuig from the Bank - 14 year loan (including three and a
half year grace period), 7.92% interest;
- Borrowing from BNDES - 9 year loan (including four year grace
period), 8% interest;
- Borrowing from other sources - 8 year loan (including two year
grace period), 9% interest;
- FEPASA would finance 20% of the project and would be responsible
for paying interest on all post-1986 borrowing with the exception
of borrowings related to suburban and/or electrification
projects. Principal and interest payments on post-1986
borrowings for the suburban and/or electrification projects would
be Government's capital contribution. Principal payments related
to the pre-1986 debts guaranteed by the State Government were
also capitalized as they fell due.
The projections do not include any financial changes related to the
Government's capital contribution.
May 1987



BBA4ZIL
FFPASA RADUNAY W1AILfrATTN   MD=
FEPASA k         Statarits-fre4ft
(April 1987, Cm$ mllJJr)
1980       981       11982        98        1984       I?98       1986       1987       1988        1989      1990        1991       1992       1993
REVENUES                                                            tul                         Py                                              Forecast
Freiobt     2816.0     2990.7     3247.6     2812.6    2976.0      3250.6    3073.7       3782.t    3781.3    4180.5       4340.2    4506.1    4679.2       4856.0
Passanaer
Suburban
Other      103.2       75.2      186.6      213.3       53.8      136.3       128.0      128.0      128.0      128.0      128.0      128.0      128.0      1t8.0
Sub-total               2919.2    3065.9    3434.3       3026.1     3029.8    3386.9       3201.3    3510.6      3909.3     4Q08.5    4468.2    4634.1    4806.2    4984.0
Normalization
-paeyunt received                                                                           0.0       39.4       47.2       42.1       35.0       28.0       20.9       13.B
-outstand. for year
Total normalization             0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0       39.4       47.2       42.1       35.0       28.0       20.9        13.8
TOTAL OPERATIN6 REVENUES           2919.2    3065.9    3434.3        3026.1     3029.8    3386.9      3201.3    3550.0      3956.5    4350.6    4503.2    4662.0    4827.1          4997.8
EtPENSES
Salaries and waaes     1614.7     1750.3     1896.0     1720.5      1297.6    1376.0    2045.1    2108.2    2103.8    2086.2    2068.0           2050.4     2040.8     2014.2
Fuel      324.1      355.5      358.8      350.       373.7      322.7      298.1       332.8      351.8      280.5      260.3      273.1      286.6      300.6
Electricity       31.3       52.2       52.6       45.0       45.5       57.6       66.7        70.2       87.7      128.0      140.0      146.9      154.1      161.9
Spares ard materials      235.6      244.8      232.6      207.5      192.1       248.6      249.0      201.4      217.6      228.5      227.4      236.0      245.1      254.4
Other(incl.contractsl      161.3      199.9      266.6      782.9       201.6      675.9      676.8      626.4      576.2      525.9      475.7      425.3      375.0      324.8
Total Worhinq Erpenses         2367.0     2602.8     2806.6    2t06.2       2110.5    2680.8      3!;3i.7    3339.0     3337.1     3249.1     3171.4    3131.7    3201.6    3055.9
DeDrecia aon               164.5      Z2 .4      449.3      471.2      517.3       567.5      635.0      736.4     1011.5     2044.9    2117.2    2189.6    2231.4        2239.2
Provision for d.debts            O.b        1.1        2.2         1.8        0.7        0.6
TOIAL OPERATING EIPENSES           2532.1     4833.3     3258.1      3079.2     2628.5     3248.9     3970.7     4075.4     4348.6     5294.0     5289.5     5321.3     5 3.0      5295.1
6RYlN8l IOtiE/ItOSSi                552.3      463.1      627.6       419.9      919.3      706.1    -134.4       210.9      619.3     1101.4     1331.8    1530.4    1725.5        1942.0
OPERATINg INtCONE.' LOSSI           387.1      232.6       176.2     -53.1      401,        138.0    -769.4    -525.4    -392.1    -943.4    -785.4    -659.            -5Q5.9    -297.2
Nor'ine Ratto
-with nor.alization            81.1       84.9       81.7       86.1       69.7       79.2       104.2       94.1       84.3       74.7       70.4       67.2       64.3       61.1
-without norma1llation           81.1       84.9       81.7       86.1       69,1        79.2      104.2       95.1       85.4       75.4       71.0       67.6       64.5       61.3
Operating Ratio
-with rqrmalization            86.7       92.4       94.9      101.8       86.8        95.9      124.0      114.8      109.9      121.7      117.4      114.1      110.5      1QS.9
without normalization           86.7       92.4       94,9       101.8      86.8        95.9      124.0      116.1      111.2      122.9      118.4      114.8      11I.0      106.2
Normalization as I of Op.Rev.         0.0        0.0        0.0         0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0        1.1        1.2        1.0        0.8        0.6        0.4        0.3                       > >,
Scirce: FEPASA and udeBm  e8timut.. F'gure az1jea  tD, ruzitlx   differae                .                                                                                                                  a, -
Aprl 1987



REPASA RAUMtW  1EDUATMM,  W
t*.§ASA kmw  Stt!-aMp             s      e
(Aprfl 19B7, Cz$sUillS)
1980                       _ 1982    1_33      19_ 4       195        th6          1987        1988        1989        1990        1991        1992        1993
REVENUES                                                               kt1fUilxry                                                                          Vorecat
Frex tht
Passancer       214.7       220V.       221.3       151.9       145.9       136.1       125.8       115.5        79.2        8'.2       B7.4        91.7        96.3       101.I
Suburban
Other
Sub-total                  214.7       220.9       221.3       151.9       145.9       136.1       125.8       115.5        79.2        83.7        87.4        91.7       96.3'      101.1
Normalization
-payeent received       277.4         78.4       313.9       190.3       87.3        8B.0        123.7      393.9       471.8       420.8       350.2       279.5       209.0       138.2
-outstand. for year        126.9       300.8       '437         22.1        57.0        6q.0        51.5        49.4        50.2        29.6       28.5        27.5        26.t        25.4
Total normalization             464.3       .79.2        57.6       212.4       144.3       157.Q       17'-.2      443.4       522.1       450.A       378.7      307.0       2'5.4       163.6
TOTAL OPERATING REVENUES               618.9       60n.n       578.9       364.;       290.2       293.0        01. 0      558.9       601.7      533.6       466.1       398.7       332.7       264.7
EXPENSES
Salaries and waqes        418.7       471,1       47f.0       399.9       333.7       353.9       389.4       375.5       361.6       347.7      333.8       319.B       3Q5.9       292.2
Fuel        18.6       23.2         22.5        2'.1       25.1         31.7       43.5        40.5        26.4        19.8        18.7        19.8        21.0        22.2                       l
Electricity         3.7         6.0         6.0         5.5         6.4         B."         9.8         8.5         6.6         9.1        10.1        10.7        11.4        12.)
Spares and materials         54.2        53.5        56.1        44.4        49.4        A4.0)       61.6        42.2        42.2        42.1        42.1        42.1        42.1        42.1                     4
Other(incl.contractsl         37.5        49.4        79.5        56.5        58.4        84.3        84.]        78.6        72.2        65.9        59.5       53.3        47.0        40.8
Total Norkinq Expenses            532.7       603.3)      634.1       528.4       473.0       542.1       589.1       545.3       509.0       484.6       464.2       445.8       427.4       409.3
Depreciaiien                  40.E        57.8       105.6       109.4       135.4       124.2       124.2       124.2       124.2       332.6      3;2.6        732.6      332.6       332.6
TOTAL OPERATIN6 EIPENSES               573.4       661.0       739.7       637.8       608.3       666.3       713.3       669.4       633.1      817.3       796.8       778.4       760.0       741.9
VORRIN8 INCWqE/ILOSS)                   86.2        -3.;       -55.1      -164.1     -182.7       -24Q.1     -288.2         13.6       92.3        49.0          1.9      -47.1       -95.7      -144.6
OPERATING INCONE:CLOSSI                 45.6       -61.0      -160.7      -273.5     -318.2      -373.3      -412.3      -21l.5       -31.8      -283.7      -330.7      -7379.7     -428. 3     -477.2
Nlorhno Patio
-with norealization              86.1       I00.5       109.5       145.0       163.0       185.0       195.7        97.6        84.6        90.8        99.6       111.8       12B.0       154.6
-without normalization             248.2       273.2       286.5      347.8       324.1       398.5       468.4       472.0       642.6       582.5       531.3       4B6.2       443.7       404.7
Operatinq Ratio
-with eormalization              92.6       110.2       127.8       175.1       209.b       227.4       237.0       119.8       105.3       153.2       170.9       195.2      229.1       280.3
wsithout normalization           267.1       299.3       334.2       419.8       416.8       489.7       567.2       579.5       799-4       982.3       912.1       849.0       789.0       733.7
Normalization ast of Oc. Rev.          65.3        63.2        61.8        58.3        49.7        53.6        58.2        79.3       86.8        84.4        81.3        77.0        71.0        61.8                   . 0
Soaze: EPAM  dt n tiadm  etimkti. Fgwes iubjesct tD uwzxIg diffex.                                                                      
AprJ   1987



BRAZE.
FEPAW RAWI   RJAB pJEL
FEPASA him  Se                44etrpoLit  Tati 
(April 1987.7  C$  mili)
1980       1781        1982       19, I       1984       1985        1986       1987        1988       1989        199Q       1991        1992       I997
REVENUES                     htAt1                                                                 Prellaxy                                           Forecst
Freigcht
Passanger
Suburban       64.6        79.3       74.5        61.8       53.3        65.3       69.8        73.0       77.0       B.2        84.2        88.3       92.6        97.1
Other
Sub-total                  64.6       79.3        74.5        61.8       53.3       65.3        69.8        73.0       77.0        80.2       84.2        88.3       92.6        97.1
Normalization
-payent received        73.8        I8.8       111.2      129.9        46.2       67.6        98.6      523.3       494.6      459.6       424.!      386.9       355.7      346.0
-outstand. for year        33.8       72.3        15.5        15.2       30.1       53.1       437.9       47.6        45.0       41.9        8.5        35.2       32.T        31.5
Total normalization            107.5        91.2      126.8       145.1       76.3       120.7      136.5       570.9      530.6       501.4      462. 5      422.1      388.0   -      .4
TOTAL OPERATING REVEUES              172.1       170.5      201.2       206.9       129.6      186.0       206.2      643.8       616.5      581.5       546.7      510.4       480.6      475.c
EXPENSES
Salaries and waqes       185.0      2734.9      250.3      209.8       461.9      489.9       433.0       430.2      428.0       425.0      421.3       417.0      411.1      AQ.I
Fuel        1.4         1.4        1.6         2.;        3.9        18.8       17.9        19.5        19.8       15.7       14.6        15.4        16.2       17.,1
Electricity        7.4        12.4         9.9       12.A        10.8       13.9        13.9       14.6        15.4       l6.0        16.8       17.6        18.6       lo.,
Sparesandmaterials          23.4       27.3        24.1        11.0       14.7        19.2       21.4        11.0       11.2        11.4       11.5        11.5       11.5        11.'                     n
Otherlincl.contracts)        16.3        19.8       28.7        12.6       33.8        38.4       39.4        35.5       32.8        29.9       27.0        24.2       21.'        Je.4                    I
Total Horking Expenses           233.5       295.8      314.6       247.8      525.1       580.3      524.b       510.9      507.2       497.9      4ql.2       485.6      49;.s       475.5
Depreciation                 24.5        ;8.4       66.7        64.3       73.1        79.5       09.5       123.2      142.9       313.8      317.8      317.8       317.8        17.3
TOTAL OPESTTINS EXPENSES             258.0       334.2       381.3      312.6       598.3      679.8       624.2      634.1       650.1      811.7       809.0      803.4       7P8.4      797.'
WOR)IN6 INCONE/ILOSSI                -61.4      -125.3      -113.4      -40.9      -395.6     -394.3      - 18.4      132.9       109.3       83.6        55.5       24.9         0.0        1.;
OPERATING INCOMEI(LOSSI              -85.9      -163.7     -180.1      -105.7      -468.7     -493.8      -417.9        9.7       -33.5     -230. 2     -262.     -293.0       -317.8    -317.5
Working Ratto
-with normalization            135.7       173.5      156.4       119.8      405.2       312.0      254.4        79.4       82.3        85.6       89.9        95.1      100.0       In.1n
-without normalization           361.6       373.0      422.5       400.7      984.9       889.0      752.1       700.2      659.0       621.2      583.7       549.8      518.8       489.6
Operating Ratio
-with normalization            149.9       196.1      189.5       151.1      461.6       365.6      302.7        98.5      105.4       139.6      148.0       157.4      166.1       166.8
without normalization           39?.5       421.5      512.1       505.6      1t22.1     1041.5      894.7       869.1      844.7      1012.6      961.2       909.6      86 1.       816.8             ,-j
Normalization as 1 of Op.Rev.         62.5        53.5        63.0       70.1        58.9       64.9        66.2       88.7        87.5       86.2       84.6        82.7       80.7        79.6
S&wn: IASA  and aissm  eataiutee. Flgur    asubject tD m oundi%  diffe                     .
Apri 1987



0Y   z
I                -<
I      rr^
V-1~V
zUm- 
H~~~/



ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEPASA Costing, Tariffs and Marketing
1.        The costing system used by FEPASA is conceptually sound.  However,
the system has been in use for some 15 years, and a systematic review to
improve its precision, creditability and, particularly, its use for
management purposes is necessary. The cost information is based on the
financial accounting system. The aggregate financial information is sound,
and, while errors in the expense data are unlikely to have a significant
effect on the cost calculations, the physical production or output units
which are used for allocations are more of a problem. This type of data is
collected (with considerable administrative workload) for costing, industrial
engineering and performance measurements, and not necessarily in a reliable
and systematic manner.
2.        FEPASA uses some 40C cost complexes basically covering five
operational expense classes (viz. maintenance, transport/operation, train
services, commercial services and administration). The cost complexes are
allocated to operation directly where possible (e.g., commuter line
maintenance) or on the basis of operating statistics. While individual
traffic commodity and passenger costs are produced, line specific and
origin-destination costs are not available. The operating costs are divided
into direct, variable and fixed costs. Direct costs are defined as costs
avoidable within a year; variable costs are defined as avoidable and variable
over a period longer than a year and include all direct costs; fixed costs
are the balance of operating costs not considered variable. The allocation
to direct and variable and fixed costs is based on operational information
and knowledge, but it is not supported by regular statistical analysis or
engineering studies.   As a result, the impact of operational changes is not
reflected reliably and promptly, and there is an element of subjectivity in
the cost allocations. Basically, for this reason, within the railways, the
costing system's creditability is questioned, and, at the various management
levels, the often too detailed and sometimes slow costing reports are not
utilized in an optimum manner for operational directions, performance control
and for marketing decisions. To enable the railways to have appropriate
information in a timely manner improving cost control, tariff design and
marketing, an action program (with technical assistance) has been included in
the project (para. 4.08) with the objective of upgrading the costing system's
precision, therefore improving its creditability and use at various
management levels.
3.        The technical assistance would attempt to upgrade the costing
system by the end of 1988 to provide information for individual services and
origin-destination commodity flows; to appropriately determine cost
variability with traffic, operation and efficiency; to allocate common costs
to individual services as appropriate; and t3 provide a reliable basis for



-78-                           ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 3
cost forecasting. Particular emphasis would be on (a) improving the
statistical information and increasing the use in costing of statistics
generated for other purposes; and (b) refining the measures of cost
variability with increasing use of engineering studies and using other
appropriate measures such as regression analysis. The dissemination of cost
and performance information would also be improved, particularly its format
and speed to meet the need of FEPASA's senior management and that of the
commercial, financial, operating and engineering branches to permit effective
monitoring, evaluatiLn and corrective action. The upgraded costing system is
expected to be introduced by the end of 1988.
4.        FEPASA's tariff structure was introduced some 18 years ago and it
has changed very little since then. The revenues are based upi.. published
tariffs and special contract rates basically for large traffic volume
customers. The products which are subject to published tariffs are separated
into five groups, and, for each group, there are distinct tariffs based upon
fixed charges plus variable charges per unit of distance. In addition,
during the past years, a number of special tables (basically with lower
variable charges) have been introduced for specific products such as
petroleum derivatives and fertilizers. The tariffs and, to a large extent,
the contract rates are controlled by an interministerial committee (CIP).
Until 1983, tariff adjustments were authorized according to various price
indicies, providing some scope for increases higher than the consumer price
index (INPC). However, there was no agreed time frame for regular tariff
adjustments, and the time lag between FEPASA's request and CIP's
authorization often reduced the effectiveness of the tariff increases.
Starting in January 1983, effective until February 1986 when the price freeze
was introduced, quarterly tariff adjustments, equal to the variation of the
INPC were authorized.
5.        Since the tariff adjustments were aimed at offsetting the impact of
the inflation, the railway's present tariff structure (and levels) are
generally not in line either with the prevailing cost or the prevailing
market conditions. Until the end of 1985, the freight tariffs recovered the
cost of operation related to the services. The situation drastically changed
in February 1986, with the price freeze imposed through the Cruzado
Plan preventing FEPASA fromi matching its revenues with its increasing costs.
As a result, during the first half of 1986, the railway's freight revenues
were some 22% less than the freight-related operating costs; and the revenues
generated by the 12 most important traffic commodities which represent about
78% of the total traffic, were about 19% less than their costs. While the
tariffs of all the commodities were sufficient to recover the direct costs
and, with the exception of fertilizer and cement, the variable costs, only
alcohol, diesel oil and gasoline traffic, which, together, represent 30% of
the total freight traffic, generated sufficient revenues to cover the average
costs. With the exception of diesel oil and gasoline, truck charges are
higher than that of the railway's (Table 1 of this Annex) giving at least a
basis for future adjuistments (railway tariffs and/or the contract prices of
some essential products such as fertilizer and wheat are closely controlled
by the Government). There is a possibility to increase revenues,
particularly in the case of contract customers where the discounts offered,
depending on the market condliions, could be reduced, and in the case of



- 79 -                        ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 3
commodities such as alcohol, bauxite, cement, phosphate, corn, pellets, sugar
and wheat, where trucking charges are substantially higher than the railway's
costs.
6.        With technical assistance under the loan, the tariff structure of
FEPASA, based on the upgraded costing system, would be reformulated to
recover the full cost of the individual services, to eliminate unijustified
internal cross-subsidization, and to take full advantage of the market
opportunities. The individual tariffs would be cost-related and
market-oriented and would ensure that, in the short-term, no freight would be
carried at less than its avoidable cost, and, for traffic with long-term
prospects, the railways would at least recover average costs. To
this end, FEPASA, by the end of 1987, should adjust its tariffs and contract
rates selectively to make up for the (8x) loss resulting from the February
1986 price freeze, and, for the major commodities, aim at recovering working
costs plus depreciation and interest on rolling stock. The new tariffs would
provide incentives to achieve FEPASA's corporate objectives, in particular
operational rationalization and the phasing out of the non-remunerative
services.
7.        To take full advantage of the upgraded tariff structure and cost
information system in order to optimize operations through selective
marketing with a view to optimize profits, FEPASA's marketing would have to
be strengthened. This would, inter alia, involve the establishment of
organizational and professional capabilities in the company to undertake
longer range market research, including systematic collection and evaluation
of market information, develop marketing policies and strategies, to monitor
and evaluate service standards in relation to market requirements, to seek
out new and profitable transport business opportunities, to establish and
maintain regular, close contact with existing (and potential new) customers,
and complementary transport agencies (e.g. port) and continuously monitor the
performance of competitive transport entities, services. To assist FEPASA in
strengthening its marketing operation, technical assistance would be provided
under the loan. During the course of this work, the necessary organizational
changes would also be identified and assistance would be provided for their
implementation.
May 1987



- 80 -
ANNEX 3
Table 1
BAZIL
FEPASA RAILWA RF4MILITAflCt PR0JE=
FtPASA's Costs,        adeceiad Tariffs and Truwk Tariff Comparison
(in Deember 1986 (Z$/tm-Iuk)
Costs                                            Tnick
Lfrect    Variable 1/    Tbtal 1/    Taiffs    Peeme        Pevenue
Suga            .07        .18           .31          .22        .21         .27
Fertilizer      .07        .15           .27          .13        .12         .22
Alodaol         .08         .16          .28          .26         .34        .30
Bawxdte         .07        .14           .24          .19        .19         .60
Cemet           .08        .19           .33          .21        .18         .40
phoepbte        .06        .13           .23          .20        .14         .50
Gasoline        .08         .16          .28          .20        .28         .18
Com             .06         .15          .25          .21        .21         .55
Diesel          .07        .14           .26          .23        .28         .16
Pellets         .07        .17           .30          .19        .18         .-S
'oya            .07        .15           .27          .19        .17        .47
Wheat           .07        .16           .30          .20        .17         .55
1/ Iwludig &priation ci remel basis.
Sor:  EPASi ard mLssion estimtes
-y 1987



- 81 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 6
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEPASA Freight Traffic Forecast
A.   Summary and Methodology
1.        FEPASA developed a traffic forecast in coordination with a
comprehensive transport study which was carried out by the State Secretariat
for Transport, with assistance from consultants and from the Sao Paulo
Institute of Technology, with a view to update the Transport Master Plan for
the State of Sao Paulo. The transport study methodology was based upon a
sophisticatpl consumption-production transport model in which transport costs
are part of a production cost function wnich is used in a location model to
distribute production on a lowest total production cost basis. Modal split is
through an advanced multi-stage logit model which uses exponential
generalized cost functions to distribute traffic between transport modes. The
study was based upon a macroeconomic scenario for the State's economy, which
is consistent with the objectives and policies for economic development
defined in the New Republic's First National Development Plan, and in which
the State GDP would grow at 8% p.a. until 1988 and at an average 7% p.a.
during 1988-1990. Specific sectoral and commodity studies were carried out
with the assistance of specialized experts, who analyzed the products' supply
and demand and prepared the basic forecast data. Traffic was projected
consistently with the investment and operations plans proposed by the various
modal agencies and enterprises, and the latter were evaluated, in economic
and financial terms, through the model. The sensitivity of the projected rail
traffic to relative changes in road and rail tariffs was tested; it was found
relatively low when rail tariffs are kept at least 25% below trucking rates
on the average, but the diversion of rail traffic to road would become
substantial i.e., above 5% of the total traffic and would increase rapidly
when tariffs are set closer to trucking rates, unless service quality is at
the same time significantly improved.
2.        In preparing its forecast, FEPASA consolidated the information
derived from the above-mentionned study, which was directed mostly toward
medium to long-term forecasting and toward assessing the impact of modal
policies and programs on the other modes, with the market and competition
information which the company maintains to prepare its short-term business
forecasts, and appropriate adjustments were made to reflect this more
detailed information. A more conservative assumption regarding macroeconomic
growth was also reflected in the final forecast, with GDP average growth
rates reducing from 8% at present to 5% for the rest of the decade, 4% in the
first half and 2% in the second half of the 1990s. With these assumptions,
FEPASA's traffic was projected to increase at the average annual rates of
5.0% in tons and 5.8% in ton-km during 1986-1993, 2.8% in 1994-1995, 2.0% in
1996-2000 and it was assumed that it would stabilize at its year 2000 level
thereafter. A summary of the traffic forecast by commodity is presented in
Table 3.5. The thre. charts at the end of this Annex show the 1985 actual and
the 1993 forecast gross-ton and net-ton traffic densities on the various



- 82 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 6
sections of FEPASA's three corridors. The following is a summary of the basic
commodity data which supported the forecast.
B.   Petroleum Products and Alcohol
3.        There are four major oil refinery centers in the State of Sao
Paulo, located at Paulinia (Campinas), Sao Jose dos Campos, Cubatao (Santos)
and Santo Andre (Map IBRD 11571R1). The refineries are supplied with
Brazilian and imported oil through pipelines. The transport and distribution
of petroleum products is organized by PETROBRAS from the refineries to
primary distribution centers, and bv the distribution companies under the
coordination and supervision of the Petroleum National Council (CNP) from
there on to secondary distribution centers. FEPASA basically transports
the gasoline and diesel oil of the Paulinia refinery to the various
distribution centers in the interior of the State of Sao Paulo, as well as
further North to Brasilia and Goiania; some diesel oil produced in the States
of Minas Gerais and Parana is also distributed by FEPASA to the Northern and
Southern parts of the State of Sao Paulo. The Paulinia refinery also supplies
fuel oil through FEPASA to the various cement factories in the State as well
as to an aluminium plant close to Mairinque.
4.        FEPASA's traffic of petroleum products increased at annual rates on
the order of 10% during the second half of the 1970s, and it decreased also
rapidly in the early 1980s as a result of both the economic recession and the
policies and programs for conservation and for the substitution of alcohol
for gasoline. With the economic recovery, the demand for diesel oil is
expected to increase at 4.5% p.a. in the medium-term, and the demand for
gasoline and fuel oil should remain at approximately the same levels. Average
haul distances are expected to increase with the development of the Center-
West regions. Overall, FEPASA's traffic of petroleum products would increase
at about 3% p.a. in tons and 4% p.a. in ton-km, as an average, during 1986-
1993.
5.        Alcohol, which is mostly used as automotive fuel either alone or
mixed with gasoline, is produced mainly in the State of Sao Paulo and in
North Parana from sugar cane. The transport and distribution of alcohol is
coordinated by the National Petroleum Council. The alcohol is first
transported from distilleries to major collecting and stock centers, or
directly to mixing and distribution centers. The bulk of the alcohol produced
in the State of Sao Paulo and destined to major stock centers is shipped by
rail to the center of Paulinia and then by pipeline to the Sao Paulo
metropolitan region, to Sao Jose dos Campos or to the port of Santos for
shipping to other regions. Alcohol is also transported by rail on the long
distances from the main producing areas in the State to the major
distribution centers in Campo Grande (MS), Brasilia (DF), Belo Horizonte (MG)
and Araucaria (PR). A substantial share of the direct, short-distance
transport between distilleries and distribution centers is by truck.
6.        The production of alcoIsol increased very rapidly during the last
ten years as a result of the investments made under the Proalcool program.
FEPASA's traffic of alcohol, which was nil in the mid-1975, increased at over
20% p.a. in the first half of the 1980s and exceeded 2.5 million tons and 740
million ton-km in 1985. The demand for automotive alcohol is expected to
continue to increase, although at a lower rate, despite the recent decrease



- 83 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 6
of the international prices of petroleum products, since over 95% of the
Brazilian car production and almost 25% of the national fleet of private cars
are alcohol powered. It was estimated that the demand in the region of
influence of FEPASA would increase by an average 5% p.a. in the medium-term,
and that FEPASA's traffic, taking into account the investments being made in
new collecting centers, in particular at Aracatuba and President Prudente,
would increase by an average 7% p.a. in ton-km.
C.   Mineral Products
7.        Coal is mostly imported from abroad or from Southern Brazil via the
port of Santos, and destined to the cement and some other industries in the
region. It is transported mostly by FEPASA from the port to major regulating
stockpiles at Sorocaba and Brigadeiro Tobias, and from there on to the 'iser
plants in the State as well as up to Itau de Minas (MG) and Corumba (MT).
There is also an increasing flow of coal directly transported by rail from
the South to some of the cement plants in the State of Sao Paulo. In the
recent past, both the demand and FEPASA's traffic have increased very
rapidly, at annual rates on the order of 20% to 30%, because of the
conversion of the cement plants from fuel oil to coal. With this conversion
now basically completed, demand growth is expected to stabilize at about 2%
p.a. and FEPASA's traffic should increase at about the same rate.
8.        Bauxite is transported by FEPASA to supply an alumina-aluminium
complex, located near Mairinque on the meter-gauge corridor, of a productior
capacity of 400,000 tons of alumina and 125,000 tons of aluminium p.a. The
main source of supply is a mine located at Bauxita, in the Western part of
the Sao Paulo State. The company, however, aims at diversifying its supply
with bauxite from Northern Brazil, shipped to the port of Santos and then,
through FEPASA, to the plant and, in about two years, with bauxite mined in
Minas Gerais and to be transported by RFFSA and FEPASA. The company's needs
are about 1.1 million tons p.a.; FEPASA was able to ship only about .8
million tons in 1985. The forecast assumes that FEPASA would be able to meet
the company's present demand by 1987, as a result of the proposed locomotive
program, and that the traffic would increase to 1.2 million tons by 1990,
consistently with the ongoing and planned expansion of the plant.
9.        Limestone is mainly used as an input by the cement and the steel
industries, and as a soil corrector in agriculture. FEPASA's main contract is
to supply the COSIPA steel plant located in Cubatao, near Santos, with
limestone from Salto de Pirapora, near Sorocaba; this traffic will grow with
the production of the steel plant, i.e., at about 2.5% p.a. FEPASA has plans
to participate more significantly in the transport of limestone from the
central areas of the Sao Paulo State to the agricuitural regions of Mato
Grosso do Sul to the West. Overall, limestone traffic would inccease at 3.6%
p.a. in tons and at about 6% p.a. in ton-km over 1986-1993.
10.       Phosphates are mined in the States of Minas Gerais and Goias and
supplied to the fertilizer plants located in the Sao Paulo metropolitan
region and in the Santos plain, generally through a main stockpile located in
Paulinia. FEPASA's traffic of phosphates increased at the average rates of
6.2% and 4.3% in tons and ton-km respectively during the first half of the
1980s and it exceeded 1.5 million tons in 1985. It is expected to continue to
increase, in the medium-term, in liue with demand growth, although at the
slightly lower average rates of 5.8% and 3.4% respectively.



- 84 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 or 6
11.       Sulfur is imported through the port of Santos and also supplied to
the fertilizer plants, including to soTme in Minas Gerais. FEPASA captured the
main share of this traffic from the trucking industry during the late 1970s
and the early 1980s. However, the alternative rail route to the plants in
Minas Gerais, through the port of Vitoria and EFVM and RFFSA services, has
recently started to compete successfully for this portion of the demand.
Although the demand for sulfur is expected to increase at about 5% p.a.,
FEPASA's traffic in ton-km is expected to stabilize.
D.   Construction Materials
12.       Cement is produced in the Southern part of the Sao Paulo State.
FEPASA participates in the distribution of the production of two major plants
located in Sorocaba and Apiai. This traffic has decreased from about 2.0
million tons by 1980 to about 1.5 million tons at present, as a result of the
economic recession and of the completion of major projects such as the Itaipu
dam. With the economic recovery, the demand for cement is expected to
increase at between 3% and 5% p.a. on the average. On this basis, FEPASA's
traffic would recuperate its 2.0 million ton, 1980 level by 1992.
13.       Wood is m.inly used in the construction and furniture industries,
with the exception of the cellulose and paper industry which do not usually
generate substantial long-distance transport. The depletion of the State and
neighboring regions' natural forests led to increased imports in the late
1970s and the early 1980s to substitute for local production, but the trend
has now been reversed with the production of large reforestation projects. In
the medium-term, demand is expected to increase at about 5% p.a. and FEPASA'S
traffic would grow at an average rate of about 2% p.a.
E.   Agricultural Products and Inputs
14.       Wheat is produced mostly in the States of Parana and Mato Grosso do
Sul, in rotation with soya. Imports from abroad, however, are still
substantial, and they actually increasee recently as a result of both
consumption increases and poor yields due to adverse climatic conditions.
FEPASA traff4c basically consists of tle wheat imports unloaded in Sa.ntos and
of the main flows originating from Northern Parana and Mato Grosso do Sul and
destined to the silos aid mills located in the metropolitan region of Sao
Paulo. This traffic has been increasing at rates on the order of 15% p.a.
during the 1970s, but it stabilized to about 1.1 million tons during the
recession. It started co increase again to almost 1.4 million tons in 1985.
Although the overall demand is expected to continue to increase more rapidly
than GDP, FEPASA's traffic was conservatively projected to increase at annual
rates if about 5% over the next seven years.
15.       Corn is produced In many areas of Brazil, but the major surplus
regions are North and West Parana, the sub-regions of Ribeirao Preto,
Sorocaba and Sao Jose do Rio Preto in the Sao Paulo State, and the Southern
part of Goias, which has developed very rapidly during the past few years.
The main flows from these regions are toward the major processing centers in
Sao Paulo and Ponta Grossa. The participation of the railway in the transport
of corn has not been stable because of the commercialization mechanisms. In
general, because of the lack of storage facilities in the producing areas,
shipments are small, which makes it difficult for the railway to successfully



- 85 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 6
compete with the trucking industry. However, when the grain's market prices
are below the Government-established minimum price, a portion of the
production is commercialized by the Commissao de Financiamento da Producao
(CFP), which consolidates shipments and provides better opportunity for the
railway to participate in that transport. With the agricultural priorities
shifting from export crops to domestically-consumed products, the production
of corn in the region is expected to increase again, at annual rates on the
order of 4%. The newly developed regions in the Center-West and the Cerrados
region, further away from the main processing and consumption areas, and with
much larger farm holdings, represent a significant potential market, in which
FEPASA could successfully compete, with appropriate intermodal transfer
facilities and efficient unit train services between the main rail heads and
processing centers. An action program and an investment component was
included in the present project for that purpose. Consequently, FEPASA's corn
traffic is expected to increase at annual rates of about 6% and to recuperate
by 1993 the level reached in 1983.
16.       Soya developed rapidly, over the past ten years, as the major cash
crop in most of Southern and Southeastern Brazil and, more recently, in the
Center West region. The major surplus sub-regions are North and West Parana,
South of Sao Paulo, Mato Grosso do Sul, and the Cerrados, a region covering
most of Minas Gerais, Southern Goias and West of Bahia. The bulk of soya
beans is processed into oil and pellets, and into other protein food,
generally in large plants mostly located in the vicinity of Sao Paulo and
Ponta Grossa in Parana. Soya beans are sometimes exported directly, mostly
through the ports of Paranagua and Rio Grande, depending on the condition of
international markets and the situation of the Brazilian processing
industry. Although FEPASA's traffic of soya beans increased at sustained
annual rates of over 10% over the past ten years and reached .7 million tons
in 1985, FEPASA's participation in that transport has remained relatively
small, i.e., between 10% and 20% of the total demand. The main reason is the
comparatively poor efficiency of the intermodal, railway-based, alternative
to direct road transport, as a result of poor track condition, unavailable
and unreliable motive power, and, more importantly, the lack of appropriate
road-to-rail transfer facilities in the producing areas. FEPASA already made
arrangements with some major traders and industrialists to transport
significant volumes of soya beans from the Cerrados to processing centers in
Sao Paulo. With the present project, which includes the construction, in
partneship with shippers, of appropriate storage and transfer facilities at
FEPASA's main rail heads in the West and the Northwest of the State of Sao
Paulo, it was estimated that FEPASA's traffic of soya beans would increase to
about 1.7 million tons by 1993.
17.       Pellets are produced from soya, citrus products and cotton, and
they are used for animal feed in Brazil or exported. The main processing
centers are in the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo and Campinas; there are
as well a number of industrial units in most part of the State, which are
generally located along the railway lines. The railway's participation in the
transport of pellets to Santos for export has been increasing and reached
about 65% of the total in 1985. Its participation in the distribution cf the
products for domestic consumption is much less, on the order of 25%. With a
contract recently signed with a major trader, who is building specialized
tenninal facilities in the port of Santos and in the interior, to transport
an additional 250,000 tons of pellets annually to the port, FEPASA's total



- 86-                          ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 6
traffic of pellets was estimated to reach about 2.0 million tons in 1987, and
to increase gradually to 2.7 million tons and 1.26 billion ton-km by 1993.
18.       Sugar is produced in most parts of the State of Sao Paulo,
processed or refined in industrial units mostly located in the metropolitan
region, in Limeira (Northwest of Campinas), as well as in Santa Catarina and
Rio de Janeiro, consumed in most parts of the country and exported through
the port of Santos. The railway transports the bulk of the export sugar to
Santos, which represents about 600,000 tons on the average, and about 20% of
the production of the State. FEPASA also transports between 150,000 and
200,000 tons of sugar to the refineries around Sao Paulo and Limeira, which
represents about 10% to 15% of the corresponding demand, and an average of
300,000 tons to supply a refinery in Santa Catarina. The production of the
State has been maintained at about 4.0 millPn tons in the recent years, with
the exception of 1985 when it was reduced to 3.4 million tons to allow for an
increased production of automotive alcohol. As a consequence, exports were
drastically reduced and FEPASA's traffic of sugar decreased from over 1.4
million tons in 1984 to less than 1.0 million tons in 1985. The recent
liberalization of sugar exports, however, is expected to result in an
increase of exports from the State of Sao Paulo, where production costs are
substantially lower than in the Northeast of Brazil. FEPASA's traffic, on
this basis, was projected to increase gradually in the medium-term and to
recover its 1983-1984 level by 1993.
19.       Fertilizers are produced in the metropolitan region and in the
industrial zones in the Santos plain, and are distributed to most parts of
the Sao Paulo State and to the neighboring agricultural regions. It is
estimated that the railway participates for about 30% in the total demand,
which is estimated at over 2.0 million tons. Production and FEPASA's traffic
increased at rates on the order of 20% p.a. during the 1970s, basically
because of Government incentives to the use of fertilizers. In the early
1980s, the economic recession and the drastic reduction of the Government
subsidies led production and consumption to stabilize and FEPASA's traffic to
fall back, in 1983-1984, to its 1975 level. In 1985, however, traffic started
to increase again rapidly as a result of both an increasing demand and the
more agressive commercial strategy of FEPASA, With the proposed project,
including the improvement of terminals upcountry, FEPASA is expected to
continue to gradually increase its participation in the long-distance
transport of fertilizers, in particular by making a better use of the return
trips of its grain and pellets loaded unit trains; this traffic was pro.4ected
to increase at average rates on the order of 6% p.a.
May 1987



- 87 -
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT                                   ANNEX 4
FEPASARailTraffic,1985 -1993                                   Chart  I
AraguarioSantos Corridor
198o                                                   1993
Legend:                                                 Lend:
t          EZt -n Not Ton                                               - Not Ton
.,  Gros Ton                          ,                       Gross Ton
In Thousand Tons                                       In Thousand Tons
Me_,etlrns ^s :6- 4vT.
.555                                                         *A5e,__ os-
R                                                                MA
wsp,~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CS S;usl               t              AVAXAPS
wewlUCS 01 CAIOAS
S'pa
CAJAFi                     AUT
?SAfAI::tA t,    5T&la                 *ftL4          PSSEO          A
-i'.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1 it tt iI
!C-~~~~ [L -e
t 4 ~                                          _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _



- SR _
BRAZIL                                            ANNEX 4
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT                                    Chart 2
FEPASA Rail Traffic,1985 - 1993
Broad Gauge Corridor
1985                                                       193
PAhORAVA                                                 #"&ASEM
MSVV,A                                     M~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~CACENA
,IT   Pt   =SA                                             St* fE 00 144
~~~I                                                              I                                           ! -
Pl*cIe*~ACLl $Moon                                     ,         IL8;4A6St
z                                                -
@ q/1er~   ~~~ t9t PL^                                 g           it  ^
LoWd:                                                     Lsewnd:
XNot TonNoTn
Gros Ton                                                  Grow Ton
In Thousnd Tons                                           In Thosnd Tons
.                                            L



- 89 -
BRAZIL                                              ANNEX 4
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT                                       CArtE 3
FEPASA Rail Traffic,19865  1993                                   Chart I
Meter Gauge Corridor
198651"                                                        19E3
S.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PC
jf 
X_ ,*                                     AN
Logmd.. _LDUd
*;1. Wj>
I -  " No To  ~7-  No T o
V 1R G ro n     T on                                   -L N  4 G to   T o  nt
t  ;.'2                                         F.,|,~~~~~.   M
_~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~U 51 54.
,.                                                         Ag
Legend:                                                      Legend:
r -  NetTon                                                ,=  'NetTon
ZZlGrowi Ton                                              i:=J Grouw Ton
In Thousand Tons                                             In Thousand Tons
World Baonk30901:3



-4~~~   H
En                   I
z ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l:
0 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~



- 91 -                        ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
FEPASA Operating Performance
1.        Railway operating performance is affected by many factors.  When
analyzing FEPASA's operating statistics, it should be taken into
consideration that FEPASA's main lines are laid in a difficult mountainous
terrain; train size and speed restrictions, necessary recomposition of trains
and the need of helper locomotives in some sections, have an important impact
upon performance. Furthermore, the region was affected in 1982 to 1984 by
unusually heavy rains which caused considerable damage to the railway
infrastructure, imposing speed restrictions and had an adverse effect upon
performance. Other important extarnal factors were the general economic
situation and the Government's austerity program, which, with the associated
fund shortages and imnort restrictions, led FEPASA to reduce maintenance
standards, particularly for locomotives, and to defer essential track
renewals and infrastructure works. Nevertheless, FEPASA, during recent
years, managed to introduce some improvements in its operations, i.e., a new
transport plan, improved coordination with clients, more efficient
utilization of its locomotive and rolling stock fleet, and was able to
transport an average of 20.0 million tons p.a. during the period 1980-1986,
which represented an increase of almost 100% as compared to 1975.
2.        In spite of the substantive improvements in railway operations that
were achieved by FEPASA since the decade of the '70s, its operating
performance remained fairly constant since the early 1980s and at a
satisfactory level when compared to ether railways in the developing
countries. In terms of operational efficiency, labor productivity has
improved considerably, as a result of the drastic reductions in staff.
FEPASA handled 380,000 net ton-km per employee in 1985 as compared with
112,000 in 1971. Passenger services were reduced from 12.2 to 8.4 million
train-km (including metropolitan trains), and freight train-km decreased from
14 to 10 million during the same period. With regard to locomotive
performance, total locomotive-km remained constant at about 38 million during
the period 1980-1986. The availability of diesel locomotives, on the
average, decreased from 79% in 1980 to 68% in 1986 and that of electric
locomotives from 71% to 69% during the same period. The utilization of
diesel locomotives improved from 56% to 65%, but overall, locomotive
productivity decreased from about 55 million gross ton-km p.a. in 1980 to
about 49 million in 1986. Average wagon load increased from 42 to 45 tons
per wagon, and the percentage of loaded to total wagon-km Improved from 59.7
to 63.1 during the same years. The availability of wagons, however, declined
slightly from 91% in 1980 to 90% in 1986, and their productivity decreased
from 1,748 to 1,593 net ton-km per wagon day in use; their average turnaround
time remained at about nine days, showing no improvement in the control of
wagons at terminals.



- 92 -                         ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
3.        FEPASA management realizes that the planning and control of both
operation and maintenance need to be improved to achieve the action;
program's objectives, at the same time as the proposed investments are
implemented. FEPASA has already undertaken preparatory work for the
development of an on-line operations control system and a locomotlve and
rolling stock maintenance management system. Technical assistance would he
provided under the project to develop and implement the systems (Annex 7).
These improvements, together with the planned installation of a modern and
more effective telecommunication system, the rationalization of workshops,
the locomotive and track rehabilitation programs, the introduction of a new
transport plan which will aim at increasing the number of through and block
(classified) trains, the modernization of yards and terminals and the
improved coordination with RFFSA and the port of Santos are expected to
result in substantial improvements in FEPASA's operating performance. It is
planned that during 1987-1993, the locomotive availability will increase from
70% to 80%, locomotive utilization from 65% to 76% and locomotive
productivity from 64 million gross ton-km to 87 million. In addition,
through an efficient control of the trains, improved transfer facilities, and
the increased use of the unit trains, FEPASA should reduce the current 9.0
days wagon turnaround time to about 6.7 days in 1993. For that purpose,
FEPASA's strategy would be to cater primarily to long haul bulk traffic,
which can be handled by point-to-point block trains made of permanently
assigned wagons, or by complete trains made up in a collecting yard to a
single destination or vice versa and to ban train reformations en route or to
limit them to attaching/detaching train segments, which would be modular.
These modules are dictated by the hauling capacity of the locomotives, i.e.,
750 tons, 1,250 tons or 3,000 tons, and depending on the characteristics of
the line-sections, one or several locomotives are used. Such operating plans
for specific traffic have been developed and recently implemented; they have
already led to substantial productivity gains and improvements in service
quality. FEPASA would now gradually extend these plans to other traffic,
with appropriate technical assistance, as part of the operations and
maintenance action program (Annex 7).
May 1987



- 93 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Rehabilitation Program
A.   Permanent Way Works
1.        General.  Main traffic lines are laid mostly with 45-50 kg/m rail
(2,900 km) and 55-57-68 kg/m rail (660 km) on heavy density traffic lines,
while secondary and branch lines have light rail of various types of less
than 40 kg/m. Sleepers are mainly impregnated timber (about 89% of total
track), but concrete sleepers nave been used on main line relaying for some
years. Ballast is of reasonable quality and quantity on relaid track, but is
inadequate elsewhere. Rails suffer damage due to poor ballast support and
also from wear on hill sections where steep gradients and sharp curves
prevail. FEPASA faces three main problems related to track
infra/superstructure: high operating costs, capacity limitations due to steep
gradients and curvatures on its lines and, most important, deferred
maintenance. Because of the mountainous terrain, alignments in many sections
are poor and need continuous maintenance. In addition, the condition of the
track infrastructure has deteriorated further because of the heavy rains
during 1982-1984, and urgent works are needed, particularly for stabilizing
cuts and embankments and improving drainage systems. The tracks are in fair
to poor condition, imposing an increasing tnumber of speed restrictions, thus
affecting normal train operations; rehabiiitation and track upgrading are
crucial in the three main corridors to allow for coping with expected
increasing traffic.
2.        Infrastructure rehabilitation works.  Based upon the results of the
track infrastructure condition survey conducted in 1985 for FEPASA's entire
network, an evaluation module has been developed and investment priorities
defined. Engineering designs have been completed, and bidding procedures for
civil works in the three corridors have been scheduled to meet the seven-year
targets of the project (Annex 12). These works would comprise earthworks to
stabilize cuts and embankments (1.0 million m3 in the Araguari-Santos, 0.7
million m3 in the meter-gauge and 0.4 million m3 in the broad-gauge
corridors); improvements of drainage systems consisting of construction of
culverts, ditches, and drain channels, distributed on a total of about 70
line-km; the construction of retaining structures (some 9,000 m3), mainly in
the Araguari-Santos corridor; and the construction and extension of about 6.5
km of track bed for sidings (at Silva Mendes and Corrego Fundo in the
Araguari-Santos corridor and Santa Ernestina and Uchoa in the broad-gauge
corridor) to meet operational requirements for longer freight trains at
crossing points and to allow for more frequent services. Works are
particularly urgent on the Palestina-iale Pertil and Canguera-Evang. de
Souza-Acarau sections in the Araguari-Santos corridor and the
Potucatu-Apuas-Sao Manuel and Pindorama-Catanduva sections in the meter- and
broad-gauge corridors respectively where, because of heavy rains and soil
deficient conditions, the weak embankments and cuts require reinforcement and
rehabilitation. The proposed infrastructure works amount to US$11.3 million



- 94 -                        ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
for the Araguari-Santos, US$3.8 million for the meter-gauge and US$2.8
million for the broad-gauge corridors including contingencies, which together
represent about 7% of the total cost of the project (Tables 4.3, 4.4 and 4.5
of the report).
3.        Superstructure rehabilitation works.  The railway has undertaken a
program of selective track maintenance renewal, using heavier rails with
welded joints (in some sections, with elastic fastenings), supported on
concrete or treated-timber sleepers and new stone ballast; the objective
is to provide an improved standard of track for sections where important
increases of traffic are taking place and, also, where heavier locomotives
and freight cars are in use. Secondary lines and yards are renovated with
rails released from the main routes. In addition, the maintenance of the
track, especially on the renovated and improved sections, is being improved
steadily by a mechanization program, started under previous projects, which
calls for increasing use of track machinery. However, during recent years,
this program, together with the general maintenance of the track, had to be
scaled down because of financial constrainits. It should be noted that
freight traffic volume increased almost 100% in the last ten years, and track
maintenance expenditures in 1975 represented about 20% of FEPASA's revenues
as compared to only 4% in 1980 and 9% in 1985. The rail renewal prcgram did
not take place; only 86 km of rails were procured during the last five years,
which represents only 0.83% of FEPASA's rail track. In addition, the targets
set for the sleeper renewal program were not met; only 1.8 million timber
sleepers were replaced from 1980 to 1985 as compared to 3.3 million sleepers
required under the program. A significant effort will be needed in the short
term to reduce the backlog of track maintenance. In particular, the
planning, programing and monitoring methods and procedures will need to be
strengthened. A specific action plan has been included for this purpose in
the project (para. 4.09 of the text).
4.        FEPASA has prepared detailed proposals for selective track renewal
to be initiated during the second half of 1987, and to be completed in
1992-1993, using and installing new rails, fastenings, sleepers, and ballast
in selected sections of the three corridors where total or partial
rehabilitation is needed, focusing on those sections whose present conditions
would not provide reliability and safety for the projected traffic. These
proposals are aimed at the rehabilitation of some 580 km of main line in the
Araguari-Santos corridor, 494 km in the meter-gauge and 916 km in the
broad-gauge corridors, at an estimated cost of US$50.2 million, US$21.2
million and US$22.7 million respectively, including contingencies; together
they represent 33% of the total project cost. FEPASA's specifications for
track rehabilitation remain generally as in the previous project and are
summarized as follows: (a) rails are standardized in selected sections to
45-50-57 and 68 kg/m, to be obtained according to international
specifications, and including a proportion of rails with higher manganese
steel, such as is commonly used in other similar railways, to give less wear
and longer life on sharply curved tracks (rate of wear can be 50% of that on
normal rail steel with only a relative increase in price); (b) the rails are
welded by the flash butt process at a fixed depot into longer lengths before
laying and are then joined again 4n the track using the alumino-thermit
process; (c) concrete sleepers are locally produced, pre- or post-tensioned,
reinforced concrete and are placed at 1,600 per km using elastic fastenings;



- 95 -
ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 7
(d) timber sleepers are of selected wood and impregnated; and (e) stone
ballast is provided at about 1,500 m3 per km.   Recovered rails are cropped
to remove end defects and then welded into longer lengths and placed in
secondary lines or in sidings and yards where ballast is provided at 1,000 m3
per km. A summary of the condition of the track in the three corridors,
before and after the project and the rehabilitation program for the track are
presented in Tables 1 and 2 of this Annex.
B.   Yards and Intermodal Terminals
5.        The analysis of the operationL of the railway and the preparation
of the new transport plan, carried out early this year, indicates that, as
traffic levels increased, capacity constraints developed in some of FEPASA's
traffic yards and that congestion is affecting operations. The layout of
these yards is inadequate, in most cases, to meet daily operations and
forecast traffic; many track lines are in serious disrepair and require
rehabilitation. In addition, several track lines need to be reallocated to
speed up loading and unloading operations or extended to facilitate the
formation of larger trains. The program for rehabilitation and extension of
yard track in the three corridors is of high priority since utilization of
the 4ncreased line capacity in FEPASA's program would be difficult if
marshaling yard capacity were not increased. FEPASA has used a general
methodology to examine the capacities of existing yards and assess the
long-term requirements for other extension and rehabilitation; main factors
considered were: (a) present and future "normal" and "peik" average number of
cars being or to be handled, reception, classification, formation and
dispatch; (b) the effect of traffic concentration periods through the day,
arising from train timings and from local industrial working hours; (c) the
average standing time per car to cover inspection, recording novement and
normal operating delays; and (d) the number of tracks required in the yard to
allow for adequate distribution of cars according to the various
destinations, separations and groups of cars generated or to be generated.
6.        This project component includes the rehabilitation and extension of
some 28 km of yard track in the Araguari-Santos corridor (Ituveraba,
Orlandia, Sao Joaquim da Barra, Evangelina, Julio Pontes, Replan-Paulinia,
Samarita, Paratinga and Paratinga Corredor), 13 km in the meter-gauge
corridor (Brigadeiro Tobias, Nova Itapeva and Bauru) and q km in the
broad-gauge corridor (Araraquara, Rincao and Triagem/Bauru). It also
includes minor investments in some stations and yards to provide or
rehabilitate utility systems, such as electricity, illumination, water and
sewerage. This component envisages the expenditures of about US$15.5
million, including contingencies, during the seven years of the project.
7.        Transfer facility works comprise the upgrading of existing
facilities at Panorama and the construction of three grain silos of static
capacities ranging from 6,000 tons to 17,000 tons to improve transshipments
of grains and grain products upcountry ir. order to enable FEPASA to nperate
unit-through-trains between these facilities and processing centers and/or
the port of Santos; they would also help FEPASA and grain producers to
improve overall coordination and programing of transport, especially during
peak seasons. In the meter-gauge corridor, one silo would be built at
Presidente Epitacio (6,000 tons) two in the broad-gauge corridor, one at



- 96 -
ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 7
Santa Fe do Sul (16,000 tons) and the other at Colombia (17,000 tons). They
would be vertical silos (gravity discharge) of a modular design consisting of
2,000-ton modules including the necessary cleaning and drying equipment,
loading and unloading equipment, and weighing and ancillary equipment.
Accesses to these terminals would be improved and/or constructed. The cost
of these components is estimated at about US$0.9 million in the meter-gauge
corridor and US$5.0 million in the broad-gauge corridor, including
contingencies. The investments in yards and intermodal terminals together
amount to US$21.4 million and represent 8% of the project cost.
C.   Telecommunications Systems
8.        The existing telecommunications system is worked mostly through
bare open-wire lines with some supplemental channels rented from the -ational
telephone and telegraph company. The open-wire lines are unreliable and
fault-prone under adverse weather conditions. They are subject to vandalism
and theft, requiring continuous repairs and the reinstallation of wires in
the sections where they are stolen. The rental charges foL the channels from
the national network are high (about US$1.0 million per year), and the rents
are payable even for the periods when these channels are faulty. The
bott,eneck sections need more reliable telecommunications channels for better
operations and for the safety circuits.
9.        The proposed telecommunications system for FEPASA provides for V4F,
UHF, SHF (microwave), on a total of about 1,067 line-km in the three
corridors and fiber optical cable routes to convey the voice and data
channels on about 246 km. VHF radio would be used principally for
communicati-on between the dispatcher and locomotive drivers; UHF radio is to
be used for low to medium channel density routes and spur routes; SHF radio
and optical cable arf designed for high channel density routes. For the high
channel density routes in the Sao Paulo city area (Campinas-Mairinque-
Sorocaba and Sao Paulo-Mairinque), fiber optical cables are to be used since
SHF radio links are not recommended because frequency spectrum is heavily
congested in this area; it is estimated that FEPASA would absorb 60 to 80% of
the capacity to be installed and that TELESP (the state telephone company)
would absorb the remainder. Arrangements are being sought between the two
companies for the cost sharing and use of these routes. The
telecommunications system would provide channels for: (a) omnibus sections
control circuits linking the traffic controller with every station;
(b) circuits for dispatcher-train operational communications; (c) circuits
for CTC signaling; (d) point-to-point voice circuits between neighboring
stations; (e) railway maintenance circuits; (f) administrative trunk circuits
and point-to-point channels; (g) data transmission circuits for the various
management informatics systems (TREM, SISMA and SRH) currently being
developed; and (h) telecontrol and telecommand circuits for substations. The
replacement of the existing old and faulty telephone exchanges by 29 new
automatic telephone exchanges and two transit exchanges (Campinas and Sao
Paulo) is also envisaged.
10.       For implementation purposes, the proposed telecommunications system
has been divided into three phases, the first and second to be implemented
under the project and the third beyond 1993. Phase 1 would provide for
optical cable and VHF in the Campinas-Mairinque-Sao Paulo and



- 97 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of I
Mairinque-Sorocaba section. Phase 2 would provide for UHF (120 channels) and
VHF in the Riberao Preto-Campinas; Araraquara-Itirapina-Bauru,
Sorocaba-Ipero-Botucatu, and Jundiai-Sao Paulo sections and UHF (60 channels)
and VHF between Mairinque and Santos; it would also provide for UHF (24
channels) and VHF to the spur line to Replan., The details of the design are
shown on Chart IBRD-30913:1. The proposed works contemplated in the project
have been estimated to cost about US$43.0 million including contingencies,
which represents about 15% of the total cost of the project.
D.   Track Plant Equipment Machinery and Materials.
11.       During the late 1970s, FEPASA started a mechanization program for
track maintenance, after concluding that its labor-intensive practices were
ineffective in meeting the increasing maintenance requirements of rising
traffic. Manual packing of track ballast under heavy rails and concrete
sleepers to carry increased locomotive and freight car axle loads was not
effeetive in preserving line and level.  However, FEPASA did not fully
implement this program, mainly because of fund constraints which did not
permit the completion of purchases for necessary equipment and related spare
parts for its normal functioning. Nevertheless, FEPASA was able to start
reorganizing the structure of its track labor force and rationalize its
maintenance practices. To date, FEPASA has 24 regional maintenance units
with 115 working gang groups totaling about 2,400 men, representing 13% of
the total work force of FEPASA and 0.46 men/km, which is in line with modern
standards for railways similar to FEPASA. Each unit has the responsibility
for periodic routine maintenance of about 200 km of track, including the
cyclical work performed annually with the heavy mechanized equipment. Major
rehabilitation or new track works are carried out by private contractors.
The standards of maintenance can be assessed regularly on the graphs produced
by a track condition recording unit already in use on the system.
12.       FEPASA has two Permanent Way workshops strategically located at
Sorocaba and Rio Claro and provide maintenance support to track equipment;
some plant equipment is old and obsolete with high operating costs and needs
to be replaced and supplemented. Also, the rail welding plants (Riberao
Preto and Ipero) and the sleeper treatment plant (Bauru) need additional
equipment to cope with the increasing demand for welded rails and impregnated
sleepers for the rehabilitation program. Table 3 gives a description of the
track plant equipment and machinery to be purchased and installed; contracts
for some of the major new equipment would specify that the suppliers, in
addition to providing packages of spare parts, would also assist with the
appropriate training of operators and mechanics. This component also calls
for the provision of 22,000 tons of rails, 200 rail switches and 250 sets of
rail switch points and frogs to take care of the deferred maintenance on
sections outside of the three corridors, where rails would be replaced mostly
in sharp curves and where derailments are frequent. The cost of track plant
equipment, track machinery and spare parts for the rehabilitation and
maintenance of existing heavy track machinery has been estimated at US$8.4
million and rails and switches at US$15.2 million, including contingencies;
together they represent about 8% of the total project cost.



- 98 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
E.   The Motive Power, Rolling Stock and Workshop Components
13.       When FEPASA was created in 1971 from the merger of five separate
railways, it inherited dispair rolling stock and antiquated repair and
maintenance facilitiet scattered over their respective territories.  Since
then, FEPASA, with the help of consultants at different stages, started a
process to rationalize the organizaLtion and execution of the maintenance
tasks. However, this has been a slow and lengthy process with technical,
financial, social and political constraints. The railway operates four main
workshops located at Campinas (for metric-gauge diesel locomotives), Sorocaba
(for metric-gauge electric locomotives and wagons), Jundiai (for broad-gauge
diesel and electric locomotives) and Rio Claro (for broad-gauge wagons),
where general overhauls and major repairs take place. Ten smaller sheds at
Mainrinque, Riberao Preto, Botucatu, Assi3, Itapetininga, Aguai, Santos,
Campinas, Bauru and Rincao, take care of the intermediate and minor repairs
of the locomotive fleet; routinary services at nine staging and fueling
locomotive posts; minor repairs and routine maintenarce of wagons are carried
out in 22 ancillary sheds locatad along the network. The workshops are
generally well organized; FEPASA has graduall, been providing them with
modern equipment (mostly financed from the previous Bank loan, but limited
due to budgetary constraints); hence, there is still old or obsolete
equipment that needs to be replaced. FEPASA has made progress in
centralizing the repairs of components and manufacture of various items which
are replaced when revisions and overhauls take place; in some instances,
these repairs are contracted to the local industry. However, it is felt that
there is still a need for improvements since the scheduled maintenance of the
locorAotive fleet is too frequent and carried out in too many places,
affecting productivity and costs; thus a rationalization of the maintenance
facilities, workshop methods, procedures and organization is imperative. The
project includes an action program aimed at the gradual consolidation of
these facilities and at the developing of new maintenance strategies (para.
4.09 and Annex 7). It also provides for investments in equipment and minor
rehabilitation and/or improvements in the workshop buildings (para. 14).
14.       During the first part of 1986, FEPASA set up a task force to
recommend a Master Plan for the repair and maintenance of its locomotive and
rolling stock; consultant services were hired to assist in the study. FEPASA
has already started to adopt the recommmendations of an outline Master Plan
prepared by the task force, which calls for:
(a)  placing the entire responsibility of maintenance and repair works
including the planning, scheduling and implementation of works,
with the General Superintendency for the maintenance of rolling
stock within the Transportation Department (these responsibilities
were previously shared with the Technical Department);
(b) implementing a rehabilitation program, with the help of private
industry, which consists of the general overhaul (two years
overdue) of 136 locomotives 2000 HP (series 3800 and 7800), and the
rehabilitation of five heavily-damaged locomotives. The overhaul
of the first 51 locomotives and the rehabilitation of the five
locomotives are being contracted to the local industry and is
scheduled to start in mid-1987. Spare parts for the rehabilitation
of 57 locomotives will be purchased under the prolect. There are



- 99 -
ANNEX 6
Page 7 of 7
with trucks and traction motors in good condition, but their diesel
engines need to be replaced, thus increasing their life expectancy
up to 15 years. These locomotives are suitable for working on the
difficult Aguai-Bauxita branch line which has several sharp curves;
works are scheduled to take place during i988-1990. In addition,
there is a backlog of 122 heavy electric rotating machines
(generators and traction motors) waiting for an overhaul or major
repair which is beyond the capabilities of FEPASA's workshops. It
is planned to contract the local industry for this purpose and to
start works in 1987;
(c) defining and adopting a maintenance philosophy, 'in particular the
scheduling of preventive maintenance works for locomotives and
wagons;
(d) rationalizing of task assignments to the various facilities, with a
view to reducing their number (it has been established that the
number of ancillary shops would be reduced from 22 to 7); and
(e) implementing an !nvestment program during 1987-1990 consisting of
limited civil engineering works in various facilities and renewal
or complementation of equipment and tools (Table 4) to improve
productivity in the workshops. These investments are included in
the project.   The Master Plan is consistent with the traffic
forecast since it takes into account the number of locomotives and
wagons which FEPASA needs in order to cope with predicted traffic
growth; it is also consistent with che operational performance
targets set.
15.       The estimated cost of the locomotive rehabilitation programs and
investments in workshops (paras. 14 (b) and 14 (e) above) amounts to US$38.3
million and to US$9.8 million respectively, including contingencies, which
together represent about 17% of the total cost of the project. The purchase
of 230 new tank cars for the petroleum derivatives traffic has been estimated
to cost US$15.6 million, including contingencies.
May 1987



aZM
AWS ANUW  mwIaLMr"  NO
Srcr~~~~~~~~~tflx                 C     lr tdq        t      lLAh t    Uv%/                                                                                ut  - _ 02d
a__                                             1k  t                                    Tz- --  T~-                                                            --                    -'-,. s                    ' T  .-c. k  *
I.  Utri-4~r1a64ta                  45      .q       5       45         40    mod             if)      Pir       v       951       20        22      45   45         2)       Sltie         iW       ad        w     1,46      34        1         3
2  t*wrldmrAtb$                    129       1        4      45    5     0      g             so       ftv f     v U   Im           a,       22      In    50       1)         tlPc          I       Go e            1.4W      31        a)         2
3. _ ltowp                          1I4      9        5      32         40    Ujtd            40       Pir       U     I0           Is       2n     1P    45        10  VW 4                   -     G1        w     1,1/T     P         3)        4
4. f4b    ,t4-Gkt  ftD              1;1 1I            5      45M        40    9240j           40       Atr       WC   IIOD          21       27       47   So)      ion      70tite           tID     1le      C    1,93       46        21         1
. tbin- do tCai&     4t             7S                5      40         40    URWd            e0      Fdr        U     I.4e         an       15       75   45       tnn      Rlatd                    03 %1t   U     1,.sn3    z5        2D        A
4. 1ta4ptU*u                         9       we       4      45         ID    Ri4d            40      tsd        W     1 ,57        25       25        9   S7       1)       Iluttle          lr     rand      U     1.W      46        25         2
7. Fa1w Vt95A                       Z0       we       4      45         n)    RigWd           4n      tkud       v     1.sn         25       I)       IQ   57       11O       rtttt                            v (lA  I    1,4W  4S      21        2
8.bit.     S-_1tat                   4 A     we       3       30/40     7n    tttp1ttic      640      (d         W     t.33)        25       25        4   SOt.s    30       Eltc             3n     Qual      u     1.4W       F        ZS         2
0. S1ttft arjto (C5ce)               IA      t                so        70    ttd             60 4               v     11 0         20       IS       va   3)        57       itftl          SI      Ebt       v     Im4        ID       3)        2
In. PRiut1,ft?*                      19       weS      5      45         3 0     wd            70       ari       v     1,3sn       2D        20       19   57       tn7     VIntlt           1)      rood      v     Ii)      35       25
%b-T4*Ai         624                                                                                                              so
II. br,_-tpr                         72       14      3       5O        eo t' tU c             70      Fair       t     1.1131      2n        27       33   50        15     EinSi            113)              C     IGvn c9             251      1I
12.     t Wau-.CaLizto               92       14      3       S0         70    Uamtlc          70     FPdr        U     1,25D       2n       2Z       42   50          -      ELii            t       rAl 6d    C     I,m        s        3)        1 I
13. tatitnw4ada                     11 t14 t           5      SO         70      gd            AO      Mar,       U     1I2nn)      2n        37      Y*9  n)          -     md4                -     0r ,  v         1,4W      43        2         4         0
4. %atotG_h-'Aodlia                  67       4        5      10         70    Rgid W60                Ftr        Y     l.-D         a,       34       6t7  50         -     Rd                 -     f         v     1,n       s0        3)        4          0
15. ft. "It4a-1t*m                   9s                S      37        32   RtiId             40      PAIr       U     1.350        a,       3)       79   sn       1nn      EUL'ttlc        WI      13        U     1.4Nm     3)       rn         2
16.   tbi Jr.-%u                    114       4       s       37/45 5 O        gid W0                Ftd3Vr     V      .)         2a        23      114   45        25      Umtinrc         1111    tt        U     1V         2'      210        3 
Sh-14(TO         539                                                                                                              494
t-a'42.4'1Vhms                       44       8        t      55        in    tlntke           SD      Pair       i.   1,450         25       42       44   57       Io       itlct            70     tS`r             1,e4    se        7)        2
IS. Qmin4ioC ao                      89       8       3       57        OD    Eltir            m       Fdr        v     1 ,410       25       35      Re   57         10      Erntc           tIm     0.40      C     I ,Un     67        .S        I
19. Itic.m .AW                      t6S       a       3       55/57      30    trnttc          on      C7.         1    I3 Z5        _5       35      165   57        is      tte              _      13.4 U-         1.4W      45        'S        2
2D. Apki,            J. NoPto      32n        a        5      4*         7e    Eznt1C  In      Sn      Fkl0       U     1.110        25       27      2nn   45         -      V.,ttc VT         -     OVA       U     1.(4      11        n         4
RIgi4 83                                                                                      Rgd AtK
21. S J   o Pret*-     Ft  3 l 9    221       a        5      45         6n    RIt             in       Fair      U      l,50        25       24      221   45         -      RWd               -      r-O      U     1.4W       37       ZS        4
22.    r*,-bwtr                     19A       5       S a     40/55      40    PUKt1e 4es              Fair       U     1 ,1         25       27      IS"   55/4'      -      mt4c AM           -     0t        U     1.6n      4         2S        4
Rigd 6!                                                                     4014n3            RR4e X
h-Tal            916                                                                                                               916
TOM       2.079                                                                                                             1390
I/ om:    _trte (I 13h). S.ftd  (1IDw) '1/5.0.1                                21 Ci_of et    *          bi.2.w                  Thu of                 *iamwt d   S     or
3/ h11.   ttMr.0 A  - 1.5 p3/  _ttaly daOM  e I I.S  )'3.   ,1                                     lm        Ra.        S11_   S           _r/ t   _           C.C.    *idl
4t    ::   W.bu/to td; ~owoe;  0.C.-Cd    utim                                                        T       e.7         0      (34o.ta    V,tlc        I .2        10/57
2       nA.8       a1    l.d           913t0te     1,W WnSO
3       0.9        Ftit   t*           Utie        t1,6C.W     45
4        1.0       PAtt                Rigd Md     1.4         45
5       1.1        f25r   MD          RIi          12S         45                                                                             l
6        1.1       tit tt              Tiid        t."I        37 
Source: FFPASA and uidsstm estinetes.
Apr i31987



- 101 -
ANNEX 6
Table 2
DRAZUL
1PASA RAILWAY BEHUIXtTI         E PllE
Track Rehabilitatin PraW (1987-1993)
(Tra) )
Corridor          Sectiae                      1987    1988   1989    1990   1991   1992   1993   Total
Arywuar ntos   Aauari-Uberlwia                    -       -      11      34       -       _      _       45
Uberland.a-4berab1             -       -              26      77      26      -       129
Evangelina-Passs              '0      74      74      26       -       -       -      184
Rib.Preto-Casa Branca          -       6      35      46       -       -      -       87
Pocos de (CIda-Agu             -       -       -      60      15       -      -       75
Replan-PauUT                           -       -       9       -      -       -        9
Paulinia-Hoa Vista             -               -      10       -      -       -       10
Saimrtaltuario (Samos)         -       -      18       -       -      -       -       18
Paratiu-arP e r                       _                       19      -       -        19
Sub-Total       14      80    138    211    111         26      -       580
Meter-Gouge        Sorocaba-Ipero                13      20       -       -       -      -       -       33
Ipr-Eu. Calixto                -       -              74      18      -       -       92
1tatnp-Uiz Pinto               -       -       -       -     109      -       -      109
Salto Grarde-Candido Mt        -       -       -       -       -      67      -       67
FLg. IHnrmmn-Itapew            -      63      16       -       -      -       -       79
uibiao Jr.-u                  _        -       -      57      57      -       -      114
Sub-Total        13     83      16    131    184        67      -      494
BtaxM-(we          ARwai-Cawins                   -       7      37      -       -       -       -       44
Caiwn-RiCo Cr                  -       -      15      44      29      -       -       88
Itirspina-BlNu                 -      24      58      58      25      -       -      165
kar Jara-6.J. Rio Preto        -       -      70      70      60      -       -      200
SJ Rio Preto-fta.Fe do Sul     -       -      33      78      77      33      -      221
Araraquara-Barreto            -       -       -      71      69      58      -      198
&ub-'rotal        -     31    213    321    260         91      -      916
TAL             27    194    367    663    555    184           -    1,990
Source: FEPASA and mtessim estiates
lMay 1987



- 102 -
.AZII,                     ANNEX 6
Table 3
FEPASA RAU4M RDiABUXWICN PKJ=
Track Plots, Woi     s and Roling Stodt Ccpment
rradc Plant ku±mat and M!A      y
Item                                    q!qtity         Estimated Cost
US$(000)
1. Tradc Plant FWpwit
1.1 SIeepr Iapregaticm Plant
1.1.1  Forklift                                        3                140.4
&iblbal               140.4
1.2  Radl W     V1d   Plat
1.2.1   Elctric rail shapirg osc6dne                   5                 9.7
1.2.2  Air coamreseo                                   2                 60.5
1.2.3   Ultrasonic rail fail datector                  2                 22.5
SArIlbtal              92.7
1.3 Permimt Way W*sbtvopa
1.3.1   UWirsal lathe                                  5                 99.1
1.3.2   Radial drillir  =irne                          1                 16.9
1.3.3  Eaectrohydraulic sow                             1                 3.5
1.3.4   Drills                                         5                 20.2
1.3.5   Filing planer                                  2                 28.2
1.3.6   Fe¢ filitg planr                               2                224.5
1.3.7  High presre wshis   wzit                        2                  4.9
1.3.8  MHcdwcal saw                                    2                  7.1
1.3.9  UIiversal drill                                 1                 58.0
1.3.10 Rectifier for w4irw                             3                 4.5
Sub-Total             466.9
Total Tradt Plan  EquiP,Mt             700.0
2.  1akMchnr
2.1   Rail drillng gscine                             49                100.9
2.2  Rai g8iber                                        16                35.9
2.3  Rail cutirg mscti                                20                 41.2
2.4   Ran lubrlcators                                 178               433.0
2.5   Sct  sprle drivl  imt                           7                 14.4
2.6  Sleeper drilling uait                             16                32.9
2.7   Tmxut grinder                                    10                22.5
2.8  Hydraulic stretchirg emit                         8                 59.9
2.9  Portable taing set                                2                 12.7
2.10 Track jacks                                      60                 67.4
2.11  Portable electric gaurator                       7                 35.4
2.12  Porable electric weldi1g set                     17               238.6
2.13 Motorized insjectim1 cars                         9                480.0
2.14 Mtorized  ng cms for equ4uant                     2                161.0
2.15  Trolleys                                         6                 73.0
2.16 Motorized car for weldirg                          1                61.2
2.17 Tawing, alig   and lewlirg undt                   5              3,150.0
2.18 BaU.ast reulator                                  5              1,125.0
Total Track Mldirary           6,145.0
Total Tradk Plant, Equipit ard lizhrY               6,845.0
Source: FEPASA and mission estimates
May 1987



- 103 -
ANNEX 6
AL                                           lable 4
FEPASA RAIU&  R1anxrATMtG  Pg)JECI                           Page  1  of  2
Tulck Plaits, WorLsop and RoUing Stodc  fm t
WDzkshop Equijent and Tools
Locatimn                             Item                                   (Qatt        Estmted Cost
Capinas               I. Loootive wesos:
PeraDlel latle - 1.X0013.000 mm                     7               246.7
UOnversal udllg                                     1                37-7
Ra;ial drill                                        I                2B.5
Valve rectifier                                     1                20.0
Vertical jack plax*                                 1                28.3
Vertical rectifier                                  I                26.b
histcmtic uidrcurter                                1                26.0
Siels for 5.5 ton, 330 x 100 x 220 cm             3(0m               66.0
Support bae, 200 x 500 x 20 an                      8                20.0
Wshi.-g lubricatirg nadiu for beasrgxs              1                19.7
Uowrnor testbW  tench                               1                52.1
Foxklft 1.5-2.5r                                    5               139,4
Mehanical testers                                 idsc,              20,0
Electronic testers                                nac.               25.0
Derrick, dieeel engine, 8T                          1                40.0
Misaleellansmsi eqidpxent and tools                 1               472.0
Sub-Total                         1,268.0
Sorocabs                  Untiwersal lathe E-4$A, S-30                         2                78.4
Radial Drill R--6W                                  1                41.U
Forklift C-300                                      2                30.4
MiseeUlaresas eupiant                                               106.2
Sib-Total                           2.56.0
Jundai                    Parallel latte, T-1, T-2, T-3                        4               184.4
Universal mdillng F-30                             !                33.3
Radial drill FR-50                                  2                65.5
Hydraulic press                                     1                29.5
Electric oven                                       I                11.5
leaning and painting cabin                          1                 9.8
Airless paint unit                                  2                 7.1
emtic washir"  nit, 500                             2                19.6
Portable trausfomer for testing                     1                13.3
Miscalaeils equdpmet                                                 53.0
Sub-Totel                           427.0
2. Electric Rotatini Mhcines
Sorocaba                  Cafmtator lathe                                      1                   15.8
Autoatic o¢.aWr ondercutter                         1                  127.1
Ce.erator set 0 + 110 v.c.v.                        2                   26.3
Bendirg polieration furnaoe                        1                   41.6
Aruture tabIg device                                1                   24.3
Armture W1snr tnit 30 + 3,000                       1                  113.6
CauztAtor ladt  M0I 5OO/26                          1                   75.9
lod testing bench                                   1                  150.0
Genraror grpv  for emantic tests                    1                   33.6
Electric dryirg  en                                 3                   50.9
Paintitg cabin                                      3                  117.5
Washirg cabin                                       1                   9.0
Hot coiling protection press                        1                   59.8
Coiling insulating  cline                           1                   12.1
Vertical tydraulic press                            1                   20.0
Supportirg rectifiar                                1                  366.1
laft  for aristures 1l0 II 650                      1                   73.7
Latc   for asin lid E45A                            1                   62.4
tniversal milling  schine                           1                  136.1
Radial drill                                        1                   41.0
Autoastic idca undercutter                          1                  170.5
Forklift                                            2                  42.7
Inastruents, testers                               udAc.               40.8
siscellaza.s eqtuipnt                                                  114.2
SubrTotal                            2,012.0
3. Locomtivve Shed
Mairingue, Rinco          Electric aitter                                     8                   67.5
Air dedifier                                        2                    7.0
Electric weldig set                                 4                    6.3
Torqw wrench (75-150-600 ft/lb)                     6                   12.0
Forklift 1.ST                                       2                   27.4
Set of tools                                                            30.0
Cnntrol arl anaftreant equiptent                                        20.0
%iscelDa*ous eqdvnt                                                    115.8
Sub-Total                              286.0



- 104 -                                                ANNEX 6
Table 4
Page 2 of 2
WAZIL
W)ASA RAIlWAY RR2IALXWICtN PIEIT
Track Plants. lbrksmop rx Rolling Stock Ccxsnt
iW<sleoM Equ t sand Tools
tocation                             Item                                     atity        Eatiamted Cast
0SSI((E)OO
4-  Lootit e Ancillary 9se
liiru, Riberao            Electric cutter                                     18                135.0
Preto, Ibtncatu,          Air .shlnidifier                                     6                21.0
Assis, Itapetirniw        Saw supply and atorsw  sy%tmn                        6                 9.0
S.iarita                  Lab oil supply system                                6                 16.2
Megmter 5O02,5M                                     12                22.8
WAPP washirg nechine                                6                 12.9
Electric welding unit 4'   :                        6                  9.5
Jacks 25T501                                       24                 33.4
Torque wrendc                                       6                 12.0
Mrusl tools                                                           30,0
tearmrmt sa  control equipmnt                                         30.0
Mtscsllanecs eqtdnt                                                  177.2
&S6-dtal                             509.0
5. Stage Posts an  Fueling Facilitis
A ishirg equipm                                     1                  2.2
Sorocabs                  Jacks 20-SOT                                         4                 5.8
Relirg facilitis in 2 loctlom                       2                150.0
Sib-Total                            158.0
Total LOCIDtive W&*brot   as  Shlds                          4,916.0
6. Polling Stock w.eaftve
Sorocabe                  Roller bearing washiM  unit                          2                21.5
Jadcs 25T                                           5                 30.8
41eel latbe                                         1                870.0
Axle wiul pres 60DT                                 1                220.0
Exhsater/filter airblast/crcate cabin               2                130.2
Anti-mis  cabin for pwrt dtsasserkle                1                 70.0
Paintirg sal dryirg cabin bAlt-up                   1                 95.0
Portable gPe exhaut unit                           16                 79.1
Beal sw                                             2                 18.3
aial drill                                          1                 41.1
H1h pressre washig muit                             3                 19.8
Steel plate cutter                                  1                 34.7
'>n pAller unit                                     5                 12.7
Mscellasnrem  equipmz san  tools                                      85.8
bTeotal                            1,729
Rio Claro                 Hfdrsulic press for vulcanization                    1               120.3
&xbber blealer MBL-300                              1                 37.2
Fo*klIft                                            1                 38.7
Painting and drying cabin bhilt-up                  1                 95.0
Washing cabin                                       1                 32.9
Portable  s edamst mit                              4                 19.8
Universal  diling mdiz                              1                 40.4
Univermal rectifier                                 1                 61.4
FrictiQl press                                      1                 12.6
Elevator platform                                   1                 31.0
Miscelsmu   eqixment ad toDIs                                        115.7
Sub-'rotal                           605.0
7. Ixts kecillary Rs
smrita                        c     s  eqim                                   46               209.7
Pamliia                   Wscellaneaus equipment                               57              Z52.3
Ararsquars                Miscellanus eqipmernt                                54              228.0
Itstpstiniro              Miscllareus equipment                               34               148.5
Botucatu                 M?scellanrm  equiment                                34               148.5
S9b-Total                            987.0
Total Rollin  Stock w&tkshe
Total Ibrkshe,o   Pt and Tools                              8,237.0
SCLa: PEPASA ald msston estleseS
?'ay 1987



- 105 -                                                             ANNEX 6
Chart
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Telecommunicotion Systems Design
t Al AGUARI
COLOMBIA                                    UBERLANDIA
It 
t                                     I
tI                                    t
PASSAG Mv --- ---- - ----- r1BEIRAO PRETO
rI   ___.-_I !____4 ITAU
1T1~~~~~~~~~~3
,'2~~~~~~ j __rs_-* GUAXUPE
It                                 T3 
S FE DO SUL  ,    JALE¢S                         72                             t1                                              --- ___!_ P CAUDAS
---------- _   ------------------------------------- 4 1ARARAQ;UARA                                           T 
P FERREIRA               --------- SAPUCAi
13              t1T3
t I  REPLAN
PANORAMA SADAMAMINA                         '             BAlRU        T3                               4 2   
-------------  --------, JUNDIAi
tl---           TIRAPINA  RVAQAP                         rCAI IPANAS
tj '.?                                    PIRACICAIA   j                                rC
i                                                        I MAIRINQUE
P EPITACiO                              N ! D   ?lNtDOR ,   t5 I                                                            '*
---------  r------              ------- --------                          _.                                              ,        . r. .       SAO PAULO
t  7 ,4cv               t                    zSOIOCA8A                  4ALTINO
*|'2                                                                                         '21   ~NJljuRU8ATUBA
F DA CiJNHA                                                    ,EV DE SOUZA
NOIF,                                       r           ,~~~~~~~~~~ ~                ~ ~~~~------ AP A;  l _  PEREOUE
NOTE                                                                       1        4P                              -*E~u
TARARE           t1                               t2
T_ Toe.mple'er!ea on phase o"e
-           To be , rnenteT Ocn praose two                            A!NAiALZI-HO      A          -     …SAMARRA
… -----   b-o oe miplemenltea o" prase t-fee
t     Jjlf f24 channels) + VmO
Q2   jHF to0 cionnelsJ . vm-                                                                               SANtOS
T3    Jrlf t120 cnonnelsi * VHF
4    Microwove S VhF
TS   li:.er OpDical cable - V4F
---* unUde' ongOing Elec'ficoalo" P-o:ac'
Sou0ce TEPASA non k4ss,o'
Z3C'OBEI? 1986                                                                                                                            iYord Bonk-30913 I



-.4III".
I                   ¢n
C~~~~~/
z
H_



- 107 -
ANNEX 7
Page I of 8
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Technical Assistance Program
Introduction
1.        The technical assistance program was designed to help FEPASA and
the Government to implement the action program. Consultants and/or
specialized institutions would be financed under the project to assist in:
(a) preparing medium-term plans for the metropolitan train and for the long-
distance passenger services, and FEPASA's corporate plan; (b) upgrading
FEPASA's cost-accounting and information system, developing a cost-related,
market-based tariff structure and appropriate marketing systems;
(c) consolidating the organization of - and developing the OIS/MIS for -
operations and maintenance; and (d) establishing effective personnel
management systems. The scope and timing of these technical assistance
components, and the related resources requirements are defined hereinafter
and in Table 4.2.
A.   Normalization and Planning Action Program
(i) Preparation of a Metropolitan Train Plan
2.        Background. The socially oriented metropolitan train operation is
being separated from FEPASA's other businesses in order to enable FEPASA to
operate the latter on a commercial basis. The State Government is expected
to excercise a more direct control over the operation, development and
financing of the metropolitan train. A new normalization system will be
established under the action program to clearly define, on an annual basis,
as part of the budget process, FEPASA's and the Government's respective
operational and financial, short-term responsibilities. There is a need,
however, to define a medium-term strategy and plan for the operation,
development and financing of the system. The operation of the other passenger
train services in the metropolitan region of Sao Paulo, which were previously
in RFFSA, was recently separated into a new company, CBTU, which is under the
jurisdiction of the Federal Ministry of Transport; the preparation of the
plan would therefore need to also address the question of the coordination of
the operation and development of the two systems.
3.        Objective. To prepare a pluriannual plan for the metropolitan train
system, defining in particular: appropriate strategies and actien programs
for the efficient operation of the system, and for an effective operational
and development planning coordination with the other metropolitan transport
systems, particularly CBTU's cuburban train services; and an appropriate
pluriannual investment program.
4.        Scope. The work would include the following main tasks: (a) a
re:iew of the demand for metropolitan train transport in the area of
influence of FEPASA's system, based upon existing quantitative data and upon
a survey and an analysis of passenger behavior regarding service quality and
prices; (b) the definition of a cost-recovery policy for the system, aiming



- 108 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 8
at minimizing State subsidies, and the preparation, on this basis, of a
traffic forecast; (c) a diagnostic of FEPASA's operating efftciency and
organizationi for the metropolitan train, including of the coordination of Its
services and plans with the other systems, particularly CBTIJ, and the
definition of a strategy and action programs for cost savings and improved
efficiency, and for effective operational and development p]anning
coordination with CBTU; (d) a review, on the basis of the above, of FEPASA's
investment requirements and priorities for the metropolitan train; and
(e) the definition of appropriate operating and financial plans and targets,
and of the respective responsibilities of the State and FEPASA, for the
operation of the metropolitan train over the period of the plan.
5.        Timing and Cost. The consultants would start the work in July 1987,
and would submit a draft final report by the end of 1987. The final report,
integrating the comments of FEPASA, the State Government and the Bank, would
be completed by mid-1988. Consultant requirements are estimated at about 30
man-months; the total base cost is estimated at about TJS$150,000 equivalent.
(ii) Preparation of a Long-Distance Passenger Service Plan
6.        Background. During the past two decades, with the development of
the network of paved trunk highways, the railways have been losing
significant shares of the long-distance passenger transport business to
private cars and to the road transport industry. With a traffic
reduced from 14 million passengers in 1975 to about five million at present,
the railway's unit costs have increased to a point where it cannot, in
general, sucessfully compete with the bus industry, except on some specific
services; and with tariffs controlled by the Government, FEPASA's annual
deficits on these services have been increasing, requiring additional
Government subsidies. FEPASA has, in the past, implemented some
rationalization programs, reducing service frequencies and personnel,
The State Government, however, has constantly prevented the railway from
undertaking all the service reductions which would have been required from
the commercial and economic viewpoints, in order to provide affordable
transport services to the low-income rural population. Because of the
insufficient normalization payments made by the Government, FEPASA has not
been in the position to make the necessary maintenance or renewals of its
fleets, which have now high degrees of immobilization and obsolescence.
With the new normalization system to be established under the action program,
FEPASA's and the Government's respective short-term responsibilities for the
operation and financing of these services are expected Lo be better defined
as part of the annual budget preparation. There is a need, however, to define
the strategies and action programs for thc further rationalization and the
efficient operation of the remaining passenger services.
7.        Objective. To prepare a pluriannual plan for FEPASA's long-distance
passenger services, which could be developed into a pluriannual contract
between FEPASA and the State Government, defining in particular medium-term
strategies and action programs for the rationalization, the efficient
operation and the adequate financing of the remaining services.
8.        Scope. The preparation of the plan would involve the following main
tasks: (a) a review of the passenger transport demand in the area of
influence of FEPASA, analysing in particular the users' behavior regarding



- 109 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 8
service quality and prices, current trends and forecasts; (b) a review of the
comparative efficiency of the private car and the bus, rail and air tra;uLport
industries in meeting the various segments of the market, and the
identification of the specific market segments in which FEPASA could compete
successfully, and those which should be left to the competition; (c) the
definition of a strategy and prog;ams for the gradual rationalization of
FEPASA's long-distance passenger services, including service reduction .'nd
adjustment programs consistent with the market characteristics, and of the
appropriate organization for the operation of these services; (d) the
definition of those services, if any, which the State Government would
require FEPASA to operate at tariffs below costs until the adjustment to
market conditions is completed, including the quantities and quality of such
services over the pluriannual period of the plan and their justification, as
well as FEPASA's expected efficiency in providing them; (e) the definition of
the related maintenance and investment requirements; and (f) the definition
of appropriate financing plan and mechanisms, defining the adequate tariffs,
and identifying alternative sources, such as local communities, to minimize
Government subsidies in the form cf normalization payments.
9.        Timing and Cost. The consultants would start the work in July 1987,
and would submit a draft final report by the end of 1987. The final report,
integrating the comments of FEPASA, the State Government and the Bank, would
be completed by mid-1988. Consultant requirements are estimated at about 30
man-months; the total base cost is estimated at about US$150,000 equivalent.
(iii) Preparation of FEPASA's Corporate Plan
10.       Background. The action program to which the project would provide
support will considerably change the policy and institutional framework
within which the company operates. With the ongoing separation of the
metropolitan train operation and the possible reorganization of the long-
distance passenger services, which will be studied and defined as part of the
preparation of the above plan, FEPASA wiil move toward a busiress center
structure. In order to implement the financial -ehabilitation and the
commercial operation objectives, the company might also need to move toward a
market-driven organization, with the freight business further organized into
a line of business structure. With the bulk of the freight traffic moved
through a relatively small number of repetitive movements, the regional
organization should be reviewed and possibly consolidated. There is,
therefore, a need to review and consolidate FEPASA's corporate and business
structure consistently with the objectives and measures of the action
program. There is also a need to consolidate and to integrate the planning
works of the various functional departments, consistently with the policy and
institutional framework which will result from the action program, including
from the above-mentionned plans for the metropolitan train and the long-
distance passenger services, and with the corporate and business structure.
11.       Objectives. To-d-evelop FEPASA's corporate plan, including
appropriate business plans, based upon the policy and institutional action
programs supported by the project, and, through this task, contribute to
consolidate strategic planning in the company.
12.       Scope. The work would include the following main task: (a) a
review and the consolidation of FEPASA's corporate and business structure,



- 110 -                        ANNEX 7
Page 4 of 8
based upon corporate objectives; (b) the preparation of business plans,
including the determination of appropriate operational and financial targets,
for each component of the business structure, and, in the case of the
meKropolitan train and tite long-distance passenger services, consistently
with the above-mentionned plans; (c) a review and consolidation of the
business operating plans into an operations plan with appropriate action
programs and targets for cost-savings and operational efficiency
improvements, assigned to the specific organizational units; (d) a review and
consolidation of the various investment projects or proposals, based upon
appropriate financial and economic evaluations and an assessment of their
relevance to corporate objectives; and (e) an updating, through the
consolidation of the separate revenue and cost projections, of the company's
financial plan. The various organizational units will directly participate in
the works. The Consultants will assist with organizing, coordinating and
monitoring the werk of the units, providing methodological support for the
various tasks, reviewing the corporate and business structure and
recommending for an appropriate organization, and with technical assistance
in some specific areas.
13.       Timing and Cost. The consultants would start the work in July 1987,
and would submit a draft final report by mid-1988. The final report,
integrating the comments of FEPASA, the State Government and the Bank, would
be completed by the end of September 1988. Consultant requirements are
estimated at about 60 man-months; the total base cost is estimated at about
US$300,000 equivalent.
B.   Tariff, Marketing and Cost-Control Action Program
(i) Upgrading of FEPASA's Cost-Accounting and Information System
14.       Background.  The costing system of FEPASA, while conceptually
sound, has problems regarding the collection and utilization of the physical
production or output units, the base for cost allocation. These types of
data are not collected in a reliable and systematic manner, and have an
adverse impact on the precision, creditability and the use of the system for
management purposes.
15.       Objective.  To provide a costing system responding to the needs of
FEPASA as a commercially oriented provider of railway services, which, in
particular, would produce and disseminate information for business decision
making such as investment appraisals, operational decisions, tariff
assessments, marketing decisions and would provide a basis tor management
control and for the normalization system.
16.       Scope.  The work would be implementation oriented and would include
the following main tasks: (a) the definition of cost concepts (such as
short/medium/long term variable and avoidable, joint/common/specific,
working/operating/capital) to be used in the various applications; (b) a
review and the upgrading of the cost categories according to future needs and
uses; (c) the definition of cost variability with different levels of
production, methods of operation and utilization of different assets; (d) a
review and the upgrading of the various financial and physical data sources
and method of data collections; and (e) the development of a (cost) reporting
system appropriate for the need of management at various levels.



ANNEX 7
Page 5 of 8
17.       Timing and Cost.  The consultants would start the work by July 1987
and complete it by December 1988. Consultants requirements are estimated at
about 48 man-months, and the base cost is estimated at about IJS$336,000
equivalent,
(ii) Development and Implementation of Tariff and Marketing Systems
18.       Background.  FEPASA's tariff structure during the last 18 years,
apart from adjustments to offset the impact of inflation, has changed very
little. Tariffs today have only incidental relationships both to the
marketing and to the cost con.I%itions of the enterprise. Furthermore, as the
tariffs (and, to a large extent, the revenues) have been subject to the
Government's control, the company's operation became less and less
market-oriented, lacking the objective of profit maximization.
19.       Objective.  To ensure the commercial viability of FEPASA's
operations and to maximize net revenues through developing appropriate
marketing and tariff strategies.
20.       Scope.  The work would include the following main tasks: (a) the
development of commercial objectives and the preparation of complementary
marketing strategies to support corporate objectives; (b) the development of
an upgraded tariff structure and tariff levels in support of the corporate
and commercial objectives; (c) a review and the upgrading of the procedure
for tariff performance monitoring and revisions; (d) the development of an
appropriate base for market and customer behavior research; (e) the
development of a service quality monitoring system; (f) the development of
demand elasticities, taking into account cross mode elasticities; and (g) the
development of a commercial performance control system.
21.       Timing and Cost.  The program will be implemented between November
1987 and December 1988. Consultants requirements are estimated at about 36
man-months, and the base cost is estimated at about US$252,000 equivalent.
C,   Operations and Maintenance Management Action Program
(i) Design and Implementation of the OIS and Rolling Stock Maintenance MIS
22.       Background. FEPASA employs two data systems, for operating and for
revenue accounting, based upon a central mainframe computer system, and data
input is through separate communications networks of microcomputers and
teletype terminals, or is directly keystroked at the company's headquaters.
Locomotive and wagon data processed on the mainframe computer are at least 24
hours behind real time and therefore cannot permit an effective operations
control. FEPASA has recently undertaken the development of a real-time OIS,
aiming in particular to improve locomotive and wagon control, including the
control of wagon interchanges with RFFSA and the Santos port and demurrage at
terminals, and to provide support to the commercial and marketing departments
and improved information and services to clients. FEPASA also recently
started to reorganize rolling stock maintenance by placing both repair and
preventing maintenance activities under a General Superintendent for
Maintenance, who reports to the Transportation Director. The reorganization
should now be consolidated, and an appropriate MIS should be developed and
implemented to strengthen the planning and control of maintenance.



- 112 -                            ANNEX 7
Page 6 of 8
23.       Objectives. To consolidate the organization of operations and
maintenance and to develop and implement an OTS and a locomotive and wagon
maintenance MIS, aiming particularly at: increasing the utilization of rail
assets and terminal productivity through the appropriate control of the
locomotive and wagon fleets and of their maintenance; at improving service
quality and information to clients; and at rationalizing and computerizing
administrative tasks.
24.       Scope. The work would include the following main tasks: (a) the
preparation of a master plan, including a conceptual design and feasibility
study, for the development and implementation of the OIS/MIS and related
organizational improvements; (b) the development of a synchronized,
operational data base, which integrates all the necessary data for the
various system components; (c) the purchase and customization or development,
and the implementation, in phases, of the systems' components, including for:
train consisting, movement reporting and advance work orders for crews,
interchange control; yard management; distribution of empty wagons;
computerized billing and invoicing, and demurrage control; control of the
preventive and heavy maintenance of locomotives and wagons; purchasing,
material management and inventory control; and traffic, revenue and cost
reporting; and (d) a review and the consolidation of the locomotive and wagon
maintenance and repair plan, including the revision of maintenance cycles in
line with verified actual requirements, and the further consolidation of
maintenance and repair activities and facilities.
25.       Timing and Cost. The program would be developed in phases;
consultants would be hired by December 1987 to help carry out items (a) and
id) first, and the development of the data base and the various system
components would be phased over the 1988-1990 period. Consultant requirements
are estimated at about 132 man-months, and the base cost is 'stimated at
about US$924,000 equivalent.
(ii) Design and Implementation of the Track Maintenance MIS
26.       Background. FEPASA's present system for planning and control of
track maintenance is based upon a essentially manual collection and
processing of data. The lack of adequate, updated information regarding track
condition, materials inventories, budget implementation status, equipment
condition and utilization, and performance and productivity of maintenance
crews does not allow for the appropriate assessment of maintenance
priorities, based upon economic criteria, adequate planning, programming,
costing and budgeting of maintenance tasks, or for an effective monitoring
and evaluation. Also, the track maintenance standards need to be revised and
better adapted to the present traffic structure, with passenger services
becoming marginal.
27.       ObJective. To develop and implement a track maintenance MIS aiming
at the appropriate planning, budgeting and control of track maintenance.
28.       Scope. The work would be implementation oriented, and it would
include the following main tasks: (a) the definition of a master plan,
including a conceptual plan and a feasibility study, for the development and
implementation of the system; (b) a review of the track maintenance standards
in effect, and the definition of appropriate, recommended standards; (c) the



-113 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 7 'f 8
design and development of the track maintenance data base; (d) the design of
the data collection system; and (e) the design and implementation of the
various system's components, including: pluriannual planning and programming
of maintenance activities; work planning and control; equipment maintenance
control; purchasing, material management and inventory control; and technical
and economic statistics for analytical purpose.
29.       Timing and Cost. The prcgram will be developed over two years, from
the beginning of 1988. Consultant! requirements are estimated at about 42 man-
moiths, and the base cost is estimated at about US$294,000 equivalent.
D.   Personnel Management and Training Action Program
(i) Strengthening of Personnel Management Systems
30.       Background. FEPASA's personnel policies need to be reviewed and
based upon a more objective assessment of the company's human resource
requirements, in order to contribute to the financial rehabilitation and
market-driven operation objectives. The existing personnel management systems
do not provide the necessary information for the adequate dimensionning of
the various organizational units, or for appropriate recruitment, selection,
training and promotion policies. The essential personnel management tools
such as job descriptions, promotion and career plans, performance and
potential evaluation, and monitoring, cost control and evaluation of training
first need to be established or improved. The personnel policies should be
revised, and FEPASA's institutional training program should be restructured
accordingly.
41.       Objective. To consolidate FEPASA's personnel management system and
policies through establishing or improving the essential personnel management
tools and through reformulating recruitment, selection, training and
promotion policies consistently with corporate objectives.
32.       Scope. The work, which would be implementation-oriented and closely
coordinated with the training program, would include the following main
tasks: (a) the definition and implementation of procedures for appropriate
organizational dimensionning and monitoring; (b) the definition of functions
and responsibilities, including job descriptions and operational manuals;
(c) the definition of career plans and access plans, specifying the minimum
requirements for supervisory and management positions; (d) the definition and
implementation of procedures and criteria for performance and potential
evaluation; (e) a review and the upgrading, based upon access plans and the
performance and potential evaluation systems, of recruitment and selection
methods; (f) the appropriate development of the personnel data base and
information system; and (g) the preparation of a pluriannual plan for the
restructuring and reformulation of FEPASA's institutional training program.
33.       Timing and Cost. The program would be developed ove; the two year
period starting in December 1987 and ending in December 1989. Consultants
requirements are estimated at about 120 man-months, and the base cost at
about TJS$600,000 equivalent.



- 114 -                             ANNEX 7
Page 8 of 8
(ii) Training Program
34.       The technical assistance requirements for the planning, design,
implementation and monitoring of the training program are described in
Annex 8.
May 1987



- 115 -                       ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 3
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
The Training Program
A.   Background
1.        The responsibility for training in FEPASA is in the Training and
Human Resources Department of the Human Resources General Superintendency.
The department is organized into three divisions as follows:
(a) the technical training division provides railway-specific technical
training to about 300 apprentices each year through 11 training
centers located in the interior of the State of Sao Paulo;
(b) the operational training division identifies training needs for
both operational and administrative staff, and provides training to
about 5,000 to 7,000 persons each year, mostly through theoretical
and practical programs, which are conducted in the regional
training centers or on the job;
(c) the management development division identifies training needs for
the management and supervisory personnel, which consist of about
120 superintendents and managers, 350 division and section chiefs,
and 400 line supervisors, and provides training to about 250
persons each year.
overall, the programs make up about 20,000 hours of theoretical training and
24,000 hours of practical training. The total cost for 1986 was estimated at
about US$2 million equivalent.
2.        The above institutional training programs are designed to provide
trainees with the basic, theoretical and practical knowledge required in the
position. However, it does not generally provide the necessary know-how for
an effective performance of the staff in the position. The training program
needs to be gradually reformulated and directed toward the specific needs of
the various organizational units and the specific jobs, in order to support
and consolidate the policy, institutional and organizational changes which
would be implemented under the action program. The reformulation of FEPASA's
institutional training should therefore be based upon, and closely
coordinated with - and, to some extent, integrated to - the implementation of
the organizational changes and the development of the operations and
management systems, including the personnel management systems. It will
require an effective participation of the management of the operational
departments in the preparation and implementation of the specific training
programs. The training component of the present project would constitute the
first phase of this reformulation.



- 116 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 3
B.   Objective and organization
3.        The training component of the project has been designed to support
the implementation and the gradual consolidation of the policy and
organizational reforms and of the operations and management systems included
in the action program, in particular the separation of the metropolitan train
operation from the other businesses, the strengthening of marketing and cost-
control, the reorganization of - and the development of the OIS/MIS for -
operations and maintenance, and the development of the personnel management
systems.
4.        Specific training programs will be organized for the organizational
units which are responsible for carrying out the above- mentionned action
programs. Some of these programs will be existing, reformulated programs, and
others will he newly-defined programs. The management personnel in each
operational unit will directly participate in the organization of their
respective units, in the identification of the unit's training needs, and in
the preparation, implementation and monitoring- evaluation of the specific
training programs for their subordinates. The organization and training
programs will be implemented in steps, through the various hierarchical
levels, from the superintendents to the operational and administrative
staff. The training and human resources department will, with the assistance
of specialized consultants, provide the necessary methodological support to
the operational units, and the training of instructors. Technical assistance
from specialized experts will be provided for the detailed design of specific
technical and management training courses. Courses and seminars will be
provided by training specialists and specialized institutions in Brazil or
abroad.
C.   Description
5.        The training program would consist of four training components:
(a) the organization and methods program, designed to provide about 470
managers, from directors to division and section chiefs, with the
basic tools and methods to analyse and reform the organization of
their respective units and the work methods and procedures, to
prepare the units' organization documents, including organization
manuals and job descriptions, and to monitor the organizational
development; the program would include seminars to familiarize
managers with the basic tools and methods and consultant assistance
to help them implement their organization tasks and the related
training of their subordinates;
(b) the operational training program, designed to provide about 10,000
operational and administrative staff with the specific methods and
procedures (knowledge and know-how) required for an effective
performance in their job; it will be implemented through the
training of instructors from both the training and the operational
departments, the preparation of specific program components and
operational manuals for the various organizational units, and their
diffusion through the departments' hierarchy;



- 117 -                        ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 3
(c) the management training program, designed to provide about 470
managers, from directors to division and section chiefs, and about
800 operations and administration supervisory staff with basic
management skills, particularly aimed at work productivity
improvements, and skills specific to the functional areas, such as
marketing, operations and maintenance; the program would be
implemented in two phases: first, a series of seminars would aim at
providing managers with the basic skills required for managing in
the consolidated organization, and, in the second phase, seminars
and consultant assistance would be directed toward the design and
implementation of alternative, more effective work methods and
procedures in the specific areas; and
(d) the systems-specific training programs, designed to disseminate,
among the relevant management personnel and operational and
administrative staff, the procedures to implement and/or operate
the operations information and control system (OIS), the
maintenance management information systems (MIS), and the personnel
management systems; the design and implementation of these
programs would be integrated with the action programs for the
development and implementation of the respective systems.
6.        Consultants would be engaged by FEPASA to: (a) assist in the
planning, design and programming of the training program, including provide
methodological support for the design and implementatior of the various
programs; (b) provide basic skill training to instructors; and (c) develop
and assist in implementing an appropriate monitoring and evaluation system
for the training program. FEPASA would also contract technical assistance for
the detailed design of specific training courses, which would require
specialized expertise. The implementation of the specific courses and
seminars would be contracted to training specialists and/or specialized
institutions in Brazil and abroad.
D.   Time-Schedule and Costs
7.        The training program would be developed and implemented over the
three-year period starting in December 1987 and ending in December 1990.
Consultant and technical assistance requirements are estimated at about 60
and 50 man-months respectively. The total base cost of the training program
is estimated at about US$2.3 million equivalent. Quantity and cost estimates,
including the annual programming, are shown in Table 4.2.
May 1987



-4  4
-4J
z    H



- 119 -
ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of FEPASA's Investment Program
A.   Introduction
1.        FEPASA's Investment Program consists of: (a) the Rehabilitation
Program, which is the investment component of the project; (b) the ongoing
Electrification Project, which is described in Annex 11; and (c) the ongoing
Metropolitan Train Modernization Project.
2.        The Rehabilitation Program and the Electrification Project were
first evaluated together since both would contribute in part to the same
objectives (Section C). The Metropolitan Program was evaluated separately
since the system and the program's objectives are quite distinct
(Section D). The project and the project components were then evaluated
separately (Annex 10). A separate evaluation was also carried out for the
Electrification Project and its main components (Annex 11).
B.   Objectives of the Investment Program
3.        The main objective of the Rehabilitation Program is to compensate
for a number of years of deferred maintenance and, hence, to reduce operating
costs, rather than to compensate for lack of replacement investment as in the
case of the Electrification Project. The improved operating efficiency which
would result from the proposals of the program would avoid the need for more
costly investment in new traction and rolling stock to meet the projected
level of demand.
4.        A specific objective of the Rehabilitation Program is to increase
substantially the utilization of traction and rolling stock. Commercial
train speeds in the Araguari-Santos eorridor (ASC) are expected to increase
from some 25 km/hr with present track conditions and diesel traction to about
44 km/hr with improved track and electric traction. The commercial speed
increases are expected to be from 46 km/hr to 48 km/hr in the broad-gauge
corridor (BGC) and from 33 km/hr to 37 km/hr in the meter-gauge corridor
(MGC). The proposed investment in improved signaling and communications has
the same objective of improved ttaction and rolling stock utilization.
Increases are also expected in the availability of existing diesel and
electric locomotives, and a further improvement is expected from the
replacement of old diesel locomotives with new electric locomotives. The
availability of existing electric locomotives is 66% and 69% on the average
for the meter-gauge and broad-gauge, and that of diesel locomotive is 66% and
71% respectively. These figures are expected to increase to 77% and 75%
(both gauges) for the electric and diesel locomotives respectively, with new
electric locomotives having an availability of 90%.
5.        Another specific objective of the Rehabilitation Program is to
increase the participation of rail-based intermodal transport in the
transport of soya, wheat and other grains from the new producing areas in the
state of Mato Grosso do Sul. This objective is to be achieved by providing



-120 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 4
new intermodal transfer facilities (road/rail and river/rail) at the
principal  rail heads of the network and by improving operations at the
interface with the port of Santos.
6.        The preceding specific objectives, as well as rhe more general ones
of reducing operating costs and recuperating transport capacity, were to be
achieved by the mixture of the proposed investments and actions. Although
some of the investments were aimed at achieving specific objectives, all of
them would contribute, to a greater or lesser extent, to achieving each
objective.
7.        The electrification of parts of the FEPASA network was completed
over 40 years ago. The fixed installations and electric traction are
inadequate for current operating conditions and have insufficient capacity
for the projected demand. The objective of the Electrification Project is,
therefore, to reduce operating costs and recover previous transport capacity,
and to provide additional capacity, particularly in the Araguari-Santos
corridor.
8.        The Metropolitan Train Project was designed to increase FEPASA's
participation in metropolitan transport in Sao Paulo and to increase the
available capacity, both of track and traction and rolling stock, so that
FEPASA would be able to satisfy the projected increased market share of an
increasing market. The total cost of the investments is estimated at
US$74 million.
C.   Evaluation of the Rehabilitation Program and Electrification Project
9.        The evaluation of the Rehabilitation Program and Electrification
Project was undertaken by comparing the cost of transporting the projected
rail traffic in the "with" investment case and the cost of transporting part
of this same demand by road and part by rail, at a higher unit cost than in
the "with" investment case.
10.       The traffic projections for the evaluation were based on FEPASA's
projections by product for each year for the period up to 1993 (Annex 4).
The projections assumed that there were no constra;'.nts on rail capacity and
that the proposed investments of the Electrification Project and
Rehabilitation Program had been carried out. The average growth rate for the
period 1987 to 1993 was assumed to be 5.4%, for 1994-1995, 2.8%, and 2% for
the period 1996 to 2000. Thereafter, it was assumed that demand would remain
at the level projected for the year 2000.
11.       The capacity of the rail network in the "without" investment case
was assessed on a corridor basis. For each of the three corridors, capacity
was assumed to be 5% greater than the highest traffic level achieved in the
period 1980 to 1985. This is an optimistic assumption of capacity since,
without investment, it is probable that the capacity of the system would
slowly decline. It was assumed that each link of the network in the "with"
investment case would have sufficient capacity to transport the projected
demand.
12.       FEPASA carried out an assignment of the 1985 and the projected 1988
and 1995 traffic flows to the rail network. For this assignment, a network



- 121 -
ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 4
of 57 links was assumed, 26 for the Araguari-Santos Corridor and branches, 17
for the re-; of the meter-gauge network and 14 for the broad-gauge network.
13.       Although no specific road network was developed for the evaluation,
FEPASA t'ndertook a comparison of road and rail distances for a sample of 25
origin-to-destination flows. The average road distance was found to be 82.5%
of the average rail distance. On the basis of this work, equivalent road
distances were calculated for each rail origin-to-destination flow.
14.       The equivalent road distances were multiplied by the estimated road
vehicle operating cost to estimate the equivalent costs of road transport for
freight assumed to transfer to road from rail transport in the "without"
investment case. Road vehicle operating costs were derived from the latest
available published information on the operating costs of different types of
vehicles (Revista Transporte Moderno, May 1986). The typical road vehicle
for the traffic was assumed to be a three-axle semi-trailer with a payload
capacity of 25 tons. An additional cost of US cents 0.4 per ton/km was added
to represent the marginal road infrastructure costs for this traffic. The
total road transport operating cost, including this estimate of
infrastructure cost, was US cents 3.684 per ton-km.
15.       For freight assumed to transfer from rail to road transport in the
"without" investment case, an initial transfer cost of US$1.5 per ton was
assumed. For rail traffic in the "without" investment case, the same cost
was assumed, but, in the "with" investment case, the cost was assumed to
reduce to US$1.2 per ton.
16.       Average rail working costs in the "without" investment case were
derived from the latest data available from the FEPASA traffic costing
system, which, in turn, is derived from the financial accounts. Long term
average costs of US cents 1.725 per ton-km were assumed for train operations
and US cents 2.005 per ton-km for locomotive and wagon capital costs (based
on an opportunity cost rf eapital of 12%).  Average rail working costs in the
"with" investment case were derivea from the financial projections made for
this project appraisal (Anniex Ž), The resulting long term average working
costs were US cents 1,4i9 pe  toa-km and locomotive and wagon capital costs
at US cents 1312 per ton-km, both for the period after 1989.
17.       The economic internal rate of return (ERR) for the overall
Investment Program (i.e. the Rehabilitation Program and the Electrification
Project), taking into account the sunk costs of the Electrification Project,
was estimated at 13%, and the net present value of the net benefits, using a
12% discount rate, was estimated at about US$50 million equivalent; excluding
the sunk costs of the Electrification Project, the estimated ERR of the
program would be above 20% (Table 1).
D.   Evaluation of the Metropolitan Train Modernization Project
18.       The Metropolitan Project includes the rehabilitation of some old
electric multiple units, extensions to the Southern Line, new stations and
modal interchange facilities on the present Eastern Line, a new workshop,
improved signaling systems and some minor investments. The total cost of
these investments is estimated at US$74 million; the remaining investments,



- 122 -                        ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 4
to be implemented over the period 1987 So 1989, would total about US$52
million equivalent.
19.       The main benefits of the proposed investments will be to increase
demand for transport on the system and to increase capacity to cater to this
increase and the projected growth in present demand, rather than to reduce
operating costs.
20.       The evaluation has therefore been based on a comparison of the
costs of rail transport with those of the principal alternative mode, urban
bus. The average bus cost, which was derived from the accounts of two urban
bus companies and some incomplete statistics on average load factors, was
estimated at US cents 4.0 per passenger-km. Metropolitan railway costs,
which were derived from FEPASA's operations costing system, was estimated at
US cents 1.5 per passenger-km. The average rate of growth of passengers
transported in the period 1982 to 1985 was 9% per year. This growth was
achieved in a period of economic depression with the population of the
metropolitan area increasing more slowly than projected. In the preceding
two years the rate of growth of passengers transported was much higher, but
this period followed very closely on the major change in metropolitan
services in 1980. The projected growth for the period up to 1992 is a
continuation of the 9% anaual growth of the period 1982 to 1985, reducing to
6% for the period up to the year 2000 and to 3% for the following period.
21.       The estimated ERR of the Metropolitan Project was estimated at 21%
under the base assumptions. With a 20%-lower-than-expected traffic, the
estimated ERR would be reduced to 16%; if, in addition, investment costs were
20% higher, the estimated ERR would still be acceptable, i,e. about 12%
(Table 2).
May 1987



- 123 -                                ANNEX 9
Table 1
BRAZIL
FErASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of FEPASA's Investment Program
Rail Traffic    Transport Costs   Transfer Costs         Net
Invest. (billion ton-km)    (US$ million)        (US$ million)    Benefit
Year (US$ m.) with prj  without with prj  wlthout with prj  without  (US$M.)
1986    206.9                                                             -206.9
1987    137.1      8.03     7.88    329.6    328.0       36.2      35.5   -139.4
1988    154.9      8.87     7.88    327.0    353.6       38.4      34.1   -132.7
1989     61.4      9.80     7.88    319.6    381.8       33.1      33.3       1.0
1990     44.4    10.15      7.88    314.9    392.5       34.5      33.4     32.2
1991     29.2    10.43      7.88    310.6    401.0       35.4      33.4     59.2
1992     22.8    10.72      7.88    307.1    409.8       36.3      33.4     76.9
1993      4.2    11.02      7.88    304.6    418.9       37.2      33.3    106.2
1994              11.32     7.88    312.9    428.0       38.3      33.3    110.2
1995              11.64     7.88    321.7    437.8       39.4      33.3    110.0
1996              11.87     7.88    328.1    444.7       40.1      33.3    109.8
1997              12.11     7.88    334.7    452.0       41.8      34.0    109.5
1998              12.35     7.88    341.4    459.3       42.6      34.0    109.4
1999              12.60     7.88    348.3    466.9       43.4      34.0    109.2
2000              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2001              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2002              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2003              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2004              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2005              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2006              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2007              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2008              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2009              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
2010              12.85     7.88    355.2    474.5       43.4      33.3    109.2
ERR     NPV(12%,US$m.)
- Including sunk costs of electrification project:           13%                51
- excluding sunk costs of electrification project:          22%                264
Source: FEPASA and Mission est.mates
May 1987



- 124 -
IAZIL                                                  ANNEX  9
Table 2
FEPASA RAILVAY  NE481LITATI0N PROJECT
Econonic Evaluatlon of Metropolitan Train Modernizatlon Project
Annusl   Annual    Annual    Annual
Pass-Wn After Irpact of     Increase   Equivalent   Annual   Annual                 Not       Not       Net        Net
No. of   StatIon      NOw         Line        In      Losst of Bus   Cost      Cost    Annual   Benefit  8eneftit   Benefit   Benefit
Year Pasts-4ln   I pro".  Stations  Extensions   Pa8s-ian    Pas-lan      Saving   Ssving    Invest.       I/       2/         3/        4/
(PPAs-an)  (P*ss-ia)  (Pass-bIn)  (Pass-ln)  (Pes-in)  (Pass-in)    (CZ$ n)  (USS n)  CUSS n)  IUSS mn)  (US  n)   IUSS m)   ZUSS in)
1966  1,665      1,748      1,818       1,873        208         190        97.0       7.0    19.40    -12.39   -13.79    -16.27    -17.67
1987  1,815      1,906      1,982      2,04t         226        207        105.7       7.6    18.60    -10.96   -12.49    -14.68    -16.21
1988   1,978     2,077      2,160      2,225         247         225       115.3       8.3    18.00      -9.67   -11.34    -13.27      -14.94
1989  2,156      2,264      2,355      2,425         269        246        125.6       9.1    17.70      -8.62   -10.44      -12.16    -13.98
1990  2,3        2,468      2,567      2,644         293         268       136.9       9.9                9.89      7,92       9.89      7.92
1991   2,562     2,690      2,797      2,881         320        292        149.3      10.8                10.79     8.63      10.79      8.63
1992  2,716      2,851      2,965      3,054         339         309       158,2      11.4                11.43     9.15      11.43      9.15
1993  2,878      3,M22      3,43       3,238         359        328        167.7      12.1               12.12      9.69     12.12       9.69
1994   3,051     3,204      3,332      3,432         381         348       177.8      12.8                12.85    10.28      12.85     10.28
1995  3,234      3,396      3,532      3,638         404        369        188.5      13.6               13.62     10.89      13.62     10.89
1996  3,428      3,600      3,744      3,856         428        391        199.8      14.4                14.43    It.55      14.43     11.55
1997  3.634      3,816      3,968      4,087         453        414        211.7      15.3               15.30     12.24      15.30     12.24
1998   3,862     4,045      4,206      4,333         481        439        224.4      16.2               16.22    12.97       16.22     12.97
1999  4,083      4,287      4,459      4,593         509        465        237.9      17.2               17.19     13.75      17.19     13.75
2000  4,328      4,545      4,726      4,868         540         493       252,2      18.2                18.22    14.58      18.22     14.56
2001   4,545     4,772      4,963      5,112         567         518       264.8      !9.1               19.13    15.31       19.13     1S.31
2002  4,772      5,010      5,211       5,367        595         544       278.0      20.1               20.09     16.07      20.09     16.07
2003   5,010     S,261      5,471      5,635         625         571       291.9      21.1               21.09    16.88       21.09     16.88
2004  5,261      5,524      5,745      5,917         656         599       306.5      22.1               22.1S    17.72       22.15     17.72
2W05  5,524      5,p00      6,032      6,213         689        629        321.9      23.3               23.26     18.60     23.26      18.60
ErS      212       163        172       126
1/ Base cae
2/ Oemnd reduced by 20t
3/ Investant costs Inereaeed by 20t
4/ Cases 2 and 3 eunined
May 1987



-125-                         ANNEX 1O
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of the Project and Project Components
A.   Introduction
1.        The project or, more precisely, the Rehabilitation Program, i.e.,
excluding the technical assistance and the training components, was evaluated
overall, and the following project components were also evaluated separately:
a.   track infrastructure program
b.   track superstructure program
c.   track maintenance equipment program
d.   workshop program
e.   marshaling yard program
f.   intermodal terminal program.
g.   locomotive repair and re-engining program; and
h.   telecommunications program.
2.        The economic evaluation of the project overall (i.e., FEPASA's
Rehabilitation Program) was based upon rail operating cost savings as well as
overall transport cost savings related to traffic which would transfer to
road transport if the project were not implemented, following the same
methodology as described in Annex 9 for the evaluation of the overall
investment program. Since project components are highly interdependent and
since, ih particular, it is not possible to attribute system capacity
increases to particular investments, the economic evaluations of the
individual project components were based upon estimates of cost-savings on
the rail transport operation only.
B.   Economic Evaluation of the Project
3.        The project is defined in Chapter 4 and, in more detail, in Annex 6
of the report. The total base cost of the proposed investments is US$223
million.
4.        The method of evaluation was similar to that used for the
evaluation of the overall investment plan. For the evaluation of the
project, the electrification project was included in the specification of the
"without" investment case. This resulted in a change in the capacity and
average cost estimate for the "without" investment case.
5.        The electrification project in itself will lead to an increase in
system capacity and a reduction in working costs as compared to the present
system. An analysis of the impact of the electrification project on a
corridor basis indicated an overall capacity increase of some 30%. This
increase was applied in the evaluation to the capacity estimate of 7,880
million ton-km used in the evaluation of the overall investment plan.
6.        Estimates of the impact of the electrification proposals on long
term average working costs were derived from the input data for the



- 126 -
ANNEX 10
Page 2 of 7
specification of the "with" investment case from the previous evaluation.
The resulting long term average cost was US cents 3.141 for the "without"
case, the long term average for the "with" case being the same as in the
previous evaluation, i.e., US cents 2.811 per ton-km.
7.        The internal rate of return on the project was estimated at about
21%, and the net present value at a discount rate of 12% was estimated at
about US$110 million (Table 1). With the transport demand reduced by 20% or
investment costs increased by 20%, the project's estimated ERR would be
reduced to 17% or 18% respectively; with both the above assumptions combined,
the project would still have an attractive estimated ERR of 14%.
C.   Economic Evaluation of the Project Components
(i) Track Infrastructure Program
8.        The objective of investment in track infrastructure is to avoid the
costs associated with derailments attributable to the poor condition of track
infrastructure. The costs associated with such derailments are the recovery
costs of damaged traction and rolling stock, the repair of damaged track
components, the loss of productive output from the damaged vehicles and costs
due to the consequence of line blockage until the damaged vehicles can be
removed and the track reinstated.
9.        Derailments due to the poor condition of track infrastructure are
rare events in a statistical sense, but the cost of each "event" is high. It
is not possible to project historic data regarding the frequency of
derailments due to poor track infrastructure conditions on a line-by-line
basis. Instead, it is necessary to predict the probability of the occurrence
of the rare event and, hence, to predict the probability of a particular rate
of return on investments being achieved.
10.       There are two stages in the determination of the benefit of
investment in a part'cular link. First, it is necessary to calculate the
cost of each derailment, a cost which will be dependent on the volume of
traffic since this determines the cost of interruptions to traffic. Second,
it is necessary to specify the probability function for the rare event and,
hence, the probability of achieving a particular rate of return on
investment.
11.       Using this method, the probability of achieving an internal rate of
return of at least 12% was estimated at greater than 50% on all the links for
which an investment in track infrastructure was proposed. On 87% of the
links, the probability of an internal rate of return was greater than 75%
(Table 2).
(ii) Track Superstructure Program
12.       The evaluation of track superstructure proposals was undertaken for
each link for which a project was proposed. There were ten links in the
export corridor with a total length of 580 km, six links in the meter-gauge
corridor with a total length of 494 km and six links in the broad-gauge
corridor with a total length of 916 km. Most of the links for which a
project is proposed have suffered from the consequences of insufficient



- 127 -                        ANNEX 10
Page 3 of 7
maintenance, particularly over the past six years.  The benefits of inves.ing
to remedy the consequences of such insufficient maintenance are:
(a)  reduced traction and rolling stock maintenance costs;
(b)  increased train operating speeds, resulting in reduced train crew
costs and reduced needs for locomotive and wagon investment; and
(c)  reduced routine track maintenance costs.
13.       The benefits of these three types have been estimated for each link
for which a project is proposed. For each link, train operating speeds have
been estimated for the "with" and "without" investment case. Both cases
assumed that all other components of the Investment Program had been
implemented. The unit costs per hour of train operation were calculated
(including train crew costs and locomotive and wagon capital costs) and
applied to the time savings on each link to derive the estimate of train
operating cost savings.
14.       Twenty percent of locomotive maintenance costs and 40% of wagon
maintenance costs were assumed to be influenced by the condition of track
superstructure. Both were assumed to reduce by 10% after the track had been
rehabilitated.
15.       Routine preventive track maintenance costs were estimated for 14
track categories. Categories were defined by their physical characteristics,
which, in turn, were a function of train speeds, axle loads and total gross
tons. Investment in track superstructure would change the track category for
the particular links for which projects were proposed. A certain amount of
optimization of investments was poesible by testing the internal rate of
return on investment for different changes of track category. Since train
operating speeds were assumed to be a function of track category, the time-
related benefits were also related to the proposed change in track category.
16.       The evaluation was carried out for the proposed track
superstructure investment as a whole, for the investment in each corridor and
the investment in each link. The economic rete of return fot the entire
track superstructure program was estimated at about 16%; the economic rate of
return of the program components on each of the corridors was estimated at
about 15% for the Araguari-Santos corridor, 20% for the meter-gauge corridor
and 16% for the broad-gauge corridor respectively. Each individual link also
showed a rate of return in excess of 12% (Tables 3 to 7).
(iii) Track Maintenance Equipment Program
17.       FEPASA has prepared a Track Maintenance Plan which indicates the
desirable frequency of geometric correction of track superstructure. FEPASA
proposes to replace existing track maintenance machinery and to acquire new
units to undertake this task. The benefits of the proposed investment have
been measured as the difference in the cost of manual track correction
compared to that by mechanized methods.
18.       Different frequencies of geometric correction are proposed for
lines with different densities of traffic. The proposed frequency is once



- 128 -                       ANNEX 10
Page 4 of 7
every three years for lines with less than 3.5 million gross tons and once
every two years for other lines. The rate of return on track machines
required for low density lines will therefore be different to that for
machines on high density lines. In practice, all machines will be used on
both types of line. The economic rate of return of the proposed investment
in track machinery was estimated at about 30.0%.
(iv) Workshop Program
19.       The project includes a total investment of US$8.6 million for the
rehabilitation of traction and rolling stock workshops and the purchase of
mechanical engineering equipment. Also included is machinery to allow FEPASA
to undertake the necessary rehabilitation work on 60% of the traction motors
each year.
20.       In the evaluation of these proposals, it was assumed that the
benefit of the proposals would be evident in the increased availability of
locomotives. It was assumed that, without investment, the availability of
locomotives (defined as the percent of annual hours that a locomotive is
available for service) would decline by 0.2% per year to a minimum of 55%.
With investment, availability was assumed to increase by 0.5% per year to a
maximum of 82%. Although the Operating Plan of FEPASA is based upon an
availability of 85% for diesel locomotives, this cannot be achieved by
investment in workshops alone. Investment in locomotive rehabilitation will
also be necessary: 82% is the maximum availability which can he achieved
without this additional investment.
21.       The present availability of locomotives is constrained by the lack
of spare parts. In calculating the impact of workshops investment, it was
assumed in both the "with" and "without" investment cases that the problem of
spare parts supply had been resolved. The benefit of investment was measured
by the avoidance of the need to purchase additional new electric locomotives
to transport the projected demand. The economic internal rate of return on
workshops investment was estimated at about 28%.
(v) Marshaling Yard Program
22.       Some of the present marshaling yards have insufficient nominal
capacity for the projected number of wagons which will use them. The
consequence of lack of investment in additional capacity would be increased
congestion, resulting in reduced wagon rotation, delays to train operations
and, finally, a limit on system capacity.
23.       The evaluation of the proposed investments was made taking these
benefits into account. The economic rate of return of the marshaling yard
program was estimated at about 16%.
(vi) Intermodal Terminal Program
24.       It is proposed that four intermodal transfer facilities be
constructed at FEPASA's main railheads in the interior, i.e., Presidente
Epitacio, Panorama, Santa Fe do Sul and Colombia. The facilities would allow
grain transported by road and river from the State of Mato Grosso do Sul to
transfer to rail for the part of its journey within the State of Sao Paulo.



- 129 -
ANNEX 10
Page 5 of 7
The average rail trip length would range between 450 km (from Colombia) and
735 km (from Santa Fe do Sul). In addition to the reduced transport costs,
there would be benefits of reduced delay to road vehicles waiting to unload
and rail wagons being loaded.
25.       The proposed projects include the cost of storage capacity for
between 6,000 tons (Presidente Epitacio) and 18,000 (Colombia). This is in
excess of that required for the operation of a road to rail transfer of
gUains. The costs attributable to the rail transport system in the
evaluation therefore excluded the costs of storage capacity above that
required for the operation of the transport system. The transport system was
assumed to require two days storage capacity, assuming 90 day transporting
period.
26.       The internal rates of return for the four terminal proposals were
estimated at about 16% (Presidente Epitacio), 20% (Panorama), 31% (Santa Fe
do Sul) and 43% (Colombia). These reaults indicate a relationship between
the rate of return and the distance of road transport avoided and the volume
of grains to be transported. The basic data, and the sensitivity of the
rates of return to lower benefits, higher costs and a combination of both,
are shown in the following table.
EVALUATION OF INLAND SILO INVESTMENTS
_=_______________________________________________________- - - - - - - - - - - - - - - - -
Pres.              Santa Fe
Epitacio  Panorama   do Sul   Colombia
Total Silo Capacity (tons)              6,000    16O000   16,000     18,000
Transfer Capacity (tons)                5,300     3,500    8,000      9,000
Demand (tons)                         241,400   161,000  365,000    413,600
Average Road Distance (km)                550       680      735        450
Average Road Delay (hrs)                   50        36       60         36
Average Wagon Delay (hrs)                  30        80       30         50
Road Transport Cost (US$ per ton km)    0.024     0.024    0.024      0.024
Rail Transport Cost (US$ per ton km)    0.018     0.019    0.018      0.018
Transfer Cost (US cents ton)              4.0       4.0      4.0        4.0
Investment Cost (US$ m)                   3.6       2.8      5.0        5.5
Internal Rates of Return
Base case                                 16%       20%      31%        43%
Benefits -20%                             12%       16%      23%        31%
Costs    +20%                             13%       16%      24%        33%
-/+ Costs & Benefits                       9%       12%      18%        25%
…-------_______---------------------------------------------.._------__------



- 130 -
ANNEX 1 0
Page 6 of 7
(vii) Locomotive Repair and Re-engining
27.       The project includes provision for the general overhaul of 136
2,000-HP diesel locomotives which will be between 13 and 14 years old in
1990. The volume of work is beyond the capacity of the railway's own
workshops and it is proposed that 50 locomotives be overhauled by the private
industry at an estimated cost of US$21 million equivalent.
28.       It is also proposed to re-engine 15 1,200-HP diesel locomotives
which are used to haul bauxite trains on the tightly curved Aguai-Bauxita
line. The locomotives will be 33 years old in 1990, but they have already
been extensively refurbished with i.ew cabling. The bogies and traction
motors are in good condition and have an expected remaining life of 15 to 20
years. The diesel motors, however, need to be replaced. An estimated cost
is US$300,000 equivalent per locomotive. The alternatives to investment are
either new locomotives or road transport.
29.       The two proposals have been evaluated separately.  The benefits of
reconstructing the 50 Class 3,800/7,800 2,100-HP locomotives have been
estimated on the basis of avoiding higher road transport costs, since the
alternative of buying new locomotives was considered inferior in all respects
to reconstructing existing locomotives and therefore invalid as a basis for
evaluation of the proposal. The costs of road transport were assumed to be
the same as in the other evaluations, that is US$0.0368 per ton-km. The cost
of rail transport was assumed to decrease as in the evaluation of the overall
investment program.
30.       The benefits of re-engining the 15 Class 3,200 1,200-HP locomotives
was estimated on the basis of avoiding increased engine maintenance costs.
The maintenance costs were estimated on the basis of materials and labor
costs separately. Materials costs were assumed to be 2.5% of the value of
the engine for a not re-engined locomotive and 1.5% of the value for a
re-engined locomotive. Labor costs were based on 5 men per locomotive for a
not re-engined locomotive and 3 men for a re-engined locomotive. The rates
for existing locomotives were based on FEPASA's present rates, and for
re-engined locomotives on experience of other railway operators.
31.       The internal rates of return were estimated at 15% and 17%
respectively for the two projects. The variation of the rates of return with
benefits reduced by 20%, costs increased by 20% and a combination of both
factors is shown in Table 8.
(viii) Telecommunications Program
32.       The telecommunications investments, which are described in Annex 6,
Section C, have an estimated base cost of US$35 million equivalent. They
will be made in phases, as indicated in Tables 4.2 to 4.4 of the text.
33.       The benefits to be derived from the proposed investments are:
(a) savings on maintenance materials, essentially replacement wires,
estimated at about US$1.7 million p.a.. and reductions of maintenance
personnel, estimated to about 66 employees, equivalent to annual cost savings
of about US$800,000 equivalent; (b) savings on public network bills,
estimated to about US$1.2 million equivalent p.a. for both voice and data



- 131 -                      ANNEX 10
Page 7 of 7
communications; (c) reductions in the number of accidents due to
communication problems, estimated at about 15% of the total number of
permanent way collisions or about US$200,000 equivalent p.a.; (d) train crew
time savings and motive power and rolling stock capital cost savings,
estimated at about US$600,000 and US$3.3 million equivalent p.a.
respectively, to be achieved through improved train control.
34.       The estimated ERR of the proposed telecommunications investments
would be 18% and the estimated net present value of the net benefits would be
about US$10 million equivalent. If benefits were 20% lower, or the
investment costs were 20% higher than the present estimates, the estimated
ERR would be about 15%; under both assumptions combined, it would still be
acceptable, at about 12%.
EVALUATION OF TELECOMMUNICATION INVESTMENTS (US$ million)
---------------------------------------------------------------__----------
Cost Savings on
Rolling   Total
Investment     Telecum.      Public                  Stock      Net
Year       Cost       Maintenance    Network   Accidents   Capital   Benefits
1988       1.4                                                           -1.4
i989       3.9                                                           -3.9
1990       1.3                                                           -1.3
1991       8.5            0.8          0.4                     1.2       -6.1
1992      17.0            0.8          0.4                     1.2      -14.6
1993       2.9            0.8          0.4                    1.2        -0.5
1994-2010                 2.5           1.2         0.2       3.9         7.8
Estimated ERR: - base assumptions:                              18%
- benefits reduced 20%:                         15%
- costs increased and benefits reduced 20%:   12%
May 1987



- 132-                             ANNEX 10
Table 1
BRAZ I L
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluatlon of the Project
Rail Traffic    Transport Costs   Transfer Costs       Net
Invest. (billion ton-km)    CUSS million)      (USS million)    Benefit
Year (US$ m.) with prJ  without with prJ  without with prj  without  (US$m.)
…_ --------     - - -----   -------   --------   -------   --------   -------   -------
1987     23.5     8.03     8.03    329.6    329.6      36.2     36.2    -23.5
1988     59.4     8.87     8.87    327.0    327.0      38.4     38.4    -59.4
1989     43.5     9.80     9.80    319.6    319.6      41.4     41.4    -43.5
1990     44.4    10.15    10.15    314.9    331.0      40.2     43.1    -25.4
1991     29.2    10.43    10.24    310.6    339.7      38.3     43.4      5.0
1992     22.8    10.72    10.24    307.1    348.5      36.3     43.3     25.6
1993      4.2    11.02    10.24    304.6    357.6      37.2     43.2     54.8
1994             11.32    10.24    312.9    366.8      38.3     43.3     58.9
1995             11.64    10.24    321.7    376.5      39.4     43.3     58.7
1996             11.87    10.24    328.1    383.5      40.1     43.2     58.5
1997             12.11    10.24    334.7    390.8      41.8     44.1     58.4
1998             12.35    10.24    341.4    398.1      42.6     44.2     58.3
1999             12.60    10.24    348.3    405.7      43.4     44.1     58.1
2000             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2001             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2002             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2003             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2004             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2005             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2006             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2007             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2008             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2009             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
2010             12.85    10.24    355.2    413.3      43.4     43.3     57.9
sensitivlty analysis            ERR     NPV(12%,US$m.)
.base assumptions               21%               113
.demand reduced 20%             17%               59
.costs Increased 20%            18%               81
.both combined                  14%               27
Source: FEPASA and Mission estimates
May 1987



Wa  U  9      31          U,         9          **l                         9 ~~~~~~sevMT00U,           U          US pI'9w svaaa                     m314noS
ma  a           U,          a,         *          w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  1~Z.    S99           U 
.4  U   I          U,          WI         9          199~~                             ~      ~~~           ~~          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ M9  9I SO  -  3*'U1.: "t=ll
144  .        .          a.         ~~ ~ ~           ~    ~~~~~~                                                  ~~         ~~~~~~~~in  9    u'sO     O, $IU-. 
U14          U             £         W             I        9           9            W'                           I1 el                                         W'lttll,      I .l9
399  3           ,          WI          m          a         9,9           31'I           *            SI             U          US                 9W'W. U. -  S.11I) el
O"I          3            9           *          44                      I           L St                        GI            WI          IIU'* 
3,14  3  I    Ut   191    I    WI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1  'to                  I             tic           U.   *01                           I)1'Il4U,
3.U  3   9         9W           WI        II         B*9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-  "I*    NoU            U                                      09141,.
U.'s         U            I          U             ,                   :9           4FI,-U                                                  *WI .,lI$
1919   3      9          U,          499        I         Ill           UII            I            149           0           44             ~~~L1 - ~IS,9l9 W  Si
U'lI  U  1      49           U                    U'9          9W'~     ~    ~      ~     ~~       ~     ~~     ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.  I  ,  nw .I  - o 14 *
511  9     a          31           U         I~~        U'9           Wi            I            U,             an          IL.                    3*'U 19. 11194W113 119 w
O~                                                                     .  W U  . 3     ,'                         3W                        *U'S-- 1d1   l
WU  S  &  3*      Ut  ~~~l             W¶            U,I           I             1*4           WI          U,                     3*3W. WIUWIU, 119~e
W4            U            99,                              , I AS,9                 U,'           1            ISO            U)          94                     IIWUIWII13I
WV1          U             4          3           1         II         .14,           W                         441            14)V                                        Stftl19 m1911,l
311  3           9          WI~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9  be  II         US            W It                        5U                         )W4''19ill 
Oi                                   la W        Ut          I          9            UI            4            3*U                        3                     IU-.113U9199
SR   14  9   39   35        9          Wi            US             I           994            U           U,                   '19 U.   9I1l9l9W 19114 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~co  s
3*   U           9          WI          9W        II         14,9          1W             I            U,             U          3*9"s  1.0  :      WIW IILIIII'
a's           U                        ,          U          .         3,1            m                          9             U           U                     W9    .I,9IW
aW           14el                                 *         3          il            W                            *5                      1)3'   .39*9'
SW  14  9  9W  3*   U          U'S)          U,'l           I           45             19          WI               3I9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ . 111919 9191919~~~~~~-SeSi
OMS           U                      U            3*        U          St)                                                                                    SOIU    W*'9   .p9139111
OW            3                        S          32         U         WI                                                                                     colIU    W  1    *19WlU1
W.U  U                   U,          Ut         3          1411         9W'l           I            3*~~~~~~~~~~~~S  1.       U9`                    39'9.  U ." 9ll0    
W'9           1            S                                                                                    An 3on U'II WI    3*  14   39                      i'W91IS 11l
WI)   3       9          III         3*       U~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~lu   S*4I   U,1                                                                            = 3*U   -U-. U.  U,,19
.3            3                      39           ou        Ut         II'I:          aII                        U                         Ift               at      ' 11. ft- ft I*l
1,4110       U            S           I          U,         U          lI            WI1           I             W             U           91                      W=l1911994311
3'9          U            9            ,         11         I            V           U'             I           IIW                        9W                    U,'-" Sit WW4Still  1
'S           USIIIV                                                                                             US1 ,'    4)WI             4                   1SO31..-11  3*Wt
II'S   3      II        191          54~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l                WI'9   5                  elU,          WI          3                   9114
UWo                       I           *          U          I          #St   wit       I W                      Ut             31          99                 *I   1'Wl 1.91
U'S   U          LI        ~~     ~ ~~~           ~     ~    ~~~~         ~~~U,  SI  we.1  WI U        49-                         ,               U,'14L -. lUl           
U'S  U   9          Ill         U,        I          09*     ~    ~~~            ~      ~     ~~~     ~     ~~          ~~         ~        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ iIn 1  3  U  V,'UW  11 4'
9*19   14     41         WI         ~~ ~ ~           ~ ~~~~ ~          ~~~~~~U,  I  wit U,l 4        9 $111  I                                       U,Vit -   W, ,IIl3--I
SI5          UW I                                 I                     'l           UI            1             U             W            ,WW .199II
WV  3    1         WI           *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  9  W~~~~~~~IV  W,l   I            Il            U           99U'IN                        . -II
94W  19          4          I*I~~~~~~~~~~~U  lWawU'                        U," I                       M9                        M *                   ,1S.U,lenfm
*'6          St           9          ,a1         t*         1            vI          W*I           9             D                         MIC'1   -  WS W WI3l.'1
SW                                                Is *1 1              eV£1          a,~            9            4                         1.                   31193 .IIUI,9
U'S  U  I  WI        3*         4          199           U,';          I            CII            U           III                    WS'U,.lIlU,191a149fl~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~s  04*. 
19'U  U  9         U,           9I.       9          U4~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~:  U,'I:  U  1l         14                              'a U~   U.991,9
S,V4                                                                   O I U  9 9 1.   ,I           4            U              1           9                    *11   1911W11
5.91  4  4      WI          SI         I          11,9          3*1           9            WI             U           III                  WISL19.IWI'41#WI3*~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.K:  OS-11
OW  U    II         U           199       9          WI            114~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~9   II  a.   9W         U               *9. U,1 .1 31III= ,1911*:
W'Il  14            9          WI          3*         II        14'           114 ISI                                    SI         in                    WI~Il1          VWI1
WU            999                                  *         I         UI            I  a                        atS                       tit                  =%a9 St  Ittitll 314 91133
SmI           14           9          9           I 9) Ua at9I                                                    U,           so          oil149   I.ll
U'S                                                                                  IsI U   S   I 1*) 1  I.     WI                        It.             m        1l91W1U11
1914   3         I          19)~~~~~~~~~~~~~ol  U0  14        "4*          So             I            19.            14          1                   Wl  WilIlI'9 U
e.,'          3                       S It       la9                   Olt9,         so4            I            W             Ol          asWI1119l9
U'S  S        I          3*           14~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l  U  1'. Is                             to             aI          U!91' -1 A.                          .U
:19S         U                       U           U,        I           99           44             I            494                       3                 941'             1 .11
MI US .9  W)1941d9  9WW1  II   slU.911    3194  UIIWI II  191491119 -   *113M141          U      I) 9114131      31~~~~~09  W                      -SS--S
4IIIU)11119.'I*                                      1111        9  III              W
Z   ~~~~~~~~~~~IqwJ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~                                     1493*~~~~~~~~~~~~~       t                                           l
-                                                              -             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-0



FEPASA RkM.YAY IfM4V3LITA7IG4 PVI1.r
B:OMIC EVIJATI0N OF 1RkA0 108R.XrATIII PRW.O#M
A. N    M-SAHM CWJD09
1. AW(SSWXANIIT                45  II    5  4        13410       67S   2245   23    232   NO2              10      3    CM   2m    AX         3    (3    2726    2mm
2. LIA.XAAmHM                 2I9  m    4 3(e)       34122       411   295    4=2   4381   533             la     (a    (3    (3   ZNx   am    ZX          753   1in
3. EWN3*qDIPASSI              IN4  v    5  4         235         678   20      2981   322   3=2            13    1(3   4(    4(    ZN         3    cm      571    22
4. R3D.PWIDjXM W*A             67  U    5  1         8592       234   OM5   91M   2084  21108              lox    (3   £3    4(3    (3    (3    (3   ism8    1
S.     ID E COLMS/A1R          75  M    5  4                     SYS 67    66    SW7   8-741   7442       23m     C3    CM    (3   £KX   SX    (X   22             25K
6. WLM*VPAtLMA.                 0 M/.   4  2         358         384   am2    an2  130229                  is5    ON    ON         ( 3 c   low      Cs    son      140
7. P413N4104 VZTA               ) U.L.   4  2                    ox5  8    3408   OM          U2114        is9    (3    (3    (3   mm    cm    (S    427    2I
S. PmaTO14s1av                  4 MA.   3   .        5474D0       M     O      692    77    S752           is8  icts    cog   cm    as   (          cm    44(3    13
9. SMWTAj51L32                 is  U    4  2         8347        34   7=    am1    SW7   Wo                285    OX    CX   WMI    CM    CEg   (3   2317    2
8D. PXUr)Q,WYtE                 29 MA.   5  2                    232   8558   1514   3619   9831            185    CS   25    MA    2m        CM    (3    11X3    in
21. 23OCMWWD                    33  M    3  1         se          23   20M1  11t0   In54   1454             238   413   6(3    CX    CS    OX    (3   733           25
22. VOWP.C5.CTO                 Ue   U    3  1        4738        384   I=1  200S   2134  22134             20     OX    (3    (3g   ON    ZN       (3   $OM        22N
13. JWDWBALIU PS=I             1(3  U    5  4          an         678    so      670    70      so          am     (3    of    (3    cm   WM               u m      215
14. SOLID Q8E1rJlMHO WtA    67  M    5  4              482       6WS    572    640    735    fi            215    (3    C3    (3    (3    (3   WM3232
is. 9Uj.DM/Z1%                  79  M    5  2         sum5       132   641   7409   S"5   967               1us    (3   SNX   33    (3    CE    cm   1=             238
l6. 3.674  .iyAJ               114  U    6  4         I235        678   1724  1I5   2176   240              225    (3    (3    (3   5X    UX    ON    7W1           259
SA-10EX                      494                                                                                                                        8577    SN
C. gV-t04W     r-nr 
17. jm&zkt)cx    s              44  L    3  2        2)32         452    MD   154   2N         4147         238    (X   ISX   OX8    (g   CS   C(3            23    14X
15. CPMFTIAl/ID OARD            8   L    3  I         51          904   4247'  7325    122   100            144    (3    cog  171   ax3      S      (3    484    2in
19. ZTBVDRTh5.R                16   L    3  2         2U6w        452   1467    US5    18    32W            285    cm   185   138   An    2         (3   1am        1to
2D. 'A1A VS.J.55 PAM1   230   L    5  4               114         O7M   123    2)4    2113   338            25X    CEV   CO   SW8  238        X    (3    42711    23
21. S.J.J0 P5IDQ/STA.FE DO 8.1. 221  L    5  4         7212       as6    23    on      112   113                   (3    (3   238   3m    15X   185    264    15
927 ANOAORBOE                  10  L.    5  4          4445       675-   853    UN8   114   214             45M   (S    (X    (3   39   385  3XX    943            373
$Sa-WF/.                     916                                                                                                                         WV74     UK
1704.                       199                                                                                                                        23840      17%
SM..E: FEWASA wWd Mission estiut
Lby 1987



REFASO RALAY F8AR-TATD4 PRDJET
rF        PRkI   CSS  SOVP    - 19813
M      arsJ  =M  gSAV4S(
NI*F.M.  AV.OS 1RQI AV.lMO    am                      lRFIC DESrY                        MeD         DJAS & TAX
GWE 6  CAt LOCOS   TOM PER LOCO  LOAD              fE1UN   AY.9ED        (Om) 1m                COM^-        kAIN!94
aRMA3                         M    RrIN w    w P/M                tr    DM"   or      I   M      VDW    UP        Do XTU                T.   I           %         tE     m
A. EXP COC
1. ARQ  tI_    *IA             46 M  d    6  3   t.D           81D   am    48.1    00  3   22 28           14   S91  11^         Md    244       so    8        67    119
2. UM    lDLVBVA               In9 M  d    4  2  1.8D  8W             O      4S.2    09  4S  22 29  "8    171   2S    2N1 a8                     2    2D       in     33 
3. E* L14%8SSS14 M  d  S                         4   2.OD      38D   3SD   48.0  84  62  2D 28              27  I      I        4074   GD       4      13      244    5378
4. RMB.FelU/C"S BWCA    St    M *   S            I 1.8        144S  1445   43.9    41  31  27 48    170   406SW                 FM      m       3SD   26       237    am
S. POCOS tWA C/ I    7S M  d  C                  4  1.SD       2n    35D 61.8    92  9D lS  21             uS   GM    843    4C6   GM           442    B       302    S6
S. 1. fMAFlDA9 M  d    4  2   1.70    14    144S   44.8    3?  30  2C 4S  l4    263  291S    2161  ID                                           24   22        262    3L
8.2. PLVA-A9 L  d    4  2   1.70    145D 144S   43.7    38  30  21 4B    1410  2023M                                            2M   140D       293   28       11 
7.1. P/UDLA~    VISTA           10 M  *    4  2   1.70    144S  143    44.4    2S  27  3D 4S    124ra  2S2D  376                2M     816      182   is       lie       
7.2. PXUIJNIA/B0^ VISTA        10 L  *    4  2   1.70    1446  1438   48.1    13  11  SD 4C    lS19  2P7e  399S    273   803                    m7   is        12D    3073
S. PARAITION SA/SMCRI           4 kVL d    3  2   1.9D          Mg9  SOO   46.4    44  28  26 38    29ES  1406  338D    40SD   9S2              449   27       2SS    gm2
9. SmWWRTAMESUMRD               28 M  d    4  2   1.2D    1370  I60M   4S.3    70  61  1C 3D    I2S   23G9  26d0    3632  2234                  381   2D       3S3    6421
10.I. PARJ%lN"#/FEREz           29 M  d    6  2   1.C0D    1136  130    47.t    SS  39  2D 3S              69D  ISS   2281    2DS    9e4         224   12      247    3E04
20.2. PF^llNOM/PBEUEJ            19 L  d          2   1.CD      On    2S9   4S.0    47  27  2D 3S          173  I68   17E4    aJ83   7SS         347   10      3132    471
II. JUN11)/bCNAG               123 M  d    6  4   1.CD          86D   8SD   43.4    87  70  9D 29            0    232   232       269    97       29    2       31      418
SUB.-1Dm-                     76                                                                                              393SD  1304    307   196    282D   wo  
S. MEE-KG   aOfM                                                                                                                                                              L
12. SDCRCC8^/PEE                33 M  *    3  1   2.66          7CD   87D   43.2    46  37  27 30    1254  232   3690    678    9D7              SOD   19       259    7309   1
13. 1100MG".C^A-1)(             92 M  .    3  2   1.74          70D   GMD   46.S    40  43  28 44           723  1E79  2ec2    4n3   721         289   12       20D    699
14. rTATINV/UUI PINT10 UV  M*    6  4   1.6S    133    seD    44.1    49  32  37 43                        421   08   1267        417   lCl       30    a        2D     674
16. SOLID GWFr"D    rA    67 M *              6  4  1.56  230    SW    44.3    48  40  34 4D                325   05  8           386  ss         27  S          is  S 3D
t6. EM.KO[L/rT*%0A              79 V  d    6  2  1.2D           710   OM    43.7    97  6B  2D as          UD    203  223    390 I               423   17       388    am
17. IUAD JRt M                 114 M  d    6  3   1.42    UW           DW    44.6    78  32  23 27         405  127   253         S7    2E4       70   14                48 g
SUS1sXAL                      498                                                                                             2S73 3419               73      923   2136
C. BRN-KMCIU
18. lwvaxNPvS                   44 L  *    3  2 1.00  sgm    SO D S.O    61  34  42 S5                    213   140S  341    2n         453   142   13          164    29
19. C*PBW/m  G"                 8B L *        3 1   1.0   90D 9DD   44.3    40  37  3S 47    2416  347 -C*                       47a   26 S    S   27           362     43
2D. II DP04U                    IGS L  *    3  2   l.OD         9tlD   900   44.0    Sll  2S  38 46    IS9   1274  26B7    177S   ass            218   lS       131    2424
21. VERA 0W$NZ4IM              1SS  L  d    3  4   1.10    218D, 122SD   4 .6    44  3 3 a  48              40   Z27   287    lOQ        S1       12    1        11     1X5
22. AFRk4L* R^/.J.RID rtiu    20D L  d    S  4   1.12    109   120D   44.6   71D  65  27 aB                 72    GM6  2238       732   354       82    8        7A    2254
23. S.J.RIlD PRMIW/S.FE 0 SUL 22  L  d    6  4   1.12           WMS  22nD   43.2    94  89  24 37            20   156   lSS       UR     so       to    2        17     292
24. AWJVAPVMA3%VFETtOS          1SB  L  d    S  4   1.26    lOO    9eo   43.9    89  SO  27 40              4D   SB9   an        4S0   21S        66    4       47       lil
SM-UM;C8                     W07                                                                                              MM3  2EeS        732   71       83Q   14404
lTALx                        23Z                                                                                              2E0   9009    S"C   338    4SE4   9MMe
Source: FEPASA and Mlss;on Estbiwt4m
I D



sumL
FWPSA WWAY :r^auATI  PR:rE
7fkNOPATI  C06Si 5SiV    - 1Sg)
TRJ  fPT    C0n  SAVD     w=41
AV.NB.tF AV.Alt  1Rtk= AV.AN    BfTY                  7Rd+C   D8E                         DD   WT & WS
GM   CA7EWR 1S0    1N;FM ER10w6  1             RE7LW   AV.S          (OO 70S)cPIBL                     MkCWIIE
ammat/L"              IW~~1 lRACIU    D    W P/l    W UP  DOM   (TO)  UP DOM                      FI IDOW wUrAL   L= Y.                              FE    uA
A. EWR caRMO
1. AF     1 OfAMJI            4S m  d    6  3   I.SD         8D   EED    46.1    80  3   22 28    2&t?  1OV*  127            MO   282       96    9         1    2243
2. UEER*LkNDtElRABOk         129 m  d    4  2   1.00         86D   SED    46.2    09  4S  22 29   1099  1828  28B7    2134   733            246   22      142    Ja76
3. EVA*4VLlV*PA6D5S          194 M  d    6  4   2.OD         38D   3SD    48.0    84  a2  20 28         27  1767  1784    4667   aoD        bll   16      2m     amq
4. RIB.PREFQ/CMS BR"A         87 M  *    S  I   1.9D    1446  144S    43.9    41  31  27 4S   1894  4308   =2D    GMS  1984                 375   27      2S4    am2
S. P06DE CALDWSAQJ^           76 M  d    6  4   1.8D         281  3SW    b-1.8    92  90  lS 26    174   asi   8S6    41CD   674            449    a      307    6414
8 .1. REF*PE^PELINA            9 M  d    4  2   1.70    140D  1446    44.a    37  3D  2S 43   1604  2608  3110    22SS  llS3                249   13      152    ame
6 .2. RWLVPL"^bJlNl            9 L  d    4  2   1.70    140D  244S    43.7    BB  30  2S 45   1490  2229  372B    28B4  1S48                323   17      203    49e5
7.1. P4UX[NM^  VIM b5ST       1D L         4  2   1.70    144t  243S    44.4    2S  27  3D 4S   l3fl  267S  40ae    28E3   874              19S   iS      124    40e3
7.2. PAU N1430a VIST          bD L  *    4  2   1.D0    144S  1438    48.1    13  11  3D 4S   17W7  2E4   4312    298                  8B7  lFS   iS      13     4280
8. PA       -*lYSiRlA%W        4 WVL d    3  2   1.9D    ael   ow          4S.4    44  28  26 38 2117    Sl                 44   14         9      9      21     68
9. SNAWRIA^/S;IUNI            is m  d    4  2   2.2D    137t)  2SD6    4S.3    70  8l  16 30   I38   14J5  2%S1    3633  2375              42S   22       3Da    n149
lD.1. PARUWAC/VRWRLE           19 M  d    S  2   1.CD    113   130D    47.7    63  39  2D JC    GM8  20n   22Bl    2230  1CO                233   13      2S5    aweB
10.2. PMTlIMA/FRE E            1  L  d          2   I.CD      ael    mS    48.0    47  27  20 as    278   7W 2 D7 WO         3J34   923     407   12      448    an2
II. JJRpl^/DNO*GU             123 m  d    t  4   1.0D         SW    BED    43.4    67  70  2D 29          0   237   237      29S    so       3D    2       32      427
"U-=DAL                      742                                                                                          433119 1410?    42D4  221    3Ze   e4so"
S. MEJER-AUaE CORR]DOR                                                                                                                                                     Z
12. SMROtEF/PER                83 M  *    3  1   l.8S         X)D  S70    43.2    4E  37  27 Ja   ISR   2ees  4208   f7E   lC8              42  2  3      3D3    aml 
13. VPERO/ENG.C&LIXO           S2 M  o    3  1   1.74         7aD   OMD    46.e    40  4a  2S 44    OMD  2Cb  2879    6214   7SB            a2D   23      22      ams
14. rTAlWTDGY=FNT             10M lo       *    6  4   1.6S    130D   ssD    44.1    4a  32  37 43    4SC   Ma  130D         402   212       3a    7       22      ano
16. SOLID GFNDW YIC*VO MITA    ey M  *    6  4   2.S6    23JO   ssD    44.3    49  4D  34 40    JE2   7as  Yo3               43D   10        30    e       21    6So
la. ENOJS9SILOrrAPEA           79 M  d    C  2   1.2D         7bD   saD    43.7    97  es  20 as   2sss  1294  2SM          4eas  2C90      6      2D     4eZ    7209
r.tLEo*DJRYEuR                114 M  d    e  3   1.42    IID   200         44.S    78  d2  2a 27    46Z  153S  I=n           024   2?9       Ty   1S       Ss    Z34
SUBAWTAL                     494                                                                                          la"0   am6    23ss   8a    UO2   24023
C. BROOD-GMUI C£RRIDa
le. Jl0Zm/1OU"FINw             44 L  *    3  2   2.OD         SW    90D    61.0    e1  34  42 SO   22o7  14e2  J8a9    22S1   480           147   14      170    32MQ
19. CAUDDAN5WO CLARD           es L  e    3       1  .00    soM    OM    44.3    40  ST  as 47   27a   4179  OMe    6we  117                3Es   a2      416    7sez
2D. rrvvam                    NSS L  *    3  2   1.OD         90D   SOD    44.0    60  25  a3  4S   lr/   ItS   3168    UK    426           131   iS      14i    2
21. VEA  O AZ       /M        14S2 L  d    0  4   1.20    1180  I=8    43.6    44  ao  3a 46             SD   2F    319      in1    el       14    2       13      2U
22. ASVVA      .J.R7D PFIEM   20D L  d    6  4   1.12    xm   I             44AS  ?0  BB n   38  9"            rJ  lOQ62            SOD      123 12  lZIce          3
23. S.JlRlO IWWDM5A.FE OD SUL 22  L  d    S  4   1.12    X011O  220         43.2    94  89  24 37    NB    Wf   SOD          6SW   284       So    S       64      90S
24. AW WW Vo                  190 L  d    S  4   1.2C    WmO            9l  43.9    B9  ao  27 40    122    948   4          a30   370       9So    7      SD    2387
sLBrluL                     W8                                                                                             22   32[n       913 87  #S6   17
1UEIL                       2313                                                                                          73749 21364    awe   xi133           on
Sourc: FBPS  wd Missin Estifft4
ky 1SB7
r4o



SPZL
FEPASA RPAIMY RIUBXFlTI  PRD.ESC
71D afMT}N?  COET SAYVD  - 1996
7RAD3N OPMT3NC MM~ SAVDM (LM/1"4
AVJ.NBcF AV.     IR% 1J.LI AVAAGI   EWTY               11PFIC 0G0I1Y                  OX0JDIG W7M A TA7M
£MG    CATE?wY LOCOS   1TM  PER ID   LWOA       IF1r8   AV.~           (OXXD lUE            CAPIrAL      MADXT4040E
affDORAIW                     IW   *VCIRl   'AD  W P/TRIN  tP        Wm4  (flJ6        IF DOM4   10  1    IF  DOM4 1AL   LOOM1  W.   LOCO    MG  (I*W                1UTAL.
A. E*0T CU08
1. APASWtAU/L8 Abr>            46 M  d    5  3   1.8           SO 8D37    46.1    80  39  22 28   252  229B  1648              9      319      125   11      74    1513
2. LEERUIAtEERABaA             129 M  d    4  2   1.80         8SOD    SD    46.2    69  46  22 29  1254  2Z24  3488    2596   891             298   25    173    3984
3. EVA*EIBN4%PASSOS            184 M  d    E  A   2.0D         3e0   38D    45.0    S4  92  20 29    33  2138  2171    6644   8S               822   18    332    7319
4. RIO.PRET)/CASA WCA          87 U  e    6  1   1.80    1446  1446    43.9    41  31  27 46  2304  6241  7548    7624  2AI5                   45B   32    309   103
6. P06 DE CALD^S/AGUAI          75 M  d    6  4   I.W)         281   35D    61.8    92  OD  16 25   212   829  2040    49,B   698              646   10    374    4817
6.1. FEILAW/PDLUMI              9 M  d    4  2   1.70    140D  1446    44.8    37  3D  26 4   1830  1964  3784    2795  1"JS                   308   28    197    4724
6.2. RfELM4IPMLPaA              9 L  d    4  2   1.70    140D  1446    43.7    38  30  25 46  1824  2712  463B    3R3   1883                   301   21    247    0C41
7.1. P4AIHLA  VITA             10 M *        4  2   1.70    1446  1438    44.4    25  27  30 45  I6    3268  4910    3471  20                  238   2D    1        4944
7.2. PAAv'8GW V3STA            10 L *        4  2   1.70    1445  143B    46.1    13   U   30 46  215   3098  5246    3828  104                2     30    283    s
8. P      1ATDD RAZTA           4 U4L  d    3  2   1.9D        619   s9o    46.4    44  28  25 38  2578  1913  441    6458  1272               698   23    341    744
9. S#*RTA/;1wft                18 M  d    4  2   1.2D    170  1806    46.3    70  61  15 30  166  '174  3408    478   2891                     517   27    478    so
10.1. PADwARA1P    WE           19 M  d  S        2   1.00    1136  2)    47.7    6   39  2D 35   776  7M  2751    259   1217                   283   25    312    4428
10.2. PARAThO/PE.L              19 L  d           2   1.00      61s   an      46.0    47  27  2D 36   33B  2163  2492    4643  1123             495   14    545    6730
11. J3VAMJCACA                 123 U  d    6  4   1.00          0SD   9S)    43.4    67  70  2D 29          0   28W   2S8       322   120        36    3      39      619
SWUETDT                       741                                                                                            52704 1713    5116  257   373 71
S. bETER-GoE CORRI
12. S(ROCA6VW8W                 33 U  *    3  1   1.86          7WD   87      43.2    46  37  27 39  192   3194  52DM   822  12S6               614   27    368   10416       ti
23. P /ENO.CA* XTM              62 U  *    3  1   1.74          70D   67      46.6    40  43  28 44   973  229  36B    6344   971               389   18    270    799D        -
14. ITATW^UfIZ PINTD           100 U  *    6  4   1.66    1330  9SW           44.1    49  32  37 43   ES4  1138  1081           683   136        40    8      27      774
16. SUL1D GWVE/C*IDIDO hITA    67 U  .    6  4   1.66    1330   a2D    44.3    48  4D  34 40   428                     132G     523   129        37    7      26      721
28. ENDJ1 ILD/ITAPEVA           79 U  d    6  2   1.20          710   am      43.7    97  68  2D 36  2697  1453  32D    S=8  1942               813   24    652    8M
17. fWB    JV4A                114 M  d    6  3   1.42    12UD   1010    44.6    78  e2  23 27                  250    1    2P  759   339        93   28      64    1273
aB-lVr&                       494                                                                                            229  4823    2887  101   1316   2994
C. tFO-GWE ClWl
18. ANWIM/CNODS                 44 L  *    3  2   l.00          OM    900    61.0    61  34  42 88  2512  MM(3  4117    2671  5EN               lag   16    190    3481
19. Coppasp3     aAFS O         8  L  .    3  1   1.,OD         OM    SO      44.3    40  37  36 47  3300   t84  8394    OM   1424              437   39    60S    9P
2D. IIWPD1N4tJ                  165 L  *    3  2   1.00    Sg          gm     44.0    68  2   38 45  21SS  168  3864    2388   618             169   2D    177    32E91
21. VEUk Ol/WfDi               162 L  d  e        4   1.10    118D   12       43.5    44  35  33 45    73   325  3Ee            148    74        17    2      19      267
22. AWFV4JtUAI$.J.RIO PlD      2D  L  d    6  4   1,22          O    I2D      44.6    70  68  27 38  1176   898   "S    1222   6n(              138   14    231    2123
23. S.J.RID PIEDJSTA.FE 00 S.L 221 L  d    6  4   1.12          W0   120      43.2    94  89  24 37   236   483   71B           616   346        as    a      as    110
24. ARNVAtMAYWETUS             198 L  d  S        4   1.26 J5     D   9S0    43.9   809  4   27 40   153  1            13 7    1017   451       113    9      98  IJ87
S9J-IAL                      atss                                                                                            14779  31 97   16   1182   21122
1TTAL                        2313                                                                                            8tl1  256       7898  463   6229
Source: FBfAS  aid Missio Estiust-a
hby 1987
0 x



FEAR ULVAY tOOUMBlIATM4 PFWET
7AUN OPEW1ATM  C1Si SAV1M   -  M
I"W OI1T1C C(9Si SAYD4 (W)M
AVJ.M.  AV.       WI AV.WQ    BF1Y                  7TPJFIC D8BITY         (E)WUD   WrIES A TAES)
O      A  CA7BM  LOCGS   1D  PERi L3C LM      FEIRJ   AVSB          (OD iDE6)            CPPTrAL      WJOBNTEWN
CIXT/OVIW                      mm lId RKM70  Uc  W P/Will  Ip    Dow4 (1DB)    IP DOW    U)  W    LP   DM4  1UM.   LOC    #    LDCWS  #4   CEW  IUIAL
A. SW01W
I. MAWWR.BIABB     IA           45 Md  d    5  3   1.60    BO   OB   46.1    aD  58  22 29   278  1431  1709    I=5   36    12    12    82   167
2. UELAOL4U18l*8in  Id  d    4  2   1.90    GODGO   46.2    69  45  22 29  1I39   2465  351                                  2956  984   329   29   191   4X99
3. EV*433JHVPASSD              184 Md  d    5  4   2.00    380  33D  46.0    84  62  30 28    36  230D  2396    617   ON8   688    2    367   531
4. RIB.PWE1/CPSA SWCA           8? Md  .    5  1   1.60    1445 1445  43.9    41  31  27 46  2544  57M   8331    83(  2965    MO   38   342   11564
S. DOCE    COMD.IPAa            75 Md  d    5  4   1.60    281  56 1.8    92  OD  15 25   234   915  1149    553   77   6OM    11   41.3   7308
6.1. FIWIAjPP&DIKA               9 Id  d    4  2   1.70    140D  1445  44.6    37  30  25 48   02   2157  4178    3(8  1I8    336   19   217   521
6.2. FLMAJPALM.L A               9 L  d    4  2    1.70    1400 1445  43.7    38  30  25 46  2014  2994  608                 3874 2079   421   23   273   667
7.1. P4.L2MApMV1SA              10 Md  .    4  2   1.70    1445  1435  44.4    25  27  30 45  182   3688  5421    3833 1174   293   22   167   5458
7.2. PAUNB4WHDA VISTA           10 L  .    4  2   1.70    1445  1438  48.1    23  11  30 46  2374  3419  579                4=)  1164   246   22   174   5815
8. P.tRATN0~/SmAWRTA             4 IdVI  d    3  2    1.90    619  690  46.4    44  29  25 38  294   2122  4958   5so1  1404   682   25   377   8438
9. sAMMtITAAES1LMRI             18 U  d    4  2    1.3    137  1604  45.3    7t0  81  15 30  1I8   1I6   383                5293 319   5GM    30   629  9S"
10.1. Pm~ATh(G%'p6Ev.            19 Id  d    5  2   1.00    1135  1S    47.7    88  39  20 35   857  228D  5307    2980 1344   313   17   344   4887
10.2. 'PARATMAREMBE              19 L.  d         2   1.00    619  ON8  46.0    47  27  30 35   373  237   2751    6016  I24    647   16   601    7419
n1. .ANWfhM A                   in m   d    5  4   1.0          89D  890  43.4    67  70  329 2           0    318   318      356  133    40    3    43    573
S.s-TUTM.                     741                                                                                          8818  18949  884   283  4119  97188
S. MWTE-&M.       -                                                                                                                                                            -t
12. SMW0CW/1P                    33 Md  .    3  1   1.65    70   670  43.2    45  37  27 39  2136  352   S3    9(7  1430   587   30   407  X1SOD
13. VEF/ENQ.COLWVY               if M  .    3  1   1.74    700  GM0  45.6    40  43  29 44  2075  279   867    700D4 102   430   18   298                        =0
14. rTATDGk4lAJ1  PSOM          Us9 M  a    5  4   1.55    2330  SW   44.1    49  32  37 43   611   1m    188                 621   16D    45    9    XI   9am
15. SOLID QWDE/C*0lD0 WTrA    67 Id  a    S  4   1.65    133   90   44.3    48  40  34 40   473   981  1464                   577  142    41    S    29    798
16. 8C~.94DfXTOVEVA              79 Id  d    5  2   1.3         710  OM   43.7    9?  88  20 36  1074  1804  3478    6214 2145   677    27   821    OM9
17. ftBTM  JR/MA                114 I d       6   3   1.42   1160 1010  44.6    78  62  23 27   SC1  166   2270               8m   374    USD   30    71   1403
9.D-ITWA.                     494                                                                                          2431  5314  1       112  14533 38
C. iNY-OzM CmRD
Is. J.WIAIrjuDS                  44 L  *    3  2   1.00    SM   WD   51.0    61.  34  42 88  2910  188   4379    2734  574   176   16   20    30
19. c1AS/RIm  CAWI               88 L  o    3   1   1.00    SW   SOD  44.3    40  37  35 47  3664  6014   297    753  1572   483   43   557  1019
2D. rr1MPJR9R.                  298  L.  .    3  2   1.00       OM  9S0  44.0    88  29  38 45  2560  I37   4258    235  572   175   22   195   3889
21. VAOACDR/WA                  162 L  4    6  4   1.10    1160 1.D  43.5    44  38  33 45    61   348   .629                 163  ft    19    2    18    293
22. APJHI.%WS.J.R31) PWiE        2D  L  8    5  4   1.12    IM   2WD   44.6    7t0  88  27 38  129    966   224    149  671    162   16   144   2W2
23. S.J.RMD PIE1U/1A.FE DO aL  221 L  d    5  4   1.12    I=   M2D   43.2    94  88  24  7   2                 533G  793      87930         75    7    73   1216
24. AWNtAhW/BJVUS               198 L  4    5  4   '1.25   'LOU   950  43.9    88  68  27 40   UR   127   1443    112   488   1s    10    us5   188
SBG-Mf&                      1078                                                                                          1621  4as1   2w4  115  12297  23180
7UTt&                        2313                                                                                         9872  29813  871   510  687  14343
Source: FWAA and Mdission Eati uurat
may 1987
m 4
01 -



- 139 -
BRAZIL                          ANNEX 10
Table 8
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Locomotive Rehabilitation Works
RECONSTRUCTION OF CLASS 3,800/7,800 LOCOMOTIVES
-----------------------------------------------------__---------------------
Unit
Cumulative                                Cost      Annual   Annual
Locomotives       Annual       Extra     Saving      Cost       Net
Year    Reconstructed    Investment    Ton km   (ton km)    Saving   Benefit
(US$ m)    (US$ m)   (US$ th)    (US$ m)  (US$ m)
1987                        4.2                                0.00    -4.20
1988         10             4.2          80        3.65        0.29    -3.91
1989         20             4.2         160        7.21         1.15    -3.05
1990         30             4.2         240        8.73        2.10    -2.10
1991         40             4.2         320        8.73        2.79    -1.41
1992-2008    50                         400        8.73        3.49      3.49
Estimated ERR: - base case:              15%
- benefits reduced 20%:  11%
- costs increased 20%:   12%
RE-ENGINING OF CLASS 3,200 LOCOMOTIVES
Unit
Cumulative                      Maint,       Annual     Annual
Locomotives       Annual          Cost        Cost        Net
Year          Re-engined       Investment      Saving      Saving      Benefit
(US$ m)        (US$)      (US$ m)    (US$ m)
1987                                                         0.00        0.00
1988               5             1.50          26,850        0.13      -1.37
1989              10              1.50         30,878        0.31      -1.19
1990              15              1.50         33,965        0.51      -0.99
1991              15             0.00          37,362        0.56        0.56
1992              15                           41,098        0.62        0.62
1993              15                           45,208        0.68       0.68
1994              15                           49,729        0.75       0.75
1995              15                           54,701        0.82        0.82
1996              15                           60,172        0.90       0.90
1997              15                           66,189        0.99        0.99
1998              15                           72,808        1.09        1.09
1999-2004         15                           80,088        1.20        1.20
Estimated ERR: - base case:              17%
- benefits reduced 20%:  13%
- costs increased 20%:   14%
Source: FEPASA and Mission Estimates
May 1987



*0   z
r         -
IFq 
ILF- PM"       -



- 141 -
ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 5
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of FEPASA's Electrification Project
A,   Project Origin, History and Status
1.        In 1974-75, at the time of the Third Railway Project's (Loan
1171-BR) preparation-appraisal, FEPASA developed a comprehensive investment
plan for the period 1975-79, which, inter-alia, included the strengthening of
the existing power systems, the electrification of 365 km of the export
corridor and the purchase of 54 (4,000 HP) electric locomotives (SAR
No. 856-BR, Table 5). The third project included only those investments to
be implemented in the course of 1976-77, i.e., with regard to
electrification, catenary renewals on 296 km, three new substations and the
electrification of a 67-km section of the corridor (SAR Table 6). In 1976,
FEPASA signed a contract with a European consortium for the supply and
financing of 56 (2,900 KW) locomotives and equipment for the (25 KV.AC)
electrification of the entire Uberaba-Santos export corridor. Following the
Bank's tecommendations, however, PEPASA renegotiated the contract in 1977-78
to undertake, instead, the rehabilitation and strengthening of the existing
power systems and to acquire 23 locomotives; this reformulation was approved
by the Bank in 1978 but never became effective with the changes of Government
and FEPASA's management which took place in early 1979.
2.        In 1979-80, a number of studies were carried out with a view to
reformulate FEPASA's overall investment plan, which was much beyond the
company's capabilities. These studies led, in particular, to the
reformulation of the Third Project, which was approved by the Bank in October
1980, as well as to a second reformulation of the electrification contract,
to again include the electrification of the Uberaba-Santos export corridor
(this time in 3 KV DC) and increase to 60 the number of locomotives; this
second addendum to the contract was signed in May 1980. A number of minor
reformulations and alterations of the contract then took place in 1981-84.
The number of locomotives to be purchased was increased to 80, after the
significant traffic increases of 1979-80, but, because of a lack of
counterpart funds, implementation has been constantly delayed. The resulting
cost overruns led to the latest reformulation, which took place in June 1985,
and resulted in the reduction of the export corridor electrification to the
Ribeirao Preto-Samarita section (about 524 km against 700 km initially) and
in revised (extended) implementation and locomotive delivery schedules.
3.        The present status of the projeLt is thus as follows.  The project
includes three components:
(a)   rehabilitation and strengthening of 562 km of the electrified
meter-gauge systems, for an estimated cost of about US$18.0
million, of which 37% was completed at the end of 1986;
(b)   rehabilitation and strengthening of 451 km of the electrified
broad-gauge system, for an estimated cost of about US$25.0 million,
of which also 37% was completed at the end of 1986;



- 142 -
ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 5
both of these components provide for the installation of new substations and
the replacement of existing ones to increase train capacity, and for the
replacement of existing diesel locomotives and some of the existing electric
locomotives by new electric locomotives (not included in the preceding costs)
on these sections.
(c)   electrification and signaling of the Ribeirao Preto-Samarita (meter
and dual-gauge) section of the export corridor, including all
necessary elements, i.e., substations, overhead network, CTC and
telecommunications, ancillary works and locomotives, for an
estimated cost of fixed installations of about US$274.6 million, of
which about 38% was completed at the end of 1986.
Overall, for the three components, 80 (2,540 KW) locomotives have been
ordered, of which 70 would be meter-gauge and 10 broad-gauge, for a current
estimated cost of US$158.7 million (about US$2.0 million per unit), of which
55% have been paid.
4.        The current estimated total cost of the project is US$475 million;
about US$207 million had been spent by the end of 1986. Table 1 shows the
project cost estimate by component and the estimated disbursement schedules.
B.   Evaluation Methodology and Assumptions
5.        The main justification for the rehabilitation and strengthening of
the existing electrified systems is their insufficient train capacity, which
requires that diesel-powered trains also be operated on these systems. The
extension of the electrified system is for FEPASA's major (export) corridor,
which has the highest traffic densities in the network and the best
traffic-growth potential (1990 forecast traffic densities ranging from 10 to
12 million gross-tons). The investments (both strengthening and extension
ones) would free the diesel locomotives presently utilized and avoid
purchasing the additional ones required to cope with expected traffic
increases. Operation and maintenance benefits would consist mainly of
savings on energy and on locomotive maintenance, as well as on rolling stock
capital and train crew costs as a result of higher speed.
6.        The three components of the project have been evaluated
separately, following the methodology described in "Railways and Energy,"
Liviu L. Alston, (WP No. 634), and on the basis of the agreed traffic
forecast, which is being used for the design and evaluation of FEPASA's
investments and operations plans. FEPASA's past and forecast traffic by
commodity is shown in Annex 4; charts 1 to 3 show the 1985 and forecast 1993
(net and gross-ton) densities on the three subsystems.
7.        Investments in fixed installations have been included in the
evaluation at their revised contractual values and in accordance with the
current contractual implementation schedule. In particular, new substations
are costed at US$2.26 million each (US$1.42 million remaining cost), overhead
and catenary at US$199,000 per km (US$82,000 remaining cost), and the
additional work (including financial contingencies) at US$157,000 per km
(US$96,000 remaining cost); the final average cost per km will therefore be
about US$440,000 (which is significantly beyond the range for electrification
costs quoted in "Railways and Energy").



- 143 -
ANNEX 11
Page 3 of 5
8.        The maintenance of fixed installations was estimated at 1% (per
year) of the capital cost (excluding financial contingencies) for overhead
equipment and catenary, at .45% for new substations, and at about US$20,000
equivalent for old substations.
9.        The net locomotive investments were estimated on the basis of the
power requirements (estimated link by link and by year in both "with" and
"without" project cases) to meet the projected traffic (Tables 2 to 4).  The
specifications of the new electric locomotives have been defined to maintain
the same train consists for operational compatibility throughout FEPASA's
network, but they will operate at much higher speeds (operating speeds have
been estimated link by link, also taking into account differential time for
acceleration/deceleration). Overall, in 1985, there were 70 electric
locomotives working on the broad-gauge and 76 on the meter-gauge systems;
many of them are old, some dating from 1940-1943 (a few from 1927); their
1985 availability was about 70%. The plan is to retire 58 of them over
1986-1990; by 1990, a total of 64 would remain working on freight trains, of
which 39 on the meter-gauge and 25 on the broad-gauge systems; their
availability is expected to be about 75-77% by then. The availability of the
new electric locomotives was assumed to be 90%, while that of the diesel
fleet was estimated at 77%. Utilization of available locomotives is 55% on
the meter-gauge and 41% on the broad-gauge systems and the ratios in traction
are 79% and 88% of the utilization time respectively (Tables 2 to 4). The
cost of alternative (1200 HP) diesel locomotives has been estimated at US$1.3
million, and the released diesel locomotives have been credited at about
their depreciated value (US$300,000).
10.       Locomotive maintenance costs were based on FEPASA's recent
experience with existing diesel (US$.60 per loco-km) and electric (US$.41 per
loco-km) locomotives and on an average US$.24 for the new electric
locomotives. (consistent with Bank data).
11.       Energy  costs.  Diesel locomotive consumption is 7.1 liter/1,Q00
gross ton-km (gtkm) and electric locomotive consumption is 28 kwh/1000 gtkm.
FEPASA is presently paying 20.2 US cents per liter of gas oil (and
transport-storage cost is about 1.5 US cent per liter) and US$16.4 per 1,000
kwh for electrical energy. CIF Santos price of gas-oil was about US$170 per
ton in March 1986, with the barrel of oil at $13 to $14 as an average. The
Bank's April 1, 1986 oil price forecast of US$17.9 per barrel for 1995 (1984
constant dollars) would correspond to a CIF Santos price of gas-oil of about
(1986) US$200 per ton or US cents 17.0 per liter. A cost of US cents 20.0
per liter (to include local transport storage and distribution costs) was
used as an average over the evaluation period in the base case, and 13% was
added to account for lubrication costs. The long-run marginal cost (LRMC) of
electricity for the highest voltage group of consumers was estimated at about
$23.5 per 1,000 kwh in January 1986, and the average tariffs (for this
consumer category) were about 20% below these costs. However, since the
railway draws power at higher-than- average voltage and, in the case of
freight operations, mostly outside power consumption peak periods, the LRMC
for FEPASA should be lower than for the average consumer. Also, since the
large investments recently made in hydroelectric schemes in South Brazil are
expected to provide surplus generating capacity in the short and medium terms
and additional capacity at reduced capital costs in the longer term, it is
expected that the LRMC of power in Southern Brazil will continue to



- 144 -
ANNEX 11
Page 4 of 5
decrease.   For these reasons, an LRMC of 2.0 US cents per kwh has been used
in the base case.
12.       Rolling stock capital cost-savings were estimated on the basis of
wagon-day savings (calculated by link) resulting from higher train speeds,
and on a wagon average price of US$60,000 and lifetime of 40 years.
13.       Train crew cost-savings are based on calculated time savings and on
an average crew cost of US$40.00 per day.
C.   Conclusions and Recommendations
14.       Locomotive requirements, estimated on the basis of the agreed
traffic forecast (and the operating plan), are significantly different from
the locomotive purchase orders. First, a total of 63 new electric
locomotives would suffice to handle the expected traffic up to 1990, as
compared to 80 ordered firm; the additional 17 would be required only between
1991 and mid-1993 (unless the existing electric locomotives would need to be
replaced more rapidly than currently planned). Secondly, out of the 63 locos
needed by 1990, 38 should be meter-gauge and 25 should be broad-gauge (orders
are for 70 meter-gauge and 10 broad-gauge). The electrification project
overall will release 59 existing diesel locomotives by 1988-89 and spare
FEPASA from having to purchase another 48 diesel locomotives up to 1990.
15.       Locomotive specifications, which have been defined to maintain
operational compatibility throughout FEPASA's network, and, in particular
between diesel and electric traction, require them to haul the same trailing
tons as present diesel locomotives, but at much higher speeds. These
peculiar specifications (together with project delays and numerous
reformulations), led to the very high price paid for these locomotives, as
well as tQ their limited ability to take full advantage of their higher power
through hauling heavier trains. This is critical on the broad-gauge system,
where limitations to 900 trailing tons make the new traction particularly
expensive. The costs and benefits of operating alternative (haavier) train
consists on the broad-gauge network should be assessed with a view to
identify feasible train consists and locomotive specifications, which would
take better advantage of the new locomotives' higher power and, therefore,
improve the cost effectiveness of the broad-gauge component of the project
(and possibly of the new electrification component, which covers a dual-gauge
section of the export corridor).
16.       The strengthening of the meter-gauge system, including the purchase
of five new electric (meter-gauge)locomotives up to 1990 (and of about 1.3
additional locomotives every year thereafter until 1995) is economically
justified. Despite the past delays, and on the basis of the present
contractual completion schedule, the project component, including sunk costs,
would have an economic internal rate of return of about 11% in the base case,
i.e., with a CIF Santos price of gas-oil at about US$200 per ton and an LRMC
of energy at 2.0 US cents per kwh (Table 5).
17.       The strengthening of the broad-gauge system, including the purchase
of 16-17 new (broad-gauge) locomotives required up to 1990 (and of about 2.5
additional locomotives every year thereafter until 1995) as well as all sunk
costs, would also be economically justified in its present form and



- 145 -                         ANNEX 11
Page 5 of 5
completion schedule, although with a slightly lower return than the
meter-gauge component, about 10% (Table 6). A major factor of these
relatively lower returns is the 900 trailing ton limitation which, together
with the high price paid for the new locomotives, makes the new traction
particularly expensive. As mentioned, the technical and economic feasibility
of operating heavier trains on the broad-gauge system should be assessed. If
the costs of the required changes in the broad-gauge locomotive
specifications and necessary track (crossing-loop) investments to operate
longer trains were minimal, this might lead to substantially better returns.
18.       The electrification of the Ribeirao Preto-Santos corridor,
including the purchase of the 41 new electric locomotives (of which 33
meter-gauge and 8 broad-gauge) required up to 1990 (and of about 2.3
additional locomotives every year thereafter until 1995), and including all
sunk costs, would yield only marginal returns. In financial terms, for
FEPASA, the component would have an internal rate of return of about 8%,
based on March 1986 gas-oil prices and power rates (Table 7). In economic
terms, in the base case, it has a slightly lower rate of return of about
7.5%. The considerable delays, numerous reformulations and consequent
excessive financial contingencies and cost overruns are obviously major
factors. Another important factor is the low (present and forecast)
international and domestic prices of gas-oil; with gas-oil prices similar to
those which were prevailing in the late 1970s-early 1980s (when the project
component was contracted), economic and financial internal rates of return
would be about 10% (Table 7, sensitivity analysis). The rate of return of
the incremental investment to complete the project component is, however, on
the order of 40%.
19.       The economic evaluation of the signaling component, which consists
of the installation of a CTC system on the sections being electrified, for a
total estimated cost of about US$40.5 million equivalent, was based upon an
assessment of: cost-savings on train capital and crew costs resulting from
reduced transit permission time (from 8 min to 1 min on the average), and
from reduced crossing time (from 20 min to 3 ,nin on the average); cost-
savings on signaling operation and maintenance, with station staff reduced
from 20 at present to 3 with the new system; and reduced overall transport
cost for traffic which, without the new system, would be diverted to
competitive modes because of the limited capacity of the existing system.
The ERR of the proposed investment was estimated, on this basis, at about 13%
(Table 8).
20.       It is recommended that the fixed installation works be completed as
planned. The rate of return of the incremental investment needed to complete
the electrification of the export corridor (about US$120 million) is
satisfactory, and the overall rate of return, including all sunk costs, is
only marginally below 10%. The alternatives of canceling the contracts or
negotiating a longer implementation period will be less cost-effective than
completing the implementation of the project as planned. The cancellation of
the contracts would require compensation payments to the contractors, and no
economic benefits would be derived from the sunk investments (about US$160
million). A longer implementation period would result in a lower net present
value for the project; therefore, the current implementation period should be
maintained.
May 1987



- 146 -                                          ANNEX 1 
Table 1
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Flectrificatlon Project Cost Estimate 1/
(USS millon)
Completed              Completlon Program
Component/item               Total Cost       as of end 1986      1987     1988     1989      Total
(USSm)     S
A.  Strengthening of meter-gauge system
- Substations                          18.0            6.7      37%       6.5      4.8                11.3
B.  Strengthening of broad-gauge system
- Substations                          25.0            9.3      37%       6.3      9.4                15.7
C.  Electrification & signallng of
export corridor
- Catenary                             60.0           30.6      51%       16.6    10.0       2.8      29.4
- substations                          50.0           19.6     39%        17.1    12.3       1.0      30.4
- complementary work                   118.0          45.8      39%       32.5    26.5      13.2      72.2
- signaling and telecom.               46.6            8.5      10%       16.6    19.8       1.7      38.1
Sub-Total     274.6          104.5     38%        82.8    68.6      18.7     170.1
D. Locomotive purchases
- 80 locomotives                      158.2           86.4     55%        33.0    34.6      4.2       71.8
TOTAL         475.8          206.8     44%       128.6   117.4     22.9      268.9
1/ as of June 1986
Source: FEPASA
May 1987



iPUSA MaLWJY fEHT8flAIA      D
Evalt'ton of FPASA's Elctrification Projcet
Oeretion PamtW, 2190
tral I.tom    train oparting apeads g   ton traffic  tonam  toO-Du. o     oo rlWqair        sagan-d  crwcby locoso         wit           with
CamonentAink         Ka   up dom   d;ml  old e1. n_ *.            UP    down (milicon) (tho.) old ec die_w w. bect.w. diff.   d;ff.   diff.    di_i  elect.  *elet.
MW  _ iSrngUIng
liAdor4hyrW          27  GM0  6        27.6    37.6    42.0             432      13n              2.7     0.6     0.3     744      e1       14     0.2     3.5      4.3
2.AyrWrIckcrocab      34  7D  670    21.2    38.4    43.0    am         am       33D      488     6.6     1.2     0.7    14        13       31     0.6     8.8    10.6
3.Sorcabew-pwo        36  7X   670    28.7    35.0    39.2    52        42S3  240  3S 3           4.8     1.3     0.8    28KD      132      32     0.6     5.8      7.7
4.1..o.t%p.tinin,p   57  7)  60    24.4    33.3    37.3    224I    21             ml      357     5.0     1.8     1.0    23a4      18       38     o.A     6.8      8.1
S.Ipsro-hiso J.      1N   7D   0       28.8    38.5    43.8    1308    3327      as      9e2    128       2.3     1.3   3081       246      68     0.9    16.7    2D.1
S.RAbiao J.Arkinho   175 133D  990    20.4    38.6    43.3       761    1477      3       365     5 0     0.9     0.6    31         98      23     0.8    10.6    12.0
7.0swihoe-xtis       99  233D  SO)   28.1    86.6    39.9        so     11SD     178      184     2.2     0.6     0.3    1370      as       14     0.3     4.4      5.3
tota I8W                               27.5    37.2    41.9                     2149    286    3a.0       8.8     4.9   1202D      1W      Z9      3.6    66.6    68.0
44  OW   OM      49.5    53.0    65.7    2448    9s9       152      69      1.2     0.6     0.5     29        18      23     0.5     3.5      4.7
2.Cepinse  ._wss    32  9OM  9O        38.1    40.9    42.9    am1    g7m        378     42D      2.9     3.0     2.3    18C    a           83     1.6     6.      n.8e
3&N.OdasaItirvplns   go  SOD  911D    41.9    44.9    47.1    5152    675    11W         2313     9.2     7.6     5.8   3im        216     234     4.8    23.4    38.8
4.Itirsplmn84uru    ls  OM   S03    40.1    42.9    45.1    3313   8134         882     191      6.9    6.4      4.8    251       18)    le      3.7    18.9    27.8
5.1tirepina4raWars   79  sO  1OM       43.1    46.2    48.6    £57    4638       S31     SOD      4.1     3.2     2.4    =3         03    211      2.0    10.0    18.5
.Ai      -Rino        32  9lI   O9M    37.8    40.5    42.4    381    2362        8y      97      0.7    0.7      0.5     332       30      19     0.4      1.6     2.7
total                451               41.6    44.6    4e.9                     3222    360D    2.0    21.6    16.4       C3       613     647    12.8    63.0   20D.2
N_ Electrifbcet1an
l.ib.Pr_i-Agus       174 1446 144S    28.2             45.3    3204      72    1734    12D               17.4     9.3   S31s3     2S       432    14.0     0.0  Q1.0
2Jmi4Pulmna          104133 1291    31.0               49.9    3i88     743a    1177  ss7                12.0     8.4   33Q47    28        12 20.1         0.0    3X.
3.1ualina-Gusian_    118 1446 1438    28.0             46.3    2s85    am       I        945             13.0     7.3   4281    28         34D    11.8     0.0    40.7
4.Q mm-Sweerite    128  610  619    8D.4               4B.2    40e    712       1494    2413             32.6    28.3     o       342      8s     12.7     0.0    48.6
total                524               29.2            46.4                     5764    f48              7.7    41.2  1572        847    16       49.2     0.0   176.7
Lac  wvlilability     X waig  ri   x fact em_  c;oemuton uintm.nce cost  11123    100    64.    10.0   412.6  110104                      2M      06.5   118.5   346.0
di_li loom            77! 10D                   7.1 l/1Ctha             o.es
old 1.0 elect. loos   7SX  1     39    0.66      28 kw/1ta              0.41 !
old 1.6 elect. Io     77X 1W    28        1      28 lth/f1L00aa         0.41 I
n_ electric  ocos,    ;1  1Q9                    28 mbb//tl             0.24 t
Lae u;tilization in: totsl   traction 
1.  systmEX                     7 
1.0f systa           4LX    E s                                             I
peak-N&nth fector    1.2
ag  -ton/agon           65                                                i
Source: EPA Ad Missicon Estimatie
waby 198
n X



ofL
FEPAS RAU2LY F       tRIf Pwr
Evealti<  of  R EPA'e Electriflc.tien Project
Op.ratien Po Wm"     I3
--w ccm--p%wc
trail .ton    train am ratng sPosd  go  ton tfric  tw4m   loelo Mc. ,uqamrnt   qae-dq aw.-y llow mi                      with"         With
CoanmptmInk          Ka   ti  dam   dil_l old41. nmel.           'P    dam (elI I ion) (tShou.) old else d4i.eo l.ctw. di".   diff.   diff.    disma   elect.   elect.
lA.     ~rli         27  67   670    27.6    87.6   42.0        72    SW        1t7     254     1.3     1.4     0.8    1762      145  a3         0.6     3.6     s.e
2.Mmyrirk-SoroEeb    34  X1D  6M    20.2    35.4    4B.0    341    542          422     a1      4.4     3.1      1.3    4143     B8       73     1.2     8.9    U.5
3.Sorc_e-Two         3S  1W   670    33.7    36.0   38.2  B334    5428             33   4ED     3.2     2.8      1.6   3W        275      as     1.0     6.9     9.3
4.2 r-Ita tinMoW   57  7W 6D o    24.4   a3.3    37.3    257    271             321    41       3.8     3.4      1.9   4131      884      78     1.1     S.3    10.3
5.1_treAblao J.     is   1    6        2J.6 43.5    48.3   112    42            79S    1170  8.4        5.8      3.3    75       623     147     2.3    21.9   25.0
O.ublao J.-urniWo   175 1      91      29.4    33.6    43.3      1     low      SW      4t      8.8     2.8      1.3    6152     245      so     1.4   10.7    15.3
7.urlinhos4ets       t13   9GM         2.1   3W.5    80.9       71    15        224     we      1.5     1.3     0.7    211       139      3D     0.7     4.4     0.3       I
t.t                 562               27.5    37.2   41.9                      2743   3n44    23.0    20-2   11.4   28680    2124        48S     8.3 a    .1    so.01      _
ed         t      ning                                                                                                                                                     co
1..hmdi.i-C;;in      44  SW   SW      49.6    53.0    55.7   a2m    1275        194     215     1.0    1.3      1.0     WA        37      47     0.9     3.1     6.0
2.Capi m..N.0ia_e    32  MD  goD   33.1    4D.9    42.9  E6.            374     462    GM       2.6     5.0     8.8    2354      144     14D     2.8     6.0    15.0
S.N.0_!Itirep1wm    so  SW   90D    41.9    44.0    47.1   a575    6m0         I"E    21        3.1    13.6   10.3  0am          a       414     S.2    2D.6    43.9
4.W&rmptIn-wu        1s  SW   0DW   4D.1    42.9   46.1    4228    2378    123          i;       8.1    11.0     8.4             311     327     6.3    14.3    36.4
5.Itiu-vlraqmre   789   M   SD    43.1    43.2    48.5   2364    Nu             678     753     3.6     6.6     4.4    21S   25                  1.6     9.5    21.1
6-4rinr.4lnceo        U    9D  SW      57.6    4D.5    42.6    463    31        112     1N      O.J     1.2     0.9   6 i         34      33     0.0     1.4     8.5
total               4E5                41.6    44.6   45.9                     4212    46_     21.0   37.9    23-.   176        k0W7    21u3    22.6    l.4   I2.9
ftw Electrifiestlen
1.Rb.Proto-Aami     174 1446 1445    23.2              4c.3    400    a3       2213    Im              22.2    11.6             gm2 554  Ri     13.9     0.0     WS.a
2.OW14Pamlins        104  3 1313 I2    31.0            49.9   495      948    11S   17                 25.3     0.1   42178    176       417    12.8     0.0    4s.3
S.Faulne-Qmlnm      338 1446 1438   23.0               45.3    a29m   114      175       17            17.8     9.3   6435    24         4      14.8     0.0    52.0
4.G0mlrmrit,   ,          89  8219    3D0.      4      46.2    5177   9a2 aw1           39             41.5    28.3  49141    4_        203    16.2      0.0    62.0
total               624                23.2            46.4                    735?   Sf5               WS.    62.6  2237   t 2003   5s1        62.7     0.0   22.5
L1o  ea labi I ity    X v-i9h       x  wct amt ouimupten  u.,rtnt os ost  14222   211          43.0   154.7    62.6  2054    14V    4124    93.5   111.5  444.;
diIem  looe          77W lXD                    7.1 I/lCUg       -    0.0-
old 1.0 elect. Iooe    75 2W0   28       1       39 kab/1D             0.41 !
old 1.e *lec. loan    775 lO    22       1      2      8 kab/Dg        0.41 t
am electric loom     Ex  lOD                   2Sl                     0.24 I
Low uttl I mbitn In: totl   traetlen     trakic                             I
1.0 syU_            si         75       W               5.,                I
1^N _lb             4X         so0                    I.11                 I
_ _   er      ~~1.         WI                    1.23
Pak&-moth factor    1.2                                                     I                                                                                           -
_r    vm-toaSpn            23                                                                                                                                           0
Sm; FPUA m  is lsion Estmtm                                                                                                                                                X
hy 1587



IVL
FHPASA FMJIiY WWAMIYATMR PF1.ECr
Evalhtiao of  MWAs Electritifatin Project
Opwaton Pmrs,  eI
awo cuimuptien
trol tLon   trin opwrating spmd  woe tono trff il  ton-_w  lealw        low     o ramirrino  wn-dm   a w-_   Iow mi     witout,       With
Cdaponuntj.r*k       Me   up dow   die_l old *1. n_ o1.          U     dow (millin) (thaw.) old o1ec dieo ol*.w. diff.   di"f.   dit".    disl  *lcct.   *lc;t.
Ahte gaip stwiomnlng
I.A_do-Mmyrink       27  6R) M        27.6    37.6    42.0    786    61         1       2111    1.7     2.0     1.1  2R 0                 47     0.7     8.2     8.1
2.Mmyvink-6orocea    34  72D  6        23.2    86.4    43.0    432     gm01     4IB  m          4.1     4.5     2.6   S63        481     113     1.7     8.2    15.0
3.Swrocobo-Tero       5  7D   60    31.7    36.0  a9.2  a864    6F8M    339    491              3.0     3.8      2.2   42M       377      OD     1.4     5.4    20.9
4.1 Iro-XtWetlnirg   57  7D  8a0    24.4    33.3    37.3    3188    351         25i    518      3.1     4.6      2.8    am0    4m8        so     15.     5.4    11.4
6    .r hlao J.     IN5  7D  6o    23.6    38.5    43.6         il    4          WS   1        7.7     6.5     4.7   112        1m      213     3.3   16.6    28.3
6.Abhio J.-rludnos  1i75  3a DW    28.4    36.6    43.8    I=5 s                664    515      3.1     3.4      1.9   7478      865      34     2.1     9.9    26.9
7.8urinihe-As        98 130  19D 23.1    35.5  a9.9             an    16       248  m1         1.4     1.9      1.0    4        19       41     1.0     4.1     7.S
totl                US               27.5    37.2    41.9                     ato2    4mS    24.0    28.6   21.1               an 30a   an     11.6    61.8   15.0
fred      .tiq ln
1..mdla-Cwpnm        44  MD  GM    49.6    58.0    s.7   3245          1409     214      38     0.e     1.9      1.4    252       63      87     1.3     2.3    6.7   '0
2.Copplian.Odesse    32  gm   gmD   31.1    40.9    42.9   706    gm            533     mg      1.9     6.6      5.0    3W9  18 8 ;      i3n     3.      4.4    18.6
3.N.Odsin-'Itirapim    so  gm   gm    41.9    44.9    47.1    727       57    1I=?    I6=2      S.9    18.2   13.       824 512          CE     11.0   2S.0    61.9
4.Itraptln-laru      165  gm   gm    40.1    42.9    4S.1   4878    2964    I=         I=8      4.4    14.6    11.1   6741       412     43      8.4    10.6    8.2
S.ItrsepimwAreqars,  79  OM   OM    43.1    43.2    46.8    244    66am        749     632     2.6     7.9     6.0   3718       227     247     4.9     6.9    23.3
6.Areqir"Rln.        82  SW   EWD   37.6    40.5    42.6        537    318      13      13.    0.4       1.5     1.2    72        44      42     0.8     1.0     3.6
totl                451               41.6    44.6    46.9                     456    60D    16.0    VD.6   88.4  2308   1437            50    JD.0    40.3   141.4
taw Electrification
l.R;b.Pt            174 1445 1445  28.2                45.8    4S 65           2448    18              24.8    13.1   77                20 am   2D.6     0.0    73.2
2.AJi  alim          104 1313 1231    31.0             49.9    547    10468    16K)   1279              18.9     9.0   4617    119       420    14.2     0.0    20.1
3.Paalinm-Gaaim      116 144S 1438    3.0              45.3    am4       0     2*16    1334             19.5    10.3   EOD44    2217      4)    28.4     0.0    57.4
4.aiuw-Sewta 1r       B  69   619 g    30.4            46.2    7m   W17    210         3                45.      . 2S.6   64233    42    1Ms    17.9     0.0     WS.6
total                24               29.2             48.4                    8231   7?S              105.8    60.2  2300   11944    2m7S    69.3       0.0   249.2
Lao  avbl l*11 it7    X _igh  r6  x fact ael  commption mln              cost 1X       168     4D.0   115.9   112.7  3M4    16864    46        111.1    92.1   48.6
dimI l1os            77i 1C                     7.1 I/1 JUW            O.2D
old 1.0 olet. loca    751W    24         1       28   l      w         0.41 t
old 1Al *1lc. loan   77x 1C    16        1      2B 11                  0.41 t
n    ectric los,    cS  3l   2                         11 bb           0.24 !
L.a utillzatlon In: totsl  trction      traffic    t
1.04   I s                     70      3.5 ps.,ar       10
1.0s  t             415        S                      1.41
Pk-mnth factor       1.2                                                                                                                                                 5
aWw v.-tonjAwn             5t
Sourc: FEP4 =W Mission Estieste
kby~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _6



FEASA RUILJAY RIABD-XTAT31IN PROJEr
Econonic Evaluation of FEPASA's Electrification Project
Strentheing of M 1ter-(ugs Eloctrif led Systan
Fixed Iwestunts  Locootive owesta            Not  Maint_e Dnff.         Enrw  Conamptias    Ener  YWgo    Crow-cky  Not
catary             ( mrber of locco )       Total   fixed                without       with    cost  svings savings  Cash
yew  A other subsit. purchased freed  avoided Investmn install.  Ioros    diesel olect.  elect.  savings (CO)    (ODD)    Flow
I91                                                sow__ 
193                                                esa)                                                                        68)0D
1984                                               sew
1998             3.4                               4828                                                 0                     -4828
1987             4.8                              a632                                                  0                     -8S32
19B8                      2.5      2.6     2.1   -1253      -13       99     1.7   S6.4    80.5       338      8.1     0.4    1815
1999                      1.2              2.1   -2881      -13      154     2.7    65.6    64.2       we      9.4     0.7    2MS
190D                      1.2              2.1   -1681      -13      209     3.6    65.8    68.0      879    12.8      0.9    2SQ9
1591                      1.3              2.3   -1808      -13      2e4     4.6    56.7    71.8      849    1B.2      1.2    3278
1952                      1.3              2.3   -1808      -13      319     6.6    56.8    76.5    1019    19.8       1.4    3579
1993                      1.3              2.3   -1808      -13     376      8.4   E6.9    79.3    1189    22.9        1.6    3881
1984                      1.3              4.8   -OM6       -13     43D      7.4    68.0    83.0    1380    28.3       1.9    7434               1
1995                      1.3              2.8   -2181      -13     485      8.3    98.1    88.8    153D    29.7       2.1    4841              .-
15SS                      0.9              }.7   -23SD      -13      as      9.0   65.2    88.6    1667    32.2        2.3    4226              o
199                       0.9              1-.7   -I=9      -13      MSS     9.7    54.4    9D.6    1784    34.8       2.5    4449
198                       0Q9              1.7   -132D      -13     am8    10.4    63.6    92.3    1912    37.1        2.7    4873
18B9                      0.9              1.7   -UM        -13     648    11.1    62.7    94.2    2089    39.8        2.8    4898
2)00                      0.9              1.7   -1I3=      -13    a89      11.8    51.8    98.0    2188    42.0       3.0    5120
2CO1                                                 0      -13     688    11.8    51.8    98.0    2188    42.0        3.0    3800
2S02                                                D0    -13    a8m        11.8    51.8    98.0    2188    42.0       3.0    3800
20m B0                                                      -13     688    11.8    51.8    99.0    2168    42.0        3.0    380D
2C04                                                 0      -13     688    11.8    51.8    98.0    21B8    42.0        3.0    3900
200S                                                 0      -13    a8m      11.8    51.8    98.0    2168    42.0       3.0    3800
2DOB                                                 0      -13    688    11.8    51.8    98.0    2188    42.0         3.0    38OD
20O7                                                 0      -13      688    11.8    51.8    98.0    2288    42.0       3.0    380D
200 8                                                0      -13     688    11.8    51.8    98.0    2188    42.0        3.0    3900
2009                                                 0      -13     688    11.8    61.8    98.0    2188    42.0        3.0    3BaD
20io             -0.6   -18.0                    -18748     -13    688      11.8    51.8    98.0    2168    42.0       3.0   2C648
sub-total 1990       4.9      2.5     8.3                            2450D   1840D   28400              2000D   4C
199        11.4             17.7
220D       28.1             2S.0         sensitivity            0   1640D   2CCD   23SD                           D
unit costs                                         analysis a26(XD    11.CZ   10.7%   10.0                                 -
142D     891     30D    130D                             24SO      11.3%   11.$%   10.89                      11.3X         E
=00       11.9%   11.7%   11.4W                                    F' !
330D0     12.6%   12.4%   12.2%                                    ( X4
Source: FEPASA and Mission Estirates
May 1987



BRAZL
FEPASA RA:LWAY RBBITATIOP4 PROJEBT
Econrxnic Evaluation of FEPASA's Electrification Project
StrenUhening of BroadSystuElectrified System
Fixed Inveebtunts  Lomtive Invest4nts    Not  Maintenance Diff.      Energy Conswiptione    Ene6 Wgon-ay Crv-day  Not
cateary           ( urbe of locos )       Total   fxedw               without      with    c     saviwngs savi ngs  Cash
yeer &other substat. purchased freed  avoided nvestn insal 1. Ioo       diesel elect.  elect.  savings (C00)   (OxO)    Flow
1983                                           16090                                                                   -18c90
1984                                          1860                                                                    -1806
ise
1go8                                               0                                               0                       0
1987             4.4                            8248                                       .       0                    -6248
198              8.6                            9872                                               0                    -9372
1989                    13.9     5.0    13.3  -8405      6.4     549    10.9   64.5    94.7   2188       8.5     0.5   9318
1990                     2.5             3.3  -2083      8.4     647    12.8   63.0   100.2   2526    10.0    0.8    5467
1991                     2.5             3.3  -20Q       8.4    746    14.7   81.5   105.7   289         11.5    0.7   g5m2
1992                     2.5             3.3  -acQ8      8.4    843    18.7   e0.0   111.3   3245    23.1    0.8   8418
1993                     2.5             3.3  -2028      8.4    942    18.8   58.4   118.8   3804    14.8    0.9   8s
1994                     2.5             8.3  -8528      8.4    1040    20.8   58.9   122.4   3984    16.1    1.0  23sD
9ss                      2.S             2.8  -1209      6.4    1138    22.5   s6.4   127.9   4324    17.8    1.1   e873
1996                     1.9             2.8  -1869      8.4    1214    24.0   52.4   130.8   4597    18.8       1.1    7909
1997                     1.9             2.6  -1869      6.4    1291    25.5   49.4   133.3   4871    20.0    1.2   82s6
1998                     1.9             2.6  -1689      8.4    13S7    27.0   46.3   138.0   5145    21.2       1.3    8821
1999                     1.9             2.6  -1669      6.4    1444    28.5   43.3   138.7   5418    22.3        1.4    s9D3
2C00                     1.9             2.6  -1889      6.4    1530    3D.0   40.3   141.4  s56e    23.5         1.4    941S
2C1                                                0     6.4    1520    30.0   40.3   141.4  S582    23.5         1.4    7748
2002                                               0     6.4    I=)    30.0   40.3   141.4   5692    2S.          1.4    7748
2003                                               0     6.4    1520    30.0   40.3   141.4   G582    23.6    1.4    7748
2004                                               0     8.4    15D0    30.0   40.3   141.4   5892    23.5       1.4    7746
2005                                               0     8.4    120    3D.0   40.3   141.4   S582    23.5         1.4   7748
200S                                               0     8.4    1520    30.0   40.3   141.4   5892    23.5        1.4    7748
2CD7                                               0     8.4    1520    30.0   40.3   141.4   S592    23.5        1.4   7748
2COG                                               0     8.4    1530    30.0   40.3   141.4   5892    23.5        1.4    7748
2C09                                               0     8.4   1530    30.0   40.3   141.4  S592    23.5          1.4    7748
2300            -0.7   -42.0            -9.0  -26718     6.4   1530    30.0   40.3   141.4   G582    23.5        1.4   34482
sub-tota I 190D    16.4     6.0   18.6                            24S      16400   18400                   4OXD
1995      28.8            32.9
25XX=     38.4            45.9         sensitivity           0   1840D            23S0
unit costs                                      analysis          228CO    $0.S%   10.2X    9.9
1420     891     300    1300                          24W0    10.9%   10.G%   10.4                      10.9X%
sonnn    11.7%    MM.5    11.2%                       
33(XWD    12.8%   12.MM    12.3%
Source: FEfPASA and Missio Esti W tr
May 1987



E3RZL
FEPASA RAUMAY RBiABrlTATZN PFOI£ECT
Econanic Evaluation of FEASA's Electrification Project
Electrification of Ribeirao-ereto Export Corridor
Fixed Invesbmns  Locomive Lnvestnmnts      Not  Maintenance Diff.    Eer  Conamptlons    Enerw Won-day CJw-day  Nt
catenary          ( nuuber of locos)      Total   fixed              without       wi th    cost  savings savings  Cash
year & other substat. purche  feed  avoided Zwesb,wn Mnstl 1. boor    diesl elect.  elect.  savings (ODD)   (000)    Flow
1984                                           81=00                                                                   -81 
1988     167     2.1                            2362                                               0                    -2982
1987     242    10.9                           16478                                               0                   -154i8
is88     99      7.0    15.8    20.0    8.3   70D               1743    43.8    0.0   157.2   8S13   148.8    7.5    8131
1989     28             23.4    31.0    12.4  -4571             1858    48.6    0.0   16W.9    8655   158.1    8.0   18is6
19D0                     2.2             4.0  -340    -546    1987    49.2    0.0   178.7   9168   187.3    8.5   17W2
1991                     2.3             4.2  -340B    -48    2D78    a1.9       0.0   188.5   9658   178.6    8.9   18478
1992                     2.3             4.2  -340D   -548    218S    64.8    0.0   198.2  1019   185.8    9.4   19292
1993                     2.3             4.2  -340B    -548    2293    67.3    0.0  23S.0  10860   195.0    9.9   2Dt10
1994                     2.3           5S.2  -69709   -548    240C    80.0    0.0   21S.7   11182   204.3   10.3  872i0
193S                     2.3             2.8  -18       -54     2511    62.7       0   225.5  11683   213.t   10.8  19e19
1998                     1.1             2.0  -1654      548    2SS4    84.0    0.0   230.2   11909   218.0   11.0   338
1997                     1.1             2.0  -1864   -584    2817    65.3    0.0   235.0  22155   222.5   11.3    K)780
199S                     1.1             2.0  -1854   -564    2695   e6.7    0.0   239.7  1240D   227.0   11.5   21178
1999                     1.1             2.0  -1284    -548    2M       88.0    0.0   244.6   12848   231.6    11.7  21575
2COD                     1.1             2.0  -1864    -48    2775    69.3         0   249.2   12892   236.0    11.9   21973
201                                                0    -548    2775    89.3    0.0   249.2   12892   238.0   11.9   219
2002                                               0    -548    2775    69.3    0.0   249.2  12892   238.0   11.9  23S39
2XD3                                               0    -54     2776     9.3    0.0   249.2   12892   238.0   11.9  2CQ19
2WC4                                               0    -546    2775    69.3     0.0   249.2  12992   238.0   11.9   2)319
2006                                               0    -548    2775    69.3    0.0   249.2  22892   238.0    11.9   2O19
200B                                               0    -548    2775    69.3    0.0   249.2   12892   238.0    11.9  2)319
2COD                                               0    -548    27T7    69.3    0.0   249.2  12892   238.0    11.9  2C319
2008                                               0    -564    2775    69.3    0.0   249.2   12892   238.0   11.9  22319
2CO9                                               0    -548    2775     9.3    0.0   249.2  12892   238.0   11.9   20319
2010            -1.3   -84.0           -21.0  -31570   -546    2775    69.3    0.0   249.2   12892   238.0   11.9  61889
sub-totaI l990     41.2    51.0   24.7                            245=00   1640D   18400                   400D
1256      52.8            46.6
2000D      8.2            56.8         wsnitlvity            0   16400   sroo    23SD
un;t costs                                      analysis          22C00D    7.8%    7.G5    7.2X
142D    891     300    13OD                           24SCD      8.2X    7.9X    7.7X                    8.Z5
280000    9.Ctf   8.7X    84X
33CCOD    10.C(K    9.7%    9.6X
Source: FEPASA wd Mission Estl.wbes
may 1987



-153 -                           ANNEX 11
Table 8
BRAZ I L
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Electrification Project - Signaling Component
T r a f f I c    C o s t - S a v I n g s    Annual
Invest. million  average  train   system   transfer      Net
Cost    gross-   daily   capital  operat.  to road  Benefits
Year  (US$m.)    tons    trains  & oper.  & maint. transpor  (US$m.)
1986     2.3                                                  -2.3
1987     16.6                                                -16.6
1988     17.5                                                -17.5
1989      1.7                                                 -1.7
1990              8.1     21.6       4.0     0.5      0.2      4.7
1991              8.3    22.1       4.1      0.5      0.4      5.0
1992              8.5    22.7       4.2      0.5      0.6      5.3
1993              8.8    23.5       4.3      0.5      0.8      5.6
1994              9.0    24.0       4.4      0.5      1.0      5.9
1995              9.2    24.5       4.5      0.5      1.2      6.2
1996              9.4    25.1       4.6      0.5      1.4      6.5
1997              9.6    25.6       4.7      0.5      1.6      6.8
1998              9.8    26.1       4.8      0.5      1.8      7.1
1999              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2000              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2001              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2002              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2003              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2004              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2005              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2006              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2007              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2008              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2009              10.0    26.7       4.4     0.5      2.0      7.4
2010              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2011              10.0    26.7      4.9      0.5      2.0      7.4
2012             10.0    26.7       4.9      0.5      2.0      7.4
2013              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7.4
2014              10.0    26.7       4.9     0.5      2.0      7,4
2015             10.0    26.7       4.9      0.5      2.0      7.4
ERR            13%
NPV(12%)      1.6
________________________________________________________________________
Source: FEPASA and Mission estimates
May 1987



t- 4        H3
,-4
rz 
~M0



- 155 -
ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 4
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Project Implementation and Monitoring
1.        The proposed project is scheduled to be implemented over a seven
year period and monitored against a targeted time-schedule, starting June 1,
1987 and ending December 31, 1993 (World Bank Chart - 30913:2 of this
Annex), and against the operational and financial performance targets shown
in paragraphs 4.11 and 4.26 of the text. With regard to item A, permanent
way works for the rehabilitation of track infra/superstructure, detailed
engineering has been completed and bids are expected to be called in July
1987, and contracts for the first lots for infrastructure works would be
awarded in November 1987. The procurement of materials required for track
superstructure works has been divided into subgroups; the bidding process is
scheduled to start in July 1987, and the first contracts are to be awarded
before the end of 1987. Works in yards and intermodal facilities included in
item B are expected to start in November 1987 and July 1988 respectively.
Concerning item C, the telecommunication system component, bidders would be
invited in August 1987, and the contract is expected to be awarded in
February 1988. The procurement of track plant equipment and workshop
machinery under items D and E would commence in November 1987 and be
completed in 1990. Negotiations with local private industry for the
rehabilitation of locomotives and the procurement of specialized wagons under
item F is well-advanced; it is estimated that works and supply will start in
July 1987. The development and implementation of the various programs under
item G - Policy and Institutional Development Action Programs - would start
in the second semester of 1987, as indicated in the Annexes 7 and 8. Table 1
shows the details of the Procurement Schedule for major contracts of items to
be financed under the loan, and Chart - 30913:2 shows the Project
Implementation Time-Schedule.
2.        The project would be monitored through quarterly progress reports
to be forwarded to the Bank not later than one month after the end of the
each quarter, and through at least two semi-annual meetings between FEPASA's
management and the Bank. FEPASA would submit quarterly progress reports in a
format satisfactory to the Bank, to provide the following information.
A.   Civil and Mechanical Works
(a)  detailed computerized list of the main components, i.e.,
rehabilitation of permanent way infra/superstructure works, yard
tracks, utility systems and buildings; installation of the
telecommunication systems; construction or expansion of terminals,
improvement of accesses to terminals, and rehabilitation of
locomotives and motors, indicating contract information and status
of implementation in physical and financial terms;



- 156 -                      ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 4
(b) summary tables indicating progress versus targets, and expenditure
and loan disbursement status;
(c) brief description of problems encountered and corrective actions
taken or proposed.
B.   Materials and Equipment
(a) detailed computerized list of materials and equipment to be
procured, i.e., rails, sleepers, fastenings, ballast, rail
switches, telecommunication equipment, track machinery and plant
equipment, workshop and cargo transfer equipment, wagons and
computer hardware, indicating the several actions involved in the
procurement process up to contract signature and delivery of goods
and status of implementation in physical and financial terms. This
list would also indicate the projected dates for each action
against actual performance;
(b) summary tables indicating progress versus targets and expenditure
and loan disbursement status;
(c) narrative summary highlighting problems encountered and actions
taken or proposed.
C.   Technical Assistance
(a) assessment of the progress made under each component of the
technical assistance program against agreed schedules and targets;
the identification of the problems encountered and recommendations
for remedial actions; and
(b) summary of consultants progress reports and contract information
including expenditures and disbursements.
D.   Training of Personnel
(a) a summary of the progress made under each component of the training
program against agreed schedules and targets, the identification of
the problems encountered, and recommendations for remedial actions;
(b) updated timetables for training courses, seminars and other
activities wi.:h an assessment of progress against set targets; and
(c) summary of the consultants progress reports, and contract
information including expenditures and disbursements.
E.   Traffic and Operational Performance
(a) an assessment of traffic evolution by commodities and a summary of
operating statistics;



- 157 -                       ANNEX 12
Page 3 of 4
(b) narrative summary highlighting problems encountered and actions
taken or proposed.
F.   Financial Matters
(a) working ratio cumulative from beginning of year:
- for total passenger business;
- for freight business;
(b) collection of accounts receivable (days);
(c) normalization payments for freight and passenger services
(including outstanding amount) cumulative from beginning of the
year as a percentage of the relevant operating revenues.
3.        In addition, each quarterly report should contain: (a) a summary
table indicating, item by item, the appraisal estimates of costs versus
expenditures and loan disbursements as at the end of the reporting period in
accordance with the Project Accounts, and the balance of project loan in
accordance with the respective loan categories; and (b) quarterly movements
and the balance of the Revolving Fund Account and that of the Special
Account; and (c) a summary of loan covenants and their status of compliance.
4.        In order to monitor the progress of project objectives and provide
for extensive dialogue between representatives of FEPASA and the Bank, at
least two semi-annual meetings would be held:
(a) at the first quarter of each year, the progress made during the
previous year would be reviewed with regard to:
- physical and financial status of PEPASA's railway rehabilitation
project versus agreed targets, including all components financed
under the project;
- traffic and operations development;
- financial performance;
- review of the impact of institutional reforms, and the status of
the action programs;
(b) during the third quarter of each year, the primary focus would be
upon the next year's program with a review of:
- FEPASA's budget, rehabilitation program and investment plan,
considering the level of overall investments and priorities of
the various components;
- evaluation criteria used for investment decisions;
- status of loan covenants,



- 158 -
ANNEX 12
Page 4 of 4
5.        In addition to the foregoing, FEPASA would forward to the Bank the
following spe,lfic reports by the dates indicated below:
(a) annual operating and investment budgets including financing plans -
by November 10 of eLch year;
(b) proposed normalization agreement to be included in the next year's
budget - by September 30 of each year;
(c) pluriannual plans for the metropolitan train and for the railway's
long distance passenger services - by December 31, 1987;
(d) corporate plan - by June 30, 1988; and
(e) comparison of revenues working costs plus depreciation and interest
on tolling stock by December 31, 1987.
May 1987



AL
BRAZL
FEPASA RAILWAY 12ABUXrATCN PFXECr
Pro,xirement SLile for Major Ccntracts 1/
CGtrac  type of         Nb. of    Type cf   Douanora   Bid3Ptp.   Cont±           Delivery   lIdtiation
Component                                   Value     Cractract  Cwacts   lddig           Rdy       Invited      Siture    of Goo&          Wodi
A. Civil Works
1. I labilitation Peruent Wy Infrastructure
Lot no. I Arguari-ngabeira; Arar4na-EntrxarE ento                 I ,800    Wodcs         I           t        6/89        7/89         12/89                   1/90
lot no. 3 Evs,Ve1ina-<L Correa, Mato Seod-stiv-Vira;qa            ^,300       rs          I          ICB       9/87       10187         4/88                    5/88
Lot no. 4 Carguera-Ev. de Souza-Aarau                             3,300    Workrs         I          LCB       10187      11187         5t88                    6188
lot no. 5 Pai Mati-Paratirga                                      2,900    Work           I          LCB       8/87        9/87         2/88                    3/88
IA* no. 6 Amador luero-George Deterer, tpero-Itaetinirga          2,100    Works           I                   8/87        9/87         2/88                    3/88
lot no. 8 Nl&va Itoeva-Pirha1zidrx                                1,300    Works           I         ICB       6/89        7/89        12/89                    1/90
Lot no. 9  LUwera-Rio Claro                                       1, 30D    Works         I          LCB       6/88        7/88         12/88                   1/89
2.  KehaMbIitatinn Permanent Wry Superstructure
lIt rv. 12 Araptarit- erlsTdia-Uberaba                             1,400    Works         1          ICB        5/68       6/18         11j88                    1/89
lit no. 11 EvRnpelina-Pasaos, Riberao Preto--...a Iram,ia         2,000    Works          I          LB        7/87         /67         1)88                    2/88
lIt txo. 15 Re,lanrPawUrda-Bao Vista; P. Relan                    1,200    wok,s         I          ICB        5/89       6/89         11/89                    1/90
Lot no. 17 Sormahw-pero; FAg. Herndlio-Itapva,
P. Brlgaleiro Tobta                                     3,  00    Wadcs         I         LCB        6/87       i/87         11/87                   12/87
lat no. 18 lpero-Fog. CaLi' . Itatinga-LAdz Pi nto, Salto
Gde.-Cardido M  A, R. .hmor-Batrn                       1,400    works          I         ICB       12t89       1/90          5/90                    6/90
Lot no. 19 JAuuiatICapinas-Rio Claro, Ittraptiia-lta,ru            1,500    Worlcs         I         L(        2/88        3/88         8188                     9/88          W
Lot no. 20 Araraquara-S.J.Rio Preto-Sta. Fe duo Sd-Araraquarar
Barreto6, P. Araracuara, P. Rincao                      2,300    Works          I         LCB       12187       2/88          7/88                    8/88
B. Materiala
3. Ralls:
Lot no. I (51,600 tons)                                      26,000    Supply         I         1GB        7/87       8/87          1/88      7/88 2/
Lot no. 2 (44,000 tons)                                     22,200    Supply          I         JCB        7/89       8/S9          1/90      7190 J
4. Co-:rete Sleepers                                                 22,100    Supply         4          ICB       5t87        6(87        11/87      12/17
6/88       7/88         12/88      1/89
6/89       7J89         12/89      1/9D
6/90       7/90         12/90      1/91
5. Rail Fastening                                                    10,500    Supply         4          HE        6/87        7/87        12/87       7/88
5/88       6/88         11/88      6/89
5/89       6/89         11/89      6/90
5/90       6/90         11/90      6/91
C. Eupt
6. Rail Swi,irh                                                       4,400    Suply          I          ICB       3/88        4/88         9/88      12/88 2/
7. Wodthop Eidpent                                                    2,80D    Supply         2-3       IUz        7/87        8/87         U(88       5188
B. Thack iiaMhinery ari P    Equa pee¢                                3,100    Supply         2-3       ICE        10/87      11/87         4/88       9/88
D. TeLiscal Assistance                                                                                                                                                                 >
9. Egi*neering and Wotk Supervision                                   5,500    Services       1-40       Oth.r3/   6/87        7/87         9/87      lO187                        Z
1/ Of item  to be finwrM uder the Bink lor.
i2  Start cf deliver y
3/ Ban gidelires for mmultant'sa selection.
Source: FE7ASA and adssion esties
May 1987



ANNEqlX_12
Ft PASA RAiLWAY RiIIAMtIIAtUoN PROJtECt      Chla r t
PrOovlec mplementotton Schedtul
. _9,91 .  _ _ ___    .'         ' .. .
Pus !"h .i l - L-    - - - - - -    mX I  - I
zw_         I 1 X  DLi- m- - - -- -  m- mg
>t....                    Im l             - m m m -IE                                             I
9u*.9 I94 i9 1r 41  _I I1I
- _      q'-                         i                                                            I 
1       .11                         |       I                        _    III        !      -  
(w....s._-^~~~~~~~                         mm im *1           U m      HLJ
I  - L1 --L-  IIIIII!I
I | i ffi 1~~~~-                       -      t      m    mL      -  |m          
I~~~~~~~~~~~ m. Iu - m    m                              j      I         -    m - I m    
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I        I1~l
I~~~~~~~~~~~* inj ...  s|SL                         m   1I.|  m1m   l!,l    
< C UID* re  OMsIACDwWIS     (  !  +mim.im mHi m                 lf 
-0,1.,,                           -,
. .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.1mI



-  161  -                           ANNEX 11
BRAZIl.
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Selected Documents and Data Available tn the Project Filb
1.  Alde Memotre, FEPASA - Pre-appralsal Misston, March 198h.
?. Aide Memoire, FEPASA - APpra1sal Mission, September 22, 1986.
3. Decision Memorandum, Novemhor ?5, 1986.
Consultants' Reports
4.  Evaluation of FEPASA [nvestment Program, R. Carruthers, November 1985.
5. FEPASA CoRting System and Tariff Structure, R. Carruthiers, October 1985.
6.  Notes on the Use and Conduct of Cost and Costing hy FEPASA and RFFSA,
J. Heads and R. Lake (Canadian Transport Commission).
7. FEPASA Operations, S. Spencer, March 1986.
8. FEPASA Organization and Managemnent Systems, W. H. Thompson, March 1986.
9. FEPASA Operations and Workshop Programs, J.B. Bergouignan, October 1986.
10. FEPASA Personnel Management and Training, P. Lindemann, Octoher 19A6.
Reports
11. Plano de Recuperacao e Modernizacao, 1985-1988, FEPASA, Outubro 1984.
12. Plano Pluriannual de Investimentos, 1986-1990, FEPASA, Outubro 1985.
13. Plano Pluriannual de Acao e Investimentos, 1986-1990, FEPASA, Fev. 1986.
14. Plano Diretor de Desenvolvimento dos Transportes do Estado de Sao Paulo,
1986-1990, versao preliminar, IESA, Julho 1986 (8 volumes).
15. Projecoes de Trafego, FEpASA, Mato 1986.
16. Orcamento Economico, FEPASA, Outubro 1985.
17. Contrato Programa PEPASA-Governo, Abril 1986.
18. Normalizacao Contabil, FEPASA, Outubro 1986.
19. Transporte de Passageiros de Longo Percurso, FEPASA, Setembro 1986.
20. Divizionalizacao do Trem Metropolitano, FEPASA/Directa, Dezembro 1985.
21. Administracao e Planejamento de Recursos Humanos, FEPASA, Setembro 1986.
22. Missao da FEPASA, Marco 1985.
23. Programa de Desenvolvimento de Gerentes e da Organizacao, FEPASA, 1985.
24. Relatorio das Atividades do DHD, 1985.
25. A Divida da FEPASA, FEPASA, Fev. 1986.
26. Plano de'Informatica, FEPASA, 1985.
27. Projeto Trem, FEPASA, Marco 1986.
2S. Plano de Modernizaeao do Trem Metropolitano, FEPASA, Novembro 1985.
29. Projeto de Eiectrificacao, FEPASA, Julho 1985.
30. Analise de Viabilidade Economica do Sistema de Telecom. Promon, 1986.
31. Ligacao Ferroviaria Campinas-Santos, FEPASA, 1985.
32. Plano de Vias e Sinalizacao, Santos-Uberaba, FEPASA, Novembro 1985.
33. Plano de Capacitacao, Conceituacao Operacional, FEPASA/ENEFER. Set. 1986.
34. Plano Diretor Ferroviario da Baixada Santista, FEPASA, Setembro 1986.
35. Plano Diretor das Instalacoes de Manutencao, Subsidios, Setembro 1986.
36. Proposta para a Elaboracao de Um Plano de Transportes, FEPASA, Abril 1985.
37. Informacoes de Gestao, FEPASA, Abril 1985.
38. Plano Estrategico, FEPASA, 1985.
39. Proposta de Saneamento Financeiro, FEPASA, Setembro 1986.
40. Fluxos de Transportes - Mercadorias, 1984.
41. Custos Fixos e Variaveis, Diretos e Totais, FEPASA, 1984.
42. Informativo de Indices e Precos, FEPASA, Abril 1985.
43. Plano de Investimentos, Itens a serem cofinanciados, FEPASA, Abril 1987.
44. Plano de Aeoes e Investimentos, Sistema Organizacional e de Monitoracao,
FEPASA, Fev. 1987.
FEPASA Publications
45. Relatorio Annual, FEPASA, 1983, 1984, 1985, 1986.
46. Anuario Estatistico, FEPASA, 1984.
Other Documents
47. Decreto No. 26.772, de 18 de Fevreiro de 1987, sobre a Normalizacao Contabil.
48. Convenio FEPASA-Governo do Estado sobre divida com aval do Estado.
49. Protocolo de Intencoes Governo Federal - Governo do Estado sobre divida
com aval da Uniao.
50. Definicoes de Politicas e Linhas de Atuacao do Governo do Estado no Setor
de Transportes, Adriano Murgel Branco, Fev. 1987.
May 1987



- 162 -
CIIART 1
BRAZIL
FEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of the Ministry of Transport
Transrom 
Nat1y~,1l tt;;n ;t                   _     Ofke dt Ahe |
L   CnilS                               LMinstr6 Stffl 
S~~~|herIJnAM4Il                                                           DNr                RS1
__ 
~~tce. ~~~~.*sisttryatTrnpar,nspornatont
May  19S7                                                           World Bcrnk-offoh
fth Proutent                             UG"1nunllin
I Se~~~~~~~~~~~~~cretal                          a        svtoria
Jntarel cYlb                               S~~~~~~~~~90,trlt   c4operation
I Ssaot to
_SpeclolAlhns
&t Te6vkgy
_ Adrrgnstmt
Pbann"]g
Ssaetori b
_ Ronr lal laftw-
Ing& DdG
IAdrrnOn0fve          Secetotla lo feoro   r           r|       sectetork:n 1r    P0ne 
l           }    ~~~~~Rood Ttnprt     WerIansportJ           Rail Ttaesporn   L D qxp       l |
Ssce Mrny of Ttonsport
Way  1r987                                                                                           World 80ank-26210



- 163 -
BRAZIL                                                                    CHART 2
lEPASA RAILWAY REHABILITATION PROJECT
Organization of the Sao Paulo State Transport Secretariat
SEcRETARY
Transportatlon
Council
__~.                          _           . 
Public                  Ass stanceto
Relations                Munt cIpIaIltles
1                1 ~~~~~~~~~~~~1
m                   8 - ~~Huan  |       Operatlons       Seto |r 8                      mj                    Trans port
ftesources|   AdmllsarttIon        Planning                 I _   Implemen-    Projects   Policy         Public
tatton and                       and          Transpor-
Monitoring                    Planning         tation
AdminiStraton-1
C O M M I T T E E S
|Fneo  jPesonel|                       (Xlar   {CI   Coimnunicat ions|
CDRPORATIONS                                              AUTONOMOUS DEPARTMENTS
JOERSAj    |FEPASA                             ROADS DEPT. I   AIR TRANSPORT. DEPT.   I WATERWAYS DEPT.
IL   I              I   DER-SP                  D DAESP                   OH
Source:  Secretariat of Transport, Sao Paulo
May 1987



- 164 -
ERAZIL                                                              CHART   3
fEPASA 4AILWAY RENAEILITATICW  PROJECT
Orgpolt otlon of fEPASA
PRESIOENT
AGVISCAAY JNITCANE
SENERAL
SUIPERINTENDENCY                                    AUQoIT
Of  RKETING
TRMSPORTATION             rECHNI CAL         NtRCPOL I TAN TRA I N      PLANNING                 fINANCE             AMINI STRATION          LEGAL AND       |
_ EPARTiNt     N         PARTmENT              DEPARTW.ST      _       PCARTNT               S EPATIENT RTA Rt)ENT                        PATRI1DNIAL
GENERAL SUPERINTEN-   GENEPAL SUPERINTEN-           GENERAL          GENERAL SUPERINTEN-  |GENERAL SUPERINTEN-            GENERAL                GENERAL
OENCY - TRNSPOAT    - DENCY - NAINlENANCE  -  SUPERINTENDENCY    - DENCY - SYSTEMS AND  DOENCY - EC004ICS             SIJPERINTENGENCY    -  SUPERINTENDENCY
EN6INEERING          Of FIAED ASSETS          zPEAATJONS            ORGANilATICN       A|M1 FINAtCES                 ODNTRACTS           LEGAL SERVICES
GENERAL          GENERAL SUPERINTEN-   |       ENERAL          GENERAL SUPERINTEN-          GENERAL                 GENERAL          GENERAL SUPERINTEN-
SUPERINTENDENCY    - SENCY - ELECtRIC A   -  SUPERIWTENOENCY    - DENCT - PLANNING          SUfERINTENDENCY         SUPERINTENDENCY    - DENCY - ADMINISTRA-
TRIASPcAT     !     ECH. ENGINEERING |           | AI4TENWNCE       AND suOGET               CONTROL                PURCKASE         | TICN OF ASSETS
GENERAL                GENERAL         |ENERAL SUPERINTEN-          GENERAL
SUPERINTENOENCY        SUPERI4NTENOENCY     DENCT - TECMNICAL-   -  SUPERINTENDENCY
OW9ERCIAL           CIVIL ENGINEEIN  |    ADMIJNISTRATION          HUMAN   RESOURCES
GENERAL SUKRINtEN-1
DENCY - AAINTENANCE
ANSI RTXLING STOCK
2ES I SNAL
Source: FEPASA
May 1987



MAP SECTION



IBRD 20356
Caothber,, Soe _o_
?  .                                                        lloqui                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Corrr o
Porna.boOT    qtCli
BPi3 RIA.Z I. -                                           -                       *          .                           SoblFoRTALEZA
kc   RAZ I      ,.L..                                                                                                                               Mucuripo
J C) U T H, .t ...........
)) 
cAM ER I CA                                       Carajas0,.        ...--ERSN CoO  Msr;Mcu
%   g                                                                                                69uott.       /              r~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NATAL
o                 .6ou m                                                                                                                                    ,/            roCu 
U ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C 0 z,outo                                                                                           J OA6d
rt   A ,lan t/s                                       BRAZIL                                                                 $ o                               PESSOA
Oceon                                        RAILROADS                                                                  Pe"fino              ArovR                 RIFE
J.iaze.ro          PolmIro             Borr.troa
FEPASA                                                                                               MACEic
-     F    RFFSA                                                  Forrnoso      d Bomhm                  Proprio
... ...EFVM                                                                                                                   I ,   
-I        m. tr O AS bOO s rennrrxrrbr                                                                                                                              ARAC A J UL               '
mra i"ona   .s t  -a- ,                                 -- -  International boundaries
for re cct,r.*c rr lbs\ 
-o       o    i ft                                                                                                               Sdof-  Fnnis
Ctr   tno TM    bns
.0d 0d rb.  bw.' a Wn                                                                                                      1oo;u _obb
lbs   Fr T 0  raw*t 5bb lw                                                                                                                 SALVADOR
bfbbllbF~~*c CAlOObAS
ovnr bortr   IV. or  sub
wwsnrib or actrrc, ob
$.pbo-.nt,0
BRAS(LIA                            to Atul
An,opIs
GOANIA 
>~                                                                    Pros                                    Monie$ Cloros
do R, ioor
aRoncdo,         Pitapola
no                                                                            Goiondiro
To Sonia Cru  oAroguon o                                                                                                  Gov
Corumbo                                 p         -O                                                             clGov
Porto Espwron%o                   I                                                    lom                   Voldonos
Ubrb             e         o Drstgo ,
GCroonF.        St. F6 do Sul          Colomb,o    Frna             *              
Franco                         ,..Nv
TonLogoos                          Gogn.                     Ea     Crobngo
g)   t   Pr anorama \ AroFo*0b a                                     Ponio Nowo        VITdRIA
-o2o -   _oroqiora                               de
20                  EPoodes ldos
o  na do Cu.ona0.0
Apucrn                                i Coio
OtrAnhoso      A
PARAGUAY                       Cianoro                                                                                                         0 i  rp  5Ap5°.  S
,R    Goarapuoso                    p/
0 r  \  Po  Un   o o OSA6 FRANCISCO
Morcin
f /r o  C oeio            Rio do   o5 FLORIANAPOLIS
+ \ Ycru2 ~~~~~Alo                                I.btub
1b     J°°   loe                          °Coxos do Sol
+  f i       UR                       l~~~~~~~~~~Ro dos S nos
t-  %woro/ A    Cochoeiro        PORTO ALEGRE
Ontori            Coclioora        P6RTO ALECORE                                                                 0     00    200   300   400   500
L 5 Se.t4o                                                   I                                                         I      I      I      II
_    \ otos                                                                                             KILOMETERS
L,.- 'N                                                                               Igo~~~9 10  200        300
'1                         Jag0 00       Rio Gronde                                                                                         MILES
(sU RUGUAY  'o
so,                                                                       AO
NOVEMBER 198o



u . .......... ~ ~ ~ ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ,                                                            .        C
0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1
a                           S
-LO'0                                       
t7~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0C



___________.___,_____.________________--___________________--_                                                                                      IBRD 11571R'
,,, :                  ,              ,                             4T,                               A'
*          .*,,.*,l.o                                                         BRAZIL
SAO PAULO STATE RAILROADS
DOUBLE TRACK   SINGaL 1RACt .      ,N-H IV,s  k
ELFCiRifiED     [tCtR1t 'fI D   rI [.   . 1
Ubtriosd,00                                                                                                       FEPASA
N  A  S                   G  E ; R  A  I S                                                      . .                                         Met,(s Gouge (I 00 m)
Bload Gouge (1.60 rn)
,Polost.no                                                                                   Dual Gauge (1 00,1  60 m
RFF SA.
I4Ajaorvs3io3sto                                                                          riMetric Gouge (1.00 m.)
\                                                        @ b  ICrciI o                   Biontd Gauge (1.60 m
f2,,                                         g~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~oorz,g sfio
*      *.,    , ,,Z,.. , ,,,{{+,,; a, RA  *  *,  )       A2                                                                            Op3;0 Rivers
*,,      ,,-o;3rnb    r     1                                                                  862 5XConnde eat/. .     State Boundaries
,, *                                                     ,it.ver                                               -. -           Intenrnational Boauidcares
6^            0 ~~~Piose rso  
Be'retos0             S JoG J;4               . F
S Jose oe Rio P'et                          O'ons,, (                                 ..      Op2s4 s
.,                                  ~    ~ ~~~~~~\ 70t6t 5s '          tos 00 }r
0xno      o       O bebeJouroc          Possogess loa   3CO S                       eA.tnc >   3. pO>O SD
pd,ig.e'ag a  0('ofrie  £3,        eQ
PQ R\be     i °  Prato
o  -~ 0|RbesrDselrooprBoJ  °e
Se 0Asejo              Se'loo'nso  Nr    vsrn   
°   .4                     cvoosGnes&-  oG4re
of.44OOpoc      °-              s                   ;
0   Rr'e60                                 R J05 Co
S  ro ,z   ,isM  I N A S    GE  R A    S
A,amq.alauor6                     Poln,ezoos'                   p
Desco'3a0, io0c 
Atui          U             L            0   °     PlrAuununeAu                     O  g s  R3,.slo
0                                                        /em.e0 MatoSe-o                                                                               22'
\X08aeL           oJc~~J 8ratas'            01o3r;                        sy9      , t,w.-^                                              '8';'0
Pederne ros     Do's0                                 0 o 3  s   _ 4D1:
o7°   Aq iIe?°             Ct 'egos               S'e  e'trSs0 a        c      r.er....'ar-3 o
Le'6Pesle0                                             A            ;       A          ,          r         o          .* t  ** **                    Gee ,s . s       Vo so
1  bbOV08<r-05                                 0                                                                                                         RIO '°  * °  CE 2  *,
I50 MoseS\ .       -B;,,,ao'.  45.          Nc,ooesso   Pa..                                        A
bu CO., C-,              a.* C....se
Cairo   '$5    ~            ,omma
JAG             reN                                                   _ANEiRO
0½.~~~~; Ce9UeIr Cese  /  . e.ff- '.^.-. 
to ~ ~     ~     ~     E"                         CO i                 So¢vrO       i
Avaraer    o.                                                     'i a,.
0---.. o..'0                                                                  Pe.ea00e Et3                                            .. ,o E
Ave  -tgov    ItegegEoc   Sco.c-',                       ie sO 40-oR
TOaS *.e j- lont .
:-o ..o....
MIc-qkOs                     Z,no-.o
r,g                Guaia     0g.eueSles  o Sn
/oArec.oc4
Pe            eseeozS
49 ~   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 'e%OJI4rte                                                                                S4
A-oa.nno                                                                                    1 9r 6
0                         R~~~~~~~eqo  0-                                                                                    . .sl.-'  a-  '.
4/P.ho-tl                               48     Regsc46,44.
/~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OEBR18



