Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2857 BR
(FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation Project)
between
STATE OF SAO PAULO
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Date July 27, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2857 BR
SHAREHOLDER AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1987, between STATE OF SAO PAULO (hereinafter  called 
the State) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (hereinafter 
called the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) by a Loan Agreement of even date herewith (hereinafter called the 
Loan Agreement) between the Bank and FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (hereinafter 
called the Borrower), the Bank has agreed to lend to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to one hundred million   dollars ($100,000,000) on the terms and 
conditions set forth in the Loan
Agreement, and in a Guarantee Agreement of even date herewith between the Federative 
Republic of Brazil (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and the Bank;
(B)
the Bank has agreed to make the Loan only on condition that the State 
agrees to undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are herein set forth;
(C)
the State is the owner and holder of about 99% of the issued and 
outstanding voting shares of stock of the Borrower;
(D)
the State warrants and represents that it is authorized, under  the laws 
of the State, to undertake the obligations contained in this Agreement; and
Page  2
(E)
the State, in consideration of the Bank's entering into the Loan  
Agreement with the Borrower, and into the Guarantee Agreement with the  Guarantor has 
agreed to undertake the obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Whenever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall 
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Loan Agreement, the  Preamble to 
this Agreement and the General Conditions (as so defined) have  the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. The State declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and covenants and warrants that the Project is of paramount importance to the 
transportation development plans of the State and that, consequently, the State shall: 
(a) take all such action as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to carry out the 
Project with due diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, engineering and railway practices; and (b) not take or 
cause or permit any of its agencies to take any action which would prevent or 
interfere with the performance by the Borrower of its convenants, agreements and 
obligations contained in the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the State specifically undertakes, whenever  there is 
reasonably cause to believe that the funds available to the  Borrower will be 
inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the 
Project, to make arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the 
Borrower or cause the Borrower to be  provided with such funds as are needed to meet 
such expenditures.
Section 2.03. Without limitation or restriction upon the provision of Sections 
2.01 and 2.02 of this Agreement, the State covenants that it shall take all such 
action on its part as shall be necessary: (i) to maintain and ensure full compliance 
with the State's undertakings in respect of the  Borrower as expressed in the State  -  
FEPASA Agreement and in the  Guarantor and State Protocolo, to the extent said 
undertakings are consistent with the Borrower's obligations under the Loan Agreement; 
and  (ii) to ensure that all amounts due to the Borrower on account of
Normalization will be paid promptly, subject, however, to the provisions of Section 
2.04 of this Agreement.
Section 2.04. (a) The State shall take all such action on its part as  shall be 
necessary: (A) to enable it to reduce its Normalization payments, during the 
Borrower's fiscal years 1987 up to and including 1993, according to  the limits set 
forth below in this Section; and (B) without adversely affecting the Borrower's 
financial condition or ability, to comply with its obligations under the Loan 
Agreement.
(b)
The limits for aggregate payments to be made by the State during each of 
the Borrower's fiscal years 1987, 1988, 1989, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993 and each fiscal 
year thereafter, in respect of Normalization Two and  Normalization One, expressed as 
a percentage of the sum, for the year in question, of the freight business operating 
revenues and the long-distance  passenger operating revenues (as such terms are 
defined in Sections 5.03 (d) (ii) and 5.04 (d) (ii) of the Loan Agreement), shall be 
12%, 12%, 10%, 8%, 7%, 5%, 3% and 3%, respectively; provided, however, that without 
restriction   or limitation of the aforesaid, the Normalization payments in the 
Borrower's fiscal year 1993 and each fiscal year thereafter in respect of 
Normalization One shall also be limited to 25% of the aforesaid long-distance 
passenger operating revenues.
Section 2.05. (a) The State shall take all such action on its part so as to 
Page  3
enable the Borrower to submit to the Bank for review, in a timely fashion, the 
pluriannual plans provided for in paragraph 2 (b) of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.06. (a) The Bank and the State shall, at the request of either of 
them, exchange views with regard to the progress of the Project,  the performance by 
the State of its obligations under this Agreement and other matters relating to the 
purposes of the Loan.
(b)
The State shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition which  
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the 
accomplishment of the purposes of the Loan, or the performance by the State  of its 
obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Effective Date; Termination
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Loan Agreement becomes effective.
Section 3.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank and of the State 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Loan Agreement shall terminate in 
accordance with its terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify the State thereof.
Section 3.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 4.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered  by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C.  20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
For the State:
Governo do Estado de Sao Paulo
Palacio Bandeirantes
Av. Morumbi S/N
05598 Sao Paulo, SP
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
CELESPA
011 21992
011 31911
Page  4
Section 4.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of the State may 
be taken or executed by the Secretary of Planning of the State or such other person or 
persons as such Secretary shall designate in writing.
Section 4.03. The State shall furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the 
authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons who will, 
on behalf of the State, take any action or execute any  documents required or 
permitted to be taken or executed by the State  pursuant to any of the provisions of 
this Agreement.
Section 4.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts,  each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
STATE OF SAO PAULO
By /s/ Jose Machado de Campos Filho
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Authorized Representative
