Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2857 BR
(FEPASA Railway Rehabilitation Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
and
FEPASA - FERROVIA PAULISTA S.A.
Dated July 27, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2857 BR
GUARANTEE AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated JULY 27, 1987, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Guarantor) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Guarantor and FEPASA - Ferrovia Paulista S.A. (the Borrower), 
having been satisfied as to the feasibility and priority of the  Project described in 
Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, have requested the Bank to assist in the financing 
of the Project;
(B)
by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and the 
Borrower, the Bank has agreed to extend to the Borrower a loan in  various currencies 
equivalent to one hundred million dollars ($100,000,000),  on the terms and conditions 
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on  condition that the Guarantor agree to 
guarantee the obligations of the Borrower in respect of such loan and to undertake 
such other obligations as
provided in this Agreement; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's entering into  the Loan 
Agreement with the Borrower and into the Shareholder Agreement with the State of Sao 
Paulo, has agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the  Borrower and to undertake 
such other obligations as stipulated in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms  defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement  have the respective 
meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Guarantee; Provision of Funds
Section 2.01. (a) The Guarantor declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Loan Agreement, and to this end, without 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other  obligations under the Guarantee 
Agreement, the Guarantor hereby   unconditionally guarantees, as primary obligor and 
not as surety merely,  the due and punctual payment of the principal of, and interest 
and other charges on, the Loan, and the premium, if any, on the prepayment of the  
Loan, and the punctual performance of all the other obligations of the Borrower, all 
as set forth in the Loan Agreement.
(b)
Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of paragraph (a) 
hereof, the Guarantor shall grant all requests for tariff adjustments made by the 
Borrower pursuant to Sections 5.02, 5.03, 5.04, 5.05 and 5.08 of the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.02. Without limitation or restriction upon the provisions of  Section 
2.01 of this Agreement, the Guarantor specifically undertakes,  whenever there is 
reasonable cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower, including those 
to be provided by the State under the Shareholder Agreement, will be inadequate to 
meet the estimated expenditures required for the carrying out of the Project, to make 
arrangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to provide the Borrower or cause the 
Borrower to be provided with such funds as are needed to meet such
expenditures.
Section 2.03. The Guarantor shall take, and cause CBTU to take, all such action 
as shall be necessary to enable the Borrower to submit, in a  timely fashion, the 
pluriannual plan for the metropolitan train operation  referred to in  paragraph 2 (b) 
of Schedule 5 to the Loan Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Guarantor shall take all action required to be taken by the 
Guarantor under the Guarantor and State Protocolo.
ARTICLE III
Covenants
Section 3.01. The Guarantor shall take and cause to be taken all appropriate 
action, including the granting of all necessary authorizations, import licenses and 
foreign exchange permits to ensure the timely procurement of the goods and services 
required for the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Representative of the Guarantor; Addresses
Section 4.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor is designated as 
representative of the  Guarantor for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 4.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Page  3
Ministerio da Fazenda
Edificio Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
70048 Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611506
Brasilia
MFAZ BR
 
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Carlos Bresser Pereira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
