Report No. PIC4065
Project Name                   Georgia-AgriculturalDevelopment Project(@+)
Region                         Europe and Central Asia
Sector                         Agriculture
Project ID                     GAPA8415
Borrower                       Georgia
Implementing Agency            Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Project Implementation Unit
Tblisi, Georgia
Contact: Mr. George Maglakelidze
Project Manager
Phone: 995-32-999-942
Fax: 1-908-888-9698 ext 126 (tie line
from USA)
Internet:  PPIU@wbagro.ge
Date This PID Prepared         March 12, 1997
Date Initial PID Prepared      April 6, 1995
Appraisal Date                 June 15, 1996
Projected Board Date           March 25, 1997
Country and Sector Background
Macroeconomic Environment. Following independence, the
country experienced three years of sharp economic decline,
financial imbalances leading to hyper-inflation, and political
instability. Domestic security problems during this period
resulted in severe disruptions of the domestic transport and
marketing systems. With the benefit of greater law and order and
the restoration of political stability, the Government introduced
in mid-1994, with assistance from the IMF and the World Bank, a
program to stabilize and reform the economy. Since then,
considerable progress has been achieved in curbing inflation and
stabilizing the external value of the currency. Inflation has
averaged less than 2t per month since January 1996, and GDP has
begun to increase. There have also been significant improvements
in fiscal management. In the agricultural sector, the removal of
direct state intervention in agricultural production, the abolition
of the state order system in 1995, the liberalization of producer
and consumer prices, the removal of most restrictions on imports
and exports, and the demonopolization of agricultural markets make
Georgia one of the least distorted macroeconomic environments in
the CIS.
Agricultural Privatization. Rapid progress has been achieved
in the privatization of small-scale enterprises, with nearly all
such enterprises having already been transferred to private owners
by mid-1996. Privatization of medium-and large scale enterprises



began in early 1995 with the conversion of 840 enterprises to joint
stock companies (which includes 187 out of a total of 440 agro-
processing enterprises). Following conversion to joint stock
companies, enterprises are privatized. By February, 1997, 515
medium- and large-scale joint stock companies had been privatized.
The process of land privatization has been equally impressive. The
land privatization program began in January 1992 with the
establishment of a "privatization reserve" of 852,000 ha for
distribution to private ownership. By the end of 1995, 620,000 ha
or about 20% of all agricultural land, which includes 43% of all
arable land and 60% of all land under perennials, had been
distributed to private individuals. In March 1996, Parliament
enacted an Agricultural Land Ownership Law that clarifies ownership
rights as well as the right to buy, sell, or lease land, thus
consolidating the property rights granted under the 1992 land
privatization program.    Under the Law on Agricultural Land Leasing
passed by Parliament in July 1996, land not earmarked for
privatization under the 1992 land privatization program can now be
leased to individuals for periods of up to 49 years. With a large
proportion of high value agricultural land already in private
ownership, and the imminent transfer of more land to private
control, there is a need to develop a land registration system to
promote efficient land markets. This change in ownership patterns
has also necessitated the development of a rural credit system that
meets the needs of small farmers and entrepreneurs.
Banking Sector Restructuring. Hyper-inflationary conditions
prevailing in Georgia until late 1994 eroded the real value of
nominal claims, including the banks' deposits and loan portfolios,
as well as confidence in the currency and the banking system.
Several measures aimed at restoring confidence in the banking
system were recently introduced by the Government under a Bank/IMF
financial sector restructuring program. A key feature of the
program was the promulgation of a law establishing the independence
of the National Bank of Georgia (NBG) to conduct and manage
monetary policy. This was followed by a new Commercial Banking Law
that gives NBG's supervisors sufficient authority to enforce
prudential rules, regulations and sanctions; regulate mergers and
monopolies in the financial markets; and liquidate banks. These
expanded powers imply a wider role for the NBG, and for
accelerating the strengthening of the legal and regulatory
framework for banking in general. Under the Bank/IMF program,
technical assistance is being provided to the NBG's banking
supervision department to help strengthen its supervisory and
regulatory capabilities and to implement these measures. As a
result of this program, the conditions in the banking sector have
improved to the point that it is now feasible to finance a credit
project through the commercial banking system.
The improving macroeconomic environment, significant progress
in enterprise and land privatization, and improved conditions in
the banking sector, provides an appropriate environment for
initiation of this IDA Credit.
Objectives
-2-



The overall objective of the Agricultural Development Project
is to increase agricultural productivity in Georgia by supporting
the development of private sector farming and agro-processing. The
specific goals of the project are to develop an agricultural credit
system; facilitate increased liquidity in land markets; and
identify, through training, a series of studies and pilot
operations, an agricultural development and investment program to
address major constraints to increasing agricultural productivity.
This would be achieved by: (i) developing the capacity of private
commercial banks to provide loans to enterprises; (ii) restarting
the operations of privatized enterprises; (iii) developing the
capacity to provide financial services to the rural population;
(iv) implementing a land registration program; and (v) conducting a
selected number of studies that would help formulate programs for
supporting agriculture services to private farmers.
Description
To support the above objectives, the proposed project would
provide financing to the Project Coordinating Unit (US $ 0.3
million) and to four free-standing components. Three of these
components: (a) Credit to Enterprises; (b) Credit Unions; and (c)
Agricultural Services, would have a nation-wide coverage. The Land
Registration component, would be limited to two rayons
(administrative districts) in the vicinity of Tbilisi. A summary
of these four components is presented below.
Credit to Enterprises (US $12.0 million) The line of credit
would be used for onlending to private enterprises for financing
fixed investments and associated working capital through
Participating Banks (PBs) certified by IDA to participate under the
project. Training for PBs under this component was organized and
partly financed in advance of project implementation by the
Economic Development Institute (EDI). Government of Georgia (GOG)
would lend to Participating Banks (PBs) in dollars and Lari, on
request of the PBs. PBs would be required to onlend to the sub-
borrowers in the same currency for terms of no less than one year
and no more than five years, at market determined interest rates.
The PB would repay the principal to GOG within three months after
the end of each sub-loan period, and interest semi-annually,
following a grace period of no more than six months for loans of
less than three years, and no more than one year for loans of three
years and longer. GOG would onlend dollars at an interest rate of
LIBOR plus 39 and Lari at the National Bank of Georgia auction rate
for 30 day funds.
Credit Unions (US $7.5 million) The project would support
the development of rural credit unions (CUs) in Georgia. Since
credit unions are new to Georgia, this project would first pilot
the development of CUs for a period of two years under temporary
regulatory procedures of the Presidential Decree on the
Establishment and Development of Rural Credit Unions before
adopting more permanent procedures and structures, and expanding
more rapidly. A maximum of 120 CUs are expected to form during the
five year period of project. Ten CUs have already been formed
using funds from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF). The
- 3 -



project would also support the establishment of a regulatory body
for CUs, the Credit Union Development Center (CUDC). Credit unions
that meet pre-specified eligibility criteria would be able to
obtain a start-up grant to cover establishment and operating costs,
an initial equity grant to serve as an insurance fund until
sufficient member equity is accumulated, and Project funds on a
loan basis. These funds would supplement the membership's
contributions and would be used for making loans to members (mainly
small private farmers, micro-enterprises and small traders), for
needed productive investments and services in the rural sector.
Government of Georgia would lend to CUs in Lari for a maximum term
of two years and they would be required to onlend to their members
at market determined interest rates. CUs would repay the principal
at the end of the loan period and interest semi-annually.
Government of Georgia would onlend Lari to CUs at the National Bank
of Georgia auction rate for 30 day funds or at an alternative
positive real rate of interest acceptable to IDA.
Land Registration. (US $6.0 million) The project would
establish a land registration program in Gardabani and Mtskheta
rayons (administrative districts) by concentrating on privately
held rural house lots and farm lands. Approximately 199,000
parcels would be surveyed under the project and 130,000 land
ownership titles would be issued to individuals in the project
area.
Agricultural Services. (US $0.5 million) A series of
studies, pilot operations, and training exercises would be
completed to identify appropriate agricultural services programs
that would serve the needs of small farmers, improve agricultural
policy making and encourage agricultural exports. On the basis of
these activities the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries
would prepare an agriculture sector strategy and investment plan
for the next phase of their development program.
Financing
Local        Foreign     Total
-------- US $ million --------
IDA                              3.0            12.0        15.0
IFAD                             4.4             1.6         6.0
Commercial Banks                 1.1             0.0         1.1
Credit Unions                    1.5             0.0         1.5
Government of Georgia            0.5              0.0        0.5
Enterprises/Beneficiaries        2.2              0.0        2.2
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS             12.7             13.6       26.3
Implementation
The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries would be the
implementing agency for the project. The Minister of Agriculture
- 4 -



and Food Industries would provide monthly project progress reports
to a working Committee of the State Coordination Committee for
Cooperation with International Financial Institutions (SCC). The
SCC falls under the office of the President and has the
responsibility for overseeing all IDA projects. The day-to-day
implementation of the Project would be carried out by the Project
Coordinating Unit (PCU). A Credit to Enterprises Unit (CEU),
Credit Union Development Committee (CUDC), and a Land Registration
Unit will be formed in the PCU to manage their respective
components.
Sustainability
The project's rationale is that the agriculture sector
should, over time, become self- sustaining without having to rely
on government subsidies and protective measures. Thus, loans to
enterprises will be at positive real interest rates, with private
banks bearing the full commercial risk. Similarly, loans to members
by Credit Unions would be structured so as to minimize current
distortions in rural credit by linking interest rates to the cost
of funds and making them positive in real terms. Except for an
initial grant to help establish the credit unions and cover funding
shortfalls in the CUDC, interest rates would be structured so as to
cover all operating costs. Effort would also be made to establish a
foundation of agricultural services based as far as possible on the
principle of full cost recovery. Over time, sustainability of the
land registration program would depend on the capacity to recover
the registration costs from land owners and the ability to mobilize
the private sector to undertake the survey work. Both of these
aspects are an integral feature of the project and, if they are
successful, it should be possible to make the program self
financing and to expand it rapidly to other parts of the country.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector
The proposed project is IDA's first operation supporting
Georgia's agricultural sector. A number of projects in the ECA
Region were examined during the design phase of this project. The
most important ones were a 1994 Agricultural Reform Implementation
Support Project in Russia that was designed to accelerate
agricultural reforms; strengthen agricultural support services,
including the setting up of a land administration and management
service; build-up institutional capacity to prepare and implement
agricultural and agri-business projects by the private sector; and
to develop market information systems and farmers' advisory
services. Design of the Georgia project also took into account the
experience gained under the 1993 Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot
Project in Albania and a subsequent 1995 Rural Development Project,
both of which contain small-scale credit components.
Implementation of the pilot small-scale credit component in Albania
was judged by OED to be satisfactory, its sustainability assured,
and its impact on institutional development substantial.
Significant design elements of the above mentioned projects,
especially in the area of loans to agro-industries and facilitating
credit to small farmers, were built into the proposed Georgia
- 5 -



project. The pilot activities under the PPF for this project,
including the establishment of 10 CUs and the completion of some
pilot land surveys, were satisfactorily executed, indicating a
commitment, by the Government of Georgia and the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food, to satisfactory project implementation.
Poverty Category
The Credit Union component, a portion of the Land
Registration component and studies to be conducted under the
Agriculture Services component are targeted at assisting small
private farms. With an average size of 0.9 hectare, most of these
farm families are in the bottom half of the income strata in
Georgia. Thus, about US $10.0 million, or roughly 38% of the
project cost, would be directly focused on poverty alleviation. A
baseline study of the socio-economic conditions facing small scale
farmers in the two districts included in the Land Registration
component has been completed to enable the monitoring of farm
incomes, demographics of the farming population, and major
constraints facing small-scale farmers. Further monitoring will be
done during project implementation.
Environmental Aspects
The project would be classified as category "B" in the Bank's
environmental rating. Investments by enterprises could pose
certain environmental risks. All such investments would therefore
be required to undergo an environmental impact assessment and
enterprises would be expected to have the required environmental
permits from the Ministry of Environmental Protection (MoEP), or
other concerned agencies. The remaining components of the project
are not expected to have a detrimental impact on the environment.
Land registration would improve the incentives for lending to
farmers and the availability of credit, and provide the means for
private farmers to invest in conservation measures. MoEP is in the
process of preparing an National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP).
Project Benefits
The primary beneficiaries of this project are the agro-
processing industry and small-scale rural businesses, including
small farms. The line of credit, which will be used primarily by
agribusiness companies, is expected to result in large gains in
productivity by allowing firms to upgrade their technology and gain
access to export markets.    The establishment of credit unions in
rural areas will benefit both small farmers and small-scale rural
businesses by establishing a low cost mechanism for non-collateral
based lending. The beneficiaries of the land registration
component of the project will be 130,000 small-scale rural land
owners. Land titling would be a particularly important social
safety net for older land owners, who could generate income by
leasing their land, knowing that they have secure title. In the
longer run, title registration is expected to increase the
liquidity of the land market by reducing the cost of land
transactions, thus increasing the productivity of small-scale
agriculture in Georgia. While it is not possible to calculate the
- 6 -



economic rate of return for the project, sub-loans to enterprises
would be required to have a minimum financial rate of return of 15%.
Project Risks
Major risks for this project are, i) a resurgence of macro-
economic instability; ii) PCB's failing to aggressively promote the
line of credit; iii) credit unions failing to materialize or
mobilize funds; iv) lack of commitment of the Government to land
reform and land registration.
Contact Point:           Mr. Iain Shuker, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.:   (202)473-5519
Fax No.: (202)522-0073
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending April 4, 1997.
- 7 -



Annex
Environmental Review
Environmental reviews will be completed for each sub-project
under the line of credit as they are prepared.
- 8 -



