Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 15938-GE
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
February 28, 1997
Natural Resources Management Division
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(as of December, 1996)
Currency Unit  =  Lari
Lari I   =  US$ 0.78
US$1   =  1.28 Lari
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GEORGIA - FISCAL YEAR
January I - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB    Administrative Bank
BCC    Bank Credit Committee
CE    Credit to Enterprises
CEU     Credit to Enterprises Unit of the PCU
CF    Contract for Consulting Firm
Cl    Contract for Individual Consultant
CIS    Commonwealth of Independent States
CU     Rural Credit Union
CUDC      Credit Union Development Center
DLRC      Department of Land Resources and Cartography in MAFI
DGC    Department of Geodesy & Cartography
DO     Development Officers
EBRD    European Bank for Reconstruction and Development
EDC     Enterprise Development Center
EDI    Economic Development Institute
EIA    Environmental Impact Assessment
EU     European Union
EU (TACIS)    Technical Assistance for CIS
FAO    Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations
FSU     Former Soviet Union
GAAS    Georgia Academy of Agricultural Sciences
GIPC    Georgian Investment Promotion Center
GOG     Government of Georgia
IAS    International Accounting Standards
IBC    Institution Building Credit
ICB    International Competitive Bidding
IDA     International Development Association
IFAD     International Fund for Agricultural Development
IMF    International Monetary Fund
IS   International Shopping
LAA     Land Administration Authority
LIBOR     London Interbank Offered Rate
LRO     Land Registration Office
LRU     Land Registration Unit
NBF    Non-Bank Financed
NCB    National Competitive Bidding
NBG     National Bank of Georgia
MAFI    Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
MOF    Ministry of Finance
MoEP    Ministry of Environmental Protection
PB    Participating Bank
PCU     Project Coordinating Unit
PHRD      Policy and Human Resources Development Japanese Grant Fund
PPF    Project Preparation Facility
SCC     State Coordinating Committee for Cooperation with International Financial
Institutions in the Office of the President
SL    Supplementary Loans
SOE    Statement of Expenditure
STF    Systemic Transformation Facility
UNDP    United Nations Development Program
USAID     United States Agency for International Development
VAT    Value Added Tax
Vice President:   Johannes Linn, ECA
Director:    Basil Kavalsky, EC4
Division Chief:   Geoffrey Fox, EC4NR
Staff:    lain Shuker, Amnon Golan, EC4NR (Appraisal):
Ezriel Brook, EC4NR (Pre-appraisal).



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
CONTENTS
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY  ...................................... i
CHAPTER 1. BACKGROUND  ..................................... 1
A. Introduction .1
B.  The Policy Agenda.                                                         2
C.  The Agriculture Sector.                                                    5
D.      Constraints to Increased Agricultural Productivity.                    7
E.   Bank's Experience and Strategy .10
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT .....................  13
A.   Project Origin and Formulation .13
B.      Project Objectives and Description .13
C.  Cost Estimates .18
D. Financing .19
E. Procurement .19
F. Disbursement .22
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  ...........                 ............... 25
A.   Organization and Management .25
B.   Lending Terms and Conditions .32
C.  Accounts and Audit .37
D.  Reporting and Evaluation .37
E.  Supervision Arrangements .38
CHAPTER 4. BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ....                     ..... 39
A. Benefits .39
B.      Risks   ............................................   41
C.  Sustainability .42
D.  Environmental Impact .43
E.      Poverty ...................                                ....... 43
F.  Gender Issues .43
G.  Participation .44
CHAPTER 5. AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS  ....                        ............ 45
A.      Agreements Reached Before Negotiations .45
B.      Agreements Reached During Negotiations .45
C.    Conditions of Board Presentation .46
D.   Conditions of Disbursement .46
E.  Recommendation .46



ANNEXES
A. THE BANKING SECTOR
B. TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROJECT COORDINATING UNIT
C. CREDIT UNION OPERATIONS AND THE CREDIT UNIONS DEVELOPMENT
CENTER
D. LAND REGISTRATION AND TITLING
E. AGRICULTURAL SERVICES
F. CREDIT TO ENTERPRISES UNIT
G. MONITORING AND EVALUATION INDICATORS
H. DISBURSEMENT SCHEDULE
I.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
J.  PROJECT PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE
K. PROJECT SUPERVISION PLAN
L. DOCUMENTS IN FILE
MAP        IDA No. 28234
TABLES
Table 2.1 Project Cost Summary . ..................................... 18
Table 2.2 Project Financing .......................................... 19
Table 2.3 Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements ..... ............... 20
Table 2.4 IDA Disbursement Projections ......... ........................ 22
Table 2.5 Disbursement Categories . ................................... 23



GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Georgia
Implementing Agency:  Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry
Beneficiaries:        Private enterprises, mainly in the agro-processing sector, private small
farmers, micro-enterprises, participating financial institutions and rural land
owners.
Poverty:              Program of targeted interventions.
Amount:               SDR 10.4 million.
Terms:                Standard, with 35 years maturity, including a 10 year grace period.
Commitment Fee:       0.50% on undisbursed credit balances, beginning 60 days after signing, less
any waiver.
Onlending Terms:      Government of Georgia (GOG) would onlend dollars at an interest rate of
LIBOR plus 3% and Lari at the National Bank of Georgia auction rate for
30 day funds. GOG would lend to Participating Banks (PBs) in dollar and
Lari denominated loans, on request of the PBs. PBs would be required to
onlend to the sub-borrowers in the same currency for a minimum term of 1
year and a maximum term of 5 years, at market determined interest rates.
The PB would repay the principal to GOG within 3 months after the end of
each sub-loan period, and interest semi-annually. GOG would lend to
Credit Unions (CUs) in Lari for a maximum term of two years. CUs
would be required to onlend to their members at market determined interest
rates. CUs would repay the principal at the end of the loan period and
interest semi-annually.
Financing Plan:        See Table 2.2.
Net Present Value:    None calculated, however, sub-projects under the Credit to Enterprises
component would be required to have a financial rate of return of at least
15%.
Map:                  28234
Project ID Number:    GE-PE-8415






CHAPTER 1
BACKGROUND
A. Introduction
1.1          Georgia was one of the first republics to leave the former Soviet Union (FSU) when it
became independent in April 1991. A small country located in the Caucasus region, Georgia has an area
of 70,000 Ian. It is bordered by Turkey and Armenia to the southwest, and by Azerbaijan to the
southeast. To the north, there are a number of autonomous republics that form part of the Russian
Federation, and the Black Sea borders Georgia to the west. Since 1989, there have been tensions over
the status of the autonomous region of Abkhazia, and in 1992 these erupted into open conflict. There
have also been disputes with the South Ossetian Oblast since 1990. Currently, both South Ossetia and
Abkhazia are outside the Georgian Government's control.
1.2          According to the 1989 census, Georgia's population of 5.4 million is growing at a rate
of 0.8% per annum. Average population density is under 80 per km2, but much of the population is
concentrated in towns and in the central flat lands. The urbanization rate is high, with over 55 % of the
population living in towns; and 27% (1.5 million) live in Tbilisi. Georgia has one of the best educated
labor forces in the FSU, with roughly 17.5%  of the population having completed post-secondary
education.
1.3          Following independence, the country experienced three years of sharp economic decline,
financial imbalances leading to hyper-inflation, and political instability. Domestic security problems
during this period resulted in severe disruptions of the domestic transport and marketing systems; road
blocks and extortion were particularly bad in 1992/93. With the benefit of greater law and order and the
restoration of political stability, the Government introduced a program to stabilize and reform the
economy in mid-1994, with assistance from the IMF and the World Bank. Since then, considerable
progress has been achieved in curbing inflation and stabilizing the external value of the currency. Other
major achievements include: (a) the success in privatizing small, medium-sized, and large enterprises,
and the decision to dismantle the largest state monopoly in the food and agriculture sector - the State
Bread Corporation; (b) the downsizing of the government sector; (c) the adjustment of controlled prices
for energy, public transport and bread to levels close to full cost recovery, in order to reduce or eliminate
subsidies; (d) the gradual elimination of export restrictions while continuing to maintain a relatively free
import regime; (e) the elimination of the state order system; (f) the introduction of a new currency, the
Lari, in September 1995; (g) the issuing of new prudential regulations by the National Bank of Georgia
along with a new law issued by Parliament guaranteeing the independence of the National Bank in
formulating and implementing monetary and exchange rate policies; (h) improvements in the effectiveness
of the foreign exchange market by abolishing all distinctions between cash and non-cash, and eliminating
the surrender requirement, thus removing implicit taxation of foreign earnings; (i) the introduction of an
auction system for foreign exchange; and (j) the introduction of several measures to improve targeting
of social benefits in order to maintain a minimum social safety net.
1.4          Georgia has therefore made significant progress in creating a macroeconomic environment
conducive to emerging private agriculture and agro-processing industry. The removal of direct state
intervention in agricultural production, the abolition of the state order system in 1995, the liberalization
of producer and consumer prices, the removal of most restrictions on imports and exports, and the



2                                                                                    Chapter I
demonopolization of agricultural markets make Georgia one of the least distorted macroeconomic
environments in the CIS. The liberal price and trade regime, together with the first signs of overall
economic recovery, and positive GDP growth in 1995 and 1996, provide an appropriate environment for
the recovery of the food and agriculture sector and for IDA to initiate its first investment project in the
sector.
B. The Policy Agenda
1.5           Despite the initial success following introduction of the stabilization program described
above, the economic situation remains fragile. The tax collection effort remains very weak; the
transformation to a market economy is still in an early transition stage; and the productive sector has not
fully adjusted to new economic signals. Major measures required to support the Government's continued
ability to successfully manage the economy in the near term include: (a) maintaining a tight monetary
program supported by an improved fiscal position; (b) streamlining the public sector and efficiently
utilizing the limited fiscal resources at the Government's disposal; and (c) fostering a rapid adjustment
of the productive sector to new market signals. These three elements are currently being addressed by
Government with assistance from the Bank under the Structural Adjustment Credit. Aspects of the third
element, which are particularly relevant to the recovery of the agricultural sector and to this project, are
briefly described below.
1.6           Privatization of Enterprises. The privatization of state-owned enterprises is one of the
most critical elements in the Government's structural reform program. An important step in support of
the privatization process is the foreign investment law that was passed by Parliament in June 1995.
Except for a selected number of enterprises that are essential to normal government functions, the vast
majority of enterprises will be privatized. Rapid progress has been achieved in the privatization of small-
scale enterprises, with nearly all such enterprises having already been transferred to private owners by
mid-1996. Privatization of medium-and large scale enterprises began in early 1995 with the conversion
of 840 enterprises to joint stock companies (which includes 187 out of a total of 440 agro-processing
enterprises). Following conversion to joint stock companies, enterprises are privatized. By February,
1997, 515 medium- and large-scale joint stock companies had been privatized. A high priority for the
Government at this point is to complete the corporatization of the remaining enterprises awaiting
transformation, and the selling of the remaining shares in all medium and large enterprises. The primary
method being used to privatize enterprises is voucher and cash auctions; in a few selected cases tenders
are also being used. The program does not provide managers and employees special privileges to
purchase controlling blocks of shares; they too must compete on an equal basis with all other interested
buyers. One exception is the privatization and de-monopolization of the National Bread Corporation,
where the Government is proposing to grant managers of mills and bakeries a ten year lease with the
option to buy. Since this approach is unlikely to promote competitive behavior in the bread and milling
industry, which would benefit the population at large, IDA has recommended to the Government that they
reconsider this proposal and use privatization procedures that are consistent with the overall privatization
program. Completion of the privatization process, and introduction of supporting legislation wherever
necessary, is being assisted by IDA under the Structural Adjustment Credit. Financial support to
privatized enterprises, many of which would be in the agro-processing sub-sector, would be provided
under the Agricultural Development Project.



Background                                                                                3
1.7          Land Distribution and Privatization. During the Soviet period, about 729,000 families
were employed in agricultural production by the state and collective farms. These farms occupied a total
of 3,010,000 ha, comprising 797,000 ha of arable land, 320,000 ha under perennial crops, with the
balance in pastures and meadows. During this period, 212,000 ha of the arable land was in small
subsidiary household plots of up to 0.25 ha per family. The process of land privatization began in
January 1992 with Government Resolution 42, generally known as the "Land Privatization Decree."
Under this land privatization program, a "privatization reserve" of 852,000 ha (which included those
areas already in household plots) was established for distribution to private ownership. While this
represents only 33 % of all agricultural land, it includes 83 % of all arable land and 75 % of all land under
perennial crops in Georgia. Land was distributed by granting, free of charge, a maximum of 1.25 ha
to former employees of state and collective farms and 0.75 ha to other workers in the villages. Urban
residents without any land holdings could apply to receive 0.15 ha per family. By the end of 1995,
620,000 ha or about 20% of all agricultural land, which includes 43 % of all arable land and 60 % of all
land under perennials, had been distributed to private individuals. The approximately 230,000 ha
remaining to be distributed under the 1992 land privatization program are largely in areas where the
Government is unable to implement the land reform due to local government opposition in South Ossetia
and Abkhazia. In March 1996, Parliament enacted an Agricultural Land Ownership Law that clarifies
ownership rights as well as the right to buy, sell, or lease land, thus consolidating the property rights
granted under the 1992 land privatization program. Measures supporting the development of a fluid land
market by providing owners with a secured title to their land holdings would be introduced under this
project on a pilot basis in two districts.
1.8          Land not earmarked for privatization under the 1992 land privatization program is still
owned by the State and nominally controlled by State or collective farms. Decree No. 949 of September
1992 required that state and collective farms and enterprises restructure themselves, through the free
choice of members and employees, into private farms, cooperative enterprises, or joint stock companies;
and that the responsibility for social assets of the farms, such as health clinics, schools and public roads,
be transferred to the local authorities. Research and experimental stations, livestock breeding farms, seed
farms and other specialized farms were exempt from mandatory restructuring. This decree provided little
guidance on the restructuring process itself, resulting in a relatively spontaneous process of restructuring,
and a collapse of the State and collective farm system. Much of the land under the control of State and
collective farms is presently being used as communal property, is lying idle, or is occupied or leased by
individuals on an informal basis. In order to address this problem, the Parliament passed a law on
Agricultural Land Leasing in July 1996, which provides for the leasing of State-owned land to individuals
on leases of up to 49 years. The law came into force on January 1, 1997. This law is expected to place
more agricultural land under private use, thus improving agricultural productivity.
1.9          Establishment of a Land Registration and Land Cadastre System.  Under the land
privatization program, lists of persons entitled to receive land were developed in many areas, and about
25% of the land owners were issued "Land Owner" certificates. In other areas, however, individuals
were assigned users' rights to the land, but no records were kept. Also, where lists exist, they contain
many errors, and in most cases, it is impossible to link the certificates to a land parcel. In order to
reduce the cost of future disputes and increase the liquidity of land transactions (thus facilitating increased
sales, rental, and mortgage agreements on land), it is important to develop a system of land registration
and titling. The first step in this process is the establishment of a legal framework to support land
registration. Aside from establishing a national land registration system, this law should also include
provisions related to: (a) the mortgaging of property; (b) the guarantee of rights of the registered



4                                                                                   Chapter I
proprietor; (c) recovery of the registration and title costs; (d) penalties for failure to pay the registration
fees; (e) treatment of payments made previously by owners for the "Land Owner" certificates; (f)
provisions for adjudicating disputes between individuals, and between individuals and the state; (g)
handling of decisions by the land committees that allocated to individuals land in excess of 1.25 ha; (h)
establishment of a national Unique Parcel Reference System; (i) declassifying survey coordinates and
maps required for the registration work; and where applicable, (j) resolving Sakrebulo' boundary
disputes.
1.10          A special working group under the chairmanship of a Deputy Minister in Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Industry (MAFI), and including senior experts from MAFI, and the Ministry of
Justice and Parliament's Agrarian Reform Committee, has prepared a draft Land Registration Law based
on similar laws from Albania and Slovakia and based on an extensive technical note prepared by an IDA
land registration consultant who visited Georgia. The Land Registration Law was passed by Parliament
in November 1996k meeting a condition for disbursement of the land registration component of this
Credit. Regulations related to the law would assign to MAFI the overall responsibility for land
registration in rural areas, maintaining a land cadastre system and for recovering the land registration and
title costs until such time as an independent land registry is established.
1.11          An integral feature of a land registration system is a mechanism to adjudicate land
disputes. Georgia's immediate land adjudication requirements are likely to be different from those of
many other countries. While some disputes may arise between occupiers of adjacent plots of land, given
the short interval since the occupiers started to cultivate the land, it should be possible to settle many
of these disputes in the field during the survey process. Where such disputes cannot be resolved, the
surveyors would demarcate the disputed boundary on the map and refer the dispute to the Government
for resolution through the justice system. A more common, and potentially much more serious, source
of dispute is likely to arise between the occupiers and the State. These disputes will most likely relate
to occupiers' encroachment on state land, forest reserves, etc. There may even be boundary disputes
between whole villages or adjacent Sakrebulos. This Project would provide training for surveyors in the
area of dispute resolution to assist them in their field work. Training seminars for Government officials
and the legal establishment on the resolution of land disputes would also be provided.
1.12          Restructuring the Banking Sector. Hyper-inflationary conditions prevailing in Georgia
until late 1994 eroded the real values of nominal claims, including the banks' deposits and loan portfolios,
as well as confidence in the currency and the banking system. Several measures aimed at restoring
confidence in the banking system were recently introduced by the Government under a Bank/IMF
financial sector restructuring program. Annex A presents further details on the banking restructuring
program. A key feature of the program was the promulgation of a law establishing the independence of
NBG to conduct and manage monetary policy. This was followed by a new Commercial Banking Law
that gives NBG's supervisors sufficient authority to enforce prudential rules, regulations, and sanctions;
regulate mergers and monopolies in the financial markets; and liquidate banks. These expanded powers
imply a wider role for the NBG, and for accelerating the strengthening of the legal and regulatory
framework for banking in general.
1.13          Government is aware that fostering savings mobilization and efficient intermediation by
the banking sector are critical for the economy's recovery, and is therefore intent on furthering reforms.
A local government administrative area comprising two or three villages.



Background                                                                                5
These reforms would entail: (a) completing the privatization and recapitalization of the former state
banks; (b) restricting non-viable banks from expanding their balance sheets until they comply with all
NBG's prudential requirements; enforcing NBG's standards and ratios without resorting to Government
budgetary funds; and, (c) encouraging the orderly consolidation and merger of small private commercial
banks that do not meet the minimum capital requirements. Under the Bank/IMF program, technical
assistance will be provided to the NBG's banking supervision department to help strengthen its
supervisory and regulatory capabilities and to implement these measures. As a result of this program,
the conditions for lending have improved significantly: i) the average inflation since January 1996 has
been below 2% per month; ii) forty five banks have been certified under the new NBG prudential
regulations, agreed with the IMF; iii) four banks completed International Accounting Standards (IAS)
audits by the end of 1996, and thereby became potential candidates of onlending under this Credit; and
iv) significant progress in the privatization of medium and large scale enterprises (para 1.6) has improved
the market conditions for lending.
1.14         Establishment of Rural Credit Union Cooperatives (CUs).  Rural credit unions are
recognized under the Banking Law as deposit taking institutions that are specifically exempt from this
Law. They will be governed initially by the Presidential Decree Concerning the Establishment and
Development of Rural Credit Unions and a set of related prudential regulations required by this Decree.
This Decree was signed on September 19, 1996. satisfving a condition of negotiation for the proposed
proiect. The CU prudential regulations follow closely normal banking prudential regulations but have
a minimum equity requirement that is lower than that typically found in banking prudential regulations.
A summary of these prudential regulations is provided in Annex C. The decree establishes Credit Union
Development Center (CUDC) as an independent state-sponsored agency to administer these regulations,
monitor the CUs' operations, and promote the credit union concept. After about two years of experience
with their operations, a permanent credit union law will be promulgated with the appropriate prudential
rules and regulations, and a permanent regulatory agency will be established to supervise and regulate
the CUs. A program to support the establishment of the CUDC, refinement of prudential regulations and
monitoring mechanisms for CUs, and the establishment of CUs is included in the proposed project.
C. The Agriculture Sector
1.15          Agriculture has traditionally been the mainstay of Georgia's economy. In 1992, the
sector employed nearly one third of the labor force and accounted for 33 % of net material product. The
main crops grown were cereals, potatoes, horticultural products, and a number of perennials such as tea,
grapes, and fruit. Livestock production was another important feature of the sector, accounting for about
one third of agricultural output. Overall, however, Georgia experienced a deficit in most livestock
products, and had to import substantial quantities of meat and milk. Traditionally, Georgia was a net
exporter of food products to the rest of the Soviet Union, with exports exceeding imports by a factor of
7 to 1. Agricultural imports were mainly wheat, sugar, milk and meat.
1.16         Following the collapse of the FSU, the shocks experienced by the Georgian economy
were especially pronounced in the agricultural sector, resulting in sharp declines in output and exports.
Not only did Georgia lose a sizable segment of the secure and stable market that used to absorb its food
products, but it also experienced a disruption of well established trade relationships, resulting in serious
difficulties in the system of procurement (agriculture raw materials, energy, packaging materials, parts



6                                                                                      Chapter 1
and components, etc.). The end result is that Georgia's trade in agriculture and food products and inputs
have been reduced to a small fraction of their pre-independence levels.  In response to these
developments, the Government lifted many of the administrative restrictions on domestic marketing and
movement of goods, and allowed market forces to determine the price of most goods. The remaining
controls on the prices of energy are gradually being removed. Subsidization of irrigation water charges
through energy is the last remaining producer subsidy in the sector. Agriculture imports are not subject
to any restrictions apart from payment of a 12% import duty, which is applied uniformly to most imports.
1.17          The state order system, which underpinned agricultural trade and production, required
enterprises producing specified commodities to deliver 65% of their products to the Government at
negotiated prices2. By 1995, the system had virtually collapsed, mainly because the state was not able
to make timely payments. Delayed payments made in coupons were almost worthless due to hyper-
inflation. The system was officially abolished in June 1995.
1.18          Agro-processing and Marketing.  The pre-independence agro-processing sector was
largely focused on exports to the USSR. Most enterprises were large-scale and state-owned, primarily
producing tea (147 companies) and wine (108 companies). Other significant export-oriented enterprises
included fruit and vegetable canning, and mineral water bottling. Agro-processing industries geared to
the domestic market included the giant State Bread Corporation, which operated a large number of flour
mills, bread making plants, feed mills, and poultry raising units. With some exceptions, the machinery
and processes used in the agro-processing units were outmoded, and internationally accepted food
processing techniques were rarely used. These problems were compounded by the poor quality control
and packaging that were tolerated in the captive domestic markets or in the FSU. With the disruption
of traditional trading links with the FSU, almost all large-and medium-scale agro-processing units have
ceased to function and overall capacity utilization was reported to be about 10% in mid-1996. The main
processing activities still functional are flour and bread-making, which are mostly sustained by large
amounts of foreign food aid, and a few private sector joint ventures in the areas of wine, fruit juice, and
mineral water production and bottling.
1.19         Market Demand for Agricultural Products. While quality standards have been upgraded
throughout the FSU region in recent years, and competition from various other countries has intensified,
studies conducted by FAO and private consultants indicate that Georgia still has a conparative advantage
in providing processed agricultural products to the CIS market. With the reduction in civil unrest in the
country, conditions for transport are expected to improve, resulting in a resurgence of exports to the
FSU. Good prospects also exist for products with import substitution potential. The most promising
products for export and import substitution are in the following areas: wine and brandy production; fruit
and vegetable processing; fresh fruits and vegetables; dairy production; cotton processing; mineral water;
packaging industry; bread making; and tea processing. The annual export, or import substitution,
potential of companies engaged in these areas is estimated to be close to US $1.0 billion.
1.20         Private Farming.  Probably the most significant development in the sector since
independence has been the emergence of small private farms as the main producers of food and
agricultural products. A survey of small scale private farmers, conducted in two districts near Tblisi,
2    Commodities subject to the state order system in 1994 were wine, champagne, spirits, tea, mineral water, citrus juice, tobacco
products, essential oils and canned vegetables. In 1993, the finns producing these products were required to deliver 75 % of their output to dhe
state.



Background                                                                               7
as a preparation activity for this project, shows that on average, farm households have a land holding of
0.9 ha of which 67% is arable, 20 % is under perennials (orchards and vineyards), and 10% is under hay
meadows and pasture. The average family size is four with the farm employing 2-3 members of the
immediate family mostly on a part-time basis. All farms in the survey produce crops, with a diverse crop
mix, and 70 percent of the farms have livestock. On average, farm households consumed 60 -70% of
their produce and sold the balance, making them more than subsistence farmers.
1.21         Farms in the survey had an average gross revenue from sales of Lari 1,500 (US $1,250)
per annum and an average net revenue of Lari 630 (US $525) per annum, before payments for family
labor. Sales revenues are derived equally from crops and livestock. Farm households in the survey were
found to derive a substantial proportion of their income from non-farm sources, with 60 % of households
indicating that the farm provided less than 50% of the household income. A further 20% of households
derived between 50 and 75 percent of household income from farming. Relative to the equity base and
the potential revenue stream of these farms, both input and output levels were low, reflecting constraints
in accessing high quality inputs, credit, and information on current technologies. The primary sources
for funding farm operations in 1995 were retained earnings (80% of respondents) and interest free loans
from relatives (20% of respondents). No commercial borrowing is reported.
D. Constraints to Increased Agricultural Productivity
Credit to Enterprises
1.22         Credit Constraints in Agro-processing and Marketing. With the removal of most of the
legal and policy restrictions on trade (para 1.3) and privatization (para 1.6), the primary constraint
facing agro-processing and other private enterprises in Georgia is a lack of credit for upgrading
technology, and operating funds. A survey of almost 100 agro-processing and marketing enterprises was
conducted by a team of consultants, as a preparation activity for this project, to identify the potential
demand for credit. This survey identified sDecific project proposals from existing agro-processing and
marketing firms which collectively required about US $75 million in credit. While many of these
proposals represent relatively large scale projects, even if only sub-loans of less than US $500,000 are
considered, the potential demand from 15 out of the 100 companies surveyed would be about US $6.0
million. The survey took into consideration only the current credit needs for existing agro-processing
and marketing companies and did not include an analysis of the medium term demand for credit or
demand for "greenfield projects." It also did not consider proposals from other sectors, such as
agricultural transport, where the current demand for medium term credit is expected to be high. Since
there is no loan size limit for onlending under the proposed Credit, the loan is not limited only to agro-
processing companies, and new agro-processing companies are expected to emerge over the five year
period of the loan, it is reasonable to expect that the effective demand for credit will far exceed the
approximately US $10 million in credit available from the proposed IDA Credit and the expected
contribution from Participating Banks (PBs), as well as the US $8 million line of credit to be provided
by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) under a separate project. This
conclusion is further supported by an analysis of outstanding loan applications at five commercial banks
in Georgia, carried out by an international consultant group in June 1996, which showed that the value
of existing crdt applications at these banks was in excess of US $40 million (of which 70 % is in
foreign currency).



8                                                                                      Chapter 1
1.23          Capacity of the Commercial Banking System. A study of six commercial banks in
Georgia considered to be potential participants for onlending under this Credit was carried out during
Project preparation3. The conclusion of this study is that, collectively, these six banks have a debt
capacity of US $60 million (based on capital levels in October 1995). Four of these banks have been
appraised and found to substantially meet the conditions required by IDA for Participating Banks. The
overriding constraint facing commercial banks in lending for investments is the lack of medium term
deposits to match loans of an equivalent duration. This is the result of the recent macroeconomic
instability and the lack of domestic depositor confidence in the commercial banking system. The
proposed project would address these issues by: (a) pre-qualifying commercial banks to participate in the
project after they have completed IAS audits; (b) directly providing them with a line of credit, with
maturities from one to five years; and (c) providing, in cooperation with other bilateral donors, technical
assistance to banks in all aspects of commercial bank management.
Rural Credit
1.24          Background. During the Soviet period, the main supplier of credit to agriculture was the
Agrobank, which had over 80 branches. However, the Agrobank was geared to channeling public funds
to state enterprises and clearing payments between them, rather than carrying out retail banking
operations. Following the breakdown of the FSU's banking system, the rural population lost access to
institutional financial services. Over the past three years, there has been virtually no institutional credit
available to state and collective farms, nor to individual farmers. Credit to farmns from the agro-
processing sub-sector and marketing and input distribution enterprises was also reduced, since they were
also facing credit shortages. Finally, self-financing was also reduced, since inflation generated strong
upward pressure on prices of purchased farm inputs, while state orders placed a severe constraint on the
upward movement of farm commodity prices, causing a severe cost-price squeeze on farm profits.
Consequently, utilization of inputs, mainly fertilizers and chemicals, have decreased to an insignificant
level, resulting in a sharp fall in crop yields and agricultural production.
1.25          Credit for Small Scale Agriculture. As a result of land distribution and privatization, one
of the most critical remaining constraints facing private farms is access to credit. Experience from the
one functioning CU in Georgia and the farmers' survey indicate a broad and substantial demand for credit
on the part of the rural population, with 60 % of the farmers in the survey indicating that they had a need
for credit, in varying amounts up to Lari 4,000 (US $3,333), with the most commonly requested credit
terms being 12 - 24 months at interest rates of 1-2 percent per month. Given the size of these farm
operations, loans of this size would be for on-farm investments, with loans of Lari 200 - 300 expected
for seasonal input loans. Given the current nominal interest rates of 3-4% per month (and real interest
rates of 1-2% per month), borrowing would be limited to short term seasonal input loans that yield
significant marginal returns in 4 to 6 months. Investment borrowing is expected to increase over the five
years of the project, as the nominal and real interest rates decline under the economic stabilization
program.
1.26          Included in the farmers' survey was an analysis of the use and impact of the following
selected purchased inputs (figures in parentheses indicate the percent of farms that purchased these
inputs): fertilizers (28%), chemicals (34%), veterinary services and drugs (25%), and animal feed (47%).
3    Peter Marion, October 1995. Credit Component Preparation Consultancy Report. (Report on file)



Background                                                                                  9
Comparing farms of equal size, net farm income (i.e., net of input costs and on-farm consumption) was
between 190 and 330 Lari higher for farms using purchased inputs compared with those that did not
purchase inputs. The only exception was the purchase of chemicals where the difference in income
between those that purchased and those that did not purchase chemicals was just 100 Lari. Based on the
results, net farm incomes can be expected to increase by the following percentage with the use of
purchased inputs: fertilizers (35%), chemicals (10%), veterinary drugs and services (17%); and animal
feed (47%). Except for farms purchasing chemicals, the percent of profitable farms was between 10 and
15% higher where purchased inputs were used when compared with those that did not purchase inputs.
The substantial marginal returns from the use of purchased inputs at these levels of output provides an
underlying basis for the results of the farmers' survey which indicate a strong demand for credit. It also
demonstrates that farmers could pay interest rates of up to 3-4 % per month on seasonal credit for a
typical input package costing between 200 and 300 Laris.
1.27          Formation of a Rural Credit System. Failure of the banking sector to serve individuals
seeking credit has been particularly acute in the agriculture sector. In the few isolated cases where credit
is available, interest rates are beyond the repayment capacity of most borrowers. At present, NBG's
capital requirements for establishing new banks prevents the establishment of small rural banks.
Furthermore, private banks in urban areas lack the resources and interest to expand their networks to the
rural communities. At the same time, the former state banks have no experience in lending to large
numbers of small farmers and lack the financial resources to operate the branches at their command.
Underlying these actions is the reluctance of the banking sector to lend to farms because of: (a) the high
transaction cost of small scale rural lending; (b) the lack of secure collateral; and (c) inexperience in
assessing the risk of agricultural lending. The proposed project would address these constraints by
promoting the establishment of small rural CUs, which would rely on local knowledge of the borrower
to assess risk, reduce the need for collateral, and reduce transaction costs. Experience in other countries
with similar rural traditions, such as Albania, has shown that CUs can play a vital role in mobilizing local
financial resources to make small individual loans to their members (typical loans are less than US $500
and for periods of 3 to 12 months), which often include not only farmers, but small traders and micro-
entrepreneurs. Lending to non-farm enterprises and the fact that farm households derive a substantial
proportion of household income from non-farm sources (pjar 1.21), combined with training in portfolio
management for CU managers, will enable the CUs to significantly reduce the covariance risk typically
faced by specialized agricultural lending institutions. The proposed land registration component of the
project would also improve access to credit by providing a more secure form of collateral if needed for
larger capital investments.
Land Markets
1.28         In order to achieve efficient use of agricultural land, through market allocation to the most
efficient users, there is a need to establish a land market that permits the low cost transfer of land on a
permanent basis, through sales, or on a temporary basis through the rental agreements. A system that
provides low cost verification of ownership and encumbrances on land, and the transfer of title in the
event of default, provides the basis for mortgage based lending. The land reform program being
undertaken in Georgia has established the basis for a land market in agricultural land, through the
privatization of land under the Land Privatization Decree of 1993 and the Agricultural Land Leasing Law
of 1996, and the confirmation of private property rights under the Agricultural Land Ownership Law of



10                                                                                Chapter 1
1996. However, the lack of clearly defined title to land in Georgia, increases the uncertainty associated
with land sales or rental agreements, thus increasing the transaction cost of land transfers and restricting
the market for land. The high cost of ownership verification and the difficulty of transferring untitled
land make mortgage lending on land prohibitively expensive for commercial banks. A title registration
system to reduce the transaction cost of land transfers and mortgage lending would be developed under
the project.
Agricultural Support Services
1.29          The lack of appropriate technologies for private agriculture, including farming methods,
inputs, machinery, and management techniques, will continue to be a major constraint on agricultural
productivity, unless the Government makes a concerted effort to provide support services to farmers.
The structure of the current research and information dissemination system, which was designed to
support large scale state managed agriculture, is not well suited to supporting small scale private farms
and is currently on the point of collapse. An extension system per se never existed in the planned
economy. Animal health services and sanitary inspection previously provided by MAFI have also ceased
to function. The proposed project would support the development of an agricultural sector strategy and
investment program through training for government officials in economic policy analysis and a series
of studies and small pilot operations to identify the constraints to increased agricultural productivity.
E. Bank's Experience and Strategy
Bank's Role and Past Assistance to Georgia
1.30         The main objectives of the World Bank's assistance to Georgia are to: assist in the
transition to a market economy; alleviate poverty that has emerged as a result of structural changes; and
reverse the economic decline of recent years. More specifically, the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS) includes: (a) Redefining the role, and improving the efficiency, of the public sector; (b)
developing human resources and institutional capabilities; (c) strengthening the social safety net; and (d)
reform programs aimed at promoting private sector development and growth. The agricultural sector has
been identified in the CAS as the primary source of expected growth in the early stages of the transition.
The proposed Agricultural Development Project would be the Bank's first operation in Georgia to support
the revival of this important sector. Assistance from the World Bank to other parts of the economy
commenced in 1994 and are listed below.
(a)    The Institution Building Credit (IBC) in the amount of US $10.1 million to help with
privatization efforts, financial sector reforms, strengthening of the tax and customs
administration, and economic policy development. This project was approved by the
Board in July 1994.
(b)    The Municipal Infrastructure Rehabilitation Credit of US $18 million aimed at addressing
the severe deterioration of municipal infrastructure in Tblisi and other large cities. The
project was approved in November 1994.



Background                                                                               11
(c)    The Transport Rehabilitation Credit of US $12 million to assist in the reconstruction of
the road and railway systems was approved by the Board in January 1996.
(d)    The Rehabilitation Credit of US $75 million in support of a major structural adjustment
program was approved by the Board in March 1995 and was successfully completed. It
was aimed at transforming the public sector, improving conditions for development of
markets, and creating a social safety net.
(e)    The Structural Adjustment Credit in the amount of US $60 million to support, inter alia,
the agricultural sector by accelerating adjustments in the productive sector. This project
was approved by the Board in April 1996 and is fully disbursed. The Structural
Adjustment Technical Assistance Credit in the amount of US $4.8 million was approved
to support implementation of the Structural Adjustment Credit.
(f)    The Health Project in the arnount of US $14 million was approved by the Board in April
1996. It will assist the reorientation of the health sector toward primary health care and
preventative medicine. This will be achieved by providing a universal package of health
services and essential clinical care in a financially sustainable manner.
Experience from the successful implementation of the projects listed above and the pilot operations under
the Project Preparation Facility for this Project have shown that there is strong implementation capacity
in Georgia and that the Governmnent has a commitment to satisfactory project implementation.
Strategy for Assistance in the Agricultural Sector
1.31         The Bank completed an Agriculture and Food Sector Review Report in August 1995 that
recommends a set of actions to facilitate recovery in the sector. It also provides guidelines for replacing
the present spontaneous and unstructured sectoral reforms with a structured and consistent program for
transition to a market based agriculture. Specific policy recommendations included in the report cover
the following aspects:
(a)    completing land reform and farm restructuring by: (i) completing the distribution of land
to private owners; (ii) clarifying the legal status of land distributed under the 1992 land
reformn decree; (iii) transferring the remaining state-owned land and the non-land
productive assets to private users and operators; and (iv) creating conditions for a
functioning land market;
(b)    developing a working competitive domestic market for agricultural products and
agriculture sector services, required to accelerate the: (i) privatization of farming and
agro-industrial enterprises; (ii) de-monopolization of the distribution, input supply, and
product markets; and (iii) facilitation of the entry of foreign capital and firms into
domestic agro-processing, input distribution and support services;
(c)    creating a financial intermediary system that can meet the agricultural sector's credit
needs; and



12                                                                                Chapter 1
(d)    developing an institutional framework that is consistent with the needs of a market-based
agriculture and includes: (i) changing the Government's role in the sector from one that
has traditionally administered and managed a command economy, to a more hands-off
role of supporting the private sector through regulation, research and analysis, and the
provision of public goods and services; (ii) creating a new institutional framework for
a working agricultural market, including commodity exchanges, market information
systems, etc; and (iii) developing an extension service, research, and education focused
on the needs of privatized agriculture.
1.32         Specific measures to implement the policy recommendations outlined above are
incorporated in the Structural Adjustment Program. The Agricultural Development Project proposed in
the following chapter would reinforce these policy changes by providing direct financial assistance to the
land reform program, the privatization and restructuring of enterprises, the development of a financial
intermediary system, the development of a system to provide credit to small farmers, and the development
of an agricultural development and investment program to improve agricultural services through a series
of studies, pilot operations and training.
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Agticultural Sector
1.33         The proposed project is IDA's first operation supporting Georgia's agricultural sector.
A number of projects in the ECA Region were examined during the design phase of this project. The
most important one was a 1994 Agricultural Reform Implementation Support Project in Russia that is
designed to accelerate agricultural reforms; strengthen agricultural support services, including the creation
of a land administration and management service; build-up institutional capacity to prepare and implement
agricultural and agri-business projects by the private sector; and to develop market information systems
and farmers' advisory services. Design of the Georgia project also took into account the experience
gained under the 1993 Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project in Albania and a subsequent 1995 Rural
Development Project. Both of these projects contain small-scale credit components and their experience
was taken into consideration during the design phase of this project. Implementation of the pilot small-
scale credit component in Albania was judged by OED to be satisfactory, its sustainability assured, and
its impact on institutional development substantial. Significant design elements of the above mentioned
projects, especially in the area of loans to agro-industries and facilitating credit to small farmers, were
built into the proposed Georgia project.



CHAPTER 2
THE PROJECT
A. Project Origin and Formulation
2.1          The Agriculture and Food Sector Review, published by the Bank in 1995, recommended
intensified financial assistance to the agriculture sector for investment activities that would support the
policy measures instituted by Government to revive production and exports. This recommendation led
to the preparation of materials for the proposed project during 1995, by consultants engaged under a
Policy and Human Resources Development (PHRD) grant from the Government of Japan. Major issues
considered during project preparation and appraisal were as follows: (a) the most appropriate and cost
effective system of land registration; (b) the capacity of the banking system to meet the credit needs of
small farmers and the justification for introducing CUs; (c) enterprises' demand for investment loans and
the capacity of private banks to meet this demand; (d) appropriate institutional arrangements for project
implementation; and (e) the identification of studies to be conducted under the project to facilitate the
sector's longer term development and investment program.
2.2          Pilot activities for the Project commenced in December 1995 using an IDA Project
Preparation Facility (PPF) of US $500,000. The PPF's objectives were to: (a) maintain the momentum
developed during project preparation by keeping the Project Preparation Unit operational; (b) initiate the
formation of CUs and the CUDC; (c) collect additional information on the land registration process and
carrying out aerial photography; (d) provide training in the use of digital mapping and surveying
equipment; and (e) test the use of survey equipment to be used on the project, and develop procedures
for carrying out the work with private contractors. Activities under (e) above have been carried out in
conjunction with a pilot land registration project being implemented with assistance from TACIS.
Progress to date under the PPF has been very promising, and with the experience gained, there should
be fewer delays during project implementation.
B. Project Objectives and Description
2.3          The overall objective of the Agricultural Development Project is to increase agricultural
productivity in Georgia by supporting the development of private sector farming and agro-processing.
The specific goals of the project are to develop an agricultural credit system; facilitate increased liquidity
in land markets; and identify, through training, a series of studies and pilot operations, an agricultural
development and investment program to address major constraints to increasing agricultural productivity.
This would be achieved by:
*     providing loans to private enterprises engaged in economic activities in rural areas, through
private commercial banks, for working capital and investments - most of these loans are expected
to assist agro-processing enterprises since they make up a large proportion of the enterprises in
Georgia, and will be receiving direct technical assistance from the proposed Project, and the
Georgia Investment Promotion Center, in preparing business plans and loan applications;
*     developing a network of rural credit unions that would mobilize resources and provide loans and
financial services to small farmers, micro-enterprises and the rural population;



14                                                                            The Project
*     supporting the land reform program through the establishment of an institutional framework and
the development of implementation capacity to register and issue land titles to individuals and
firms; and
*     developing an agricultural sector development and investment program to provide agricultural
services to small farmers, improve agricultural policy making, and encourage agricultural
exports, by training economists in government on policy analysis, preparing a series of studies
and conducting pilot operations.
2.4          To support the above objectives, the proposed project would provide financing to the
Project Coordinating Unit (US $ 0.3 million) and to four free-standing components. Three of these
components: (a) Credit to Enterprises; (b) Credit Unions; and (c) Agricultural Services, would have a
nation-wide coverage. The Land Registration component, would be limited to two rayons (administrative
districts) in the vicinity of Tbilisi. A summary of these four components is presented below.
Component 1: Credit to Enterprises (US $12.0 million)
2.5          The Line of Credit. The line of credit to enterprises (CE) would be supervised by the
Credit to Enterprises Unit (CEU) under the Project Coordination Unit (PCU) and made available to
participating banks (PBs) who would sign subsidiary loan agreements with the Ministry of Finance. A
PB would be accredited by IDA to participate in the project after meeting a set of predetermined
accreditation criteria (para. 3.23), which would assess the bank's financial viability measured against
international accounting standards (IAS), adequate management strengths, capability to assess credit and
risks, credit absorptive capacity, and adherence to the NBG's prudential banking standards. The line of
credit to enterprises would finance fixed investments and associated working capital. Proposed on-lending
terms and conditions to the PBs are described below. In addition, a portion of the CE would be used to
finance the PCU's expenses related to the management of this component and the engagement of an
internationally experienced advisor who would assist the CEU to manage the CE. The operating costs
for the CEU would be funded from the Special Account for Project Administration (the same way as the
rest of the PCU) and CE allocation, which would be for onlending to commercial banks. While this line-
of-credit is available to any private enterprises engaged in economic activities in rural areas, it is expected
that a majority of the funds will be used by agribusiness companies since they make up an estimated 75
percent of all enterprises in Georgia, and, in addition, there will be an aggressive program to assist
agriculture related companies prepare business plans and loan applications, thus gaining access to the line-
of-credit. The goal of the project is to promote the demand for credit by agro-processing companies
rather than impose supply side restrictions (targeting) by limiting its use to these companies.
2.6          Government On-lending Terms and Conditions. PB's would have the option of borrowing
(and lending) project funds in either dollars or Laris. The PB would be required to onlend in the same
currency as it was borrowing and the term of each loan to a PB would be the same as the underlving
loan to a private enterprise plus 3 months. Dollar denominated borrowings by PBs would be at a floating
rate, to be adjusted semi-annually, of LIBOR plus 3.0 percentage points, of which 0.3 of a percentage
point would cover the CEU's administrative costs and 2.7 percentage points would be for a risk fund to
provision for PBs potential payment default. Interest rates on Lari denominated loans would be adjusted
quarterly on the basis of the average weighted interest rate for the previous 3 months of the 30 day funds
auctioned under NBG's Credit Auction. Although the nominal interest rate is currently high (3045%
per annum), it is expected to decline as more funds become available and as inflationary expectations



Chapter 2                                                                            15
decline. For both Lari and dollar denominated loans, PBs would repay interest semi-annually, with the
first payment after six months, and the principal at the end of the loan period. The interest rate anchors
for both Lari and dollar denominated loans would be reviewed periodically by the MOF and IDA, and
revised, if considered necessary and appropriate. IDA funds would account for up to 70% of the cost
of each sub-project. PBs would be free to decide how to finance the remaining 30% from their own
funds and contributions from the enterprises, with a minimum of 10% of the sub-project cost being
funded by the enterprise. PBs may apply to the CEU for advanced commitment of funds (no more than
3 months for a commitment fee of 0.5 of a percentage point). The maximum credit available to each PB
would be three times its capital and reserves (equity) measured according to international accounting
standards. IDA would review the first five loans for each bank, and thereafter all PB sub-loan
applications above US $500,000. The CEU would be responsible for reviewing all sub-loans. The
review process would only determine if the loans made are in compliance with the objectives of the
project, that the environmental assessment has been satisfactorily completed, and that the documentation
is complete. The CEU would not assess the bankability of the loans, since the participating banks are
taking the full commercial risk for lending.
2.7   PB On-lending Terms and Conditions. The line of credit to enterprises would be for sub-loans
with term-to-maturities of up to five years for fixed investments and working capital. To participate in
the project, private sector enterprises would have to be registered and operating in Georgia and engaged
in activities such as agro-business, construction, transportation and manufacturing. The PB's on-lending
margin over its cost of funds would be determined by market conditions. Funds collected from sub-loans
repayment, less the interest due to the MOF, would be retained by the PB for the term of the sub-loan
plus three months. PBs would maintain a separate account for each sub-loan to permit the CEU to
monitor for compliance under the terms and conditions of the CE. A special account (SA) would be
established in the NBG to handle repayments from PB's. Whenever the balance in the SA is greater than
US $300,000, the PCU would disburse funds out of the SA, rather than withdrawing further funds from
the IDA Credit. Disbursements under this SA would require the signature of the head of the CEU and
the designated representative of the MOF. The SA would be used for the sole purpose of funding lending
operations of PBs. The line of credit to enterprises would be used for this purpose for a period of five
years; thereafter the GOG would be free to use the funds at is discretion.
2.8   Training.   Training for participants under this component was organized and partly financed
in advance of project implementation by the Banks' Economic Development Institute (EDI). Specific
activities included the training of managers and key personnel from commercial banks and private
enterprises. Training for bankers covered the following key bank operational topics: the entire life cycle
of credit administration and risk management; the economics of project appraisal and analysis; financial
management; treasury operations; deposit mobilization and marketing; information technology and
management information systems; and compliance with NBG prudential rules and regulations. For
enterprises, training included: organization and management; accounting and finance; project preparation;
marketing and sales; legal and contractual practices and procedures; corporate restructuring; and
banking practices and corporate relationships. Technical assistance would also be provided to PBs
through experts retained and financed by TACIS and EBRD under separate projects. Enterprises
requiring assistance with project preparation, including feasibility studies and business plans, would be
able to obtain such assistance from the CEU, the Georgian Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) funded
by UNDP, and from several national private consulting firms that have recently established operations
in Tbilisi.



16                                                                            The Project
Component 2: Credit Unions (US $7.5 million)
2.9          The project would support the development of rural credit unions in Georgia. Since credit
unions are new to Georgia, this project would first pilot the development of CUs for a period of two
years under temporary regulatory procedures of the Presidential Decree on the Establishment and
Development of Rural Credit Unions (para. 1.14) before adopting more permanent procedures and
structures, and expanding more rapidly. A maximum of 120 CUs are expected to form during the five
year period of project, however, the maintenance of high prudential standards and well managed CUs
would take precedence over achieving these numerical targets. Ten CUs are already being supported
under the PPF. The project would also support the regulatory body for CUs, the Credit Union
Development Center (CUDC) which would regulate and supervise the operations of the CUs, provide
training to the staff of the CUs once they become eligible to participate in the program, and assist farmers
to join the CUs and to take advantage of the services being provided by the CUs. The CUDC would also
monitor CUs' compliance with the interim prudential regulations presented in Annex C. A detailed
description of the financial operations of the CUs, including a simple deposit insurance scheme, is
presented in Chapter III. A law regulating the establishment of CUs and the development of a more
permanent set of prudential requirements will be prepared and submitted to Parliament for approval within
the next two years. The law would be largely based on the experience of the CUs established under this
Project. Credit unions that meet pre-specified eligibility criteria would be able to obtain a start-up grant
to cover establishment and operating costs, an initial equity grant to serve as an insurance fund until
sufficient member equity is accumulated, and project funds on a loan basis. These funds would
supplement the membership's contributions and would be used for making loans to members (mainly
small private farmers, micro-enterprises and small traders), for needed productive investments and
services in the rural sector. At the beginning, lending would be for short-term purposes, but once the
CUs gain experience with resource mobilization and short-term lending, they may opt to expand
operations to also serve the members' medium-term investment needs.
2.10         Credit Union Start-up Grants and Onlending Conditions. Each CU would receive an
administrative grant of the equivalent of US$ 3,000 for organization, start-up operations, and current
expenditures. They would also receive a grant of US$ 2,000 as an initial equity contribution to be
retained in an escrow account in the Administrative Bank (AB) until such time as the CU has accumulated
a total share equity of an equivalent of US $25,000. Prior to reaching this share equity level, the US
$2,000 equity contribution from the project, plus any interest accrued, may only be used to pay out
depositors, on a prorated basis, in the event that the CU is declared bankrupt by the CUDC. Thereafter,
a CU would be obligated to use these funds for onlending. This equity contribution thus serves as a
temporary deposit insurance program during the start-up phase of the CU. CUs would be eligible to
receive the grant funds once they have at least 30 registered members, 300 Lari worth of paid-in share
capital, and the CUDC's approval of the CU's charter, and operating policies and procedures. The grants
would be disbursed over a two year period with US $4,000 being disbursed in the first year and US
$1,000 in the second year. CUs would be eligible to obtain supplementary loans under the project, once
a CU has been in operation for at least 3 months, has a total paid-in share capital of 1,000 Lari, a
membership of at least 50, and the CUDC is satisfied that the CU is properly managed and complies with
the appropriate prudential guidelines and regulations. The ratio of the value of supplementary loans to
the value of share capital would be limited to a maximum of 1:1 in the first year, 1:2 in the second year,
and 1:4 in the third year, and thereafter. Loans would be for a period of two years and are renewable
at the end of the two year period if the CU is in good standing. Interest rates on these Lari denominated
loans would be fixed on the basis of the average weighted interest rate for the previous 3 months, of the



Chapter 2                                                                                17
30 day funds auctioned under NBG's Credit Auction. Rates on these loans would be adjusted quarterly.
CUs would pay interest semi-annually and repay the principal at the end of the loan period.
Component 3: Land Registration (US $6.0 million)
2.11          Following the introduction of private land ownership, the development of a market for
land requires a land registration system and an authority that can issue land titles to individual
landholders. The project would initiate a land registration program in Gardabani and Mtskheta rayons
(administrative districts) by concentrating on privately held rural house lots and farm lands.
Approximately 199,000 parcels would be registered under the project and 130,000 land ownership titles
would be issued to individuals in the project area. Each title would record all land parcels held by an
individual land holder in a rayon. Experience with land registration to be accumulated under this
program would be critical to the subsequent expansion to other parts of the country, and the establishment
of a Land Administration Authority. A condition of disbursement for this component is approval by
Parliament of a Land Registration Law (para. 5.4 (b)). This condition has been met.
2.12          Survey of land parcels in the project area would be carried out on a systematic basis
(surveying groups of adjacent land parcels) in the two districts covered by the project. Sporadic
surveying (individual parcels) would also be done on a trial basis outside these two districts with the land
holder paying the full cost of the survey. Surveys would be completed with the aid of existing maps and
recent aerial photos prepared under the PPF. All parcels in the area would be surveyed by private survey
companies that would be established with technical assistance to be provided under the project. These
survey companies would also play a major role in the adjudication of land disputes. Land Registration
Offices, to be established in each of the two project rayons, would be responsible for registering the
holdings. Expenses associated with this first phase of the program would be financed in parallel by the
IFAD and IDA credits. However, land owners in the area would contribute in the form of registration
fees (see para. 3.19). To prepare for the next phase of the land registration program, the project would
also finance aerial photography (US $0.4 million) over other parts of Georgia. Details are provided in
Annex D.
Component 4: Agricultural Services (US $0.5 million)
2.13          During discussions of the Agriculture Sector Report with Government, it was agreed that
the Government should formulate the next phase of its development strategy and investment program for
the agricultural sector. This will be achieved through a series of studies to identify priority agricultural
services for which there is effective demand, and to define the respective roles of private and public
sectors in their delivery. This would assist the restructuring of the sector and lead to the formulation of
future investment programs and projects. These activities, for which detailed TORs are available in
Annex E, are expected to identify investment programs that would support the development of private
sector agriculture, particularly small farmers, and are as follows:
(a)    A study of the options available for developing a national export improvement program;
(b)    A pilot program to develop and test a new system of collection and publication of
agricultural statistics by the various government agencies engaged in this area;



18                                                                                          The Project
(c)     Develop and pilot a system of agricultural extension and research that caters to the needs
of small farmers and that relies heavily on the private sector to provide such services;
(d)     Develop and test farm  management training programs to assist owners of newly
privatized farms, including the formation of farmers cooperatives;
(e)    Conduct a socio-economic study to monitor the land reform and land markets;
(f)    Prepare a study to examine the options and desirability of deposit insurance scheme for
rural credit unions;
(g)    Train economists in government in the area of agricultural policy analysis; and
(h)    Prepare a proposal for financing and implementation of an irrigation and soil amelioration
program.
The net result of these activities would be a strategy and investment program, acceptable to IDA, for the
next phase of the agricultural development program. The report outlining the program would be
presented to IDA by the mid-term review.
C. Costs Estimates
2.14            The total cost estimate of the project is US $26.3 million. The Credit to Enterprises
component includes approximately US $ 0.2 million for administration and equipment, and the balance
for a line of credit. The Credit Union component includes US 0.9 million for administration of the
program, equipment and TA and the US $6.6 million for grants and credits to CUs. Included in the cost
estimates for the Land Registration sub-component are funds for aerial photography (US $ 0.5 million)
and mapping and surveys (US $3.5 million), and registration, project management, technical assistance,
training and contingencies (US $2.0 million). A summary of costs by component is presented in Table
2.1 below.
Table 2.1: Project Cost Summary (US $ million)
National     Foreign      Total       %Foreign Exchange  % of
Cost
Credit to Enterprises           4.2           7.8          lZ.0       65                 45
Credit Unions                   5.1           2.4           7.5       32                 29
Land Registration               3.1           2.9           6.0       48                 23
Agricultural Services            -            0.5           0.5        100               2
Project Coordinating Unit       0.3           -             0.3        -                  1
Total project cost               12.7         13.6         26.3        52                100



Chapter 2                                                                                  19
D. Financing
2.15          The proposed SDR 10.4 million (US $15.0 million equivalent) IDA Credit would be lent
to Georgia at standard IDA terms, with 35 years maturity and a 10 year grace period. IDA's share in
the funding of each component would be as follows: (a) 70% of the cost of sub-projects to be financed
under the Credit to Enterprises, with at least 10% of the sub-project cost funded by the enterprises and
the balance by participating banks; (b) about 58% of the cost of the Land Registration program, with the
balance being financed by IFAD (33%) and Government (9%) using registration fees and land tax
revenues that are specifically earmarked for this purpose; (c) 100% of the cost of studies under the
Agricultural Services sub-component; and 100% of the cost of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). (See
Table 2.2). Approximately US $ 12.0 million, or 80 % of the IDA credit would be used to fund foreign
expenditures.
2.16          The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) would provide US $6.0
million in co-financing to fund the Credit Unions (CU) sub-component (US $4.0 million) and the land
registration cost of small farmers (US $2.0 million). Effectiveness of the IFAD loan by June 30, 1997
would be a dated covenant under the IDA Credit (para 5.4 (c)).
Table 2.2 Project Financing (US $ million)
Project Component           IDA    IFAD     Banks   Gov't   Beneficiaries/    Total
Enterprises
A. Credit to Enterprises     8.7     -        1.1        -       2.2           12.0
B. Credit Unions             2.0    4.0       -          -        1.5           7.5
C. Land Registration         3.5    2.0       -        0.5        -             6.0
D. Agricultural Services     0.5     -        -          -        -             0.5
E. Project Coordinating Unit  0.3    -        -          -        -             0.3
Total Project Cost          15.0-   6.0       1.1      0.5       3.7           26.3
* Estimated Foreign Expenditures are US $12.0 million or 80 % of IDA fmancing.
E. Procurement
2.17          Procurement arrangements for goods and services to be financed under the project, their
estimated costs and proposed methods of procurement are presented in Table 2.3 below and in Annex
J. All procurement of goods to be financed from the IDA credit proceeds would be procured in
accordance with the World Bank Guidelines for Procurement (January 1995), and using the Bank's
Standard Bidding Documents. A "General Procurement Notice" containing information about bidding
opportunities has been prepared and will be published in the March, 1997, issue of "Development
Business." The Bank will be executing agent for IFAD and therefore all contracts financed by IFAD
will be procured in accordance with the World Bank procurement procedures. Goods and services
procured under the Credit to Enterprises sub-component and involving contracts less than or equal to
US $1.0 million would be procured following commercial practices, provided that such commercial
practices include obtaining quotations from more than one supplier or contractor. Contracts higher than
US $1.0 million would use ICB. A draft Country Procurement Strategy Paper for Georgia has been
prepared and is presently under review.



20                                                                                                               The Project
Table 2.3: Summary of Proposed Procurement Arrangements (US $ millions)
Item                           ICB                  NCB                    Othera             N.B.Fb           Total Cost
Credit to                                              -                    8.5                  3.3               11.8
Enterprisesc                                                               (8.5)                                   (8.5)
Credit Uniond                       -                  -                     1.4             5.5 [4.0]             6.9
(1.4)                                  (1.4)
Land Registratione               0.7                 1.3                    0.6              2.5 [2.0]             5.1
(0.7)              (1.3)                  (0.6)                                  (2.6)
Agricultural Studies                -                  -                    0.5                   -                0.5
(0.5)                                  (0.5)
Project Coordinating                -                  -                    0.3                   -                0.3
Unit                                                                       (0.3)                                   (0.3)
Recurrent Costs'                    -                  -                     1.2                                    1.2
(1.2)                                  (1.2)
PPF5                                -                  -                    0.5                   -                 0.5
(0.5)                                  (0.5)
Total                             0.7                1.3                   13.0                 11.3              26.3
(0.7)              (1.3)                 (13.0)                 -               (15.0)
NOTE:
Figures in parentheses ( ) are financed by IDA and amounts in brackets [ ] are financed by IFAD.
a/       Other: Includes international shopping (US $0.55 mill.) and selection of consultants according to Bank Guidelines
(US$1.2mill.) and recurrent costs for each component (US $1.2mill.).
b/       Not Bank Financed (NBF). Includes amounts financed by IFAD  (US $6.0 mill.) and by contribution from sub-borrowers and
PBs (US$4.8 mill.) and government fees for land registration (US $0.5 million)
c/       Credit to Enterprise component includes credits (US $8.3 million), equipment for CE (US $40,000), and consultancies (US$
0.16 mill.).
d/       Credit Union component includes US$5.1 mill. for grants and loans to CUs and equipment for CUDCs (US$0.25 mill.). The
US $ 1.5 million from members deposits will also be used for onlending.
e/       Land Registration component includes aerial photography (US $.44 mill.), mapping and surveys (US $ 3.5 mill.), equipment
(US$0.65 mill.) and consultancies (US $ 0.5 mill.).
fl       Recurrent cost includes consumables, salaries, rents and utilities.
g/       PPF includes US $0.3 million for the Land Registration component, including Aerial Photography (US $60,000), Equipment
(US $123,000) and recurrent costs(US$ 117,000); and US $0.2 million for the Credit Union and PCU equipment and recurrent
costs.
2.18               Apart from  the line of credit to enterprises, which is discussed above, the following
procurement thresholds would be followed when purchasing goods and services under the project:
(a)      International Competitive Bidding (ICB) procedures would be followed for all contracts valued
at US $200,000 and above. To the extent practicable, contracts would be grouped in packages
large enough to attract international competition and to enable benefit from economies of scale
in bid prices; and



Chapter 2                                                                             21
(b)   International Shopping (IS), based on a comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers from at least two eligible countries, would be used for procurement of
equipment estimated to cost less than US $200,000, with an aggregate limit of US$ 550,000.
2.19         Equipment and Technical Services. Goods and equipment (estimated to cost US $1.1
million) to be purchased under the project would consist of computers and office equipment for all
components of the project and survey, mapping and registry equipment for the land registration
component. (see Annex D for details). Part of the equipment needed for the land registration
component (US $123,000) was financed under the PPF. Equipment would be procured using ICB, IS
procedures. Aerial photography of the project area (US $60,000), was financed under the PPF. The
second package of aerial photography (US $0.4 million) would be for the next phase of the registration
program and would be procured through ICB. Procurement activities under the Land Registration sub-
component would also include the award of land survey contracts. Taking into consideration the
surveyors' equipment requirements, the rate at which land disputes could be adjudicated in the field,
and climatic restrictions on survey work, it is estimated that the average size of a survey contract would
be about US $60,000.  Execution of the survey contracts would involve adjudication of land
boundaries, which requires intimate knowledge of national conditions, customs and language. Because
of these aspects, and the relatively small size of each contract, the survey contracts are unsuitable for
ICB and would therefore be tendered following national competitive bidding procedures (NCB). All
IFAD procurement under the Land Registration component will be for land surveying and will also
follow national competitive bidding procedures.
2.20         Consultant Services. Technical assistance requirements under the project would amount
to US $1.2 million. Included in this total are: 32 staff-months for the Land Registration sub-component
(for details see Annex D); 16 staff-months to carry out the studies under the Agricultural Services sub-
component (Annex E); 10 staff-months for the CEU (Annex F); and 7 staff-months of consulting
services to assist CUDC with implementation of the Credit Unions component (Annex C). Consultants
would be selected in accordance with the "Guidelines for use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers
and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (August 1981)."
2.21         Review by the Bank. All ICB contracts, the first two national competitive bidding and
the first three international shopping contracts regardless of their value, and all contracts for consulting
services valued in excess of US $100,000 for firms and US $50,000 for individual consultants, would
be subject to prior review and approval by IDA. Contracts of a lesser amount would be subject to ex-
post review by IDA. Terms of Reference for all consultant contracts would be reviewed in advance
by IDA. Procurement information would be included in the quarterly project progress reports to be
prepared by the Project Coordinating Unit (para. 3.48).
2.22         Project Launch. During the Project Launch workshop, scheduled for April 1997, the
Borrower would be provided with an overview of the Bank's procurement practices. The efficiency
and capability of the Borrower to carry out the procurement in accordance with the Bank's procedures
would be strengthened through ongoing training and use of the Standard Bidding Documents.
Agreement was reached during Negotiations that all procurement activities under the project would
follow the procedures outlined in paras. 2.17 to 2.21 (para. 5.2 (a)).



22                                                                                 The Project
F. Disbursement
2.23          The proposed IDA Credit of SDR 10.4 million (US $15.0 million equivalent) would
be disbursed over a period of five years, with April 30, 2002, being designated as the project's closing
date. There is no disbursement experience at this time to prepare a disbursement profile for Georgia,
but based on experience gained during project preparation, it is reasonable to assume that the Credit's
proceeds could be fully disbursed over a five-year period. Due to the experimental nature of some
of the components of the project there will be three supervision missions per year for the first two years
of the project, of which one each year will be a complete evaluation of all aspects of the project.
Changes in project design will be made as a result of these missions, if necessary. The mid-term
evaluation to examine all aspects of project implementation would be undertaken by IDA and the
Borrower by June 30, 1999, or when disbursements reach 50% of the total credit amount, whichever
is earlier. Commitments for major contracts would be approved through April 30, 2001. Estimated
annual disbursements under the IDA Credit are shown in Table 2.4.
Table 2.4: IDA Disbursements Projections (US $ million)
FY 97      FY 98        FY 99       FY 2000      FY 2001      FY 2002
Annual         0.3         1.4         2.3          5.5         4.0          1.5
Cumulative     0.3         1.7         4.0          9.5         13.5         15.0



Chapter 2                                                                                                  23
2.24            The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as shown in Table 2.5 below:
Table 2.5: Disbursement Categories (US $ million)
Disbursement Category                 Allocation      Disbursement Basis
(US $ mil.)
(1)    Goods                         1.1              100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of
national expenditures (ex factory cost)
and 80% of national expenditures for
other items procured nationally
(2)    Training and Consultant       2.5              100%
Services
(3)     Land Survey and Mapping       1.0 [2.0]'       100% of foreign expenditures, and
90% of national expenditures
(4)     Sub-loans for Credit to       8.0              100% (70% of cost of sub-projects)
Enterprises component
(5)     Grants under Credit Unions    0.2 [0.4]        100%
component
(6)     Loans under Credit Union      0.9 [3.6]        100%
component
(7)     Refinancing of Project        0.5             Amount due pursuant to Section
Preparation Advance                           2.02 (c) of the Credit Agreement
(8)     Project Operating Costs       0.3              100%
(9)     Unallocated                   0.5
Total                        15.0[6.0]
a/ IFAD contribufion presented in parerinlses I I.
2.25            Direct payment procedures from  IDA  to suppliers would be used.  Disbursements
against the categories described in Table 2.5 would be made upon receipt by IDA of fully documented
applications, except for contracts valued at less than US $200,000 for goods, US $100,000 for
consulting firms and US $ 50,000 for individual consultants, which would be made against certified
statements of expenditures (SOE). Supporting documentation for SOEs would be retained by the
Borrower and made available to IDA during supervision. The minimum size of application for direct
withdrawals and issuance of commitments from the IDA Credit account would be 20% of the amount
of the Authorized Allocation to the Special Account. All withdrawals for training would be done on
the basis of an SOE, with all TORs for training subject to prior review.
2.26            To facilitate project implementation, the Borrower would establish a Special Account
in the National Bank of Georgia on terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA. During the early stage
of the Project, the initial allocation to the Special Account would be limited to US $500,000. However,
when the aggregate disbursements under the Credit have reached the level of US $3,000,000, the initial
allocation may be increased up to the Authorized Allocation of US $1,000,000.  Documentation



24                                                                           The Project
requirements for replenishment of the Special Account would include reconciled bank statements and
other appropriate supporting documents.
2.27         At Negotiations, agreement was reached that disbursement arrangements wouldfollow
the procedures described in paras. 2.23 to 2.25 and that the Special Account would be established and
operated as described above (para. 2.26) (paras. 5.2 (b) and (c)).



CHAPTER 3
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Organization And Management
3.1         The Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industries would be the implementing agency for
the project. The Minister of Agriculture and Food Industries would provide monthly project progress
reports to a working Committee of the State Coordination Committee for Cooperation with International
Financial Institutions (SCC). The SCC falls under the office of the President and has the responsibility
for overseeing all IDA projects. The day-to-day implementation of the Project would be carried out
by the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU). The Ministry of Finance, as fiscal agent for the Government
will be responsible for approving and monitoring all government related financial transactions for the
CE component of the project. This would include, inter alia, withdrawal of Credit funds in accordance
with procedures established in the Credit Agreement, onlending of Credit funds to participating private
commercial banks (PBs) and collecting from them the principal and interest, and maintaining a
Government risk fund in the NBG. The NBG, as banker to the Government, will open an account in
the name of the Ministry of Finance to administer repayment of loans from the CE component and for
maintaining a risk fund. A project implementation schedule is presented in Annex I. Detailed
implementation arrangements are presented below.
Project Coordinating Unit
3.2          A Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was created by Government to coordinate and
oversee implementation of the four components of the project. It is headed by a full-time Project
Director, and includes technical and administrative staff (see Annex B for details). The PCU would
be responsible for: (a) providing information to and seeking guidance about project implementation
issues from MAFI, SCC, MOF and NBG; (b) coordinating and managing the recruitment of foreign
and national consultants required by CUDC, the CEU and the Agricultural Services sub-component;
(c) ensuring that all procurement contracts are in conformity with IDA's guidelines; (d) preparing and
submitting for IDA's review the annual work plans and consolidated semi-annual progress reports; (e)
maintaining an account of project activities and expenditures; (f) coordinating the preparation of studies
under the Agricultural Services sub-component; and (g) coordinating the monitoring and evaluation of
project activities. Aside from being responsible for overall coordination of project activities, the PCU
would also assume direct responsibility for the work of the CEU (para. 3.3) and the CUDC (para.
3.7). Both of these centers would remain under the PCU until such time as they can be established as
independent agencies either in the public or private sector. Project funding for these centers would
continue for the duration of the project, even if they are transferred out of the PCU. All staff in the
PCU would be hired on one year contracts renewable annually for the duration of the project. The
PCU would be disbanded at the end of the project.



26                                                                              Chapter 3
Credit to Enterprises Unit
3.3          A Credit to Enterprises Unit (CEU) would be established in the PCU to manage and
administer the IDA credit to enterprises through accredited PBs. The CEU would be staffed by four
full time national professionals and one international advisor and have the following responsibilities:
(a)    prepare quarterly reports for the PCU and IDA on the status of PBs, using information
from the NBG's supervision department to monitor the banks' compliance with
eligibility criteria, as described in para. 3.23;
(b)    maintain the project's accounts for the Credit to Enterprises component and provide
administrative services, including monitoring the flow of funds. The CEU would
prepare quarterly reports providing details of funds channeled to PBs, sub-loans
outstanding, and the status of repayments;
(c)    ensure that sub-loans to enterprises comply with environmental and onlending criteria
for the Project; and
(d)    promote the line-of-credit to agro-processing enterprises by encouraging them to use
the services of the Georgian Private Investment Center, providing them with limited
direct assistance in the preparation of business plans and loan applications, and
encouraging PBs to finance agriculture related sub-projects.
3.4          The CEU would be headed by a nationally recruited individual with relevant experience
in banking and industry. It would be staffed with the necessary experienced national staff and one
internationally experienced adviser. The Terms of Reference of the CEU and its national and
internationally recruited experts are included in Annex C. The foreign expert would be a banking
specialist who would assist the CEU to accredit the banks, monitor their operations, and set up the
system to administer and manage the credit on-lending function. Training of the CEU staff would be
funded under the project.
3.5           Thefunctions of the CEU and its management of the CE component, as described in
paras. 3.3 -3.4, were agreed to during Negotiations (para. 5.2 (d)).
Georgian Investment Promotion Center
3.6          A Georgian Investment Promotion Center (GIPC) has been established and legally
registered in Georgia, and will receive financial assistance from UNDP. This center will promote and
facilitate new investments in existing and new industries in Georgia. If UNDP elects not to finance this
center, or the center is not achieving the desired results, the project management would need to increase
the capacity of the CEU to fill this role. The GIPC would assist enterprises to secure loans and equity
capital through screening, assessment and preparation of projects and investment proposals. The CEU
would engage one full time national expert who would work closely with GPIC. In addition, the
CEU's expert would:



Project Implementation                                                             27
(a)    meet with potential borrowers and perform a quick diagnosis of their technical
assistance needs and provide them with a "short-list" of pre-qualified Georgian
consultants who could assist them in the preparation of business plans and loan
applications; and
(b)    promote the credit line to potential borrowers, particularly agribusiness companies, and
encourage the PBs to participate and market the credit funds.
Credit Union Development Center
3.7          The CUDC has been established as a regulatory body for CUs. Until such time as a
decision is taken on the long term status of CUDC, it will be a division of the PCU and the
management of the CUDC will report directly to the manager of the PCU. As part of its oversight
function, the CUDC would carry out prudential supervision of the operations of CUs, and develop
principles and guidelines for licensing, monitoring and inspection, accounting and auditing
requirements, and operating policies and standards. It would also regulate the growth in the number
of CUs formed and manage the technical assistance for the CU component. Since rural credit unions
are new to Georgia, the approach adopted in this Project is to incorporate the design and pilot phase
into the project itself. This will be followed by an expansion of the program as the absorptive capacity
permits. The experience of the Albania Rural Poverty Alleviation Project (1993) and the subsequent
Rural Development Project (1995) would suggest that "learning by doing" approach to the development
of a rural credit union system is highly successful. The process of developing credit unions is as
follows:
(a)    A Presidential Decree has been signed, providing the legal basis for CUs and the
CUDC. Minimum prudential requirements have also been established.
(b)    The CUDC would adopt an operations manual, acceptable to IDA, that would specify
the CUDC's operating procedures, registration procedures applicable to CUs, and the
terms and conditions of grants and loans to CUs. A large number of the supporting
documents have been developed already, such as model bylaws, a savings policy,
accounting forms, loan instructions and other contracts. The adoption of an operations
manual by CUDC would be a condition of disbursement for the CU component.
(c)    For a period of two years, the CUDC will supervise and assist CUs to get established,
and adapt and improve both its own operating procedures and prudential requirements
and those of the CUs.
(d)    On the basis of the first two years of experience with rural CUs, a law on rural Credit
Unions will be drafted and submitted to Parliament, and a decision will be made on the
permanent role and status of the CUDC.
3.8          The future role of CUDC would be determined after a significant number of CUs are
established and it has demonstrated its effectiveness in oversight responsibilities. Some of the
alternatives that could be considered in a later phase are: (a) converting CUDC into an APEX financial
institution to link CUs with the financial sector, and to provide interlending among CUs; (b)
transforming the CUDC into a national cooperative bank serving the financial needs of individual



28                                                                              Chapter 3
farmers and small businesses in the community; and (c) empowering the CUDC as a free-standing
regulatory and supervisory state agency.
3.9          In collaboration with national organizations such as rayon and village offices, farmers'
associations and employers, CUDC would work to promote and publicize the idea of CUs by adopting
an experimental and participatory approach. It would also organize training programs for key members
of the CUs, including overseas study tours to learn from the experience of other countries. All CUs
participating in the project would be expected to sign a participation agreement indicating their
readiness to abide by CUDC's rules and regulations. CUDC's duties would include the following:
(a)    promote the establishment of CUs in rural areas;
(b)    guide and assist CUs in preparation of by-laws statutes and other legal documents
required for registration and licensing;
(c)    prepare all operational guidelines, legal documents, ledgers, vouchers, accounting
records, etc. and any other documents required for the operation of a CU. These would
be adopted and uniformly applied by all CUs;
(d)    provide technical assistance and guidance, including special training programs and on-
the-job training for elected officials and managers/accountants;
(e)    regulate the operations of the CUs, and ensure compliance with statutes, prudential
regulations and operational guidelines;
(f)    establish eligibility for supplementary loans to CU's, prepare subsidiary loan
agreements between CUs and MOF;
(g)    manage the activities of the Administrative Bank (para 3.13);
(h)    collect principal and interest due on supplementary loans (SL);
(i)    evaluate eligibility for administrative grants and submit disbursement requests to IDA;
(j)    maintain a data base with complete and up-to-date financial and statistical information
on CUs; and
(k)    perform supervisory and regulatory functions as required, and intervene when problems
arise in the operations of a CU.
3.10         The estimated cost of CUDC's establishment and the first five years of its operations
is US $885,000 (see Annex C for details). These costs are being funded by the Government out of the
proceeds of the PPF (during 1996), and the combined IFAD-IDA credits thereafter. At the end of the
project, CUDC's operating costs are expected to be fully covered through charges/fees from the CUs
that have received CUDC services.



Project Implementation                                                             29
3.11         During the project period, CUDC's head office staff would include a manager, about
eight credit specialists, an accountant, and support staff. In addition to head office staff, CUDC would
establish regional representation by posting credit unions development officers (DO) in rural centers.
In 1996, two DOs were working in rural areas selected by CUDC after carrying out a market
assessment and identifying the regions with highest potential and interest of the population in the
establishment of CUs. It is projected that the number of DOs could grow to eight during the five years
of project implementation; they would be located in about five rural centers. Each DO would be in
charge of guiding and supervising no less than ten CUs.
3.12         The CUs would obtain project funds through administrative grants and supplementary
loans (paras. 3.32 and 3.34). All supplementary loans would have to be approved by a Credit
Committee for Credit Unions consisting of representatives from CUDC, Ministry of Finance and the
Administrative Bank. (para. 3.13).
3.13         Administrative Bank. A local commercial bank would be selected on a competitive
basis by the CUDC to be the AB. In order to be the AB, a commercial bank would have to meet the
same eligibility criteria as are required for PBs under the CE component of the project (para 3.23).
The responsibility of the AB would be to disburse funds to CUs on behalf of the MOF and the CUDC,
and to receive reflows (interest and principal) from CUs. The AB would not lend its own funds to
CUs, nor would it assume any risk associated with the lending. It would receive an administrative fee
from the CUDC, which would be determined at the time of selection through competitive bidding.
Every three months, CUDC would present to the Credit Committee for CUs, for its approval, a
projection of the CUs' demand for supplementary loans during the upcoming quarter. After obtaining
the Credit Committee's approval, the projection would be submitted to the PCU who in return would
authorize disbursements of the required funds out of the Special Account (para 2.26) to the AB. In
addition, the AB would hold, in an interest bearing account, the CUs' insurance funds (para 3.33).
Liquid funds of the CUs would be held in the AB or any other commercial banks to be selected by the
CUs. The CUDC would negotiate on behalf of the CUs with the selected banks in order to obtain the
best possible rates (regarding interest on deposits and fees payable for transactions) for accounts held
by a CU. CUs would not be permitted to maintain an account in a bank that has not been certified by
the NBG.
3.14         A condition of disbursement for the Credit Union component of this project would be
the signing of an Administrative Bank Agreement between CUDC and a commercial bank accredited
by IDA for onlending (para 5.4 (a) (i)).
Land Registration Unit
3.15         As originally conceived, the land registration component was to have been implemented
by a newly created and independent Land Administration Authority (LAA), under the Cabinet of
Ministers. Aside from assuming responsibility for land registration and titling, LAA was to assume
responsibility for administering the land reform, land valuation and management, leasing of all
government lands throughout Georgia, and providing advice on land policy. Unlike the IDA assisted
land registration component, which is limited to two rayons, the LAA's mandate would have extended
to all of Georgia. Although there are clear benefits from establishing such an authority, given the
uncertainties about the disposition of the remaining state lands, the limited amount of IDA resources



30                                                                            Chapter 3
available for this component, Government's budgetary constraints, and the need to involve various
ministries besides MAFI in the formation of LAA, the creation of such an authority goes well beyond
the scope of the present project. It was therefore decided to implement this component of the project
through a Land Registration Unit (LRU) to be established in the Department of Land Resources and
Cartography (DLRC) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry. The authority of MAFI to
execute land registration is reflected under regulations related to the Land Registration Law (para.
1.10). Whenever the government decides to proceed with the establishment of LAA, the LRU's
functions and staff would be transferred to the authority.
3.16         A key to the success of the land registration program is the establishment of a
technically competent and administratively strong implementation unit to facilitate the recruitment of
qualified staff. To this end, Government has agreed to remunerate LRU's staff outside the
Government's normal administrative salary structure. The LRU would be headed by a project manager,
reporting directly to the Deputy Minister in MAFI, who would also be the director of LRU. The LRU
would have a staff of 10 professionals at headquarters and about 4 professionals to be located in two
rayon level offices. LRU would assume responsibility for all procurement activities, overseeing the
survey work to be carried out by private national companies, adjudicating land disputes, and
administering the land registry at the rayon level. The LRU would conduct periodic checks to ensure
that dispute resolution procedures are being followed. If dispute resolution is not being adequately
administered, consideration would be given to hiring an independent auditor to monitor dispute
resolution problems. An information campaign would be conducted through the radio, television and
local newspapers in the two districts concerned to educate the general public. Staff of the LRU would
also be required to conduct village meetings in villages a few weeks ahead of the survey team to
educate project participants on the survey process. These activities would be funded out of the general
LRU budget.
3.17         Both the Agroservices Department of MAFI and the Department of Geodesy and
Cartography (DGC) are currently engaged in cadastral surveys. The most significant is DGC, with a
technical staff of about 700 surveyors and 100 cartographers. Cadastral surveys require modem survey
equipment (a small amount of which DGC has just acquired under a GTZ-assisted Tbilisi Municipal
Project), and are best carried out by private survey companies. To assist with the promotion of private
surveyors, all survey contracts under the project would be awarded to national contractors following
competitive bidding procedures. Several such companies already exist in Georgia and once the project
starts, a large number of surveyors from DGC are expected to leave the department and set themselves
up as private surveyors. To help these new survey companies, the project would organize training
programs for surveyors to be conducted by national trainers who were previously trained under a
TACIS-assisted pilot land registration project, and foreign experts to be recruited under the project. The
training program would be carried out during the first year of project implementation. Only individuals
who have successfully completed the training course would be qualified to bid for survey contracts
under the project. Since these newly created firms will lack the required equipment, survey contracts
under the project would permit successful bidders to obtain a mobilization advance of up to 25%
whenever they demonstrate that the funds will be used to purchase survey equipment. The LRU would
retain the equipment title until it has been fully paid through deductions from the contractors progress
payments. A similar approach has proven to be successful under a large land registration project
funded by USAID in Bulgaria.



Project Implementation                                                                31
3.18         Under the proposed project, each land parcel would be registered separately and
allocated a unique identification number. In the absence of experience in Georgia with cadastral
surveys carried out by private contractors, it is difficult to estimate with any degree of precision the
cost of such work. Cost estimates received from DGC indicate unit prices of about US $40 per parcel
and 6 - 8 parcels surveyed per day by one surveying party. Experience from Bulgaria and from World
Bank assisted projects in Thailand and Indonesia, along with independent cost estimates prepared for
the project, point to a cost of around US $24 per parcel (based on an average of 2 parcels per hectare).
In view of this uncertainty, and in an effort to keep costs down, it is proposed as far as practical to
limit the survey work to summer houses, villages (i.e. houses and household lots) and privatized farm
land.
3.19         Recently introduced legislation requires all farmers in Georgia to annually pay a land
tax of about US $18 per hectare of arable and perennial land, and US $1 per hectare of pasture land.
Annual collections under this tax would amount to US $22.0 million. The legislation establishing this
tax earmarks 5% of all collections for land registration. Annual tax collections in the project area
would amount to US $1.36 million per year, and the amount earmarked for land registration would be
US $68,000 per year or US $340,000 over a five year period. Aside from the land tax, the Land
Registration Law provides for a one time registration fee.
3.20         Allocating all the Land Registration sub-component's cost to the 199,000 parcels to be
registered under the project, the registration cost per parcel would be about US $28, and the cost per
land owner about US $43 (since the average land holder has more than one land parcel). Taking into
consideration one time start-up costs of this project, it is reasonable to limit the cost recovery to the
actual cost of the land surveys, mapping, and operations of the two Land Registration Offices. This
would reduce the required level of cost recovery, through registration fees and increased tax collection,
to US $28 per owner and total collections to about US $3.6 million. In order for the registration
process to become self sustaining, it was agreed during negotiations that the US $3.6 million in
registration fees and additional taxes to be collected under the project would be retained by MAFI and
used to fund an extension of the program to other parts of Georgia.
3.21          A Land Registration Law acceptable to IDA has been passed by Parliament satisfying
the condition of disbursement for this sub-component of the project (para 5.4 (b)). Agreement was
reached at Negotiations that the Government would levy land registration fees and taxes sufficient to
cover the full cost of the registration program and that these fees would be used to extend the program
to other parts of Georgia (para. 5.2 (e)).
Agricultural Services
3.22         The PCU, in collaboration with MAFI, would be responsible for engaging foreign
experts and national counterparts for studies to be prepared under the project. Terms of Reference for
additional studies that may be proposed by Government later on would be prepared by the PCU in
consultation with the appropriate ministries and departments. A report on the agricultural development
strategy and investment program for the next series of investments in the sector would be presented to
IDA at the mid-term review. Draft Terms of Reference for priority studies selected by the Government
of Georgia are presented in Annex E.



32                                                                           Chapter 3
B. Lending Terms and Conditions
Accreditation Requirements for PBs
3.23         To be accredited as a participating bank under the project, interested banks would have
to meet the following criteria:
(a)    have an audit of the bank's activities covering one full year of operation, including a
portfolio review. All such audits would have to be prepared by an internationally
recognized auditor and in accordance with International Accounting Standards (IAS);
(b)    have sound financial policies, particularly with regard to credit administration and asset
and liability management, and a capital structure conforming with NBG's requirements;
(c)   if considered necessary, agree to engage in an institutional development program that
would address operational deficiencies identified in the IAS audit. Assistance in
implementing such programs is currently being provided through programs funded by
EBRD and TACIS;
(d)    obtain a Certificate from NBG stating that it has a valid banking license, that the NBG
is not aware of any criminal proceeding ongoing against the bank or any shareholders
with voting rights in excess of 10%, and that the bank is in compliance with all
relevant banking laws and regulations;
(e)   total assets (as defined under IAS) equivalent to at least US $2 million;
(f)    a minimum equity capital (as defined under IAS) equivalent to US $500,000;
(g)   exposure limits to any one borrower as a percent of its IAS equity capital of no more
than 25 %; and
(h)    aggregate exposure limits to insiders (defined as members of the governing bodies of
the bank board and/or council of directors and management board), employees in a
management position, and shareholders with voting rights in excess of 10%) of no
more than 60% of IAS equity capital.
3.24         ExDosure Limit. NBG's regulations limit exposure to a single borrower to no more than
25% of capital. Any balance of existing loans, made prior to a loan proposed for financing under the
project would be included in the above exposure limit. PBs would have to make consortium
arrangements for projects requiring financing that is above the individual PB's exposure limit.
3.25         At Negotiations agreement was reached that theparticipation criteriafor the PBs would
be as described in para. 3.23 and 3.24 (para. 5.2 (f)). Two PBs have signed subsidiary loan
agreements meeting the condition for Board Presentation that subsidiary loan agreements be signed
between Ministry of Finance and at least two qualified PBs (para. 5.3 (a)).



Project Implementation                                                                 33
Lending Terms to Private Enterprises
3.26          Repayment periods of sub-loans would be established on the basis of cash flow
projections for each investment but would not exceed the useful life of the goods being financed. In
no case, however, would maturities of sub-loans be less than one year or more than five years. The
grace period on sub-loans would be a maximum of six months for sub-loans of less than three years
and one year for sub-loans of three years and longer. PBs and sub-borrowers would be required to
contribute from their own resources not less than 30% of total investment costs, with not less than 10%
being provided by the sub-borrower.
3.27          Eligible sub-loans would be made according to lending decisions of PBs who will assess
the lending risks. Lending decisions would be based on PB's appraisal and other documentation
necessary to assess the technical and financial viability of the proposed investment and the credit
worthiness of the borrower. Once a loan is approved by a PB, the loan documentation would be
submitted to the CEU for review. The first five sub-loans submitted by each PB, irrespective of size,
and all subsequent sub-loans above US $500,000 would be subject to review and approval by IDA.
After obtaining the CEU's approval, and, if required, also IDA's approval, funds would be released
to the PB. The review process would only determine if the loans made are in compliance with the
objectives of the project, that the environmental assessment has been satisfactorily completed, and that
the documentation is complete.
3.28          Eligibility for Financing. In order to be eligible to receive loans under the project, sub-
projects would have to satisfy the following eligibility criteria:
(a)    borrowing enterprises must have a private ownership of 51 % or more;
(b)    financial projections should demonstrate debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.3 over
the life of the project, calculated on the basis of the entity's total debt;
(c)    financial rates of return on proposed sub-projects should exceed 15 %;
(d)    cash flow is adequate to meet debt servicing; and
(e)    certification from the relevant local or national authorities that the proposed sub-project
meets all environmental laws and standards in force in Georgia.
3.29          Appraisal Methodology. Sub-loan applications would be supported by detailed business
plans covering the following:
(a)   technical feasibility, financial viability, and commercial soundness of the proposed
investment. Particular emphasis would be placed in each plan on assessing the
availability of raw materials and the export-marketing possibilities for the incremental
production of the enterprise;
(b)    an evaluation of the proposed scale of the sub-project, the need for, and adequacy of,
civil works and equipment to be financed, the location of the enterprise, its layout and
design and the estimated investment costs in domestic and foreign currencies;



34                                                                              Chapter 3
(c)    an environmental assessment certifying that the proposed sub-project would operate
within the guidelines set by the relevant authorities; and
(d)    an evaluation of the sub-borrower's credit worthiness, organization, management and
financial structure, and of the technical staff and know-how available for implementing
and operating the sub-project.
3.30         PBs would be responsible for evaluating the loan applications submitted to them by
enterprises. Loan evaluation procedures would include, as applicable:
(a)   review and assessment of the viability and financial soundness of the enterprise and its
capacity to service the loan in convertible currency; and
(b)    verification that the equipment, spare parts, and materials to be purchased are
appropriate and are intended to be used for productive purposes such as the
introduction of a new production process, improving marketing and sales, breaking any
existing production bottlenecks, increasing the efficiency of an existing process, or
improving quality standards.
3.31         Agreement was reached on a standard subsidiary loan agreement that includes the
appraisal methodology and terms and conditions for on-lending under the project as specified in paras
3.26 - 3.30 (para 5.2(g)).
Eligibility Criteria and Prudential Requirements for Credit Unions
3.32         Eligibility for Administrative Grants. To be entitled to receive the administrative start-
up grant, a CU must have at least 30 registered members, 300 Lari worth of paid-in shares and
CUDC's approval of it's charter, operational policies, and procedures. Each eligible CU would receive
from the project an administrative grant of US $3,000 equivalent. Up to US $800 of the grant would
cover establishment expenses, including registration fees and expenses, some office furniture,
calculator, safe, initial stock of CU stationery, etc., and the balance of about US $2,200 would cover
current expenditures, including the salary of a manager, travel and other office expenses. In order to
receive these grants, a CU would be required to sign a Participation Agreement with the CUDC.
3.33         Deposit Insurance Fund. In addition to the administrative grant of US $3,000 each CU
would receive an equity contribution of US $2,000 to be used as an insurance fund to cover members'
net deposits in the CU. This amount would be retained in an interest bearing, dollar denominated,
escrow account for each CU at the AB until such time as the CU has accumulated a total share equity
(members deposits) of US $25,000. Prior to reaching this share equity level, the US $2,000 equity
contribution from the project, plus any interest accrued, may only be used to pay out depositors, on
a prorated basis, in the event that the CU is declared bankrupt by the CUDC. Thereafter, a CU would
be permitted to use these funds for onlending. This equity contribution thus serves as a temporary
deposit insurance program during the start-up phase of the CU. A study would be initiated by the
CUDC under the Project to identify a more comprehensive and self sustaining insurance scheme for
deposits held in a CU.



Project Implementation                                                             35
3.34         Supplementarv Loans. Once a CU has been in operation for at least three months, has
achieved a total initial share capital of 1,000 Lari, and a membership of at least 50, and provided that
CUDC is satisfied that it is properly managed and complies with the guidelines, and prudential
regulations, the CU would be eligible to receive a supplementary loan equal to its level of shares (i.e.
at least 1,000 Lari) in order to increase its lending potential. During a CU's first year of operation,
the ratio of 1:1 (shares to supplementary loan) would not be increased. However, based on CUDC
performnance criteria (primarily demonstrating loan repayment performance, size of membership and
total shares), this ratio could be increased in the second year to 1:2, and to 1:4 in the third year, and
thereafter. Supplementary loans would be disbursed in multiples of 1,000 Lari. In cases where a CU
no longer complies with the established ratios (1:1 in the first year), it would be required to bring its
account into compliance with the required minimum ratio by repaying a portion of the supplementary
loan. The CU's supplementary loans would be administered under a CU subsidiary loan agreement
between the CU and the Ministry of Finance and disbursed by an AB (para. 3.13). Each new loan
would be subject to review and approval by the Credit Committee for CUs (para. 3.10).
3.35         Exposure Limit to a Single Borrower. A CU's maximum exposure limit to a single
borrower would be 10% of the CU's capital (not including supplementary loans and the reserve fund)
up to 3,000 Lari. Once the capital exceeds 3,000 Lari, the exposure limit would be 600 Lari or 10%
of paid-in capital, whichever is larger. Credit unions could set lower exposure limits and revise the
by-laws accordingly. In cases where several members of one household are members of the CU,
individual members would be entitled to borrow funds only when each of those individual borrowers
has separate sources of income (for example, husband operates a farm and the wife is a teacher). The
national currency amounts specified in paras. 3.32-3.35 would be adjusted by the CUDC on a periodic
basis to reflect inflation.
3.36         Registration Procedures and Prudential Requirements. All CUs would be registered
under the Presidential Decree enabling the establishment of rural credit unions, which was signed in
September, 1996. All CUs participating under this Project would be required to sign a Participation
Agreement with CUDC, which requires compliance with the prudential regulations established under
the Presidential Decree. A summary of the prudential regulations is attached in Annex C. Signing
of the Presidential Decree on the Establishment and Development of Rural Credit Unions and the
introduction of related prudential regulations, suitable to IDA, was a condition of Negotiations for the
Credit (para 5.1 (a)). This condition was met.
3.37         Chart of Accounts. A draft chart of accounts for CUs was developed during project
preparation. Currently, an international accounting and auditing firm (Deloitte Touche) is preparing
a manual for NBG to convert the present accounting systems of banks to western standards. CUDC
will consult and review with NBG and its external consultants before finalizing the CU's chart of
accounts.
3.38         At Negotiations agreement was reached that CUDC and the CUs would operate as
described in paras. 3.32 to 3.37 (para 5.2 (h)).



36                                                                           Chapter 3
On-Lending to Credit Unions and Credit Unions' Members
3.39         Onlending _ the CUs would be denominated in national currency with the foreign
currency risk being borne by the Government. The credit risk would be borne by the CU. Interest
rates on supplementary loans to CUs would be equal to the average weighted interest rate, for the
previous 3 months, of the 30 day funds auctioned under NBG's Credit Auction. Rates on these loans
would be adjusted quarterly. Loans would be for a period of two years and are renewable at the end
of the two year period if the CU is in good standing with CUDC. CUs would pay interest semi-
annually and repay the principal at the end of the loan period. In order to provide the incentive for
CUs to actively engage in collection of the overdue amounts, their share capital would be used as
collateral for loans received under the project. Members' loans would be considered non-collectible
in case of arrears, principal or interest, dating back more than 12 months.
3.40         A subsidiary loan agreement, to be signed between MOF, CUDC and each participating
CU, would specify eligibility criteria for borrowers, loan evaluation standards, and principal terns and
conditions for sub-loans. Funds would be disbursed to CUs through the AB under authorization from
CUDC. Repayment of principal and interest on supplemental loans would also be made to the AB.
3.41         In order to ensure sound lending decisions by the CUs, and to protect their financial
viability, CUDC would prepare detailed credit guidelines, to be applied to all lending activities of the
CUs, regardless of the source of funds. The CUDC would receive a service fee from CUs to cover
its expenses. This fee would be set at a level to cover the actual cost of processing and administering
the sub-loans. During the first year of operation, the service fee would be set at 1 %; thereafter the fee
would be negotiated annually between CUs and CUDC.
3.42         Lending to CU Members. All lending and share mobilization would be conducted in
Lari and be limited to registered members of the CU. During an initial period of at least two years
after establishment, CUs would make only short-term loans with repayment periods not exceeding one
year. Repayment schedules would generally be set according to the projected cash flow; for example,
loans financing inputs for crop production would be repayable soon after harvesting or after the
expected date of payment for the produce. Other loans would, generally, be repayable in monthly
installments. At least 80 % of the total amount of loans made by a CU would be for production loans
and the balance could be for other loans.
3.43         The interest rate to be paid by members would be set to cover the cost of funds to the
CU and to defray operating costs. Until a CU can demonstrate to the CUDC that it can cover all its
administrative costs and loan loss provisions without grant assistance, the margin over the cost of funds
would be at least 1 % per month. Loan applications would be evaluated on the basis of the borrowers'
financial and commercial viability, supported by appropriate information requested by the CUs. While
commercial-type collateral would be accepted by CUs, every effort would be made to promote group
lending principles and group liability for loans.
3.44         Agreement was reached at Negotiations that the terms and conditions of lending by
credit unions would follow procedures described in paras. 3.39 to 3.43 (para 5.2 (i)). As a condition
for disbursement of the CU component, the CUDC would prepare and adopt an operations manual,
satisfactory to IDA, specifying: (a) the procedures to be followed by the CUDC; (b) registration
procedures applicable to CUs; (c) terms and conditions of the grants to CUs; (d) the terms and



Project Implementation                                                             37
conditions of the loans provided to CUs, for the purpose of onlending to members; (e) the terms and
conditions of the loans to be made by CUs to their members; and if minimum requirements for an
operations manual to be adopted by CUs prior to their registration with the CUDC. (para 5.4 (a) (ii)).
C. Accounts and Audit
3.45         Separate accounts would be set up for each project component. Accounts of the Credit
to Enterprises sub-component would contain detailed records of each loan approved by the PBs, and
information on the amount and source of funds disbursed under each sub-loan. Information to be
compiled under the CUs' account would include the amount given to each CU and their interest
obligations. Separate project accounts would be maintained by the LRU for the Land Registration sub-
component. Semi-annual statements of all these accounts would be submitted to the manager of the
PCU who would use them as a source of information for management reports on the status of project
implementation.
3.46         Independent auditors acceptable to IDA would conduct an annual audit of the project's
accounts to be maintained by the PCU and NBG. Certified copies of these audits would be submitted
to IDA within six months of the end of the Government's fiscal year. All participating PBs would be
subject to annual IAS audits that would be reviewed by MOF and IDA. CUDC would arrange to have
the CUs accounts and financial statements audited annually in accordance with international auditing
standards by independent auditors. The scope and content of the audits would be agreed in advance
with the IDA. Certified copies of the auditors' report would be retained by CUDC for subsequent
review by IDA missions and as a source of information for monitoring sub-borrowers' financial
performance. The cost of these audits during the first five years would be borne by the project.
Agreement was reached on the above at Negotiations (para. 5.2 ()).
D. Reporting and Evaluation
3.47         The CEU, CUDC and the LRU would be responsible for monitoring and evaluating
the impact of the project. CUDC would review the performance of member CUs through field visits
and review of the corresponding accounts and auditor's reports. The CEU would monitor the
performance of the PBs and perform random evaluation of sub-projects funded under the project. The
LRU would monitor the Land Registration program and the contractors' performance. A baseline
survey of existing conditions in the two rayons selected for the Land Registration program was carried
out by experts from the Department of Statistics in cooperation with the Institute of Agricultural
Economics, with funding provided by the PPF. This survey includes household demographic
characteristics, production and financial information. There would also be two follow-up socio-
economic surveys as part of project monitoring. These socio-economic studies would monitor inter
alia, gender bias in registration, dispute resolution, and the volume of land transactions. Performance
monitoring indicators for the project are described in Annex G.
3.48         Reporting. CEU, CUDC and the LRU would prepare semi-annual progress reports to
be consolidated by the PCU into a progress report to be submitted to IDA within 60 days of the end
of the period under review. These progress reports would include a summary statement of the project's



38                                                                              Chapter 3
overall financial status, a brief descriptive section on the accomplishments of each of the project's
components, and highlights of problems encountered during implementation.
3.49         Implementation Completion Report. Promptly after completion of the project, the
CEU, CUDC and the LRU would prepare a report on the execution of their sub-component, its costs,
and the benefits to be derived from the project sub-component. The PCU would consolidate these
reports and add a section evaluating the performance of the various institutions who took part in project
implementation. The consolidated report would be submitted to IDA not later than six months after the
closing date. Agreement of the above as reflected in paras. 3.47 - 3.49 was reached at Negotiations
(para. 5.2 (k)).
E. Supervision Arrangements
3.50          Due to the experimental nature of some of the components of the project there will be
three supervision missions per year for the first two years of the project, of which one each year will
be a complete evaluation of all aspects of the project. Changes in project design will be made as a
result of these missions, if necessary. There will be two missions per year thereafter. The skill mix
of supervision staff would ensure the presence of adequate IDA experts in banking, enterprise
development and restructuring, CUs' operations, and land registration, as well as knowledge of
Bank/IDA procurement and disbursement rules, as necessary. A mid-term review is planned for June,
1999, or earlier if considered necessary, at which time progress towards meeting Project objectives
would be assessed. Resident mission staff will assist with supervision of the project on a continuous
basis. A supervision schedule is attached in Annex K.
3.51         IDA's monitoring would focus on: (a) the performance of the CEU and the PBs,
including their continued compliance with the eligibility criteria, financial performance and the rate at
which they are making sub-loans, as well as the repayments characteristics of such sub-loans; (b) the
performance of enterprises receiving sub-loans under the credit line; (c) CUDC's performance, the
financial performance of CUs, the extent to which loans by CUs respond to the credit needs of
members; (d) the impact of loans by CUs on production and productivity; (e) the rate and cost of
parcels' survey and the adjudication of disputes; (f) the rate of land registration, the collection of
registration fees and the issuing of titles; (g) preparation of socio-economic surveys to evaluate the
impact of the land registration program; and (h) the preparation of studies to improve agricultural
services.



CHAPTER FOUR
BENEFITS, RISKS, AND ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT
A. Benefits
4.1          The primary beneficiaries of this project are expected to be private enterprises engaged
in economic activities related to the rural sector, including agribusinesses, small-scale rural businesses,
small-scale private farmers and rural landholders. The line of credit, which would be used primarily
by agribusiness companies, is expected to result in large gains in productivity by allowing firms to
upgrade their technology and providing them with operating capital. The establishment of CUs in rural
areas would benefit both small farmers and small-scale rural businesses by establishing a low cost
mechanism for non-collateral based lending. An estimated 46,000 farm owners who live in the project
area, 36,000 urban dwellers who received small parcels of land under the land reform program, and
48,000 part time rural residents who received small land allocations during the soviet period would be
the main beneficiaries of the land registration component. With an average farm size of 0.9 hectares,
most of the farm families are in the bottom half of the income strata in Georgia. Land titling would
be a particularly important social safety net for older land owners, who could generate income by
leasing their land, knowing that they have secure title. In the longer run, title registration is expected
to increase the liquidity of the land market by reducing the cost of land transactions, thus increasing
the productivity of small-scale agriculture in Georgia.
4.2          Although the project is expected to generate substantial benefits, it is not possible to
measure these benefits with a conventional economic analysis. However, with the removal of financial
distortions and subsidies agreed recently under the Structural Adjustment Credit, and with sub-loans
to enterprises required to have a minimum financial rate of return of 15%, the project is expected to
yield a rate of return higher than the opportunity cost of capital. The project would also have a positive
impact on Government's revenues due to the increase in the tax base to be brought about by the land
registration program and the improved incomes of both enterprises and farmers. A qualitative list of
expected benefits from each of the project's sub-components is presented below.
Enterprises:
(a)    Rehabilitation of enterprises, thus increasing productivity of existing investments;
(b)    Increase in foreign investments and the creation of joint ventures leading to the transfer
of technology to Georgia;
(c)    Development of a capacity to expand exports, compete in foreign markets, and enable
enterprises to be more efficient and productive; and
(d)   Improvements in the revenue, management, and productivity of enterprises.



40                                                 Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impacts
Banks:
(a)    Development of a capacity to evaluate and administer short-and medium-term loans to
enterprises;
(b)    Improvements in the financial management of PBs;
(c)    Improvements in the quality of bank intermediation by strengthening: (i) the legal and
regulatory environment in which banks operate; (ii) the capacity of the NBG to
effectively regulate and supervise banks; and (iii) the institutional capability and capital
base of a core group of private banks, enabling them to initiate and expand their term
lending; and
(d)    Normalization of bank interest rates by introducing additional capital into the system
and expanding the scope of financial intermediation to include production based
enterprises.
Credit Unions:
(a)    Introduction of a sustainable system of providing financial services to the rural sector
that has thus far been neglected by financial intermediaries;
(b)    Accelerating the rate of resource mobilization in the rural sector, thereby providing
higher returns on capital to CU members, and lower costs of borrowing;
(c)    Expansion of economic activities in the rural sector along with an increase in output
and productivity of small farms; and
(d)    Development of the financial management skills of CU officials.
Land Registration:
(a)    Introduction of a system that would facilitate the efficient sale and rent of land at fair
market prices, by reducing the cost of land transactions;
(b)    Improved security of ownership rights to land and property, thereby enhancing the
development of a land market, increased land rental markets, and also increased the
levels of private investment in land;
(c)    Development of a more objective and equitable tax base from the records at the land
registry;
(d)    Increased government tax collections without having to increase the land tax rates;



Chapter 4                                                                             41
(e)    Improved access to institutional credit arising out of the ability to use land and property
as collateral; and
(f)   Introducing a formal, low cost method of resolving land disputes.
Agricultural Services:
(a)    Creation of a framework for agricultural services that can cater to the needs of small-
scale private farms; and
(b)   Identification of priority measures that are necessary to improve agricultural
productivity and exports.
4.3           Fiscal Impact. If executed as planned, the fiscal outlay required from Government
during project implementation is no more than the US $0.5 million used in the initiation of the land
registration component. However, over the five year implementation period for the project, the Land
Registration Component is expected to yield US $3.6 million from registration fees and US $0.4 million
per annum from the incremental improvement in the rate of land tax collections in the two pilot areas.
This would be the result of an increase in land tax collection rate from 50% to 80%. Before the IDA
ten year grace period is completed, the cost of the land registration component is expected to be fully
recovered. The Credit to Enterprises and Credit Union components are expected to have a significant
positive fiscal impact as a result of the spread between the IDA lending rate and onlending rates to
commercial banks and CUs respectively. The Credit Union Development Component is expected to
result in no fiscal outlays during the five year implementation period of the project and a net cost to
Government of about US $1.5 million, after recovery of supplemental loans. The fiscal outlay of the
Agricultural Services component of the project is zero during the five year period of the project and
US $0.5 million net cost to Government. This cost would be more than compensated for by the Credit
to Enterprises and CU components by the end of the ten year IDA grace period. Therefore, apart from
the US $0.5 million maximum fiscal exposure initially, the net fiscal impact over the term of the Credit
is expected to be positive.
B. Risks
4.4            Project-related risks are summarized below:
(a)    Resurgence of macro-economic instability that could deter enterprises from borrowing
and commercial banks from lending. Agreements reached last year under the IMF
Enhanced Structural Adjustment Facility and the IDA Structural Adjustment Credit
should help alleviate this risk.  In the event of a serious regression in the
macroeconomic reform program, serious consideration would need to be given to
cancelling the credit components of the project.
(b)    Participating PBs failing to promote the project's line of credit because of inexperience
with investment lending. Technical assistance and training to be provided through the



42                                                 Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impacts
CEU, special training courses to be organized by EDI, and direct technical assistance
from EBRD to four PBs, are expected to decrease this risk;
(c)    Agro-processing enterprises failing to regain export markets in the FSU and to
penetrate new ones in the West. Active promotion of joint ventures with foreign
investors that have marketing experience, and training programs for enterprise
managers and staff, are expected to help overcome this risk;
(d)   Inability of the newly created rural CUs to mobilize adequate funding from members
and to develop the required management capability. These risks would be addressed
through technical assistance and training to be provided by CUDC;
(e)    The CU concept is not widely understood and therefore may not be accepted in rural
areas. Providing critical technical assistance to CUDC, simplifying the operational
procedures of CUs, and ensuring that members are in control of the CUs' management
should help make them attractive to the rural population and encourage new members
to join; and
(f)    Lack of future commitment and funding by the Government to the introduction of a
modern land registration and administration system. The successful completion of the
registration program under the present project, and the generation of revenues from
registration and land transactions should reduce this risk as the resulting benefits
become apparent and increased demand is generated.
C. Sustainability
4.5           The project's basic rationale is that the agriculture sector should, over time, become
self- sustaining without having to rely on govermnent subsidies and protective measures. Thus, loans
to enterprises would be at positive real interest rates, with private banks bearing the full commercial
risk. Similarly, loans to members by CUs would be structured so as to minimize current distortions in
rural credit by making them positive in real terms and linking interest rates to the cost of funds and to
the CUs' operating expenses. Except for an initial grant to help establish the CUs, and funding
shortfalls in the CUDC, interest rates would be structured so as to cover all operating costs. Efforts
would also be made to establish a foundation of agricultural services based as far as possible on the
principle of full cost recovery.
4.6          Over time, sustainability of the land registration program would depend on the capacity
to recover the registration costs from land owners and the ability to mobilize the private sector to
undertake the survey work. Both of these aspects are an integral feature of the project and if they are
successful, it should be possible to make the program self financing and to expand it rapidly to other
parts of the country.



Chapter 4                                                                          43
D. Environmental Impact
4.7          The project is classified as category "B" in the Bank's environmental rating. Loans to
be extended under the project would be primarily to existing enterprises who already possess the
required permits indicating compliance with existing environmental regulations. The CEU would assist
PBs to confirm that all sub-borrowers have the required environmental permits from the Ministry of
Environmental Protection (MoEP). The MoEP is in the process of preparing a National Environmental
Action Plan (NEAP) as required by IDA for all IDA-recipient countries as well as reviewing a variety
of policies and regulatory standards. The CEU would consult with the MoEP to ensure that enterprises
participating in the project comply with existing and new environmental guidelines. The remaining
components of the project are not expected to have a detrimental impact on the environment. Land
registration would provide the incentives, along with improved access to credit sources, that would
make it possible for private farmers to invest in measures that prevent soil erosion.
4.8          A number of manuals for Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) and Investors'
Guidelines for performing environmental due diligence were developed by the Bank for several FSU
republics. Similar manuals were also prepared by EBRD and TACIS. Using these manuals as a base,
the PCU would prepare a manual suitable for use in Georgia. This manual would provide the
guidelines to ensure that each sub-project to be financed under the Credit to Enterprises comply with
national environmental laws and regulations. EDI would provide training to commercial banks and
PCU staff on the preparation of EIAs. The preparation of a manual acceptable to IDA, and its
appropriate use in conducting EIA would be required as part of the documentation to be presented to
IDA with the first five sub-loan applications of each PB (para. 3.29). Agreement to that effect was
reached at Negotiations (para. 5.2 (1)).
E. Poverty
4.9          The Credit Union component, a portion of the Land Registration component and studies
to be conducted under the Agriculture Services component are targeted at assisting small private farms.
With an average size of 0.9 hectare, most of these farm families are in the bottom half of the income
strata in Georgia. Thus, about US $10.0 million, or roughly 38% of the project cost, would be directly
focused on poverty alleviation. A baseline study of the socio-economic conditions facing small scale
farmers in the two districts included in the Land Registration component has been completed to enable
the monitoring of farm incomes, demographics of the farming population, and major constraints facing
small-scale farmers. Further monitoring will be done during project implementation.
F. Gender Issues
4.10        In the socio-economic study of rural areas conducted as preparation for this project,
women were found to have less education than men in the age group older than 60. The rest of the
population has benefited from the education policy of the USSR, which gave equal access to education,
and 95% have completed secondary school or higher in equal proportion by gender. Of those
respondents that had managerial jobs off the farm, 52 percent were men and 48 percent were women.
Legally, there are also no impediments to women owning land or having access to credit. Further
analysis is required to determine if women defacto have received an equal allocation of land under the



44                                                Benefits, Risks and Environmental Impacts
land reform  program.  The continued monitoring of socio-economic factors during project
implementation would monitor for gender bias in the issuing of titles and take corrective actions if
necessary. There is currently no formal credit to small scale farmers in rural areas, but it would also
be monitored and corrective action taken to ensure that women have equal access to credit under the
program. Evidence from the existing credit unions in Georgia is that a large number of the members
are women, and they play an active role in the management of the Credit Unions.
G. Participation
4.11         Stakeholders have been involved in the project preparation process. A survey of the
socio-economic status of small farmers in the project area was conducted by a local institute as a basis
for understanding the views and needs of the rural community. This survey is expected to be repeated
during project implementation to monitor the project impact on stakeholders. Pilot Credit Unions,
formed using funds from the PPF, were established through community discussions facilitated by the
PCU and this is expected to continue during project implementation. The Land Registration component
is designed to have local companies conduct the land surveys and have local communities directly
involved in boundary dispute resolution.



CHAPTER FIVE
AGREEMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements Reached Before Negotiations
5.1          The Presidential Decree on the Establishment and Development of Rural Credit Unions
was signed and the related prudential regulations, suitable to IDA, were introduced, meeting the
condition for negotiation for the project (para 3.36).
B. Agreements Reached During Negotiations
5.2          Agreement was reached during negotiations that:
(a)   all procurement activities under the project would follow the procedures outlined in paras. 2.17
to 2.21;
(b)   disbursement arrangements will follow the procedures described in paras. 2.23 to 2.25;
(c)   establishment of the special account will follow the procedures described in para. 2.26;
(d)   the functions of the CEU and its management of the CE component would be as described in
paras 3.3 and 3.4;
(e)   the Government would levy land registration fees and taxes sufficient to cover the full cost of
the registration program and that these fees and taxes would be used to extend the program to
other parts of Georgia (para. 3.21);
(f)    participation criteria for PBs would be as described in paras. 3.23 and 3.24;
(g)    a standard subsidiary loan agreement specifying the appraisal methodology, interest rates, and
the other terms and conditions for on-lending under the project as specified in paras. 3.26 -
3.30;
(h)   the CUDC and CUs would be operated under conditions described in paras. 3.32 to 3.37;
(i)   lending terms and conditions for CUs would follow procedures described in paras. 3.39 to
3.43;
(j)   all projects accounts would be audited as described in paras. 3.45 to 3.46;
(k)   reporting and evaluation of project activities would be as described in paras. 3.47 to 3.49; and
(1)   the preparation of an EIA manual which includes operating procedures for its appropriate use
in conducting EIA (para. 4.8).



46                                                     Agreements and Recommendations
C. Conditions of Board Presentation
5.3          During negotiations it was agreed that the following would be a condition for Board
presentation:
(a)   the signing of subsidiary loan agreements between Ministry of Finance and at least two
qualified PBs (para. 3.25). Two PBs have signed subsidiary loan agreements meeting the
condition for Board presentation.
D. Conditions of Disbursement
5.4          Conditions of disbursement for the Credit are as follows:
(a)          The are two conditions for disbursement of the Credit Union Component.
(i)   the signing of an Administrative Bank Agreement between CUDC and a commercial
bank accredited by IDA for onlending (para 3.14).
(ii)  the CUDC would prepare and adopt an operations manual, satisfactory to IDA,
specifying (i) the procedures to be followed by the CUDC; (ii) registration procedures
applicable to CUs; (iii) terms and conditions of the grants to CUs; (iv) the terms and
conditions of the loans provided to CUs, for the purpose of onlending to members; (v)
the terms and conditions of the loans to be made by CUs to their members; and (vi)
minimum requirements for an operations manual to be adopted by the CU prior to their
registration with the CUDC (para. 3.44).
(b)    a condition of disbursement for the Land Registration component is the passage by Parliamnent
of a Land Registration Law (paras. 1.10, 2.11, 3.21). This condition has been met.
(c)   if the IFAD loan fails to become effective by June 30, 1997, and the Government fails to find
alternative sources of funding, IDA would have the option to suspend disbursements under this
Credit (para 2.16).
E. Recommendation
5.5          Subject to the above assurances and conditions, the project would be suitable for an
IDA credit of SDR 10.4 million (US $15.0 million equivalent) made to Georgia, at the IDA standard
terms, including 35 years' maturity and 10 years' grace period for repayments.



GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
ANNEXES
Annex A    The Banking Sector
Annex B    Terms of Reference for the Project Coordinating Unit
Annex C    Credit Unions Operations and the Credit Unions Development Center
(CUDC)
(i)   Credit Unions and CUDC
(ii) Terms of Reference for a Consultant in CUDC
(iii) Credit Union Prudential Standards
Annex D    Land Registration and Titling
Annex E    Agricultural Services
Annex F    Credit to Enterprises Unit
Annex G    Monitoring and Evaluation
Annex H    Disbursement Schedule
Annex I    Project Implementation Schedule
Annex J    Project Procurement Schedule
Annex K    Project Supervision Plan
Annex L    Documents in File






Annex A
The Banking Sector
Introduction
1.    An ambitious program of stabilization and structural reforms was launched by the Government
in March 1994, with the assistance of the Bank and the IMF. The restructuring of the financial sector
was central to this program. The approach of the Government to restructuring the financial sector has
been to rapidly privatize all state owned banks, establish a set of prudential regulations to regulate all
banks, restrict the activities of non-compliant banks, and implement an agreed timetable for the
restructuring of the three Former State-owned Banks (FSBs).
Status of the Banking Sector
2.    A major weakness in the banking sector has been the distressed financial position of the
remnants of the FSBs, which control a significant proportion of the assets in the sector. Diagnostic
studies and audits of these banks -- United Georgian Bank (the merged Savings Bank, Industrial
Bank,and Exim Bank), Bank of Georgia, and Agro Bank-- show that they have high levels of bad
loans. Their poor financial performance can be attributed to their role as state banks, a failure to
carry-out adequate risk assessment and creditworthiness analysis of borrowers, and their inability and
unwillingness to enforce the collateral liquidation procedures and security collection on
non-performing assets. Weak management, inappropriate organizational structures, and outmoded
operating systems have also contributed to their current situation. Given the potential economy-wide
implications of the failure of one of these institutions, and the implicit guarantees that their deposits
carry, the Government has agreed to a timetable of targets which each bank should meet in order to
move towards compliance with the NBG prudential requirements. In the last year, two of these
banks, United Georgian Bank and Bank of Georgia have made significant progress toward meeting
these prudential requirements. Agro Bank has been slower to adjust.
3.    Many small, private commercial banks have emerged since early 1992 and have been gaining
market share. They currently control between 35 and 50 percent of the total assets in the banking
system. There has also been a significant consolidation of the banking sector due to the introduction
of NBG's banking prudential standards, including a US$100,000 minimum capital requirement for all
banks. As of November 1996 there were 65 banks operating in Georgia compared to 88 in April
1996 and 229 in March 1995. Of the 65 banks operating, 45 have been certified by the National
Bank of Georgia. A further decline in the number of banks is expected over the next few years as a
result of the continued implementation of the NBG bank certification program and the new
US$500,000 minimum capital requirement that will become effective in June, 1998. The impact of
such a sharp reduction in the number of banks is not expected, however, to lead to sector-wide
systemic risks since most of the liquidated or reorganized banks had very few customers or assets.
Assessment of the Banks
4.    The Former State Banks:  Many of their current problems stem from poor portfolio
performance during their tenure in the public sector. These problems have been compounded by poor
lending decisions based on inadequate risk assessment policies, failure to carry-out adequate loan



Annex A
Page 2 of 3
underwriting and loan servicing procedures, and their unwillingness and inability to enforce collateral
liquidation procedures and collection on non-performing assets. It is estimated that over 60 percent of
the total loan portfolio of FSBs is non-performing. While two of the FSBs have undergone
restructuring and have made significant strides toward meeting the NBG prudential requirements,
Agro Bank continues to have major problems with its portfolio and with its capital adequacy. As part
of the restructuring process, Bank of Georgia has been fully privatized and the privatization of United
Georgian Bank is almost complete. Agrobank is also in the process of being privatized but the
Government still owns 27 percent of its shares. Investors and donors are being sought to obtain the
necessary funds for the private recapitalization and restructuring of these banks. The equity position
of United Georgian Bank improved last year with a significant foreign investment in the Bank. It was
also able to write down a significant proportion of its bad debt during 1996.
5.     The Private Commercial Banks: Data from the four commercial banks appraised for this
project suggest that there are a small but growing number of well managed and sufficiently capitalized
banks that could operate profitably under the current difficult environment. As of December 1, 1996
each of the four banks had completed International Accounting Standards (IAS) audits and were found
to substantially meet the minimum requirements for participation under the line of credit (para 3.23).
These banks will still require heavy technical assistance to bring them up to western banking
standards. They will also continue to have IAS audits; undergo improvements in their operating
policies and procedures, as required by the conditions of their respective subsidiary loan agreements;
and conform with NBG prudential standards. At least four additional banks are expected to convert
to IAS auditing procedures in 1997.
Strategy for the Banking Sector
6.     The banking strategy addresses three sets of issues: (a) the restructuring of the former state
banks; (b) preventing non-viable banks from expanding until they have met NBG's prudential
requirements; and (c) the strengthening of NBG and its supervisory and regulatory powers.
7.     The large size of the FSBs in relation to the private banks and the fact that they carry an
inheritance of non-performing loans from their time in the state sector means that a number of
additional issues must be factored into the strategy for their restructuring. This strategy is defined by
a set of procedural rules ( i.e. IAS audits, portfolio due-diligence, loan work-outs, institutional
building, and capital raising) and a timetable for complying with these regulations. In the application
of these rules, there is a recognition that the strategy will take time to implement and that these banks
may only return to financial health in the medium term, if at all. During this restructuring period the
NBG might be placed in a position of having to provide ad-hoc financial intervention until these
problems are resolved.
8.    The strategy for the restructuring of private commercial banks will be the strict enforcement
of minimum capital and prudential standards thus raising the standards of the banking system. This
will be achieved through (a) strengthening of NBG bank certification procedures; (b) introducing
IAS audit and portfolio due-diligence requirements; (c) enforcing strict compliance with prudential
rules and regulations; and (d) providing training for banks in loan analysis and credit administration
designed to prevent the re-emergence of a large number of non-performing assets. The liquidation
and merger of smaller banks will result from the need to increase minimum capital requirements and



Annex A
Page 3 of 3
improve management, and NBG should to continue to force small banks that persistently disregard
critical prudential standards into liquidation or merger with stronger banks. Banks where the capital
position and the receptivity of management to change is acceptable should be given access to ad-hoc
forms of technical assistance and training, to be provided by the multi-national lenders and donors, to
strengthen individual features of bank operations.
Support for Structural Reform
9.    The NBG Law, developed with the assistance of the IMF, was approved in June, 1995.
However, the ability of NBG to conduct an independent monetary policy remains a critical issue.
Article 3 of the new NBG law, which deals with the independence of the National Bank, needs to be
strengthened. Other amendments to strengthen the NBG law relate to accounting and reporting
issues, and the removal of provisions in the Constitution that deal with the power of Parliament to
approve or disapprove NBG reports.
10.   Legal reform in the banking sector continues to be a high priority. A new Commercial
Banking Law has been approved. The previous Commercial Banking Law had a number of
deficiencies in NBG's supervisory powers, specifically the imposition of its prudential rules,
sanctions and enforcement procedures, as well as the resolution of failed banks. Similarly, approval
of the draft bankruptcy law for banks is desirable as it addresses issues of liquidating banks and
financial institutions. The approval of a bankruptcy law for banks is of particular importance in view
of the large number of banks that have had their licenses withdrawn and would have to be liquidated.
11.   Accounting reform at the NBG and in the commercial banks is in progress. International
Accounting Standards audits have been completed for the NBG and the at least four commercial
banks. The number of Banks completing IAS audits is expected to double in 1997. This will be
important for the future transparency of the banking sector.
12.   The pavments and clearing system in Georgia has improved significantly. Initially it had
involved cumbersome paper documentation processing but has since moved to an electronic mail
system. The next step will be to transform this into a more efficient and cost-effective
telecommunication-based system. Such a system is currently being installed under a USAID funded
project, and draft regulations for the electronic payment system have been prepared.






Annex B
Terms of Reference for the Project Coordinating Unit
1.    The PCU will be managed directly by the Minister of Agriculture, who in turn will report the
activities of the PCU to a sub-committee of the State Committee for Coordination with International
Financial Institutions (SCC). The PCU will also be expected to provide information directly to the
SCC.
2.     The functions of the Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) are to:
(a)    provide information to, and seek guidance from, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industries, the State Coordinating Committee for Coordination with International
Financial Institutions, Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Georgia on all
issues concerning progress in project implementation;
(b)    coordinate the recruitment of foreign and local consultants for implementation of the
Credit Unions, Credit to Enterprises and Agricultural Services components of the
project;
(c)    develop a unit within PCU, to be called Credit to Enterprises Unit, to manage the
Credit to Enterprises component (for details see Annex F);
(d)    ensure that the financial accounts of each of the sub-components are audited annually
as stipulated in the Credit Agreement;
(e)    maintain a consolidated account of all the project's components to be available to
IDA's supervision missions; and
(f)    monitor and evaluate the performance and indicators described in Annex F of this
report and using these indicators, prepare a semi-annual evaluation report for the
Government, IDA and IFAD.
3.            The PCU will be composed as follows:
(a)   a manager;
(b)    an accountant;
(c)    a specialist in charge of preparing semi-annual progress report and monitoring and
evaluation;
(d)    a administrative secretary, who would manage the office and recruit short term
interpreters and translators as the need arises;
(e)    a driver; and
(f)    support staff, including ad hoc consultant for office technology, and a cleaning person.



Annex B
Page 2 of 2
4.           CUDC would be located in the PCU, until Govemment decides to establish it as an
independent agency. The functions of CUDC are described in Chapter IH. The staff of CUDC
would be as described in Annex C. The functions of the Credit to Enterprises Unit are
described in Annex F. It would be located in the PCU.



Annex C
Credit Union (CU) Operations and
the Credit Unions Development Center (CUDC)
Credit Unions
1.    Under the project, about 120 credit unions (CUs) will be established over a period of six
years(one year being financed under the PPF) with membership per credit union growing at an average
yearly rate of about 43%, and totalling some 34,800 by the end of the sixth year. The estimated level
of savings per member is projected to increase from US $50 in the first year to US $180 in the fifth
year. Tables I - 3 detail the number of credit unions in operations and grant disbursements during the
project period, membership and savings growth, and the level of total borrowing. These tables are
based on the following:
(a)   Each CU will receive an administrative grant of the equivalent of US$ 5,000 of which
US$ 3,000 is allocated for organization, start-up operations, and current expenditures. The balance of
US$ 2,000 would be retained in a special account in the Administrative Bank (AB) and used as an
insurance fund for depositors of a bankrupt CU. Total insurance coverage for any CU will be $2,000.
CUs will be eligible to receive the grant once they have at least 30 registered members, 300 Lari
worth of paid-in share capital (members' deposits), and the CUDC's approval of the CU's charter, and
operating policies and procedures. The grants will be disbursed over a two year period with US
$4,000 being disbursed in the first year and US $ 1,000 in the second year.
(b)    CUs will be eligible to obtain supplementary loans under the project. These loans will
initially be limited to an amount equal to a CU's level of share capital (members' deposits). Once a
CU has been in operation for at least 3 months, has a total paid-in share capital of 1,000 Lari, a
membership of at least 50, and the CUDC is satisfied that the CU is properly managed and complies
with the appropriate prudential guidelines and regulations, the CU may apply for supplemental loans.
(c)    The ratio of the value of supplementary loans to the value of share capital (members'
deposits) will be limited to a maximum of 1:1 in the first year, 1:2 in the second year, and 1:4 in the
third year, and thereafter.
Credit Union Development Center
2.    The function of the CUDC will be to encourage the development of rural CUs, approve
onlending to CUs, and ensure that CUs comply with prudential regulations established under the
Presidential Decree on the Establishment of Rural Credit Unions.
3.    The estimated cost for establishing the CUDC and for covering the first six years of its
operations is US $885,000 (CUDC's operating costs prior to Credit signing, will be paid by IDA under
the PPF). Of this total, US $630,000 or 71.0% will be for staff; technical assistance and operating
expenses, and the balance for equipment, fumiture and supplies. During the project period, the
CUDC's staff will include the office manager, up to eight credit specialists, an accountant, and support
staff. In addition, the CUDC will establish regional representative units posting credit union
development officers in rural centers, who will each be responsible for guiding and supervising at least
10 credit unions. Details of the cost break-down is presented in Tables 4 - 7 of this Annex.



Annex C
Page 2 of 7
4.     A foreign expert will be engaged to assist the CUDC during the early stages of the project.
This expert will assist in preparing standards for appraisal reports of individual loans by CUs. In
addition the expert will assist CUDC to prepare other standards relevant to the lending cycle ( e.g.
sub-loan supervision check list), consolidated reporting fornats, for all loans granted by the CUs;



Annex C
Page 3 of 7
Terms of Reference for a Consultant in CUDC
The consultant providing TA to the CUDC, will provide 12 weeks of consulting in the first
year and 7 weeks in the second year of operation of the CUDC. This consultant will report directly to
the manager of the CUDC.
Il.   'The functions of the consultant in CUDC are as follows:
(a)    assist in preparing standards for appraisal reports of individual sub-loans by credit
unions. In addition, the consultant will assist to prepare other standards relevant to the
project cycle, e.g. project supervision check list, and shall also prepare consolidated
reporting formats for all loans granted by the credit unions. The preparation of
standards/formats include procedures to be followed by the credit unions in their use;
(b)    assist to arrange training for CUDC and credit unions as needed, in activities such as
management, accounting, financial and economic evaluations of sub loans, and
environment;
(c)    review the technical supervision conducted by the credit unions of sub-projects
financed under the project, and assist the credit unions to identify required skills to
conduct technical supervision of the sub-projects, as may be needed;
(d)    ensure the soundness of CUDC's supervision of credit unions;
(e)    ensure the minimization of exposure risk in the lending of credit unions, by limiting
the percentage of lending to a single borrower and introducing adequate provisions for
potential loan losses;
(f)    assist to maintain in CUDC and the credit unions data base, accounting systems and
other information systems for managing and reporting credit; and
(g)    assist CUDC in advising credit unions regarding their financial management based on
the cost of funds and lending interest rate.
2.            Experience and qualifications of the consultant should be as follows:
(a)    MBA or equivalent, with at least 10 years experience in banking activities and solid
knowledge of lending and project financing;
(b)    hands on experience in assessing credit worthiness of individual borrowers;
(c)    hands on experience in lending to a wide variety of different industries especially
micro-industries in the private sector, and
(d)    hands on experience in working with line of credit to customers and negotiating loan
agreements.



Annex C
Page 4 of 7
Credit Union Prudential Standards
The following minimum prudential standards are to be met by credit union elected officials, managers
and employees to protect member savings and external creditors from losses. The Board of Directors
is responsible for including these standards in the credit union's internal regulations, the credit
committee and the manager for implementing them in the daily operating procedures and the
Supervisory Board for verifying the credit union's compliance with them.
1.    MANAGEMENT
a.    Accounts balanced and current (10 days after close of month).
b.    Loan delinquency reports complete and current (10 days after close of month).
c.    CUDC supervisory examination completed and recommendations implemented.
d.    Annual budget prepared and performance evaluated monthly.
e.    Key ratios calculated and evaluated monthly (per section B, below).
f.    Written credit and savings policies approved and implemented.
g.    Written internal control guidelines approved and implemented.
All the reports must be prepared based on the uniform reporting format development and approved by
the CUDC.
2.    ASSET QUALITY
a.    Loan quality: the sum of reserves plus loan loss provision (allowance) is greater than
or equal to the delinquent and refinanced loans.
b.    Exposure Limit to a Single Borrower: A credit union's maximum Exposure Limit to
a Single Borrower is 20% of the credit union's capital up to 3000 Lari, and 60 Lari
or 10% of the credit union's capital more than 3000 Lari, whichever is larger.
c.    Collections: The percent ratio of the amount of repayment collected (principal and
interest) to the amount of the total repayment due (principal and interest) must exceed
95%.
3.    CAPITAL ADEQUACY
a.    Protection: Amount of loan loss provision is equal to or exceeds the sum of aged
delinquent loan balances weighted according to the following schedule:
i     1-3 months: 10%
ii    4-6 months: 25%
iii    7-9 months: 50%
iv    10-12 months: 75 %
v     12 month or more: 100%
b.    Capital Reserves: A minimum 10% of gross income is transferred to the capital
Reserve account until this account equals 25% of the share capital; thereafter, the
minimum transfer shall be the percentage of gross income not exceeding 10% actually
necessary to maintain the ratio of 25% of share capital.
4.    LIQUIDITY
a.    Liquid assets (cash on hand and due from banks plus government securities) are
greater than or equal to 20% of total share capital.



Annex C
Page 5 of 7
5.    BORROWING
A credit union can borrow from external sources based on its share capital after the amount of
paid-in capital exceeds 1000 Lari, a membership of at least 50 and the credit union has been
in operation for at least 3 months.
The maximum limits as follows (share capital to amount of borrowing):
a. in the first year - a ratio of 1:1
b. in the second year - a ratio of 1:2
c. in the third year - a ratio of 1:4



Annex C
Page 6 of 7
Annex C - Tables
Table 1. CUs in Operation and Grant Disbursements
1996       1997       1998        1999       2000     2001
New CUs (No.)              10         16         20           24        25       25
CUs in Operation (No.)     10         26         46           70        95       120
Grants Disbursed (US$)   40,000     74,000      96,000     116,000    124,000  150,000
Grants Cumulative (US$)    40,000   114,000    210,000     326,000    450,000  600,000
From 1996 to 2001 grants' disbursements will be US$ 4,000 in year 1, of which US$ 2,000 will be for the insurance fund,
and US$ 1,000 in year 2. In 2001 the entire US$ 5,000 grant is assumed to be disbursed in one year.
Table 2. CU's Membership and Savings' Growth Rate
Years in Operation              0          1           2           3        4         5
Members (No.)                  60         90         120         150      180       210
Savings/member (US$)           25         50          75         100      140       180
Total savings (US$)         1,500       4,500      9,000       15,000   25,200   37,800
Incremental savings (US$)       0       3,000      4,500        6,000   10,200   12,600
Borrowings (US$)            1,500       6,000     18,000       24,000   40,800   50,400
Borrowing ratio-K               1          2           4           4        4         4
Table 3. Annual Demand for Borrowings from Project
Total
New CUs                    10         16          20          24        25       25          120
Year/borrowings (US$)
96'                      15,000       0           0           0          0        0              15,000
97'                      60,000     24,000        0           0          0        0              84,000
98'                     180,000     96,000      30,000        0          0        0             306,000
99'                     240,000    288,000     120,000      36,000       0        0             684,000
00'                     408,000    384,000     360,000     144,000    37,500      0           1,333,500
01'                     504,000    652,800    480,000      432,000    150,000   37,500        2,256,300
TOTAL Borrowings (US$)   1,407,000   1,444,800   990,000     612,000  187,500   37,500        4,678,800
Assumptions: To equate borrowing amount with fund availability, total borrowing
was reduced to US$ 4,515,000 in Tables 8 and 9.
Table 4. CUDC's Staff
Position/No.              1996       1997        1998        1999      2000     2001
Manager                    1           1          1           1          1        1
Specialists                3          3           4           5          6        8
Accountant                 1           1          1           1          1        1
Field OfficeSpec.          2          2           3           4          6        8
Support Staff              3          3           5           5          8        8
Total                      10         10          14          16        22        26



Annex C
Page 7 of 7
Table 5. CUDC's Staff Salaries and Administrative Expenses (US$)
(annual salaries in parenthesis represent the expected cost over the six year period)
1996       1997       1998        1999    2000      2001
Manager ( US$ 7,200)       4,000       7,200      7,200       7,200    7,200    7,200
Specialist (US$ 5,000)     4,000      15,000     20,000      25,000   30,000   40,000
Accountant (US$ 5,000)         0       5.000      5,000       5,000    5,000    5,000
Field Spec.(US$ 5,000)     5,000      10,000     15,000      20,000   30,000   40,000
Support Staff (US$ 4,000)      0      12,000     20,000      20,000   32,000   32,000
TA (US$ 180,000)               0      45,000     30,000          0        0        0
Administrative Expenses        0      20,800     24,800      24,800   24,800   24,800
Total                      13,000    115,000    122,000     102,000  129,000  149,000
Table 6. CUDC's Equipment List
Item                                          No. of       CostV   Total Cost
Units    Unit (USS)   (USS)
PC & Software                                    8         4,000     32,000
Laser Printer                                    2         2,000     4,000
Office Copier                                    1        10,000     10,000
UPS                                              2         1,000     2,000
Phone/Fax                                        1         3,000     3,000
Generator                                        1         1,000     1,000
4x4 Vehicle                                      1        15,000     15,000
Vehicle                                          1        10,000     10,000
Office Supplies                                 LS        10,000     10,000
Office Furniture                                LS        10,000     10,000
Office Refurbishing                             LS        20,000    20,000
Sub-total                                                           117,000
Spare parts & maintenace (20%/yr)             6 years     23,000    138,000
Total                                                               255,000
Table 7. CUDC's Total Operating Cost
Item                                USS
Staff & Administrative Expenses     630,000
Equipment                           255,000
Total                                885,000
Table 8. Credit Unions Total Cost
Item                     USS
Borrowings              4,515,000
Grants                   600,000
CUDC                     885,000
Total                   6,000,000
Table 9. Annual Disbursements (USS)
Item/Year                 0          1           2          3          4        5        TOTAL
Grants                    40,000     74,000      96,000     116,000  124,000  150,000        600,000
Borrowings                15,000     84,000     306,000     680,000 1,300,000 2,130,000    4,515,000
CUDC's Expenses           45,000    222,000     140,000     144,000  156,000  178,000        885,000
Total                     100,000    380,000    542,000     940,000 1,580,000 2,458,000    6,000,000






Annex D
Land Registration and Titling
A. Introduction
1.    Two rayons (administrative districts) in the vicinity of Tbilisi were chosen for the
Land Registration and Titling sub-component. These rayons (Gardabani and Mtskheta) were
selected primarily because of their proximity to Tbilisi, the existence in the area of a large
number of parcels belonging to city dwellers, and the work under the TACIS-ITAGA project
in Gardabani. Table 1 contains details of these two rayons.
2.    Under a European Union-TACIS project for Integrated Technical Assistance to
Georgian Agriculture (ITAGA), it was concluded that privatization of agricultural land in
Georgia was initiated without proper mapping, titling, registration or supervision. The Bank's
Agricultural Sector Review arrived at the same conclusions. TACIS subsequently decided to
assist the government to implement an 8,000 hectares trial project for land registration,
adjudication and cadastral surveys in one sakrebulo in Gardabani rayon. Objectives of this
project are to: (i) develop and test procedures for cadastral mapping, adjudication of land
disputes, land registration and land titling; (ii) provide a basis for developing taxation lists;
(iii) upgrade Georgia's survey technology; (iv) experiment with the use of private survey
companies (v) introduce a system of contract and quality management; and (vi) train staff in
the new survey technology and procedures.
3.    After a slow start due to budgetary constraints, the project made good progress and
was completed by the end of 1996. With the aid of survey equipment purchased under the
PPF (see table 2 for details), the project will test different approaches to land registration, train
local staff in the use of new survey equipment, prepare contract documents for the purchase of
survey equipment, develop contracting procedures and introduce quality management
procedures for both private contractors and government experts. Though brief in duration, this
pilot project will provide invaluable experience and will permit early and rapid implementation
of the Land Registration sub-component.
4.    Activities to be carried out under the Land Registration and Titling sub-component
would include: mapping; survey and adjudication; registration (at rayon level); and project
management. The total estimated cost of this sub-component is US$ 6.0 million (Table 3). A
brief description of each of these activities and cost estimates are presented below.
B. Mapping
5.    During the Soviet period, Georgia established a good network of stable Geodetic
survey marks with reliable coordinates. In the project area, the distance between existing
geodetic survey marks is between 10 and 15 kilometers. For parcel surveys, even when using
geodetic and kinematic GPS, as will be done under the project, the existing density of the
survey marks would have to be increased by placing and determining the co-ordinates of a
series of reference marks (Rm's). The expanded system of Rm's would be established at a
density of approximately 1.0 km intervals. To facilitate this work, it would be necessary to
obtain security clearance for use of the geodetic network.



Annex D
Page 2 of 16
6.    The land registration cadastral maps to be prepared by the project have the potential to
be used by all Georgian land related agencies and service providers as a base to which they
can add their own information. Similarly the grid chosen for control of the surveys and
cadastral maps should provide the spatial reference system for all civilian land related
information. For security reasons access to topographic maps and to the geodetic survey and
geographic grid on which they are based, is limited to approved persons. The most suitable
grid for cadastral and general civilian use is a rectangular grid in meters east and meters north
from an agreed origin. It is strongly recommended that a cadastral and civilian reference grid
be established in Georgia. The selection of this grid, in cooperation with other interested
agencies should be a high priority activity for the LRU. One suitable projection which could
be considered is a 6 degree wide Transverse Mercator rectangular grid. However the adoption
of one of the various options for a rectangular grid is more important than which grid is
adopted. The adoption of a new grid will require recomputation of the co-ordinates of control
points. One advantage of a new grid is that the conversion parameters between the existing,
(restricted) geographic grid and the new cadastral grid could remain confidential to the
Department of Geodesy and Cartography.
7.    Aerial photography carried out under the PPF covers an area of 2,800 sq.km, which is
somewhat larger than the area of the two rayons (Gardabani and Mtskheta) to be surveyed
under the project. The contact photos' scale for the aerial photography is 1:20,000, resulting in
a four times enlargement to obtain 1:5,000 rectified photos. To obtain a photo scale of
1:20,000 required a flying height of 10,000 feet with a 152 mm lens. Ten villages were
photographed at a contact scale of 1:8,000 to allow for a four times enlargement go give
1:2,000 rectified photographs. Taking advantage of the presence in Tbilisi of a plane engaged
in aerial photography for a project funded by the German government, it was possible to carry
out this work with funding from the PPF at a cost of US$ 60,000 (US$ 21.4/sq.km).
Allocating the cost over the 120,000 ha to be surveyed under the project, this works out to be
US$ 0.5/ha.
8.    Within those areas where the topography is suitable, the air photographs will be
rectified and enlarged to a scale of 1:5,000. It is estimated that with 600 rectified maps, the
entire area would be covered. The estimated cost of field control is US$ 40,000 while that of
rectifying the maps is US$ 81,000 (US$ 135 per map). To rectify the photos, the project will
recommission a Zeiss Rectimat C rectifier at a cost of US$ 13,000. The rectifier is owned and
operated by the Department of Geodesy and Cartography (DGC). The total cost of this part of
the program will be US$ 134,000 (600xUS$135+US$40,000+ US$ 13,000).
9.    Georgia has currently a mix of national topographic maps at different scales. All these
maps are very much out of date (most of them were prepared 10 to 20 years ago), and the
scales are too small to adequately show individual land parcels. However, the 1:10,000 maps
could be enlarged to a scale of 1:5,000. At this scale, they would provide a suitable cadastral
index base map for land title registration. Enlargement of the 400 maps required for the
project would be carried out by DGC at a cost of US$ 40,000 (US$ 100 per map).
10.   The enlarged maps would be superimposed on the rectified aerial photography maps
and updated. The estimated cost for 400 maps is US$ 60,000 (US$ 150 per map). Aerial
photography of the two project's rayons was funded under the PPF (US$ 60,000). To help
prepare the next phase of the land registration program, the project would also finance US$
400,000 (Table 4) of aerial photography covering other parts of Georgia. A breakdown of the



Annex D
Page 3 of 16
cost of the mapping portion of the program (US$ 681,000) is summarized in Table 4. The
cost of aerial photography and mapping would be equivalent to US$ 2.34 per hectare for the
120,000 hectares to be surveyed under the project.
C. Adiudication and Survey
l1.   Two approaches to land boundary survey are possible. One is a "General Boundary"
approach. This approach is suitable where boundaries between parcels of land are physically
occupied on the ground by features such as fences, walls, ditches or banks and where these
features are identifiable on an aerial photograph. In the two rayons of Gardabani and Mtskheta,
it is estimated that the 94,000 parcels comprising Summer Houses and Rural Families
Holdings in Villages, have physically marked boundaries most of which will be identifiable on
rectified aerial photographs. It was therefore decided to survey these parcels with "General
Boundaries". Using this approach, boundary corners will be identified on the ground and
marked on the aerial photographs. Land holders would be invited to join the surveyors and any
disputes regarding the location of the boundary will be settled in the field. The boundaries will
be digitized from the photographs to determine co-ordinates and areas, and a line-map of all
parcels will be produced. Owners who require more precise survey measurements of their
boundaries will be free to employ a surveyor to undertake that task. Survey results would
subsequently be maintained in a Land Registry Office. The advantages of this approach are
low costs, speed and simplicity.
12.   The second approach to land boundary survey to be utilized by the project is a
"Coordinate Based Field Survey" system. Under this system the dimensions and areas of
individual holdings would be measured and calculated and corner markers placed in the
ground. With the help of the Geodetic Survey Coordinates, surveyors would determine the
boundary coordinates of each parcel. An estimated 105,000 parcels in the two project rayons
comprise agriculture land holdings belonging to urban residents and rural families. The
boundary of these parcels are not physically marked and will need to be surveyed in the field.
Here too, disputes would be adjudicated in the field by the surveyors and the survey results
maintained in the Land registry. Both the "general boundary" and the "co-ordinate based"
system would have the capability to store the deeds and the parcels' layout in a computer. A
system of parcel numbering would be developed to ensure that each parcel is allocated a
number that is unique to it. The numbering system will be on a village basis. The estimated
cost for field survey and production of titles for general boundaries is US$ 8.6 per parcel
(Table 7a) and for co-ordinate based field survey US$ 20.5 per parcel (Table 7b).
13.   Land disputes normally occur between owners of adjacent parcels. While such disputes
are bound to occur in Georgia, a more frequent source of dispute is likely to find individuals
challenging the state, one village challenging another over land to be distributed, and disputes
between sakrebulos over boundaries. Such potential disputes arise from the manner in which
land was distributed. In many area where the land was divided, there are lists of persons
entitled to receive land, though in most cases there are no maps of the privatized parcels, and
only 25 percent of the owners have received an "ownership certificate". Recent experience on
the TACIS-ITAGA project shows that the existing lists and the certificates contain numerous
errors, and it is often impossible to link the certificates to land parcels. In other areas
individuals have received parcels but no records have been kept. Under these circumstances,
encroachment by individuals into state owned right of way, forest reserves and other public



Annex D
Page 4 of 16
lands is becoming a major issue. Without a demarcation of boundaries on a map, resolving
such disputes will be cumbersome. Adjudication and acceptance by adjoining landowners
(including the State) of the location of boundaries must be finalized before the survey of any
parcel can proceed. Initially adjudication will be undertaken by the surveyor in the field after
having given due notice to all landholders of the date and time when he will adjudicate a
particular dispute. An appointed village representative will be involved in the adjudication
process, representing the village interests to minimize encroachment into public lands. In
difficult cases where the surveyor determines that further consideration should be given or
additional evidence obtained, the surveyor will refer that particular boundary for adjudication
at a later date.
14.    Using maps prepared under the project, surveyors will survey the agricultural land and
the villages, adjudicate disputes and prepare a line map showing all land parcels, together with
a parcel number and a list showing the owner and any rights over each land parcel. The
holdings will subsequently be registered in a rayon level Land Registration Office. Currently,
all survey work in Georgia is being carried out by some 700 surveyors who are employed by
DGC. A few private survey firms were established in the past couple of years but these firms
are small and lack capital and equipment. On the basis of experience with the development of
private survey companies in Bulgaria, it is proposed to contract the survey work to private
companies to be established with project assistance. With the knowledge that survey contracts
would be awarded to private companies, enterprising surveyors from DGC are expected to
leave the department and set themselves up as private contractors. Before becoming eligible to
participate in the project, all private surveyors would have to undergo training and be certified
(see Section E for details).
15.   A total of 50 survey contracts would be awarded under the project. This total includes
24 "Village Contracts" and 26 "Rural Contracts." Each of these contracts will include about
4,000 parcels. Adjudication and general boundary survey under village contracts are estimated
to cost US$34,300 per contract (Table 7a), while adjudication and co-ordinate based field
survey under rural contracts are estimated to cost US$ 82,000 (Table 7b). These 50 contracts
will be let over a period of four years. The tendering will be based on local competitive
bidding procedures. Accredited contractors will be expected to post a bank guarantee equal to
5 percent of the contract's value. To assist with the purchase of required survey equipment,
contractors could apply to receive a mobilization advance of up to 25% of the contract's value,
with the cost being deducted prorata from each progress payment. COG will retain the title to
the equipment until it has been fully paid, at which time the title will be transferred to the
contractor.
16.   It is planned to let contracts for groups of about 4,000 parcels. This will require about
24 contracts for adjudication and general boundary survey (village contracts) at an estimated
cost of US$ 34,300 per contract (Table 7a), and about 26 contracts for adjudication and co-
ordinate based field survey (rural contracts), at an estimated cost of US$ 82,000 per contract
(Table 7b). Experience from the TACIS pilot project is that village contracts are being
tendered and completed are at a cost slightly lower than the costs indicated here. These 50
contracts will be let over a period of four years. The tendering will be based on local
competitive bidding procedures. Accredited contractors will be expected to post a bank
guarantee equal to 5 percent of the contract's value. To assist with the purchase of required
survey equipment, contractors could apply to receive a mobilization advance of up to 25% of
the contract's value, with the cost being deducted prorata from each progress payment. GOG



Annex D
Page 5 of 16
will retain the title to the equipment until it has been fully paid, at which time the title will be
transferred to the contractor.
17.   It is expected that most of the new private companies will consist of a single survey
team. A general boundary team will comprise a lead surveyor, a car and driver and a part-time
computer specialist. Including a 43% allowance for social and income tax, the monthly staff
cost of a survey team will be US$ 1,850. Details are presented in Table 5a. A co-ordinate
field survey team will comprise a lead surveyor, two assistant surveyors, a computer specialist,
and a driver with a car. Including a 43% allowance for social and income tax, the monthly
staff cost of such a survey team will be US$ 3,300. Details are presented in Table Sb. A fully
equipped co-ordinate field survey team may require surveying equipment and materials at an
estimated cost of US$ 28,000. Details are presented in Table 6. In most instances, however,
surveyors involved in coordinate based field survey are expected to use traditional plane table
survey equipment. While the use of such equipment is slower than the rate that can be
achieved with more up to date equipment, the accuracy of the survey is just as good and by
retaining extra surveyors, contractors could accelerate the process without increasing the cost.
18.   Aside from the survey equipment, each contractor would also require access to a
digitizer (unit cost US$ 8,000), a plotter (unit cost US$ 9,000) and a dyeline printer (unit cost
US$ 15,000). Two sets of each of these items would be purchased, owned and operated by
the LRU, with contractors engaged under the project having first claim on the use of this
equipment. Annual operating cost of this equipment (US$ 16,000) consists of operators,
materials and spare parts. Over the project's life, the cost of purchasing and operating this
equipment would be US$ 112,000 (US$ 32,000x2+US$ 16,000x3yrs). Dividing this cost over
50 contracts, the cost per survey contract would be US$ 2,240.
19.    Each contractor would be expected to adjudicate and survey 20 parcels per day. (The
village contract teams will be using a general boundary approach with the aid of rectified
aerial photographs and the rural contract teams would comprise three surveyors, making this
feasible.) With 20 working days per month, it will require 10 working months to complete a
4,000 parcel contract. With 199,000 parcels to be registered under the project, 50 survey
contracts would have to be awarded in order to register all the parcels in the project area.
Supervision of the contractors' work in the field would rest with a Land Registration Unit
(LRU) in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Industry (see paragraph 24 for details). During
the first year of the project only a few contracts will be awarded, with most of the LRU's
efforts being concentrated on training and developing adjudication procedures. Fifty survey
contracts, with an estimated total cost of US$ 2.95 million, would be awarded at the
following rate:
Rural Contracts     Village Contracts     Total Contracts
(4000 Parcels)       (3 Villages)
Year 1                        4                    3                    7
Year 2                        6                    7                    13
Year 3                        8                    7                    15
Year 4                        8                    7                    15
Total                        26                   24                   50



Annex D
Page 6 of 16
20.   A breakdown of the US$ 34,300 and US$ 82,000 estimated cost of a survey contract
consisting of 4,000 parcels (approximately 2,000 ha) is presented in Tables 7a and 7b. Survey
companies that will be the successful bidders on contracts awarded during year I and 2 of the
project, can be expected to win most of the contracts in year 3 and 4 as well. Whenever a
survey company fails to win a second contract, it is expected that the company will be able to
sell or lease any equipment purchased under the project to another survey company.
21.    Survey of parcels in the project area will be based on the recent aerial photos prepared
with funding from the Project Preparation Facility. These photos would be rectified and
enlarged to a scale of 1:5,000. Existing old maps of the project area would also be enlarged to
a scale of 1:5,000. The enlarged maps would be superimposed on the rectified air photo maps
and updated. With the aid of these maps, private surveying companies would survey the
holdings in the field. Adjudication of disputes would be carried out by the survey teams. Land
Registration Offices, one to be establish at each of the two project's rayons, would be
responsible for registering the holdings.
22.   Priority will be given in the project area to the survey and registration of privatized
land and property, and to communal land. Whenever disputes are encountered, they will be
adjudicated in the first instance by the survey teams in the field. This will require the close
cooperation of all land owners with the registration process. All contractors will receive
training in procedures for settling such disputes. Whenever the survey company should fail to
resolve a dispute, the disputed boundary would be demarcated on the map for later
adjudication. Under the existing practice in Georgia, if the surveyors should fail to resolve a
dispute, the next step would be to present it to officials at the sakrebulo (village
administration) level. If this too fails, the matter should be referred for decision to a
committee appointed jointly by the rayon registration office and the LRU. In every case of
boundary adjudication, an aggrieved landowner will have the right to appeal to the court. An
appeal system would be established under the proposed Land Registration Law.
23.   While the program in the two project districts will be conducted using systematic
survey techniques (i.e. surveying groups of adjacent parcels), sporadic surveying (i.e.
surveying individual parcels on the basis of demand) will be conducted on a trial basis in
other parts of the country. It will be conducted on demand, and the recipient of the title
would be expected to pay the full cost of the survey. These surveys will be organized through
the LRU.
24.   An information campaign will be conducted through the radio, television and local
newspapers in the two districts concerned to educate the general public. Staff of the LRU also
will be required to conduct village meetings in villages a few weeks ahead to the survey team
to educate project participants on the survey process. These activities will be funded out of the
general LRU budget.
D. Registration
25.   A Land Registration Office (LRO) would be established in each of the two project's
rayons. These offices would maintain the cadastral database for the area. The database would
include the geodetic reference marks, cadastral index maps, cadastral survey of individual land
holdings and the coordinates of each parcel. Each office would be equipped to handle the



Annex D
Page 7 of 16
registration of all parcels in that Rayon to be surveyed under the project. In order to test the
ability the LROs to handle information in a digitized form, the two project LROs will be
provided with digital mapping and computer graphics capability. The estimated cost of
equipment required to operate the land registration system at the two LROs, together with
spare parts for three years, amounts US$ 180,000. Details are presented in Table 8. Three
professional staff plus three support staff would be engaged at each of the Land Registration
Offices. Operating costs of these two offices over a three year period would be US$ 187,000.
For details see Table 9.
26.   Once the Government decides to establish a national Land Administration Authority,
the LROs will be transferred to the Authority together with their records.
E. Proiect Management
27.   Overall responsibility for the Land Registration and Titling sub-component of the
project would rest with a Land Registration Unit (LRU), to be established in the Department
of Land Resource and Land Cadastre (DLRLC) of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food
Industry (MAFI). Currently DLRLC is headed by a Deputy Minister who reports to the
Minister, and has a technical staff of 20 professionals. Staff of the LRU (for details see below)
would be selected from the various government's agencies and ministries whose activities have
a bearing on land registration. To monitor and supervise the work of the survey contractors,
the LRU would require a complement of survey equipment (Table 10). Staff of the LRU
would consist of 10 local experts plus support staff and the unit's total operating costs would
amount to US$ 404,000. Additional details are provided in Table 11.
28.   An estimated 32 staff-months of technical assistance would be required under the
project. Experts to be recruited include a project advisor, a land registration specialists, a
digital mapping expert and miscellaneous short term experts. In an effort to contain the costs
of this assistance, the project will engage individual experts to be recruited at large. Estimated
costs per expert are US$ 8,000 per month salary, plus US$ 4,500 per month allowances and
US$ 3,000 per assignment for transportation (see Table 12 for details). The Project Advisor
should be recruited under the project and should arrive in Thlisi for about six months
commencing in 1997.
29.   Training with the aid of local trainers who were trained under the TACIS-ITAGA
project, and technical experts to be retained under the ADP, would be provided to selected
surveyors from DGC and the private sector. Subjects to be covered under the training
program would include the use of survey equipment acquired under the project, adjudication
procedures, and business management. Surveyors who have successfully completed the training
program would be accredited jointly by the Director of DGC and DLRLC and become eligible
to participate in the project as private contractors.
F. Cost Recovery
30.   Under a recently introduced legislation, farmers in Georgia are expected to pay
annually a land tax on all agricultural land. Details of the land tax in the project area are
presented in Table 13. According to the provisions of the land tax, 50 percent of all collections



Annex D
Page 8 of 16
are earmarked for the GOG's budget, with 10 percent of this amount being earmarked for land
registration. The other 50 percent are earmarked for the rayons' budget. Assuming an average
tax rate for the entire country of US$ 18.0 per hectare of arable and perennial land, and US$
1.0 for pastures, annual collections would amount to US$ 20.1 million and US$ 1.9 million,
respectively. The share of the land registration in this total would be US$ 1.1 million per year.
Out of an annual tax collection of US$ 1.36 million in the project area, the amount earmarked
for land registration would be US$ 68,000 per year or US$ 340,000 over a five year period.
31.   Aside from the land tax, it is proposed that the draft Land Registration Law should
also provide for a one time fee to be collected from all land owners once their land has been
registered. Allocating all the project costs of US$ 5.6 million (this excludes the US$ 0.4
million for aerial photography of the next phase of the program) to the 199,000 parcels to be
surveyed, the registration cost per parcel would amount to about US$ 28 and the cost per land
owner (130,000) to about US$ 43. Expecting land owners in the project area to pay the entire
cost of this first phase program is clearly unreasonable. A more reasonable rate would be the
actual cost of the mapping, land surveys and the cost of the LROs (US$ 3.6 million). This
would be equivalent to US$ 18 per parcel and about US$ 28 per land owner. All holdings in
the area would be registered and receive title deeds. Expenses associated with the survey and
issuing of titles would be paid by the land owners through registration and increased land
taxes. To alleviate hardship, provision may be made for payment of registration fees to be
spread over a period of three years. A somewhat lower charge of say US$ 16 per ownership
would permit recovery of about 36% of the cost of the project, or 58% of the cost of
mapping, land surveys and the LROs. The exact amount of the land registration fees, and the
handling of payments made previously for land ownership titles, would be addressed by the
Land Registration Unit.
G. Benefits and Risks
32.    Benefits. Based on other countries' experience with similar land registration and
titling programs, the main benefits to be derived from the project include: improved tenure
security against unfair land acquisition; ability to sell land at fair market prices; increased
access to institutional credit arising out of the ability to use land as collateral; more intensive
use of farm inputs; acceleration in the rate of on-farm investments; more efficient land
markets and hence improved resource allocation; higher land productivity and beneficiary
income; and reduction in conflicts over land rights.
33.    The project would also provide the foundation for GOG's long-term land registration
and land management program. Over time such a program is expected to foster a more
efficient and equitable land market in Georgia in terms of: more efficient and transparent land
transactions; reduced risks in land-related investments; mobilization of financial resources
through the use of land as collateral; a more objective basis for land valuation and a
standardized land information system; and encouragement to longer term investments in land
improvements leading to more productive land use. The introduction of an efficient land
registration system also has a fiscal impact. Socio-economic studies conducted in various
counties show conclusively that the introduction of land registration results in substantial
increases in revenues collections. Thus land registration can become a cost effective way to
increase government's revenues without raising the unit rates of land taxes and transfer fees.



Annex D
Page 9 of 16
34.    Although it is impossible to calculate precise benefits for this program, some
approximation may be in order. If each beneficiary would pay US$ 28 for a title deed, even a
small increase in the land's value as a result of the program would be substantially higher than
the cost of registration. For those not interested in selling their land but in obtaining either a
mortgage or a loan, the ability to use the land as a collateral would reduce interest rates by a
significant amount. For a land owner taking out a two-year loan for US$ 1,000, a reduction of
1.4 percentage point in interest payment would cover the cost of land registration. As for
Government, the returns on a subsidy of US$ 3.3 million to land holders in the project area
(based on the lowest contemplated charge level of US$ 16 per ownership), would be recovered
in about eight years if land tax collections in the area would increase from say 50 percent of
the assessed value to 80 percent. Many countries who have instituted similar programs have
registered an even higher increase in tax collections.
35.    Risks. Implementation of the land registration and achievement of the expected
benefits could encounter the following risks: (a) the costs of land registration would be higher
than current estimates. Should unit costs nevertheless exceed the present estimates, land
owners may be requested to pay additional fees, or the number of holdings to be registered
would be reduced; (b) land owners would refuse to pay the land registration fee thereby
creating a cash shortage for expanding the program to other areas- with this being a real
possibility, it was decided to limit the project to a test program and to set the collection fees'
levels below the program's full cost; (c) failure to grant timely security clearance for mapping
and survey control network's coordinates for private companies; (d) private contractors would
encounter difficulties in managing the new equipment and technology- to safeguard against
this risk, the project is based on the use of traditional survey equipment as well as a training
and accreditation program in advance of contracts' award.
36.    Beneficiaries. An estimated 46,000 farm owners who live in the project area, 36,000
urban dwellers who received small parcels of land under the land reform program, and 48,000
part time rural residents would be the main project beneficiaries. With an average farm size of
0.9 hectare, most of the 46,000 farming families in the area are poor and unable to support
themselves solely from farming activities. According to data collected by the socio-economic
survey, only 10% of the farm families in the area report that most of their income is derived
from farning activities, and for 60% of the respondents, farming income accounts for less than
half of the household income. Improved security of tenure and stability to be brought about by
the project would support the introduction of small scale industry and expansion of the service
sector thereby providing the population with alternative employment opportunities. With the
introduction of a land registry, the project would also benefit women in the project area by
reducing the freedom of husbands to sell the land without the wives' consent.
37.     Socio-economic survey. A base-line survey of the project area was conducted under
the PPF in order to establish benchmark for monitoring the project's economic, social and
financial impact. The impact of land registration and titling on land use and agricultural
production will be determined on the basis of the following data: changes in land tenure and
land ownership; land purchases and land leasing; land prices; changes in average size of
holdings; land improvements; capital investments; use of agricultural inputs; land use intensity;
access to institutional credit; changes in cropping patterns; changes in marketing channels;
farm income; and off-farm employment opportunities. The survey will also examined the
attitudes of Georgians farmers in the area to land reform and land registration, and assessed
their views of future prospects in the agricultural sector. The base-line survey will be followed



Annex D
Page 10 of 16
by a similar socio-economic survey to be conducted once 75 % of the registration program has
been completed. Salient results of the survey are presented in Table 14.



Annex D - Tables                                                               Annex D
Page II of 16
Table 1. Existing Conditions in the Project Area
Indicator                            Rayon Gordabani  Rayon Mtskheta
No. of Sakrebulos                          20                10
No. of Villages                            40               30
No. of Summer Houses                     28,000            20,000
No. of Urban Residents Holdings          21,000            15,000
No. of Rural Families Holdings in Village  30,000          16,000
No. of Rural Families Parcels in Rural   45,000            24,000
Total No. of Holdings                    79,000            51,000
Total No. of Parcels*                    124,000           75,000
Agricultural Land (ha)                   78,100            29,000
Arable & Perennial                       46,800            18,800
of which in private hands           16,100            11,600
Pastures&Meadows                       31,300           10,200
Other Land (ha)                          72,400            51,300
of which in private hands            1,800            1,300
Total Area (ha)                          150,500           80,300
* Estimate based on one parcel per summer house and urban residents' holding, and
two and one half parcels per rural familys' holding
Table 2. Equipment Purchased under the PPF
Item                   No. of Units   Cost/Unit (US$)  Total Cost (US$)
GPS Geodetic Equipment                      2              15,000           30,000
GPS Software                                1              5,000            5,000
PC & Software                               1              5,000            5,000
UPS                                         I              1,000            1,000
A/O Plotter                                 1              9,000            9,000
Al /A2 Digitizer                            1              8,000            8,000
Dyeline/diazo Printer                       1              15,000           15,000
Software (operating system,
GIS, and survey data processing)         LS                -              15,000
Spare parts & Freight                      LS                -             22,000
Commission DGC Zeiss rectifier                                              8,500
Power supply for rectifier                                                  3,500
Photographic film for training                                              1,000
Total                                                                      123,000



Annex D
Page 12 of 16
Table 3. Summary Cost Estimates
(US$ '000)
Component                               Local cost    Foreign exchange    Total Cost
Aerial Photography (additional areas)       0               400              400
Mapping                                    193              88               281
Land Surveys                              2,014             941             2,955
LRU                                        331              588              919
Land Registration Offices                  167              200              367
Technical Assistance                       112              360              472
Contingencies (11%)                        300              306              606
Total (US$)                               3,117            2,883            6,000
Percent                                    52               48               100
Table 4. Cost Estimates for Mapping
Item                                   No. of Units   Cost/Unit (US$)  Total Cost (US$)
Aerial Photography (project area)*     2,800 sq.km      21.43/sq.km         60,000
Rectification                           600 maps            135             81,000
Field Control                           400 points          100            40,000
Enlargement                             400 maps            100             40,000
Preparation of New Maps                 400 maps            150             60,000
Sub-Total                                                                  281,000
Aerial Photography (outside project area)    17,000 sq.km  23.53/sq.km     400,000
Total                                                                      681,000
*Under the PPF the cost of positioning the aircraft (about US$ 50,000) was paid by GTZ. This
explains the difference in the unit price between the project area and the new areas.
Table 5a. Monthly Salaries for Contractors' General Boundaries Survey Team
Staff Position                         Salary (US$)
Chief Surveyor                             800
Computer Specialist 50%                    250
Driver and Car                             800
Total                                     1,850



Annex D
Table 5b. Monthly Salaries for Contractors' Co-ordinate                     Page 13 of 16
Based Field Survey Team
Staff Position                         Salary (US$)
Chief Surveyor                             800
Two Assistant Surveyors                   1,200
Computer Specialist                        500
Driver and Car                             800
Total                                     3,300
Table 6. Co-Ordinate Survey Team's Equipment
Equipment               Unit Price (US$)
Electronic Total Station                 15,000
Computer & Software                       4,000
CAD Program                               2,000
Laser Printer                             2,000
Materials                                 3,000
Control Markers                           2,000
Total                                    28,000
Table 7a. Cost Estimates for a 4,000 Parcels' General Boundaries
Survey Contract (Village Contracts)
Item                                    Local costs    Foreign exchange Total Cost (US$)
Survey Team ($1850 x 9)                  12,650            4,000            16,650
1 00% Contractors Profit & Overhead      14,650            2,000            16,650
Joint Equipment                            200              800             1,000
Total                                    27,500            6,800            34,300
Table 7b. Cost Estimates for a 4,000 Parcels' Co-ordinate
Based Field Survey Contract (Rural Contracts)
Item                                   Local costs    Foreign exchange  Total Cost (US$)
Survey Team ($3,300 x 10)                26,000            7,000            33,000
Equipment (28,000/3 x 1.25)                 0              11,700           11,700
110% Contractor's Profit & Overhead      26,300            10,000          36,300
Joint Equipment                            200              800             1,000
Total                                    52,500            29,500           82,000



Annex D
Page 14 of 16
Table 8. Equipment Requirements for Two Land Registration Offices
(one unit of each item/office)
Item                                 Unit Cost (US$)  Total Cost (US$)
PC & Software                            4,000            8,000
UPS                                       1,000           2,000
Laser Printer                            2,000            4,000
Office Copier                            10,000           20,000
Land Registration PC                     25,000           50,000
4x4 Vehicle                              15,000           30,000
Sub-total                                                114,000
Spare parts & maintenance             (20%/yrx3yrs)       66,000
Total                                                     180,000
Table 9. Three Years' Operating Expenses of Two LRO
Item                                    Unit Rate     Total Cost (US$)
Technical Experts (6)               US$ 400/m x 36m       86,400
Support Staff (6)                   US$ 300/m x 36m       64,800
Operating Expenses (2)              US$ 500/m x 36m       36,000
Total                                                    187,200



Table 10. LRU's Equipment List                                               Annex D
Page 15 of 16
Item                                  No. of Units    Cost/Unit (US$)  Total Cost (US$)
PC & software                              1              4,000           4,000
Laser Printer                              1              2,000           2,000
Office Copier                              I             10,000           10,000
UPS                                        I              1,000            1,000
Dyeline/diazo Printer                      1             15,000           15,000
Phone/Fax                                  1              3,000           4,000
4x4 Vehicle                               2              15,000          30,000
Plotter                                    I              9,000           9,000
Digitiser                                  2              8,000           16,000
Digital Map System                         1             44,000           44,000
Office Supplies                           LS             10,000           10,000
Office furniture & storage                LS             10,000           10,000
GPS Processing PC & Software               1              5,000            5,000
Misc. Survey Equipment                    LS             20,000           20,000
Office Refurbishing                       LS             20,000           20,000
Sub-total                                                                200,000
Spare parts & maintenance (20%/yr) *      LS          64,000 x 3yrs      192,000
Total                                                                    392,000
*This category includes spare parts for US $120,000 worth of
equipment purchased under the PPF(i.e.US $120,000*20%).
Table 11. LRU's Monthly and Total Operating Costs
Salaries
Staff                                 (US$/month)     No. of months   Total Cost (US$)
Project Manager                           600              48             28,800
Survey Contract Managers (3)             1,200             36             43,200
Technical Specialists (2)                 800              40             32,000
Land Registration Specialists (2)         800              40             32,000
Adjudication Expert                       400              37             14,800
Accountant                                400              48             19,200
Interpreters (2)                          600              48             28,800
Support Staff (8)                        2,400             48             115,200
Subtotal                                 7,200                           314,000
Administrative Expenses (local staff)    1,500             48             72,000
Administrative Expenses (TA experts)     1,000             18             18,000
Total                                    9,700                           404,000



Annex D
Page 16 of 16
Table 12. Technical Assistance
Unit Rate
Expertise                             US$/month       No. of Months   Total Cost (US$)
Project Advisor                          10,000            18             180,000
Land Registration                        8,000              4             32,000
Digital Mapping                          8,000             4              32,000
Miscellaneous Experts                    8,000              6             48,000
No. of air trips (12)                3,000                            36,000
Local allowances                     4,500             32             144,000
Total                                                                    472,000
Table 13. Land Tax Rates
Rayon Gardabani
Land Category                           Tax/ha            Area        Total Revenues
(US$)            (ha)            (US$)
Arable and Perennial                     21.4            46,800          1,001,520
Meadows                                   3.5             1,263           4,420
Pastures                                  1.1            30,065           33,070
Total                                                                    1,039,000
Rayon Mtskheta
Tax/ha            Area        Total Revenues
(US$)            (ha)            (US$)
Arable and Perennial                      16.6            8,804          312,150
Meadows                                   3.0             405              1,210
Pastures                                  1.0             9,761           9,760
Total                                                                    323,120



Annex E
Agricultural Services
1. ImRroving the Collection of Agricultural Statistics
Obiective.
A system of statistical data collection is an essential public good to be provided by
Government. Reliable up-to-date statistics are needed for proper decision making and performance
evaluation at all levels, starting with government ministries and down to the farm level.
Unfortunately, the Georgian agricultural statistical system is in disarray, mainly because of inadequate
funding, shortage of equipment, and overlapping responsibilities among several agencies involved in
data collection. The 1993 Statistical Abstract has not been published (only a German version exists),
the 1994 data are only estimates, and there are no plans to produce definitive data for 1994 or 1995.
There was virtually no survey work or field data collection in 1994, and none was conducted in 1995.
Another difficulty is that the traditional system of Soviet statistics is inadequate for covering the
activities of the new privatized agriculture. A new methodology must be introduced, similar to that
used in market economies. The objective of this exercise is to develoR and test a new system.
ScoRe of the work.
I.    Review the current state of statistical data collection in the agricultural sector, paying close
attention to the following factors (10% of funds):
Available data and quality of information provided by the current system;
Scope of, and methods used in, data collection;
Present institutional arrangements (Dept. of Statistics and other institutions) for data
collection;
Technology utilized in the process of data collection; and
Financial and human resources available to agencies engaged in data collection;
2.            Development of proposal and pilot of the new system of statistical data collection and
distribution, covering the following aspects (20% of funds):
Assessment of demand for statistical information under market conditions;
Institutional arrangements and appropriate methods, techniques and technology to
support an improved system of data collection and dissemination;
Staff and budget requirements for an improved statistical data system;
A phased implementation plan for introducing the new system; and



Annex E
Page 2 of 10
Proposals for a training program to upgrade local staff and an assessment of the need
for, and cost of, a technical assistance program to help implement the new system.
3.           Pilot Program (70% of funds)
On a pilot basis, conduct surveys and prepare and agricultural statistics yearbook, with
the accompanying detailed instructions on the methods used.
Resources    Foreign Consultants, 16 person-weeks
National Consultants, 40 person-weeks
Cost Estimate  US$ 100,000



Annex E
Page 3 of 10
11. ProRosal on an Improved Research and Extension System for Privatized Agriculture
Obiective
The breakdown of the system of state collectives and farms and the transfer of almost 50 % of
all arable and perennial crop land to private small scale farmers has increased the need for research,
extension and farm management advice that is appropriate for private small holders. The newly
created small scale private farms must be able to obtain timely and technically appropriate advice on a
wide range of farming issues. Most of the human resources required to build a modern agricultural
extension service already exist in Georgia in the form of large numbers of well trained and
experienced agricultural specialists. In addition, some of the traditional functions of an extension
service are performed by a number of formal and informal channels such as TV and radio, farmers'
clubs, agricultural associations, local government institutions, and schools. There is a need, however,
to rationalize the existing heavily-staffed government extension and research services and to
complement this with special training programs. Existing education programs for agriculture,
veterinary and farm management services, should be adjusted to accommodate the proposed changes.
There is also a need to introduce an incentive system that would encourage the private sector to
provide extension services for both smallholders and commercial producers. These incentives should
help alleviate the many risks involved in providing such services during the early development stages.
The principles and the operational features of this new extension system need to be developed and
possibly demonstrated with the aid of a pilot regional program.
Georgia was an integral part of the large Soviet agricultural research system, with research
activities being conducted by 27 major research institutes. Technical backup and guidance were
usually provided through Moscow, which also acted as a clearing house for new ideas and
technologies. Currently, the research institutes suffer from an acute shortage of funds and many of
them have resorted to using their facilities for commercial activities. Animal health services and
sanitary inspection previously provided by the MAFI have now ceased to function. In most instances,
the existing systems of education and research institutes meet international standards, but they are
undergoing an unprecedented period of budgetary stress that threatens their core activities. Their most
important asset, the human capital embodied in scientists and faculty, could be lost if the situation is
not corrected soon. The proposed study would address this problem by setting priorities and
identifying specific funding options for developing an program agricultural research of public
agricultural support services.
Scope of the work.
I.    Review of proposals prepared by various international and local organizations to create a new
agricultural research and extension service in Georgia (10% of funds).
2.     Prepare a comprehensive program for introducing a research and extension system that
supports the development of private sector farms in Georgia, with a particular emphasis on small
scale agriculture. Preparation of this program should take into account the following factors: (20% of
funds)
* .   Potential role for the private sector in providing the required extension
services, and services that must be provided by the Government;



Annex E
Page 4 of 10
Institutional arrangements and staffing requirements for the restructured research and
extension service;
Budgetary implications of the recommended research and extension system and
arrangements for cost recovery of services to be provided by the private sector;
Training requirements to upgrade and strengthen the research system and extension
services;
A timetable for introducing the recommended research and extension system and
training program; and
Evaluation of foreign technical assistance requirements.
3.     Outline a proposal for a pilot regional program to demonstrate the operation of the new
system and start implementation of the pilot (70% of funds).
Resources:    Foreign Consultants, 10 person-weeks
National Consultants, 40 person-weeks
Cost Estimates: US$ 75,000



Annex E
Page 5 of 10
III. Study on Improving the Qualitv of Agricultural Exports
Objective
Georgia was a major exporter of Agricultural Products to the USSR, but exports have dropped
to about 20% of their pre-independence levels. One of the reasons for this decline is increased
competition in the Russian market, and the low quality standards for Georgian processed agricultural
products. The proposed study would examine the options available to Georgia for promoting higher
quality standards for exported goods.
Scope of Work
Identify the major constraints to the expansion of Georgian agricultural exports and make
recommendations to address these problems, inter alia
Recommend improvements in the sanitary and phytosanitary standards for agricultural
products that meet international standards, thus expanding the potential markets for
Georgian agricultural products. Evaluate the benefits of Georgia joining international
trade organizations, such as World Trade Organization or International Seed Trade
Association.
Consider options for promoting Georgian products in international markets, through
international promotions, upgrading of trade offices, etc.
Examine the transport and loading facilities for exports and make recommendations for
improvement.
Resources    Foreign Consultants, 6 person-weeks
National Consultants, 10 person-weeks
Cost Estimates US$ 35,000



Annex E
Page 6 of 10
IV.   Socio-Economic Studies to Monitor the Effects of Land Reform
Obiective
Two studies, one conducted shortly before the mid-term review and the second after project
implementation completion, will be used to monitor the progress of the land reform program. The
study will review a broad spectrum of issues related to land reform.
Scope of the work
1.    Conduct a national survey to ascertain the status of the land reform program. Results from
this survey should, inter alia, provide information on:
progress in land privatization, leasing of state lands, and the development of land
rental and land mortgage markets, the proportion of land held by the private sector, the
size of land holdings, the proportion of leased to owned land;
information on land titling and dispute resolution;
the use of land as collateral;
the number of land sales and rentals on titled and untitled land;
the distributional effects of land reform, including the impact of the reform on women
and elderly;
farmers access to credit and inputs;
status of public services (health, education, roads); and
improvement in productivity.
2.    Prepare a report summarizing the findings of the survey.
Resources    Foreign Consultants, 12 person-weeks
National Consultants, 80 person-weeks
Cost Estimates US$ 100,000



Annex E
Page 7 of 10
V. Training Program for Small-Scale Rural Entrepreneurs
Obiective
With the privatization of agriculture in Georgia, a majority of ex-employees of state and
collective farm are participating in private sector business activity, including farming. While most of
these people are well educated and some have good technical agriculture training, they have had little
or no exposure to managing a private sector enterprise. The objective of this study is to develop and
test a program of business training, both formal and informal, for small scale rural entrepreneurs,
including farmers.
Scope of the work.
1.    Review and evaluate the quality and quantity of existing formal and informal training
programs in farm management.
2.     Evaluate the management training needs of small-scale rural entrepreneurs.
3.     Recommend a management program for small-scale business that would include:
Proposals for a training of trainers program;
Outline of short and long term training courses (including course curriculum,
appropriate text books and training materials, teaching methods, etc.); and
Organizational arrangements for delivering the training, together with staffing
requirements, budgets, sources of financing; number of persons to be trained and an
initial four year training program.
Resources:   International Consultant, 3 person-weeks
National Consultant, 10 person-weeks
Cost estimates: US$ 20,000



Annex E
Page 8 of 10
VI. Study to Develop a Depositors' Insurance Scheme for Rural Credit Unions
Objective
The objective of this study is to develop an insurance scheme that would insure a proportion
of depositors deposits in the event that a rural credit union is declared bankrupt.
Scope of Work
1.    Analyze the structure and experience of existing rural credit unions in Georgia and
make recommendations on whether a deposit insurance scheme is necessary. If so,
recommend the most appropriate program, taking into consideration
the moral hazard issues inherent in insurance schemes, and the impact that this
would have on the group lending discipline of Credit Unions;
the risk of political interference and moral hazard associated with having a
government backed insurance program;
the lack of a developed private sector insurance industry in Georgia;
the effect that an insurance program(or lack thereof) would have on depositor
confidence and therefore on the level of deposits collected by CUs;
2.    Recommend appropriate institutional structures, laws and prudential regulations for
managing the deposit insurance scheme.
3.    Conduct a detailed financial and actuarial analysis of the expected risk of default for
Rural Credit Unions and appropriate insurance fees needed to cover these risks, in order to
ensure that the insurance program is sustainable.
Resources:  International Consultant, 3 person-weeks
National Consultant, 10 person-weeks
Cost Estimate: US$ 20,000



Annex E
Page 9 of 10
VII Training Program for Agricultural Policy Analysis
Objective
To train a core team of economists in government and in academia, on the principles
of agricultural policy analysis in a market economy. This program would improve the
analysis capabilities in Georgia, thus reducing the need for expensive international technical
assistance in the area of policy analysis.
Scope of Work
1.    Organize a series of workshops in Georgia to train a core group of policy analysts in
the fundamentals of agricultural policy analysis for a market economy.
2.     As part of the training program and in coordination with the training workshops, a
series of studies will be prepared by the core group of policy analysts as a training exercise.
These studies will cover the areas of Pricing Policy, Budgetary Policy, Agricultural Credit
Policy, and Agricultural Taxation and Subsidization.
Resources    Foreign Consultants, 6 person-weeks
National Consultants, 10 person-weeks
Cost Estimates US$ 35,000



Annex E
Page 10 of 10
VI.   Preparation of an Irrigation and Soil Amelioration Program
Objective
The Irrigation and Soil Amelioration will present concrete proposals for investments.
Preparation of this program will build on the British Know-How Fund report prepared in
1996.
Scope of Work
1.    A program of priority investments in irrigation and soil amelioration will be
identified.
2.    Each component of the project will gave a complete presentation of
the rational for the component;
a detailed technical description; and
an economic justification.
Resources    Foreign Consultants, 8 person-weeks
National Consultants, 70 person-weeks
Cost Estimates US$ 75,000



Annex F
Credit to Enterprises Unit
Function of Credit to Enterprises Unit (CEU)
1.   The functions of the CEU are to:
(a)    Facilitate the signing of subsidiary loan agreements between MOF and PBs that will
onlend funds under the IDA credit line, monitor their on-going eligibility in close
consultation with the NBG Supervision Department, and propose remedies and impose
corrective measures and sanctions on PBs falling out of compliance with the terms and
conditions of the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
(b)    Develop and maintain the operating policies and procedures, manuals, database,
accounting systems and other information systems for managing and reporting on the
line of credit.
(c)    Facilitate and monitor the technical assistance (TA) and other technical support
provided to the PBs.
(d)   Implement and advise on disbursement and procurement procedures and
arrangements, ensuring compliance with IDA rules, and provide disbursement
and procurement reports to IDA based on agreed schedules.
(e)    Maintain the project accounting records, and arrange for regular audits of the project
accounts.
(f)    Monitor repayments of funds on-lent to PBs by MOF under the terms and conditions
of the subsidiary loan agreements, and ascertain that the repayments will be available
for further on-lending.
(g)    Confirm that disbursement requests comply with all eligibility requirements, the
required legal documents and signatories, and approve requests for disbursements
under the project.
(h)    Conduct post-facto reviews, and report findings to IDA according to specific
agreements, on the PBs' accounting of the sub-loans and the utilization of the credit
line.
(i)    Ensure that all other compliance requirements under the IDA line of credit are met.
(j)    Provide advisory services to agribusiness companies in the areas of business planning
and preparation of loan applications.



Annex F
Page 2 of 4
Organizational Structure
2.    The CEU will be established within the PCU and will report to the Project Manager. The
CEU will be staffed by a full time team of four local staff, composed of the Head of the CEU, the
Credit Line Manager, Accounting Manager and a support staff. In addition, the CEU will be
supported by one foreign advisor who will assist in accrediting PBs, monitoring their on-going
eligibility and setting up systems and procedures for managing the line of credit.
4.     The duties of the local staff and foreign advisor are as follows:
(a)    The Head of the CEU will have overall executive and administrative responsibility for
the efficient operations of the unit, providing leadership, direction, and guidance to all
the CEU's activities under the specified terms of reference.
(b)    The Credit Line Manager will be responsible for:
Ex-post sub-loan eligibility reviews and reporting;
Review of the standard sub-loan agreements of the banks with the enterprises;
Analysis and consolidation of the sub-loan portfolio performance reporting;
Referral to IDA on sub-loan applications requiring its approval for funding;
Referral to IDA for disbursement of the loans after proper verification of the
documents and the necessary approvals.
(c)    The Accounting Manager will be responsible for:
Setting up the project accounts, accounting system and related documentation
controls;
Authorizing disbursements to/from the 'special account' based on loan
payments;
Arranging for IAS audits on all sub-project accounts by an acceptable
independent audit firm;
Collecting repayments from subsidiary loans; and
Reporting, as required, on project disbursement and collection
performance under the credit line.
(d)    Enterprise Manager The enterprise manager will be responsible for:
Assisting agribusinesses prepare business plans;
Assisting agribusinesses prepare loan applications for the IDA line of Credit;
Advise agribusiness companies on available private sector consultants; and
Advise agribusiness companies on the availability of the Georgian Private
Investment Center.
(e)    Local Support Staff will include a secretary, and a driver.



Annex F
Page 3 of 4
(f)    The Foreign Advisor will be responsible for assisting the CEU with:
Accrediting the PBs and monitoring their on-going eligibility for participation
in the IDA project;
Coordinating with other donors and the Government on the technical
assistance services being provided to PBs (primarily EBRD and EU TASIS) to
improve the institutional development of the banks who are participating and
those who wish to meet and comply with the eligibility criteria for
participation under the CE; and
Compliance reviews of the CE, including compliance with IDA's
environmental requirements.
Oualifications of the Local Staff of the CEU
4.    In general, the qualifications of the local staff of the CEU are as follows:
(a)    The Head of the CEU needs to have worked in a bank or have a similar type of
organizational background, be well respected in the banking and enterprise
community, and must have extensive management, operations, and Government and
donor coordination experience.
(b)    The Credit Line Manager needs to be experienced and trained in the project finance
and credit structuring and evaluation methodologies. Prior experience in credit
administration department, or a strong training in this area, in a commercial bank
would be necessary.
(c)    The Accounting Manager needs to have an accounting degree and practical
background, experience, and training in bank accounting preferably under
international standards and applications. The Accounting manager will also work
closely with the PCU on procurement procedures and practices.
(d)    Enterprise Manager needs to be an expert in business planning and preparing loan
applications for banks. This person should preferably be an agribusiness specialist.
(e)    The local support staff which will be comprised of a Secretary and a Driver.
Cost of Operating the CEU
5.    The CEU needs to be fully operational for the duration of the credit line. However, after full
disbursement under the CE has been made, the CEU staff will have mainly monitoring activities.
The foreign advisor financed by IDA is expected to be in place for 10 person-months during the first
two years of the project. Extension of his contract will depend on project's needs and the availability
of funds.



Annex F
Page 4 of 4
6.    The administrative cost for operating the CEU to meet the needs of the IDA Credit is
estimated to be as follows:
CEU's Administrative Costs
Us $ 000
1. Local Staff Salaries (6 persons,
to include: Head of CEU, Credit Line
Manager, Accounting Manager,
Enterprise Specialist, Secretary
and a Driver)                                200
2. Banking Advisor ( 10 Months)                  160
3. Equipment (to include: computer
hardware and software, printer and office
equipment and supplies, and Car)             40
TOTAL                                        400
Reporting Requirement of the CEU
6.    The CEU will report semi-annually on the sub-loan portfolio performance and progress, and
the post-lending review for the compliance of the sub-loans with the terms and conditions as specified
in the Subsidiary Loan Agreements. Key reporting requirements include, compliance reviews on
environmental rules, disbursements and repayments of the CE, the on-going eligibility of the PBs,
status of the technical assistance provided and received by the PBs, and the post-facto reviews of the
utilization of the CE.



Annex G
Monitoring and Evaluation
Summary of Objectives and Key Performance Indicators
Overall Objective: Increase agricultural productivity in Georgia by supporting the development of private sector farming and agro-processing.
Project Objectives                     Inputs                         Outputs               Risks and Assumptions    Outcomes and Impacts
Facilitate the Development of an   Credit to Enterprises
Agricultural Credit System         TA to banks                       Loans to enterprises*       Macroeconomic instability        Increased productivity
Assistance with business plans   Good loan recovery rates                                     for agro-processors that
for enterprises*                 and sound banking practices   Interest rate for lending in Lari-   borrowed from the credit
Line of medium term credit to                                 based loans is unstable due to a    facility (measured as a
banks                                                        thin market in credit auctions   rate of return >1 5%)*
Credit to Small-Scale Farmers    * Fund Mobilization             Credit unions are not formed as * Increased number of
* TA to rural credit unions and     Loans to farmers             quickly as expected due to lack    small farmers with
CUDC                             Regulatory framework for     of demand                       access to formal credit
* Credit Unions formed with         Credit Unions                                                (measured as the number
operating grants*                                                                             of CU members)*
Pilot the Development of a Land   * TA to land registries            Establishment of 2 land     Demand for titles lower than     Increased number of land
Registration System to Increase    * Contracts for land survey*      registries in first year of  expected                        transactions on titled
Liquidity of Land Markets                                            project                                                      land*
* Titles issued*               Govemment collection of
* Land registration fees       registration fees is lower than  Increased use of titled
collected*                  expected                        land as collateral
Increase Agricultural Productivity  Studies and project proposals   Proposal for an Agricultural                                  A strategy and
through Addressing Critical        commissioned                      Development Strategy and                                     investment program for
Constraints in Agricultural                                         Investment Program based                                     the increasing
Services                                                            on studies or project                                         productivity in the next
proposals completed*                                         phase of agricultural
development in Georgia
* Numerical targets are presented in the attached table of Monitoring and Evaluation Indicators.



Annex G
Page 2 of 3
Project Performance Indicators
Indicator                                        Calendar Year
1997     1998       1999      2000        2001       2002
Credit to Enterprises
Development Indicator
Increased Productivity Measured as Average
Rate of Return for Enterprise Loans for               >15       >15        >15         >15
completed projects (percent)
Output Indicator
Sub-loans Disbursed to Enterprises (US$      0.5      2.0        2.5       3.5
million/year)
Input Indicator
Business Plans Submitted to PCB's            30        30        30
Credit Unions
Development Indicator
Rural Population with Access to Credit
(Credit Union Membership)                   2000     3,900      6,700     10,300      14,600
Output Indicator
Total Deposits Held by CUs (cumulative)    69,000   192,000   420,000    817,000    1,450,000
Total Funds Lent by CUs                    169,000   600,000   1,500,000  3,200,000   6,000,000
Input Indicator                              26        46        70         95         120
Number of CUs In Operation                                          _



Annex G
Page 3 of 3
Land Registration
Development Indicator
Ratio of land transactions, including rentals and                                                    >1
sales, on titled vs untitled land
Output Indicators
Land Registration Fees Collected ($ ,000)              140        280        700         1120       1400
Number of Holdings Registered (,000)                    5          10         25          40         50
Number of Contracts Awarded                    7        13         15         15
Agricultural Services
Investment Program Design Completed                                           I
Note: All figures indicate the level to be achieved by the end of the calendar year.






Annex H                            Page I of I
Disbursement Schedule
IDA         Quarter    Disbursement by     Cumulative       Cumulative
Fiscal Year     Ending         Quarter      Disbursement by  Disbursement (%
(US$ mln)      end of Quarter      of total)
(US$ mln)
FY 97'        Jun-97              0.3              0.3              2.0
FY98          Sep-97              0.2              0.5              3.3
Dec-97             0.2               0.7              4.7
Mar-98             0.5               1.2              8.0
Jun-98             0.5               1.7             11.3
FY99          Sep-98              0.3              2.0              13.3
Dec-98             0.3               2.3             15.3
Mar-99             1.0               3.3             22.0
Jun-99             0.7               4.0             26.7
FY2000        Sep-99              0.9              4.9              32.6
Dec-99             1.4               6.3             42.0
Mar-2000           1.7               8.0             47.6
Jun-2000           1.5               9.5             63.3
FY2001        Sep-2000            1.0              10.5             70.0
Dec-2000           1.0              11.5             76.6
Mar-2001           1.0              12.5             82.0
Jun-2001           1.0              13.5             90.0
FY2001        Sep-2001            0.8              14.3             95.3
Dec-2001           0.7              15.0             100.0
Mar-2002           0.0              15.0             100.0
1/Includes Refmancing of PPF.






0
r                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
4.> 
I
Q ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .......  ........  .... ......           .. .........  ....................... .......... .,  .......  ,   LLE 
t                                                               _    ...   _    t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. . . .. . . . . .
o  1l,sl5l''l",ll!',t,i   ,,1',',,c
w                -~~~~~
~~~~~~~                                                                                    I~~~~~~~~~~wl
-  .~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  .~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~        f Iri
~~~~~~9         



.. . ... ... . . .    .. .. .. .. .. .... .. ...
....I ..   ...   .....................   ..
.. ... . .. .... ... ...
...' ....      ........... ............
... . .. . .. .... .. .. ... .. ... . .
11'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~...............        .........
*II~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............                                           .....



Annex J
Page 1 of 1
Procurement Plan: Republic of Georgia - Agricultural Development Project
(expressed in US$OOO)
Description             Type    No. of   Estimated  Procurement  Document Invitation Contract  Contract
contracts    cost     method    preparation  to bid   signing  completion
Equipment
Equipment for LRU                    G             3       435    ICB1IS         Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Apr-97
Equipment for LROs                   G             3       200       IS          Dec-96   Jan-97   Jan-97    Feb-98
Equipment for CUDC                   G             4       255       IS          Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Apr-97
Equipment for CE                     G             1        40       IS          Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Apr-97
Sub-total                                                  930
Technical Assistance
Consultancies/TA CE                 CF/Cl          1       160      IC           Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Dec-01
Consultancies/TA LRU                CF/Cl          6       524    SSF/IC         Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Dec-01
Studies                             CF/Cl          7       500    SSF/IC         Sep-96   Dec-96   Feb-97    Dec-01
Sub-total                                                 1184
Technical Services
Boundary Surveys                     TS           18      1060      NCB          Jan-97   Mar-97   May-97    Dec-01
Boundary Surveys                     TS           32      2220      NBF          Jan-97   Mar-97   May-97    Dec-01
Mapping                              TS            9       245      NCB          Jan-97   Mar-97   May-97    Dec-01
Aerial Photography                   TS            1       444      ICB          Sep-99   Dec-99   Apr-01    Dec-01
Sub-total                                                 3969
Credit Line
Credit to Enterprises/CU Loans       G                   12815     NS/IS         Jan-97   Mar-97    -         Dec-01
Credit to Enterprises/CU Grants      G                    5400      NBF          Jan-97   Mar-97    -         Dec-01
Sub-total                                                18215
Project Operating Cost
Sub-total                                          -      1546
PPF
PPF - Surveing equipment for LRU     G             3       123       IS          Apr-96    Jul-96    Jul-96    Jul-96
PPF - Office equipment for PCU       G             1        40       IS          May-96   Jun-96    Jul-96    Jul-96
PPF - Aerial Photography             TS            1        60       IS          Jun-96   Jun-96    Jul-96    Dec-96
PPF - Consultancies PCU              Cl            6        60      SSI          Sep-96   Oct-96   Nov-96    Dec-96
PPF - Project Implementation        CF/Cl          4       220    SLF/IC         Sep-96   Oct-96   Nov-96    Dec-96
Sub-total                                                  503
TOTAL                                                    26347
Note:
Type: G -goods; CF - consulting firms; Cl - individual consultants; TS- technical services
Procurement Method: ICB - intemational competitive bidding; NCB - national competitive bidding; IS - intemational shopping;
SSF - sole-sourcing of consulting firms; IC - individual consultants






Annex K                                     Page 1 of 1
Project Supervision Plan
Approximate                  Activity                    Expected Skill Requirement       Staff
Dates                                                                                Weeks
FY-97            Project start up                      Task Manager (Economist)              6
4/97                                                   Credit Specialist
FY-98            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              8
8/97             Review overall progress and the       Credit Specialist
implementation of procurement and    Land Registration Specialist
accounting procedures                Procurement Specialist
12/97            Supervision                          Task Manager (Economist)              4
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
04/98            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
FY-99            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
08198            Review overall progress               Credit Specialist
12/98            Supervision                          Task Manager (Economist)              6
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
Land Registration Specialist
06/99            Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist),            12
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist, Land Registration
Mid Term Review                      Specialist,
Ag. Services Specialist
FY-2000          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
12/99            Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
06/2000          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              6
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
Land Registration Specialist
FY-2001          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              4
12/2000          Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
06/2001          Supervision                           Task Manager (Economist)              6
Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
Land Registration Specialist
FY-2002          Supervision                          Task Manager (Economist)               4
11/2001          Review overall progress              Credit Specialist
05/2002          Supervision and Implementation        Task Manager (Economist),            12
Completion Report                    Credit Specialist, Land Reform
Specialist, Ag. Services Specialist






Annex L                               Page 1 of 1
Documents in File
The following documents are available in project file.
1.    Georgia, Agriculture Sector Adjustment Loan, Identification Report, Two Volumes, June 30,
1995
2.    Project Preparation Report, Land Reform Component (April-August 1995), by J. G. Price
3.    World bank: Georgia - Agricultural Development and Privatization Project, Privatization and
Restructuring Assignment, Final Report, Ben Shahar Associates, September 20, 1995
4.    Recommendations for Strengthening Agricultural Research, Extension, and Support Services
in Georgia, Submitted to the World Bank by Duane Acker, September 30, 1995
5.    Agriculture Privatization and Development Project, Credit Component Preparation,
Consultancy Report, By J. Peter Marion, October 1995
6.    Private/SME Sector and Project Evaluation, Report by Coopers and Lybrand
Consultants for European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, May 1996.






MAP SECTION






IBRD 28234
40-                                         41-                                         42                                         4j.                                         44                                         i'2                                          40
GEORGIA
AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT
R t  RUSSIAN          FEDERATION                                                                                                                     AND REGtSTRATION PLOT DISTRICS
<> BUw WILT-UP URB AN AREA
r     SELECTED CITIES
(D    AUTONOMPOUS REPUIBUC (ASSR) CENTERS
XJ-,  WC f 0 X . x, x, * NAIONALCARlTAL~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~NTNA CPIA
N.~~~~~~~~N..N...'1  '. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS
GLACIER AREAS
'3'                                                                                                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS 42
To ~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~AUTONORMOUS REPUBLIC fASURI BOUNDARIES
Sec U~ R K E                                                                                                                                           T />Si;t,t/  ),_g   a  z   Gr:p.rn, , gment:nth  75KILOMET   '  A R M  E N  I A ,  U.IA
N   _<9   or an7 endorsement or           J                                 {t                                                                                        J               A Z E R B A I J A N~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~F  DE RA    I0 
e a~~~~~ 
TV ARE V             j               L                     z         :dre                                              I~IIo,ooye  IS S   U   VRLUEES                                                        R    E I
_     * JSYRIAN ARA5 REP  RU          SLAMIC REP OP IRAN                                  42                                            4'\                                           4                                              5{'4
UKRAINE  KAZAKSTAN ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~UGS   A









IMAGING
Report No.:          15938   GE
Type:      SAR



