                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 33718

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                 (PPFI-P9620 IDA-29410 COFN-03870)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 10.4 MILLION

                                                    TO

                                                GEORGIA

                                                FOR AN

                             AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                            December 7, 2005




Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Unit
South Caucasus Country Unit
Europe and Central Asia Region



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                              CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                       (Exchange Rate Effective September 2005)

                               Currency Unit = GEL (Georgia Lari)
                                       GEL 1 = US$ 0.56
                                       US$ 1 = GEL 1.8

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                January 1-   December 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

ARET    Agriculture Research, Extension and Training Project
BTI     Bureau of Technical Information
CEU     Credit to Enterprises Unit
CU      Credit Union
CUDC    Credit Union Development Center
ECA     Europe and Central Asia
IDCDP   Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project
IFAD    International Fund for Agriculture Development
ISNAR   International Service for National Agriculture Research
MOA     Ministry of Agriculture
MOJ     Ministry of Justice
MOF     Ministry of Finance
NAPR    National Agency for Public Registry
NBG     National Bank of Georgia
PCC     Project Coordination Center
PIU     Project Implementation Unit
PPF     Project Pre-financing facility
RDP     Rural Development Project
RS      Risk Assessment Study
SAR     Staff Appraisal Report
SDLM    State Department for Land Management



                              Vice President:    Shigeo Katsu
                           Country Director      D-M Dowsett-Coirolo
                             Sector Manager      Juergen Voegele
                         Task Team Leader:       Rapeepun Jaisaard

                                          GEORGIA
                     AGRICULTURAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 11
8. Lessons Learned                                                               13
9. Partner Comments                                                              14
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23

Project ID: P008415                                                  Project Name: AGRIC DEVT
Team Leader: Rapeepun Jaisaard                                       TL Unit: ECSSD
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: January 9, 2006


1. Project Data
                   Name: AGRIC DEVT                                               L/C/TF Number: PPFI-P9620; IDA-29410;
                                                                                                     COFN-03870
   Country/Department: GEORGIA                                                            Region: Europe and Central Asia
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (40%); Central government administration (25%);
                            Agro-industry (18%); Banking (15%); General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (2%)
                  Theme: Other rural development (P); Rural markets (P); Small and medium enterprise support (S);
                            Personal and property rights (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 04/13/1995                                     Effective: 06/30/1997                08/21/1997
     Appraisal: 07/12/1996                                         MTR: 06/01/1999                  11/20/2000
      Approval: 03/25/1997                                      Closing: 04/30/2002                 06/30/2005



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVT. OF GEORGIA/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE (MOA)
                      Other Partners:      The Project Coordination Center (PCC)

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Shigeo Katsu                                   Johannes F. Linn
Country Director:               D-M Dowsett-Coirolo                            Basil G. Kavalsky
Sector Manager:                 Juergen Voegele                                Geoffrey Fox
Team Leader at ICR:             Rapeepun Jaisaard                              Iain G. Shuker
ICR Primary Author:             Rapeepun Jaisaard; Garry Smith


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The overall objectives of the Agricultural Development Project (ADP) were to increase agricultural productivity
in Georgia by supporting the development of private sector farming and agro-processing. The original goals of the
project were to develop an agricultural credit system; facilitate increased liquidity and land markets; and to
identify, through training, a series of studies and pilot operations, an agricultural development and investment
program to address major constraints to increasing agricultural productivity.

3.2 Revised Objective:
The Project objective was revised in March 2002 following the mid-term review, to read as follows: "to remove
key constraints to increasing incomes in rural areas of Georgia by increasing the access of agribusiness firms to
investment credit; increasing the access of farmers to rural credit; increasing liquidity in land markets; and
identifying, through a series of studies and pilot operations, an agricultural development and investment program
to address other major constraints to increased agricultural productivity".

The revised objective wase to remove key constraints to increasing incomes in rural areas of Georgia by increasing
the access of agribusiness firms to investment credit; increasing the access of farmers to rural credit; increasing
liquidity in land markets; and identifying, through a series of studies and pilot operations, an agricultural
development and investment program to address other major constraints to increased agricultural productivity.

The revised objective was more specific for measurable outcomes. The objectives were consistent with the Bank's
1995 Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), which emphasized reform programs aimed at promoting private sector
development and growth. It also identified the agriculture sector as one of the potential primary sources of expected
growth during the early transition stage. Realizing this potential contribution to growth, however, was seen as
being contingent on the completion of farm restructuring and land reform, the existence of competitive domestic
markets, the development of financial systems to meet rural credit needs and the improvement of the institutional
framework to make it consistent with the needs of market-based agriculture. Specific policy recommendations were
incorporated in the Structural Adjustment Program. The project has reinforced these policy changes.

The development objectives were appropriate in that they addressed the expressed needs of agro-enterprises,
private farmers and the government. They were helpful to the government in doing policy analysis and designing
and carrying out public services. While they did not explicitly address poverty issues, they did so implicitly in that
achieving them would contribute to economic growth and improved living standards in rural areas and among
small farmers, the largest poverty group.

3.3 Original Components:
The project's components were designed taking into account a number of projects and analyses in the ECA Region.
The most important ones were the 1994 Agricultural Reform Implementation Support Project in Russia, the 1993
Albania Rural Poverty Alleviation Pilot Project and the 1995 Georgia Agriculture and Food Sector Review. The
latter report recommended intensified financial assistance to the agriculture sector for investment activities that
would support the policy measures instituted by Government to revive production and exports. This
recommendation led to the preparation of detailed studies by consultants financed by the Government of Japan
PHRD fund. The International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) was interested in the project's objectives
and provided financial assistance to the total of US$6.5 million to the project. The project had five components as
follows:

i.        Credit to Enterprises: (US$12.00 million). This component aimed at providing private enterprises
engaged in economic activities in rural areas, most of which are agro-processing enterprises, with loans at market
prices through private commercial banks for working capital and investments and with direct technical assistance
in preparing business plans and loan applications. It financed the Georgia Investment Promotion Center.

ii.       Credit Unions: (US$ 8.00 million). This component planned to develop a network of 120 rural credit
unions, subsequently reduced to 55, that could mobilize savings and provide loans and financial services for small



                                                          - 2 -

farmers, micro-enterprises and the general rural population. It also planned to support development of the legal
and regulatory framework for the establishment of CUs and the Credit Union Development Center (CUDC), which
would provide supervision, training and monitoring of credit union operations. The total cost was US$7.5 in the
appraisal report. IFAD added US$0.5 million during project negotiations.

iii.      Land Registration: (US$ 6.00 million). Following the introduction of private land ownership and the need
for land market development, the project planned to support the land registration program through the
establishment of an institutional framework and the development of implementation capacity to register and issue
land titles to individuals and firms. As an initial activity, it was planned to develop a land registration program in
Gardabani and Mtskheta rayons. Experience under these two rayons was planned to be used in the subsequent
expansion of land registration in other parts of the country.

iv.       Agricultural Services: (US$ 0.50 million). The project planned to assist the government in formulating
the next phase of its development strategy and investment program for the agriculture sector through a series of
studies to identify priority agricultural services as well as to define the roles of private and public sector delivery.
These were in the areas of exports, agricultural statistics, agricultural extension and research, farm management
and irrigation and soil amelioration. The project planned to support technical assistance, training of staff and pilot
field programs.

v.        Project Coordination Unit: (US$0.3 million). The project supported office establishment, equipment,
operating costs and training of staff in the Project Coordination Unit (PCU).

3.4 Revised Components:
At the mid-term review in November 2000, two project components were redesigned and the project closing date
was extended from April 30, 2002 to April 30, 2004. The revised costs for each component were as follows:

Land Registration Component: (Revised cost: US$6,760,000). This component was designed to establish land
registry offices and carry out systematic surveying of land parcels in two pilot regions in Georgia, with expectation
that these would be expanded to other parts of the country under a follow-up IDA-financed project. Due to the
success of the pilot programs and the uncertainty of any new project at mid-term review, the government requested
that nine additional regional registry offices be established and that additional titling be conducted in four
mountainous areas. IDA allocated SDR 560,000 from the Credit Union component for this purpose.

Credit Union Development Component: (Revised cost: US$ 6,585,000). This component was redesigned and
down-sized during the mid-term review in order to bring the project in line with the very difficult lending
environment that had emerged in Georgia during this period. The changes resulted in a reduction of the expected
number of credit unions supported under the project from 120 to 55. The allocation of funds for loans to CUs
financed by IDA was decreased from SDR 3.1 million to SDR 1.9 million and SDR 460,000 (US$ 655,000) was
allocated to support PIU operating cost after project extension.

Credit to Enterprises Component: (Cost US$ 12,000,000, no change). This component was implemented very
rapidly. By October 2000, 47 sub-loans were approved by eight participating banks. The fifteen sub-loans due were
repaid by the participating banks on schedule. By the end of October 2000, the total amount of principal payments
received and placed in the revolving fund was US$2.8 million, which was subsequently subsumed into the
government budget in 2003. This component's good performance negated any need for mid-term revision,
however, the performance indicators were revised from a rate of return of 15 percent for enterprise loans to 85
percent cumulative recovery of subsidiary loans, an 80 percent sub-loan recovery rate and 80 percent sub-project
success against the investment business plan.

Agricultural Services Component: (Cost US$500,000). By the mid-term review, two studies were completed. In
one for irrigation development, FAO assisted in identifying two pilot programs and prepared the irrigation
rehabilitation project. The other study, in which the International Service for National Agriculture Research
(ISNAR) was involved, looked at the restructuring of Georgia's agricultural research, extension and training




                                                           - 3 -

system. ISNAR also assisted in training staff and preparing a pilot research institution restructuring. The two
studies were carried out satisfactorily and were used as the basis for the development of two new Bank projects.
There was no revision of this component during the mid-term review.

Project Coordination Unit. (Revised cost US$ 965,000). The PCU required additional operating funds to continue
operations during the two-year project extension. In 2001, a Project Coordination Center was established as a legal
entity with responsibility for all Bank financed projects within the MOA and the ADP PCU was downsized to a
new Project Implementation Unit (PIU). The ADP covered the costs of the PIU and contributed to PCC expenses.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The quality at entry is rated as satisfactory. The project responded to the CAS and to the borrower's agricultural
development strategy, which emphasized the removal of constraints to agro-enterprises and private farmers and the
development of rural technical and financial infrastructure for production, processing and marketing aiming at
both domestic and export markets. The project also drew on the available experience of agriculture services in the
region.

The project preparation was carried out in close collaboration with the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD), which assisted in the design and co-financed the credit union and land registry components.


The project's design was flexible and was changed according to the turbulent situation in newly independent
Georgia. Developed during 1995, it was the country's first agricultural development project. Following
independence, the country experienced three years of sharp economic decline, hyperinflation and political
instability. The project was designed to incorporate learning experience in this context and provide the basis for
developing new projects for the agriculture sector.

The project was extended three times. The first extension was granted after the mid-term review and extended the
project from April 30, 2002 to April 30, 2004. The reasons for this extension were to allow time for the project to
finance further institutional reforms in the title registry, make it more financially sustainable, allow additional time
for the passage and implementation of credit union legislation and assist the development of the credit union
supervisory department of the National Bank of Georgia. The second extension was granted on December 23, 2003
and extended the project from April 2004 to December 2004. Its purpose was to allow more time for the new
project management team to complete the development of the 11 regional land registration centers and implement
the strategy to restructure and strengthen the project-supported credit unions. The last extension was granted on
August 27, 2004 and extended the project from December 2004 to June 2005, to establish a firm foundation for the
new National Agency for Public Registry (NAPR), which was to replace the dissolved State Department for Land
Management and to ensure that the program for the strengthening of the credit unions was fully carried out. IFAD
participated in the review of requests for project extension and granted extension of its financing accordingly.
Continued support for credit unions and land registration is included under the Rural Development Project (RDP)
and this last extension has facilitated a smooth transition to the new project.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The rating of achievement of project objectives is satisfactory. The Credit to Enterprises Component met its
development objective by successfully increasing credit flows to rural areas by developing a rural commercial credit
system using commercial banks. The loans made under the component constituted a significant increase in
medium-term commercial bank lending to agriculture and agro-processing sectors, which essentially did not exist
at the start of the project. Loans were made to 48 agribusiness enterprises serving rural areas for a total amount
US$8.56 million. Most have been successful in providing rural employment, increasing agricultural output for
export and achieving a higher than projected rate of return.

The Credit Union Development Component could not meet the originally established targets and implementation
of the component until mid-term was unsatisfactory. As a result this component was redesigned and downsized at



                                                           - 4 -

mid-term and the component's development objective to improve access of small, private farmers to rural finance
through a rural credit union system were finally met. At mid-term, funding and targets were roughly halfed.
Under the project, mechanisms for monitoring and enforcing prudential standards and providing loan capital to
local credit unions were developed, a credit union law was passed, and a supervision department for non-bank
depository institutions was established in the National Bank of Georgia (NBG). The on-lending functions of this
component can be considered successful and have met the revised development objective of establishing 58 credit
unions, more than the 55-CU target established at the mid-term review. About 35 of these CUs are likely to survive
as independent entities under the RDP, with some of the remainder being absorbed into larger CUs. The impacts
of credit unions on rural areas have been significant with thousands of the rural poor having gained access to retail
financial services for the first time since independence, yet remained below the initially set targets.

The Land Registration Component has achieved its objective in its ability to issue land titles to individuals and
firms. A registration system has been installed in two pilot districts in the Gardabani and Mtskheta regional
offices, and most of the registration in these areas has been effectively completed. As a result, there has been a
noticeable increase in land transactions in these districts. The issuance of certificates for land titles has been very
rapid in the two regional offices, with the number issued exceeding the number targeted under the project, total
88,955 land registration and 28,324 mortgage registrations. In 2004, the Law on State Registry was passed and
established a National Agency for Public Registry (NAPR) in the Ministry of Justice (MOJ) to provide registry
services for immovable and moveable property as well as a real cadastre. The NAPR, nationally, collected GEL 4.2
million in registration fees and registered 269,857 immovable transactions, registered 150,516 land titles and
conducted 72,527 other registration transactions. The agency is well on the way to achieving self-financing.

The Agricultural Services Component met its development objective in assisting the government to formulate the
next phase of its development strategy and investment program for the agriculture sector. Two studies led to the
preparation and implementation of two Bank-financed projects, the Irrigation and Drainage Community
Development Project (IDCDP) and the Agricultural Research, Extension and Training Project (ARET). The
IDCDP aims to reduce water supply constraints in Georgia by the rehabilitation of irrigation and drainage facilities
serving 110,000 ha. The project also supports the development and strengthening of the Amelioration Associations
to enable the maintenance of the irrigation system after rehabilitation. The ARET project finances reform of the
agriculture research system, has developed a competitive grants scheme and supports environmental pollution
control programs. The two projects are under implementation.

As a result of the Risk Assessment Study (RA) the MOA accounts were audited, all outstanding legal cases at the
Ministry were processed and the Ministry was cleared of its financial obligations. As a result of the activities
carried out in connection with the fourth study, MOA staff were trained in International Public Sector Accounting
Standards and in the ORIS accounting software.



4.2 Outputs by components:
Credit to Enterprises: Under this component, 48 loans were made to agribusiness enterprises serving rural areas
for a total amount $8.56 million through 8 participating commercial banks. The loans were used for investment
and working capital in six fruits and vegetable canneries, ten wineries, four wheat flour mills, five mineral water
and soft drink plants, seven hazel nut production and processing factories, two tea processing factories, eight
livestock production farms, two meat processing plants, one wood processing factory and three crop production
farms. US$7.47 million was disbursed from IDA funds and US$ 1.09 million from the revolving fund. Out of 48
sub-projects, 73% were export-oriented and 27% for domestic market. Of the 48 sub-loans loans approved, four
were closed before maturity because they were used for purposes other than those stated in the objectives of the
subsidiary loan or because of managerial problems. The full amount of principal and interest due from these four
loans was returned to the ADP credit facility.

Demand for medium and long-term credit was high. Lending to 47 enterprises was completed in October 2000. By
that time, repayment from 15 sub-loans had already been started in the total amount of US$2.8 million and was
placed in a revolving fund. Additional lending was made using this revolving fund, until there was a request from



                                                          - 5 -

the government to transfer the amount in the revolving fund to the State budget. The component was closed in
March 2004 after the project Credit to Enterprises Unit (CEU) successfully collected the last payment from
participating commercial banks and returned a total of US$7.69 million to the State Budget (principal amount
accumulated in the revolving fund account, interest received from participating banks, penalties, and interest
income from current account.)

Eight commercial banks were accredited for participation in the ADP credit line: Tbilcredit, Tbilcom, TBC,
Absolute, Tbiluniversal, Intellect, Republic and Bank of Georgia. Two banks (Tbilcom and Absolute) became
bankrupt following the Russian financial collapse, with outstanding debt to the project of US$1.68 million. The
recovery of these liabilities is unlikely, since the banks are under liquidation, and therefore the PIU, with the advice
of the auditor, requested the Government (MOF) on July 9, 2004 to write off the US$1.68 million and to clear it
from the project account. The government agreed that the PCC financial manager write-off this amount before the
closing of the project account. Despite writing-off this outstanding debt, the government still gained about US$
218,200 over the initial credit line of US$ 7.47 million.

Credit Unions: The project was supporting 58 credit unions at completion. Originally 120 CUs were planned to be
supported during the five years of project implementation. In the beginning of the project, an initial set of ten CUs
were established and operated very well. This success led to over-rapid expansion, involving substantial political
interference, i.e., a political campaign promising CUs in all villages. The rapid expansion of CUs in 1998 and
1999 resulted in 164 CUs with 12,231 members. This occurred without competent project financial advice,
appropriate monitoring systems or adequate capacity building programs for CU management. In this environment,
mismanagement, fraudulent activity and failure were inevitable. During the mid-term review, the results of which
were validated by formal restructuring approved by IDA's Board of Directors, the CUs were classified into three
categories; ones that were performing well, ones that could be improved, and ones that should be written-off. Funds
for further CU development (SDR 1.1 million) were reallocated to the Land Registration and Titling Component.
A new target was set that 55 credit unions would be in effective operation at the end of the project.

Out of 58 credit unions, 52 are credit unions established under the project and six are new credit unions, which
were established without initial financial assistance from the project. The latter are independently managed but
have adopted the project's model for CU structure and management, have received training under the project and
are eligible to borrow and have borrowed from the project. The 58 project credit unions are 3 more than the target
number of 55 (as revised during the mid-term review). In addition to the project credit unions, the National Bank
of Georgia licensed another 14 credit unions that were established outside the ADP framework.

Over the project life, the Credit Committee issued 550 loans to CUs valued at GEL 4.49 million (US$ 2.43
million). The number of loans issued to CUs in 2004 was 38 with the total amount of GEL 0.452 million (US$
0.24 million). In 2005, 23 new loans were issued to CUs in the amount of GEL 0.278 million (US$ 0.15 million).

Of the 58 ADP-supported CUs, 21 are performing strongly with a repayment rate of 96.3%. Of the remaining 37
CUs, 13 have been restructured and have a repayment rate of 65.9%, while the 24 CUs under restructuring have a
repayment rate of 37%, giving an average rate across the 58 CUs of 68%.

The total saving mobilized by the 58 CUs was GEL 0.976 million (US$0.54 million) in addition to the GEL 0.292
million (UD$0.16 million) mobilized in shared capital. The savings and share capital together averaged GEL 217
(US$ 120) for the 5,831 members. The program also established a Deposit Insurance Fund valued at GEL 0.83
million (US$ 0.45 million) and has GEL 2.1 million (US$ 1.13 million) in a Revolving Fund for on-lending to
CUs.

Credit unions are owned and managed by members and located in villages. They provide loans to rural families
that would be very unlikely to get loans from commercial banks due to the lack of interest by commercial banks to
finance small uncollateralized loans. These small loans, however, can be very important for the livelihood and
welfare of rural families by financing inputs for crop and livestock production, small business start ups, and the
cost of children's education, family sickness and other social activities. In September 2005, there were 5,831



                                                           - 6 -

members of the CUs, three fourths of whom are women. They borrowed for agriculture inputs, trading, food
processing and family emergencies. Members much appreciated the ability to borrow and save funds at the CUs.

Land Registration : The project successfully developed a registration system in Georgia starting with two pilot
districts in the Gardabani and Mtskheta regional offices. Aerial photography and land survey in these two regions
were completed. The offices were opened in 1999 and have been fully functioning since then. The offices were very
active in issuing land titles to clients. As a result, there has been a noticeable increase in land transactions in these
areas. This success led to an expansion of project support to an additional 9 regional offices and 37 rayon offices.
This successful model is being replicated in the rest of the national network of 9 regional offices. Computerized
systems have been set up in completely renovated offices, staff have been trained, and the technical assistant who
assisted the two pilot offices was engaged to assist the 9 new registry offices in establishing their registration and
office-management systems. The project has also successfully surveyed land plots in eight upland rayons using
ground survey.

The Government set up a State Department of Land Management (SDLM) in 1997 to manage the overall
component. Training of staff in both technical and project management were provided. Technical assistance was
provided to assist the government in developing the concept of an independent and self-financing land registration
and cadastre agency. In 2004, the Law on State Registry was passed establishing a National Agency for Public
Registry (NAPR) in the Ministry of Justice to provide immovable and moveable property registry services and
manage the real estate cadastre. In establishing the NAPR, land registry and land management services were
separated and the SDLM, which originally managed land registration services, and the Bureau of Technical
Information (BTI) were liquidated. BTI records have been transferred to the NAPR. The project has assisted the
NAPR in managing the transition from SDLM and BTI, ensuring that past project investments were secured. This
was the main reason for the third project extension. The NAPR is now fully established in offices upgraded and
equipped by the project and is approaching financial self sufficiency in its first operating year.

The extensive technical assistance and training provided to the SDLM and to the NAPR, its successor
organization, have effectively supported the establishment of an independent and largely self-financing public
registry for land and moveable asset registration and cadastre management. The institutional framework has been
fully established. Further work is planned under the Rural Development Project (RDP) to complete the national
cadastre, shift all registry activities to electronic format and achieve full NAPR financial autonomy.

Offices in 11 regions and 37 rayons were rehabilitated. The eleven regional offices were supplied with equipment
and furniture and will become regional hubs for the NAPR. Seven cars were purchased and given to the SDLM and
subsequently transferred to the NAPR.

A social impact study of land registration activities was completed in March 2004. Under the study, 1,500 persons
were interviewed in 22 rayons. These interviews covered the main elements and issues involving the land market
(i.e., registration, ownership, notaries, etc.). The results and final report were submitted to the SDLM and
presented to the public.

A public awareness campaign was completed in April 2004. During this campaign, several TV and radio programs
were prepared and shown on central and regional TV channels. Four seminars in different regions were held with
participation from representatives of rayon land departments, notaries and banks. The NAPR has also run a high
profile publicity campaign to promote its establishment.

Cadastral work in 8 high-mountain rayons was completed in July 2004 using ground survey. All vectoral maps and
databases have been prepared, land ownership certificates have been submitted to the owners and the cadastral
maps transferred to the NAPR.

Agricultural Services: The outputs of this component are four studies. The first two studies were completed and
resulted in the development of the Irrigation and Drainage Community Development Project (IDCDP) and the
Agricultural Research, Extension and Training (ARET) Project. Changing priorities in the Ministry of Agriculture
led to the cancellation of export promotion studies and the concentration of resources on solving Ministry


                                                             - 7 -

problems. A third study, Risk Assessment Study (RA) audited the MOA accounts and processed all outstanding
legal cases at the Ministry. The fourth activity reviewed MOA accounting procedures and training and software
requirements and implemented associated activities that trained staff in International Public Sector Accounting
Standards and introduced the ORIS accounting software. The latter studies were completed in December 2004. The
RA team also audited the 21 semi-independent entities of MOA registered under the law on Legal Entities under
Public Law. While restructuring at MOA has led to the loss of many project-trained accounting staff, the ORIS
software has been retained, and a new EU TACIS project is re-establishing many of the processes introduced by the
RA team.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There is no aggregate economic or financial rate or return calculated for the project. However, sub-projects under
the Credit to Enterprises Component were required to have an ex-ante financial rate of return of at least 15%.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
Financial rates of return were calculated during the mid-term review for 26 complete sub-projects. Twenty two
companies (94.2% of the portfolio of completed projects), which were in the area of wine-making and hazel nut
production, had financial rates of return ranging from 25% to 27%. Four companies producing canned products
and raising livestock had a financial rate of return of 12%, a little below the 15% target. Data provided by the
participant banks and enterprises showed that the post-loan average sales of the enterprises increased by 64% and
average export sales increased by 81%. The average number of employees in the enterprises financed under the
ADP increased by 41% and average salaries by 16%.

The assessment of the lending program at project completion was severely constrained by the closure or merger of
some participating banks and the restructuring, sale or merger of many of the participating enterprises. The ICR
Mission gathered information on 5 companies of the 11 companies that have retained the essential nature of their
business from the time they received loans, mostly for working capital, financed by the Credit to Enterprises
program. The surveyed companies have expanded their businesses and accessed additional funds from commercial
banks or strategic partners including foreign investors. All 5 were able to increase production, profits and
employment. Their annual returns to capital as calculated for 2004, which was the extent of the financial data
managers were prepared to provide, ranged from 18% to 26%.


4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project has contributed in significant ways to the development of the Georgia banking system, and to attract
commercial banks to the rural sector. The banking system is considerably stronger than it was when the project
started - the total assets of the banking sector have increased from US $183 million in 1997 when this project was
designed, to US $390 million at the mid-term review and to US$ 931 million in December 2004. This is largely the
result of good central bank management of the financial system, but the project has contributed in a number of
important ways. The Participating Bank approval process was beneficial to the banking system as a whole during
the early stages of the project by establishing a set of prudential standards for the upper echelon of Georgian
Banks, requiring them to adopt international accounting standard audits, providing training, and requiring changes
in operating procedures as conditions for continued eligibility. This has improved the operating procedures of
these banks, and provided targets for banks that wish to become eligible.

This loan facility has resulted in a significant increase in medium-term commercial bank lending to the
agro-processing sector, which did not exist at all at the start of the project. The demand for credit remains high.
Bank liquidity has risen in recent years. However, the short-term nature of deposits has limited long-term
agricultural lending. More recently several leading banks have recommenced lending to the rural sector, while
micro credit organizations have established a substantial rural presence with low default on their agricultural loan
portfolio. The strong interest expressed by Georgian banks in the forthcoming RDP agricultural credit line is
indicative of their interest in rural lending and the growing maturity in this market.

The credit union movement established by the ADP is a significant step in the long-term institutional development
of Georgia. Local credit unions formalized rural financial markets in many communities, providing signals on the


                                                           - 8 -

prices of savings and credit. For the first time since independence, rural savings facilities were offered, members
once again had the opportunity to accumulate financial assets (credit union deposit and share accounts), and credit
was available for income generating and consumer purposes. The project has developed mechanisms for
monitoring and enforcing prudential standards and providing loan capital to local credit unions. Enabling
legislation replaced the initial presidential decree in mid-2002, and a regulatory body was established in the
National Bank of Georgia (NBG). A long-term solution to the lack of rural financial services has been put in place,
though a series of endogenous and exogenous factors (insufficient capacity building, politicization of CU
development, weak judicial system, weak performance of implementing agency etc.) has undermined the early
progress of 1995-2000. As of project completion, 58 CUs are operational.

The ADP project has established an adequate foundation for the future development of a sustainable CU movement
in Georgia. Under the RDP, increased attention will be paid to savings mobilization, CU administration and
member training, a stronger urban base and the progressive development of a CU managed Apex organization,
which are keys to future sustainability. The CU movement strongly supports this approach and has committed to its
achievement.

The land registration system developed under the project is being used in regional offices in Georgia. While other
donors also have programs to assist Georgia in the land registration fields, they are complementary to the Bank's
program. The more comprehensive and integrated land registration, land improvement and cadastre management
software being developed by KfW is not yet fully tested, whereas the Bank supported software is being used for the
central and regional offices.

The major contribution to the land registry development was in the promotion of an independent and self-financing
land registration and cadastre agency. This has led to the law to establish the NAPR, for which the project has
become the key establishment financier. Established in mid 2004, it is too early to assess the sustainability of the
NAPR, however, after some initial institutional and staff shock, the agency is now approaching financial
self-sufficiency and has a clear vision for its sustainable development. Planned RDP support for the expansion of
the NAPR's communication system, together with additional investments in computerization, office infrastructure
and public awareness are expected to complete the NAPR's development by end-2007.

Project investment in irrigation and research and extension management studies led to Bank investment in these
sectors totaling US$27 million and US$ 7.6 million for the IDCDP and the ARET project respectively. Subsequent
investment in Risk Analysis within the MOA led to the settlement of all outstanding court cases, the auditing of all
MOA departments and entities, staff training in international accounting standards and the introduction of the
ORIS accounting software. While subsequent MOA downsizing led to the loss of many of the trained staff, a new
EU TACIS program is now institutionalizing most the Risk Analysis recommendations, together with the ORIS
software.


5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
The 1998 Russian financial crisis impacted severely on the Georgian economy, seriously compromising the
investment environment shortly after the ADP had disbursed the bulk of its sub-loans. As a result, two of the
participating banks were bankrupted together with a few project financed companies. Overall, however, the loan
portfolio survived this financial crisis and borrowers have subsequently repaid all outstanding debt. The Rose
Revolution in 2004 was a further, though largely positive shock to the project, delaying implementation of some
programs and reorienting others, necessitating two project extensions to achieve project completion. Drought in
2002 imperiled CUs in eastern Georgia, particularly those who had lent extensively for wheat crop inputs. While
loan restructuring helped some CUs, a number were effectively bankrupted by this event.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The initial government-appointed project management team was over staffed and inexperienced, contributing
significantly to the collapse of the CU program in 2000 and inflated project management costs. Subsequent



                                                          - 9 -

government inaction concerning a recovery strategy, particularly relating to the re-financing of potentially viable
CUs led to a crisis of confidence amongst CU members and management, with consequent mass default.
Subsequent project efforts to recover these losses by pursuing collateral through the courts has been largely
ineffective due to slow court procedures and arcane rules regulating the execution of court decisions.

Government coordination of donors supporting the SDLM was ineffective, leading to conflicting and frequently
overlapping development initiatives. Subsequent restructuring under the NAPR has largely relieved this situation,
but has introduced other shortcomings, including the loss of many key technical staff following an ineffective staff
recruitment process, despite project investments intended to support transparent processes. While this has slowed
NAPR establishment, an ongoing process of staff assessment, redeployment and training is expected to relieve this
shortcoming over the next 12 months.

Restructuring in the MOA has at times been precipitant, leading to the loss of project trained staff, particularly in
the accounting department. While the Bank recognizes the need for Government downsizing in Georgia, this
should be based on institutional needs assessments and clear job descriptions. In most cases, however, MOA
restructuring has been a rather hurried and haphazard process. Towards project conclusion, MOJ failure to
sanction expenditure for the NAPR and the MOF decision not to support further grants for CU infrastructure
rehabilitation and the development of pilot regional CUs undermined expenditure targets and crimped program
effectiveness and sustainability.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Project promotion, training and CU establishment activities were well implemented at the beginning of the project,
however, promotion activities became very politicized in 1999 and early 2000, an election year. The project
management team (PCU) ignored requests from the Bank to de-politicize the process and to limit the number of
new credit unions created to a maximum of 120, which was the limit planned for the project. A total of 164 were
registered in the first two years of the project. In addition, the CUDC was slow to install an adequate loan
monitoring system. The rapid expansion of the number of CUs and the lack of an adequate management system
overextended the management capacity of the CUDC.

Bank acquiescence to the rapid expansion of CUs without a sufficient savings base threatened the sustainability of
the CU movement. Subsequent inattention to the refinancing of ailing, but well managed CUs, together with the
recommendation to increase interest rates at this critical juncture exacerbated the problem. The Bank could also
have been more proactive in addressing the overlapping and sometimes conflicting donor support for land
registration. A more rigorous approach to the glaring inefficiencies in the PCU prior to 2003 would also have
benefited project outcomes.

5.4 Costs and financing:
The project expended SDR 14.4 million or 95.4 percent of the available SDR 15.1 million. This includes the
expenditure of SDR 10.2 million or 98 percent of the available IDA financing of SDR 10.4 million and SDR 4.2
million or 90 percent of the available IFAD financing of SDR 4.7 million. In dollar terms at the prevailing
exchange rate at the time of expenditure, the project expended US$ 19.8 million or 92.0 percent of the available
project funding of US$21.5 million. This includes expenditure of US$ 13.9 million or 92 percent of the available
IDA financing of US$ 15.0 million and US$ 5.9 million or 91 percent of the available IFAD financing of US$ 6.5
million. The Government contribution to expenditure amounted to US$ 0.46 million compared to a projected US$
0.5 million at appraisal.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Overall, the achievements of the ADP are likely to be sustainable. Participating banks, after a hiatus caused by
tight economic conditions and a lack of liquidity, are again lending to the agriculture sector. Most of the assets
financed under the project also continue to contribute to Georgian agricultural sector productivity since enterprise
loan repayment, though often not under their original ownership following extensive asset sales and company
mergers and/or restructuring. The foundation for the development of a sustainable CU sector has been established.



                                                          - 10 -

While this is about half the size originally intended, due largely to early PCU inexperience and mismanagement
and inadequate supervision, the project has built sufficient capacity in the remaining institutions to ensure the
further development of CUs in Georgia. Had the MOF permitted additional expenditure on CU refurbishment and
consolidation toward the project's end, the prevailing situation would have been further improved. The project
design did not provide a sustainable exit strategy for the CU program, however, the project-established legal
framework for CUs, and associated registration and supervision by the National Bank of Georgia (NBG), together
with the exit strategy planned under the RDP are expected to create an independent, sustainable CU structure by
2010.

Georgia has adopted a modern, sporadically updated real estate cadastre system of land registration. The NAPR,
successor to the dissolved SDLM, has been established as a Legal Entity under Public Law and is the single
authority for land registration and cadastre management. It is now operational and approaching financial
sustainability in its first year of operation. Services are also improving through the progressive adoption of digital
databases and better organization of customer assistance. Under the supporting law of fees for land registration
services, base fees have been held at historic low levels, however, significant revenue growth is occurring through
the rapidly rising level of registered transactions. Eleven regional land registry offices and 37 rayon land offices
were fully established and equipped at the end of the project, though only two were fully digitalized. Those two
regional offices initially developed under the project are fully operational and financially self-sufficient, with land
registration transactions made within hours if the submitted paperwork is correct, providing a well-established
model for the other 9. Land survey work has been completed in an additional 10 regions, verified with land owners
and integrated into the national cadastre. Investments planned for the NAPR under the RDP, combined with other
ongoing donor contributions, are expected to create a fully sustainable and financially independent land and
moveable asset registration and land cadastre agency by end-2007.

The two bank projects developed with ADP support are functioning and are rated satisfactory. As a result of the
project Risk Analysis program, all outstanding court cases against the MOA were resolved and the Ministry has
adopted internationally accepted accounting standards and supporting accounting software. A parallel EU TACIS
project, which commenced in 2005 and will run for two years, is consolidating the Risk Assessment work
following the large scale downsizing and restructuring of MOA's accounting services that shed many experienced
staff.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The ADP design did not provide satisfactory transition arrangements to self-sufficiency for the CU program. This
is now incorporated into the follow-on RDP, which will consolidate and expand the CU network and establish an
Apex structure by 2010, which will be owned and managed by the member CUs. The NAPR, the successor to the
project-supported SDLM, is a legal entity whose management can retain and allocate earnings. During its first
year, the NAPR is already approaching financial sustainability, while the two initial land registry offices
established under the project are both earning in excess of 200 percent of their full operating costs. Continued
support to the NAPR through the RDP, combined with additional, coordinated donor support is expected to lead to
the NAPR becoming financially and institutionally independent by end-2007. Action under the Bank-financed
IDCDP and ARET projects designed through the ADP are both contributing to sustainable, stakeholder managed
services in their respective areas while the Risk Assessment work will lead to an internationally aligned accounting
system in the MOA by end-2006.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank performance in the management of the ADP project cycle was satisfactory. The project was identified in
1995 by a Bank supervised, PHRD financed consultant mission working in collaboration with the Georgian
government. The resulting project design was closely linked to recommendations contained in the Agriculture and
Food Sector Review published by the Bank in 1995. Pilot activities were identified and a US$ 0.5 million Project
Pre-financing Facility (PPF) commenced in December 1995 with the objective of initiating CU formation,
collecting additional land information and training personnel in land survey techniques. The PPF also supported



                                                           - 11 -

the Government in meeting negotiation and Board-presentation conditions leading to Project Negotiations in
October 7, 1996 and Board presentation on March 25, 1997. The project became effective on August 21, 1997. The
resulting project, which was closely linked to government's market oriented agricultural development strategy,
drew on available bank experience with land and rural credit reform in transitional economies and was consistent
with the March 30, 1995 CAS, within which the project had been identified. Closer attention to exit strategies for
the CU and land registry programs during project design would have improved project sustainability. The Credit to
Enterprises component would also have benefited from a longer repayment period for participating banks, allowing
recycling of credit. Instead, the Government transferred the recovered funds to the budget following the completion
of loan recovery.



7.2 Supervision:
Bank supervision, involving 15 missions over 8 years, was moderately satisfactory overall. The Bank's inattention
to the rapid expansion and over capitalization of the CU program between 1998-2000 contributed to the failure of
over 100 CUs. The Bank could also have been more proactive in the coordination of donor support for the SDLM
prior to early 2003, when it initiated a donor forum to review sustainability issues. Bank supervision could have
been more coordinated with IFAD. Between early 2003, when the project received an unsatisfactory assessment,
and during 2004, a restructured PIU and new Bank supervision team, worked intensively with the Government and
IFAD to improve program sustainability including the reallocation of project funds to intensify training of CU
management, develop a vision for sustainable management of the CU movement, build the newly established
NAPR and support government's preparation of a rural development strategy. During this time the supervision
team also built linkages to other donor programs and developed exit strategies for the CU and land registry
programs that have been integrated into the planned RDP. During this period, the Supervision team supported two
project extensions, which were required to accommodate changes brought by the Rose revolution and to ensure
program continuity into the planned RDP. Supported by a new, competent and highly motivated PIU team, this
effort led to a rapid return to a satisfactory rating for all project components, the consolidation of project activities
and the development of exit strategies that will be implemented under the follow-on RDP.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance is assessed as satisfactory. Despite some design shortcomings and the early constraints
to project supervision, the project has achieved the majority of its objectives in an often challenging
implementation environment.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower's participation in project preparation was satisfactory, despite a MOA inexperienced in Bank project
design. Strong technical support was provided through a PHRD grant program. The PCU achieved good
implementation of the supporting PPF, indicating ownership of the design process. The Government's timely
response to project conditionality including, among other things, the preparation and passage of a Land
Registration Law, the establishment of the Credit Union Development Center (CUDC) and the signature of
subsidiary loan agreements with participating banks also indicate a high level of commitment at preparation.



7.5 Government implementation performance:
Overall, government implementation performance was moderately satisfactory. However, the Government
remained broadly supportive of the project throughout its implementation, despite its governance by 4 different
Ministers of Agriculture, numerous changes in leadership at ministries and agencies associated with project
implementation and the 2004 Rose Revolution. In its latter stages, the project and the associated NAPR would
have benefited from a more supportive environment in the MOF and the MOJ, both of which impeded the
achievement of some project activities leading to the shortfall in project expenditure.

7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Implementation Unit performance was satisfactory. A project PCU was initially established to support



                                                          - 12 -

the PPF and continued into project implementation. The rapid disbursement of the credit to enterprises component
and establishment of CUs indicate strong initial implementation performance with these components. The Land
Registry component also had a successful inception, however, by 2000, the scale of the CU program and its
growing management complexity was confounding project management, which had grown well beyond the staff
resources identified in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR). The land registry program also began to lose focus at this
time, the problem being compounded by the profusion of conflicting advice to the SDLM management from its 6
donors. What followed was a hiatus in project implementation in 2000/01, accentuated by tensions within the PCU
and between the PCU and MOA. These issues were not resolved until late 2001 when the Project Coordination
Center (PCC) was established by Presidential Decree # 149 as a legal public entity and the Project Implementation
Unit (PIU) was set up as a technical unit to manage day to day activities under the PCC. The PCU management
team was replaced by the PIU and downsized. The new PIU team acted quickly to reinvigorate project
implementation, but was constrained by weak Bank supervision at that juncture. Full effectiveness was not
achieved until early 2003 when a new Bank supervision team supported government in developing a new vision for
the project and assisted with planning the reallocation of project resources for its realization. Since early 2003,
project implementation has been satisfactory. The PIU has worked energetically to restructure the CU program
including the prosecution of defaulting CUs and has been actively involved with the SDLM and its successor, the
NAPR, to achieve conditions for effective administrative and fiscal autonomy. While over the last 30 months the
results have been impressive and a framework for sustainability has been established, the goal of sustainable rural
credit and land registry services has not yet been realized. The ADP PIU has worked closely with the Bank in the
preparation of the planned RDP, which is designed to deliver a sustainable NAPR by 2007 and a sustainable CU
movement by 2010.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Overall Borrower performance has been assessed as satisfactory. Notwithstanding the reported shortcomings and
delays in project implementation, most project objectives were achieved despite the challenging implementation
environment including, among others, the Russian economic collapse, a period of inattentive supervision and the
Rose revolution.

8. Lessons Learned

The main lesson learned during the last few years from Bank-financed credit line operations in the ECA Region
and elsewhere is that the project design should be kept as flexible as possible in order to allow for adjustments
during project implementation. Considering the political uncertainty in Georgia, it is critical to allow for
adjustments during project implementation. Lessons learned from ongoing projects, especially the ADP, the ARET,
the IDCDP, show that it is important to create trust among all stakeholders before the project can enter the main
implementation phase. Capacity building in all institutions dealing with the project as well as a step-by-step
approach during project implementation is essential in order not to overwhelm local authorities and institutions.

Experience from the ADP shows that improved access to credit gives a substantial boost to agricultural investment,
output and rural livelihood and that it can be done without distorting financial markets. Success or failure of the
credit components of the ADP was highly correlated with the intensity and quality of project supervision and
management. The performance of partner financial institutions depends on the ability of their staff to appraise loan
proposals, particularly the ability to assess market prospects for the commodities to be produced and to develop
repayment schedules consistent with income streams.

There is a strong demand for locally based credit facilities (such as credit unions) in rural villages, but these
institutions need sustained, strong support in the form of training and supervision if they are to evolve into viable
financial institutions. Small village-based credit cooperatives are not an appropriate mechanism for large-scale
credit delivery. Rural credit cooperatives should be based in rural towns, be saving-driven and encouraged to lend
for all purposes, rather than focus only on farm lending. This would enable them to expand to a wider membership
base, a more diversified loan portfolio, and a stronger member commitment to the organization  all of which
improve sustainability.




                                                         - 13 -

During the first two years of CU component implementation, the PCU unfortunately departed from the principle of
gradual growth. Gradual growth in lending is important so that it is commensurate with the growth in
management skills and savings mobilization among members. This has been a successful formula for sustainable
credit union development worldwide. The problems of overly rapid expansion were then exacerbated by
government's decision to suspend funding in 2002, rather than to re-schedule and work out loans in default.
Default rates increased because the credit unions saw no prospect of continued access to support. Despite this
suspension of funding, many credit unions continued to lend from their own small resources. During 2003, the PIU
rescheduled the loans and turned around a number of salvageable credit unions.

Donor coordination is essential for project success. The management of the land registration component of the
ADP was, at times, confused by conflicting donor expectations and did not have a satisfactory means of resolution.
Inclusion of donors engaged in parallel development programs in the project design process and their subsequent
oversight of program implementation is essential if confusion is to be avoided and synergy to be enjoyed. At times
this may involve forfeiting project activities where other donors have a comparative advantage. These lessons
learned from the ADP were used in the design of the credit components of the RDP.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


(b) Cofinanciers:


(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):


10. Additional Information




                                                        - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate


OUTCOME AND IMPACT:
                                                 The rate of return in 2000 was 18% during       The final rates of return to capital of five
Increased productivity for agroprocessors        the mid-term review.                            representative enterprises evaluated during
that borrowed from the credit (measured as a                                                     the ICR mission ranged from 18% to 26%.
rate of return >15%)

 Increased number of small scale farmers         Members of credit union were 5,631 in year      Member of Credit union was 5,831 in
with access to credit (measured as the           2004                                            September 2005.
number of CU members) Target was 2600.

 Credit to Enterprises. subsidiary loan          There were 48 loans to agri-businesses. The There were 48 loans to agri-businesses. The
recovery rate and sub-loan recovery rate.        recovery rate, apart from two failed banks,     recovery rate, apart from two failed banks,
                                                 was 100%.                                       was 100%

A strategy and investment program for            Two investment projects: one for irrigation     The new Rural Development Project would
increasing agricultural productivity in the next and drainage rehabilitation, with participation support the development of commercial
phase of agricultural development in Georgia. of rural communities. Another is the               agriculture. This would be done through
                                                 agriculture research extension and training     improving competitiveness of supply chains
                                                 project, where institutional reforms were       and facilitating small and meduim farmers to
                                                 piloted and innovative support to research      access to these supply chains.
                                                 was initiated.


Output Indicators:
                                                                                    1
               Indicator/Matrix                              Projected in last PSR                           Actual/Latest Estimate
Total deposits held by credit unions (GEL at     The savings held by CUs was GEL 0.78            The savings held by CUS was GEL 0.96
end of year)                                     million.                                        million plus GEL 0.292 of share capital.


Total funds lent by CUs (Gel end of the year)    Total funds lent by CU in 2004 was Gel 1.1      Total funds lent by CUs in 2005 (6 months
                                                 million (US$0.6 million).                       was Gel 1.02 million or (US$0.24 million).


Number of CUs in operation                       There were 55 CUs in operation.                 In September 2005, there were 58 CUs in
                                                                                                 operation.


Registry office established                      11 regional offices and 37 rayons offices       In addition to the regional and rayons offices,
                                                 were established in 2004                        civil work for the National Agency for Public
                                                                                                 Registry was completed.


Number of land transactions, including           Land registration was 53,118 by year 2004       Land registration was 88,755 by September
inheritance, rentals and sales.                                                                  2005, an increase of 17%.


Land registration fee collected (secondary       Land registration fee collected in 2003 was     Land registration fee collected was Gel 4.42
transaction, GEL)                                Gel 31,000                                      million

1End of project




                                                                    - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                          Appraisal     Actual/Latest  Percentage of
                                                          Estimate       Estimate        Appraisal
                      Component                           US$ million   US$ million
Credit to Enterprises                                       12.00           12.98              108
Credit Unions                                                8.37             6.28              75
Land Registration                                            5.63             5.63             100
Agricultural Studies                                         0.50             0.33              66
Project Coordination Unit                                    0.30             1.63             543

Total Baseline Cost                                         26.80           26.85
                         Total Project Costs                26.80           26.85
                   Total Financing Required                 26.80           26.85


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2        N.B.F.     Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.70             1.40         0.57          0.00         2.67
                                  (0.70)           (1.40)      (0.57)          (0.00)       (2.67)
2. Goods                           0.00             0.00         1.61          0.00         1.61
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.61)          (0.00)       (1.61)
3. Services                        0.00             0.60         3.00          0.00         3.60
                                  (0.00)           (0.60)      (3.00)          (0.00)       (3.60)
4. Credit                          0.00             0.00        12.30          4.80         17.10
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (12.30)         (0.00)      (12.30)
5. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         1.32          0.50         1.82
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (1.32)          (0.00)       (1.32)
6. Miscellaneous                   0.00             0.00         0.00          0.00         0.00
                                  (0.00)           (0.00)      (0.00)          (0.00)       (0.00)
   Total                           0.70             2.00        18.80          5.30         26.80
                                  (0.70)           (2.00)      (18.80)         (0.00)      (21.50)


Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                    1
                                               Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category           ICB             NCB                2      N.B.F.      Total Cost
                                                               Other
1. Works                           0.25            1.49         0.57           0.19        2.50
                                  (0.25)          (1.49)       (0.57)         (0.00)       (2.31)
2. Goods                           0.00            0.00         1.15           0.18        1.33
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (1.15)         (0.00)       (1.15)
3. Services                        0.00            0.00         4.69           0.04        4.73
                                  (0.00)          (0.00)       (4.69)         (0.00)       (4.69)
4. Credit                          0.00            0.00         9.96           6.59        16.55


                                                - 16 -

                                          (0.00)             (0.00)               (9.96)           (0.00)             (9.96)
5. Miscellaneous                           0.00               0.00                1.69              0.05               1.74
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)               (1.69)           (0.00)             (1.69)
6. Miscellaneous                           0.00               0.00                0.00              0.00               0.00
                                          (0.00)             (0.00)               (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
   Total                                   0.25               1.49                18.06             7.05              26.85
                                          (0.25)             (1.49)              (18.06)           (0.00)            (19.80)

1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
  of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
  managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent



        Component             Appraisal Estimate (US$'000)      Actual/Latest Estimate (US$'000)      % of Appraisal (US$'000)

                           Bank      IFAD     Govt. Benefici    Bank    IFAD       Govt.  Benifici Bank   IFAD     Govt. Benefici
                                                       -aries                              -aries                           -aries
 Credit to Enterprise       8,700                      3,300    7,922                4      5,056  91%              N/A   153%
 Credit Unions              2,000    4,870             1,500    1,119    3,585      43      1,531  56%     74%      N/A   102%

 Land Registration          3,500    1,630     500              2,925    2,360     341             84%    145%      68%
 Agricultural Studies       500                                  314                13             63%              N/A
 Project Coordinating Unit  300                                 1,575               57             525%             N/A

 Total                     15,000    6,500     500     4,800   13,855    5,945     457      6,587  92%     91%      91%   137%




                                                           - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

There is no economic or financial rate or return calculated for the project. However, sub-projects under the Credit
to Enterprises Component were required to have a financial rate of return of at least 15%.




                                                       - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                    (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                  Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Supervision

              11/08/1997               3    AGRICULTURE ECONOMIST            S               S
                                            (1); LAND MGMT.
                                            SPECIALIST (1); AGRIC.
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              02/13/1998               2    AGRICULTURE ECONOMIST            S               S
                                            (1); LAND MGMT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              06/26/1998               3    AGRICULTURAL                     S               S
                                            ECONOMIST (1); LAND
                                            MNGMT. SPECIALIST (1);
                                            CREDIT UNION SPEC. (1)
              12/14/1998               4    TEAM LEADER (1); LAND            S               S
                                            ADMIN. SPEC. (1); CREDIT
                                            UNION SPEC. (1); CREDIT
                                            UNION SPECIALIS (1)
              09/03/1999               4    MISSION LEADER/ECON (1);         S               S
                                            LAND REGISTRATION (1);
                                            FINANCIAL/ACCOUNTS (1);
                                            BANKING SECTOR (1)
              06/22/2000               3    TEAM LEADER, ECONOMIST           S               S
                                            (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                            (1); CREDIT UNION SPEC. (1)
              06/13/2001               5    MISSION LEADER/ECON (1);         S               S
                                            SR. FIN. ECON. (1); CREDIT
                                            UNION CONS. (1); MISSION
                                            LEADER (1); SR. FIN. SPEC.
                                            (1)
              06/22/2002               7    MISSION LEADER (1);              S               S
                                            CREDIT UNION SPECIALIS
                                            (1); LAND SPECIALIST (1);
                                            REGISTRATION LAYWER (1);
                                            FMS (2); PROCUREMENT (1)
              01/20/2003               2    FINANCIAL SPECIALIST (1);        U               U
                                            TITLE REGISTR. SPEC. (1)
              06/21/2003               3    AGRICULTURE ECONOMIST            U               U
                                            (1); FINANCIAL SPECIALIST
                                            (1); PROCUREMENT
                                            SPECIALIST (1)
              12/12/2003               4    AGRICULTURE ECONOMIST            S               S
                                            (1); INSTITUTION
                                            SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                            SPECIALIST (1); RURAL DEV.
                                            SPECIALIST (1)




                                             - 19 -

               08/06/2004              5   MISSION LEADER (1); RURAL          S    S
                                           FINANCE (1); RURAL
                                           DEVELOPMENT (1);
                                           INSTITUTION SPECIALIST
                                           (1); IFAD STAFF (1)


 ICR
               08/29/2005             3     MISSION LEADER(1);                S    S
                                            INSTITUTION
                                            SPECIALIST (1) AND
                                            RURAL DEVELOPMENT
                                            STAFF (1)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Supervision                                                          775
  ICR
  Total




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

1. Georgia Agricultural Development Project, Staff Appraisal Report, February 28, 1997.

 2. Georgia Project Status Reports, from sequence numbers 3-20, March 30, 1998 to March 28, 2005.

 3. Georgia ADP: Proposed Amendement of the Development Credit Agreement, Washington DC, March
5, 2002.

 4. Danile Danielson, "Business Plan for Registration System of Immovable Property", December 2003.

 5. David Sharp, " Land Registration System and NAPR: mission reports", April 2004 and May 2005.

 6. Dean Mahon, "Prudential Standards for Credit Unions and Monitoring Systems for CUs", 1998.

 7. Dora Turrula, "Operational Manual for CUs", CUDC project documents, 2002.

 8. Peter Marion, "Rural credit Union: Technical Consultant Report", May 2004.

 9. Monnie Biety, " Business Plan for Three Regional Credit Unions", September 2004.

10. Jesus Chaves, " Training Materials for CUs", 2004.




                                                  - 23 -

- 24 -

