Report No. PIC3364
Project Name                   Ecuador-Indigenous Peoples Development...
Project
Region                         Latin America and the Caribbean
Sector                         Resettlement and Natural Resources Management
Project ID                     ECPA40086
Borrower                       Republic of Ecuador
Implementing Agency            National Secretariat of Indigenous Affairs
(SENAIN) and Indigenous Organizations,
Casilla Postal 17-01-3450
Quito, Ecuador
Tel: 593-2-581319
Fax: 593-2-511892
Date PID Prepared              March 7, 1995
Projected Appraisal Date       December 1996
Projected Board Date           July 1997
1.   Country and Sector Background.   Despite some advances in social
indicators during the seventies and eighties, poverty remains a major
problem in Ecuador. According to recent estimates, about thirty-five
percent of the population live in poverty today. Poverty incidence is
higher in rural areas, where two out of three poor people live. As
social indicators of indigenous peoples fall significantly below the
national average in terms of infant mortality, female illiteracy, child
malnutrition, access to basic sanitation services and access to
productive infrastructure, they could be classified as the most
disadvantaged groups among the poor. Depending on the exact definition
being used, these groups make up approximately 20-30w of Ecuador's
population.
2.   Central Government social sector expenditures, equivalent to 4.2
percent of GDP in 1990, are low by LAC standards. Besides being low in
both absolute and relative terms, social sector expenditures are further
eroded because of high transaction costs. Moreover, the tendency to
centralize decision-making and public resource allocation raises further
questions as to the extent to which existing poverty alleviation efforts
respond to local needs.
3.   Through the work of indigenous organizations, which have become an
important social movement in Ecuador over time, the disadvantaged
position of indigenous people is increasingly being acknowledged by the
GOE. Government policies have shifted from systematically ignoring and
excluding the cause of indigenous peoples towards a variety of isolated
attempts and a willingness to more systematically explore efforts aimed
at integration and inclusion of those groups in the development process.
4.   In response to the overall rural poverty situation and in an
attempt to operationalize its changing perspective on indigenous peoples
development, GOE seems serious about redesigning its rural poverty



alleviation strategy based on a number of new guiding principles.
First, it aims at targeting poverty alleviation efforts at the poorest
of the poor. Second, participation of beneficiaries is seen as key to
make poverty alleviation efforts more demand-driven, thereby improving
their relevancy. Third, involvement of grassroots organizations, NGOs,
and private sector entities in the implementation of poverty alleviation
activities should increase the efficiency of such operations.
5.   Objectives. The project would aim to establish the necessary
technical, legal and institutional capacity to empower indigenous
peoples to effectively take the planning and implementation of community
based development efforts into their own hands. In this context, the
project would contribute to the operationalization of the concept of
desarrollo sostenible con identidad. More specifically, the project
would: (i) strengthen the capacity of indigenous organizations to more
effectively participate in the formulation of government policies and to
provide meaningful services to their members in the economic arena;
(ii) improve the access of indigenous peoples to land and water
resources; (iii) increase indigenous communities' capacity to
effectively access existing investment funds for the financing of small
community based investment projects; and (iv) create adequate capacity
in the government to formulate policies as well as to plan and
coordinate activities targeted at indigenous peoples.
6.   Project Description.   The project would have the following
components:
(i) indigenous organizations strengthening; (ii) land tenure and water
rights regularization; (iii) local capacity building; (iv) rural
investments and (v) institutional strengthening:
(a) Indigenous Organizations Strengthening would include
assistance to strengthen the technical, managerial, and
administrative capacity of national, regional, and local
indigenous organizations in the economic arena, based on their
needs and in the context of the proposed project.
(b) Land Tenure and Water Rights Regularization would cover
demand-driven support for land titling and demarcation in
selected areas, as secure access to land determines to a large
extent the feasibility of private rural investment sub-
projects. At the same time the project would legally and
technically support indigenous communities in their efforts to
obtain better secured water rights.
(c) Local Capacity Building would include training of indigenous
communities and their organizations in participatory methods
to identify, prepare, and execute investment projects focusing
on, among other, natural resources management, agricultural
production, technology transfer, recuperation of traditional
technologies, handicraft, eco-tourism, and productive and
social infrastructure, which are subsequently presented to
local investment funds for financing.
(d) Rural Investments the Project would ensure provision of
resources to an investment fund to finance project proposals
-2 -



prepared by indigenous communities and their organizations.
Financing would be on a matching grant basis and take into
account project and beneficiary eligibility criteria, which
will be defined in detail at a later stage in the project
preparation process (see paragraph 12 for details on
justification and potential institutional arrangements).
(e) Institutional Strengthening would include strengthening of
the Indigenous Affairs Secretariat (SENAIN), particularly in
its planning and coordinating role with consultants, training,
equipment and incremental operating costs during project
preparation, implementation and evaluation based on the needs
and demands of its clients: the indigenous population and
corresponding public agencies.
7.   Financing.  The project would be financed by IBRD, cofinanciers
(IFAD has expressed interest), GOE, and project beneficiaries.
8.   Implementation. Overall project implementation would be coordinated
by a Project Management Committee (PMC), which would guide project
implementation from a strategic perspective. The PMC would consist of
three representatives of the Ecuadorian Government, three
representatives of indigenous organizations, and a project coordinator.
Implementation at the operational level would be coordinated by a
Project Management Unit (PMU), headed by the project coordinatior. The
PMU would enter into contractual arrangements and inter-institutional
agreements with respectively private and public executing agencies which
would be responsible for the actual implementation of the project
activities.
9.   Sustainability.   By increasing indigenous communities' technical
and participatory planning capacity for sub-project identification,
preparation and implementation, the project would enable currently
disadvantaged groups to better access existing investment funds for the
financing of community-based projects. A bottom-up approach towards
sub-project identification and applying cost sharing and/or cost
recovery mechanisms would contribute to better project ownership by
beneficiary communities, thereby ensuring successful implementation and
maintenance. Secured access to land and water resources would enable
indigenous groups or individuals to better provide collateral for
credit. By being a platform of cooperation between GOE and indigenous
communities and their organizations, the project may lay the groundwork
for a more systematic approach towards integrating indigenous interests
and concerns in public policy formulation and implementation.
10. Lessons from Previous Bank/IBRD Involvement. Since the project
would be IBRD's first full fledged operation focusing on indigenous
peoples development, specific lessons do not exist. However, lessons
learned from related investment and social fund projects in the LAC
region might have particular relevance to the project. These lessons
specifically point out the importance of: (i) beneficiary participation
in project design; (ii) a demand-driven approach towards identification
and formulation of community based investments; (iii) full transparency,
accountability, and well-defined sub-project and beneficiary eligibility
criteria; and (iv) local control in sub-project implementation. Given
-3 -



the project's involvement in land regularization, lessons from other
Bank financed land tenure related projects would be taken into account
as well. These lessons particularly stress not to underestimate: (i)
the strength of political obstacles; (ii) the complexity of land issues;
and (iii) the time required to bring about changes.
11. Environmental Aspects. Besides investments in land tenure and
water rights regularization efforts, all other project activities would
focus on training and capacity building. In case the project would
finance community-based investment projects, there exists a risk that
certain types of investments, like feeder road construction, could have
a potentially adverse effect on the environment. However, the magnitude
of those effects is expected not to be significant given the small size
of those investments. Therefore, the proposed environmental category is
B.
12. Poverty Category. The project is included in the Program of
Targeted Interventions. It addresses poverty reduction by explicitly
focusing all project activities on indigenous peoples, who, according to
various poverty indicators, could be classified as the 'poorest of the
poor'.
13. Program Objective Categories. The project falls under the
categories of Poverty Reduction (PA) and Environmentally Sustainable
Development (EN).
14. Participatory Approach. Indigenous organizations would be involved
in project preparation and implementation, through their representation
in the PMC. Indigenous communities themselves would take a lead in sub-
project identification, preparation, and implementation, since those
activities would be based on a participatory planning process supported
by the project.
15. Project Benefits. Expected benefit categories are: (i) reduced
poverty levels among indigenous peoples; (ii) increased capacity of
indigenous organizations to more effectively participate in rural policy
formulation and in sub-project design and implementation; (iii)
increased sustainability of small-scale rural investments through
increased project ownership by indigenous communities; (iv) increased
effectiveness and efficiency of investment funds operating in the rural
sector through a demand driven increase in their investment pipeline;
and (v) benefits associated with better secured land and water rights.
Contact Point:       Public Information Center
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components
may not necessarily be included in the final project.
- 4 -



