Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 25361
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(SCL-42770; COFN-04200; TF-29376; TF-26731; PPFB-P2690; PPFB-P2691)
ONA
LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$25.0 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
FOR AN
INDIGENOUS AND AFRO-ECUADORIAN PEOPLES DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 21, 2003



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 9, 2000)
Currency Unit = US$
FISCAL YEAR
January 31 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CAS            Country Assistance Strategy
CCR            Regional Consulting Committees (Comites Consultivos Regionales)
CNA            National Afroecuadorian Council (Consejo Nacional Afroecuatoriano)
CODAE          Afroecuadorian Development Corporation (Corporaci6n de Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano)
CODENPE        Development Council for Ecuadorian Nationalities and Pueblos (Consejo de Desarrollo de las
Nacionalidades y Pueblos del Ecuador)
CONAIE         Confederation of Ecuadorian Indigenous Communities (Confederaci6n de Nacionalidades
Indigenas de Ecuador)
CONFENLAE      Confederation of Indigenous Nationality of the Ecuadorian Andes
CONPLADEIN     National Council of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Development (Consejo Nacional de
Planificacion y               Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indigenas y Negros)
EA             Executing Agencies
ECUARUNARI Ecuador Runacunapac Riccharimui
FAO-CP         Food and Agriculture Organization-Cooperative Program
FENOCIN        Federaci6n Nacional de Organizaciones Campesinas Indigenas y Negras
GOE            Government of Ecuador
GOPP           Goal Oriented Project Planning
IDB            Inter-American Development Bank
IDF Grant      Institutional Development Grant
IERAC          Ecuadorian Institute of Agricultural Reform and Colonization
(Instituto Ecuatoriano de Reforma Agraria y Colonizaci6n)
IFAD           International Fund for Agricultural Development
IFI            Intermediary Financial Institutions
INDA           National Institute of Agricultural Development (Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo Agrario)
INEFAN                The Ecuadorian Institute for Forest, Natural and Wildlife Areas
(Instituto Ecuatoriano Forestal y de Areas Naturales y Vida Silvestre)
LDP            Local Development Plan
LIM            Limited Intemational Bidding
MOE            Ministry of Environment (Ministerio del Ambiente)
NBF            Not Bank-financed
NCB            National Competitive Bidding
NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
OSG            Second-Tier Organization (Organizaci6n de Segundo Grado)
OTG            Third-Tier Organization (Organizaci6n de Terce Grado)
PAD            Project Appraisal Document
PMU            Project Management Unit
PPF            Project Preparation Facility
PRODEPINE      Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project
PRU            Project Regional Unit
SA             Sponsoring Agencies
SENAIN                National Secretariat of Indigenous and Minority Affairs
(Secretaria Nacional de Asuntos Indigenas y Minorias Etnicas)
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
Vice President:    David de Ferranti
Country Manager/Director:     Marcelo Giugale
Sector Manager/Director:    John Redwood
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      David Tuchschneider



ECUADOR
Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                     1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                    1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry          2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                             4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                               9
6. Sustainability                                                                  11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                   12
8. Lessons Learned                                                                 15
9. Partner Comments                                                                16
10. Additional Information                                                         16
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Annex 8. Borrowers ICR






Project ID: P040086                                      Project Name: Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
Peoples Development Project
Team Leader: David Tuchschneider                         TL Unit: LCSER
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: January 23, 2003
1. Project Data
Name: Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples        L/C/TF Number: SCL-42770;
Development Project                                         COFN-04200;
TF-29376; TF-26731;
PPFB-P2690;
PPFB-P2691
Country/Department: ECUADOR                                             Region: Latin America and
Caribbean Region
Sector/subsector: Other social services (30%); Central govermment
administration (26%); General agriculture, fishing
and forestry sector (24%); General
water/sanitation/flood protection sector (20%)
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:   02/02/1996                             Effective:                   09/11/1998
Appraisal:  12/15/1997                               MTR: 10/01/2000            10/07/2000
Approval:  01/29/1998                             Closing: 09/30/2002          12/31/2002
Borrower/Implementing Agency: REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR/CONSEJO DE PLANIFICACION DE
DESARROLLO DE LAS NACIONALIDADES Y PUEBLOS DEL ECUADOR
(CODENPE)
Other Partners:  Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development (EFAD)
STAFF                Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:      David de Ferranti                         Shahid Javed Burki
Country Manager:     Isabel M. Guerrero                        Andres Solimano
Sector Manager:      John Redwood                              Maritta Kock-Weser
Team Leader at ICR:  David Tuchschneider                       Martien van Nieuwkoop
ICR Primary Author:  A team composed of David
Tuchschneider; Marcelo A.
Romero; Jonathan W. Parker;
Pilar Larreamendy and Esme
Abedin
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S



QAG (if available)   ICR
Quality at Entry: S               S
Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project development objective as defined in the Project Appraisal Document' (PAD), was to
improve the quality of life of poor rural indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities by
providing improved access to land resources and financing for investment subprojects. Such
objective was to be achieved through implementation by local membership organizations and
communities in accordance with existing cultural values, vision of development and capacity for
self-management.
The project objective was fully consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy2 (CAS)
which identifies poverty alleviation as a key objective of the Bank's program in Ecuador. The
Project, focused on the rural indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian people, who were included in the
most vulnerable sectors of the population, as defined by the Ecuador Poverty Report`. Despite the
diversity of the targeted population, the Project objective was clear and realistic, with specific and
mostly attainable outputs. The project relied on a decentralized approach to implementation, so
that the weak capacities of the borrower and its agencies were not over stretched. While the
number of local groups responsible for implementation was very large, the matching self interest
of these groups as beneficiaries, reduced risks and increased the favorable outcomes. The timing
of the Project during a period of increasing social and political unrest of the indigenous movement
in Ecuador, provided the borrower a key instrument for responding to this pressure. It directly
supported the Government's (GOE) efforts to include indigenous peoples in national society,
within the context of cultural diversity, and it empowered indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
organizations to implement their own vision of development at the policy level and in the delivery
of local services and goods.
3.2 Revised Objective:
No revision to the original objective was made.
3.3 Original Components:
The Project is composed of four original components:
a) Institutional Strengthening of Local Membership Organizations and Communities:
This component was designed to strengthen second and third tier indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian membership organizations in the following areas: (i) subproject participatory
planning, preparation, implementation, and maintenance; (ii) financial management and
administration; (iii) cultural patrimony and (iv) human resources development, including basic
legal training. In addition, the component included specific activities focusing on seven small
ethnic groups at risk (Huaorani, Siona-Secoya, Cofan, Chachi, Tsachila, Embera and Awa).
b) Support to the Regularization of Land and Water Rights:
-2-



This component included (i) titling and regularization of land tenure rights in selective productive,
forestry and protected areas; (ii) land purchase financed by the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (IFAD) and GOE; (iii) diagnosis and elaboration of an action plan for
community-owned irrigation systems; and (iv) support to a program of selected legal reforms.
Additionally related participating public agencies, such as INDA and IWEFAN were strengthened.
c) Rural Investments:
This component financed demand-driven, small-scale investments and subprojects, including: (i)
natural resources management; (ii) community-based economic infrastructure; (iii) social
infrastructure; (iv) training; (v) technical assistance, including pre-investment studies; (vi)
economic projects and (vii) micro-enterprises. Subprojects (i)-(v) were financed on a grant basis
matched by community labor and municipal funds. Financing of subprojects (vi)-(vii) were made
through a saving and credit program financed by IFAD.
d) Institutional Strengthening of CONPLADEIN (National Council of Indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian Development):
This component was designed to strengthen CONPLADEIN (subsequently replaced during
implementation by CODENPE, the Development Council of the Nationalities and Peoples of
Ecuador) in the following areas: (i) financial management and administration; (ii) assistance to
elaborate a program of selected legal reforms, policies and a national plan for indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian development and (iii) establishment of a Project Management Unit and offices in
up to seven sub-regions of the country.
The Project's components were directly related to the achievement of project objectives. Two of
the four components provided the target group with increased access to land and investment
capital, while the others strengthened government agencies and local groups' capacity to
implement the project.
Project design considered the relevant lessons from previous Bank operations in the sector,
applying them to each of the components. Specifically, the Project design included: i) activities to
improve the policy framework, as traditionally in Latin America there have been legal and
institutional barriers for indigenous and afro peoples; ii) strengthening of key institutions to
develop indigenous people's social capital and technical capacity to design, implement and
evaluate community development projects; iii) earmarking resources to support land and water
rights and development of sufficient technical and human capacities for indigenous organizations
in this politically complex area; iv) ensuring poor people access to financial and technical
resources, to improve small farmers and artisans production, processing and marketing; v)
improving ownership and sustainability of subprojects through a participatory planning process at
local level, vi) credit, used as a tool for community development and a mechanism to develop
human and social capital.
The project design was flexible enough to continue its implementation under the constitutional
reform which redefined indigenous peoples rights around a new concept of indigenous
nationalities or peoples. The amendment of the Loan Agreement requested by the Ecuadorian
-3-



authorities to incorporate these concept of nationalities and other minor adjustments is under
review by the Ecuadorian authorities.
3.4 Revised Components:
There were no changes in the project's original components.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
Performance rating for this section is Satisfactory. The project objectives were consistent with
the CAS and Government priorities. The Bank's safeguard policies were properly followed.
Project design was of high quality. Assumptions about relevant external factors proved
reasonable with the exception of the state of the local banking system, which collapsed during
implementation. This rating was supported by the findings of a QAG review [Quality of
Supervision of Risky Projects (FYOO-01)] of this Project. Project design was ground breaking for
the region (if not the Bank), in that it relied on a vision of ethnic identity, building on the positive
qualities of indigenous cultures, with close attachments to ancestral land, including the capacity to
mobilize labor and other resources to promote local employment and growth.
The World Bank. Dec.15,1997. Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project - Project
Appraisal Document. Report No. 17217-EC
The World Bank, 1997. Country Assistance Strategy: Progress Report for Ecuador. Report No.97-38, March
25,1997
The World Bank, 1996. Ecuador Poverty Report, page 55
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The overall outcome of the Project is rated Satisfactory. The Project improved the quality of life
of many poor rural indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities, or it helped to diminish the
negative impact of the economic crisis (para. 5.2) on them. The inclusion of indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian organizations at the local, regional and national level in the identification and
implementation of priority demands, produced positive economic and social impacts on the target
population, as well as an enhanced social capital, which should help sustain these processes in the
future. By playing a key role in managing Project implementation, these social organizations
increased their visibility in Ecuadorian society and tested their capacities in finding concrete
solutions to the problems of their members.
In general the Project has produced a qualitative change in many of the Afro-Ecuadorian and
indigenous communities, which have increasing confidence in their abilities to improve their
future. The project helped to encourage the democratic inclusion of Afro-Ecuadorian and
indigenous peoples in the state, and the participatory approach used, has proven to be an
important vehicle for decentralization and social empowerment for their communities. The
Project showed a cost-effective way to improve the delivery of social services even in the most
remote areas of the country, and restored some of the credibility lost by government in the
intervening crisis. CODENPE is developing into a creditable political institution and its PMU is
generally recognized as a capable technical partner for these groups to develop other programs in
the future. The team decided not to provide a Highly Satisfactory rating to the Project due to a
shortfall in the provision of counterpart funding from GOE, which affected land purchases in
-4-



particular.
4.2 Outputs by components:
Component 1: Institutional Strengthening of Local Membership Organizations and
Communities:
The overall achievement of this Component is rated Satisfactory. The Component objective was
to strengthen the capacity of local indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian organizations to participate in
the formulation of state policies, participate actively in local development projects, and carry out
specific functions as service providers to their members, especially the promotion of
inter-culturalism, representation in external agencies and technical assistance to grassroots
organizations. Under the Project, 241 second tier organizations (OSGs), third tier (OTGs) and
Indigenous Nationalities Organizations were supported and 212 development plans were
formulated at the local level, 19% more than expected at appraisal. Overall, 207 indigenous and
Afro-Ecuadorian organizations, were equipped with office and technical equipment, representing
an output 31% higher than the number estimated by appraisal.
So far 67 "licenciados" and 335 "bachilleres" have been graduated, and 646 local technicians have
been trained, representing, 74.4%, 139.6% and 133.5% of the number estimated at appraisal,
respectively. Many of those selected for scholarships were already leaders in their communities
and used this opportunity to strengthen their capabilities. Others have been able to assume such
roles as a result of this experience. The rest work with OSGs, OTGs or non-governmental
organizations (NGOs) as technicians in subprojects. There has been some questioning of the way
in which beneficiaries of scholarships were chosen, particularly given the large, unsatisfied
demand for this line of financing. Of the total graduates 43% are women. In addition, 559
persons are presently engaged in various levels of formal education: 480 in "licenciaturas" and 79
in "bachillerato". The Project also financed the education of 69 postgraduate professionals, not
planned at appraisal.
Regarding cultural outputs, the Project printed 10 publications, doubling the output established at
the appraisal; prepared 8 videos, 50% of the total estimated; supported 97 cultural events, more
than twice the number assigned in the appraisal. The cultural patrimony events (concursos)
planned at appraisal were canceled after 6% were carried out, because the Project did not have
the management resources to ensure their success. The project supported 10 cultural seminars,
one cultural fair, 4 intercultural exhibits, 8 cultural diagnosis and supported 15 cultural music
groups. Additionally, the Project financed 3 gender studies and trained 20 gender promoters,
neither foreseen at appraisal. These gender activities were added at the midterm review to address
the lack of focus on gender issues during project design.
The specific actions to strengthen the seven small ethnic groups in danger of extinction were
partly carried out as planned. The activities proved difficult, as by their very nature such groups
were remotely located, geographically dispersed and had the weakest capacity. The Project's
design, strongly influenced by the reality of highland nationalities and peoples, proved difficult to
adapt to these lowland groups. Some refused to participate fully given a history of discrimination
and distrust.  With project support other groups were able to  publish dictionaries and
alphabetization charts of their native language and to prepare and implement local development
plans. As a direct result of the Zaparo nation strengthening activities, it received an international
- 5-



award from UNESCO, declaring its language as oral and intangible patrimony of humanity.
To measure the impact of institutional strengthening activities on the target indigenous
organizations, a study was completed in April 2002 to compare their evaluated institutional
capacity at that time with the results of a census of OSGs and OTGs working with the Project,
developed in 1998'. The study analyzed five indicators to measure the institutional strength of
these executing agencies (EAs): human resources, managerial capacity, cooperation and conflict
resolution, and links or external relations with the community, indigenous organizations, local
governments and NGOs. The results showed that 12.9% or 31 organizations, had obtained a
relatively strong level of strengthening; 126 EAs, representing 52.3% of the total had a medium
level; 71 or 29.5% of the EAs were moderately weak; and 13 or 5.4% of the EAs were weak.
Most of the weaker organizations were new entrants to the Project. EAs demonstrated the most
capacity in cooperation and conflict resolution, followed by managerial capacity and
organizational culture. By stressing the importance of adopting proper accounting and reporting
methods, the Project helped OSGs improve their capacities to manage funds transparently.
Considering the large number of indicators analyzed in the April 2002 survey and the high degree
of cultural diversity of the EAs, which had generated different working styles and different levels
of organizational consolidation, the study results combined with the higher than expected outputs
for this component, were the primary justification for the Satisfactory rating.
Component 2: Support to the Regularization of Land and Water Rights:
The overall achievement of this Component is rated Satisfactory. The objective of the Component
was to provide improved and more secured access of the targeted population to land and water
resources. On completion, the Project will have supported the preparation of 71 management
plans for sustainable development, a prerequisite for obtaining a land title, 77% more than the
appraisal performance indicator. The outcome for land titles adjudicated was achieved. Though
only 30% of the appraisal target for number of titles transferred was achieved, this effort
benefited 93 indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian organizations, 16% more than planned at appraisal,
representing a population of eleven thousand (there were no targets in this respect). The project
transferred 253,076 hectares of land, 58% higher than the appraisal estimate Some 84% of the
land transferred was located in Amazonia with 10% in the coastal region and 6% in the highlands.
While the appraisal correctly identified the issues and challenges to meeting the transfer objective
in national parks and other protected areas, it underestimated the time necessary to amend the
Forestry Law, due to increasing political (environmental interest groups, oil companies) resistance
to transfers. As a result there was no land titled or transferred in protected areas. As envisaged,
160 community paralegal assistants were trained in community organization, land legalization,
preservation of natural resources, and community tourism, indigenous rights and conflict
mediation. Additionally 1080 ha. of land was prepared for future transfer. The only private land
purchased under the Project, was financed by IFAD, and involved 634 hectares, benefiting 8
organizations in the highlands region. GOE's planned land purchases did not occur for lack of
counterpart funds.
The Project achieved its program of legal reforms for land titling. It supported the preparation of
the draft bill to propose the Special Law for the Conservation and Sustainable use of the
Biodiversity in Ecuador. It would allow the adjudication and titling of ancestral possession lands,
-6-



located in restricted or protected areas, to nationalities, indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian people.
The draft bill is in the Presidency and National Congress, waiting for approval. The Project also
helped GOE (Ministry of the Environment and INDA) to regulate the procedures for the approval
of Integrated Management Plans for land adjudications; and to codify the procedures and
parameters for titling ancestral lands and the preparation of socio-historic ancestral studies
required.
Regarding access to water resources, the Project supported the preparation of a diagnosis study
and an action plan to improve community-owned irrigation systems. Though the appraisal planned
to include 80 OSGs in this process, the PMU was only able to cover 40 OSGs with 458 irrigation
systems (2,647 kIn). This represented only about 50% of the target defined by appraisal. The
shortfall was due to poor performance by the PMU and lack of funding from GOE. Although
there were no targets in these respects, the activity actually benefited 793 communities, 34,117
people and identified subprojects valued at US$31.5 million. Future activities will incorporate 70
new OSGs and 726 irrigation systems, work which is proposed for the second phase of the
Project.
Component 3: Rural Investments:
The overall achievement of this Component is rated Satisfactory. The Component objective
aimed to increase access of indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian communities to services and
markets and to diversify and/or intensify rural production. At the regional level there were 160
second tier organizations (OSGs) which represented their community groups, either indigenous or
Afro-Ecuadorian. These OSGs played a key role by implementing subprojects for their
communities. In this regard, the Project, was able to provide (six months before closing) grants
for 654 rural investment subprojects, 82% of the target defined by the appraisal. The shortfall was
caused by lack of Project financing to continue the program. So far 518 (79%) subprojects have
been concluded and the total investment generated by these subprojects including community
contribution was US$16.6 million. There are 123 subprojects worth US$7.3 million, which have
been prepared but cannot begin implementation, until further financing is obtained. Additionally
there are still about 1800 subproject ideas worth an estimated $150 million which could be
considered for future financing, if the proposed PRODEPINE 2 Project has an investment
component.
Of the subprojects financed, 50.4% were for social infrastructure; 40.4% for community
productive infrastructure and 8.1% for environment and sustainable management of natural
resources. Social infrastructure investment was primarily for classrooms, shelters, dining areas,
and drinking water systems. Main activities financed under community productive subprojects,
were irrigation systems, agro-industry, stone paved roads and greenhouses.
The investment financed by the component benefited 62,644 families, 57% higher than the number
estimated at appraisal. They were located in 103 cantons. Component activities had an impact on
26% of the total indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian population and 33% of the grassroots
organizations which represent them. Beneficiaries were represented by 1,582 grassroots
organizations, out of which 69.3% were affiliated with CONAIE, the largest indigenous
organization, 16.2% were Afro, and 7.3% affiliated with FENOCIN, the National Federation of
-7-



Organizations of Indigenous and Afro Campesinos. Twelve nationalities within Ecuador benefited
from this component. The Kichwa, making up 77% of the target population, received 67% of
investment. Afro made up 6.5% of the target population and received 13% of the investment. The
Shuar who made up 3% of the target population received 9% of the investment. Although
Afro-Ecuadorians lost political representation in CODENPE when it was created, this target
group did not lose access to Project services and financing for subprojects.
In January 2001, the results of an environmental audit" of a representative sample of 43
subprojects, indicated that the type and nature of the subprojects  did not pose adverse
environmental impacts. The audit found that 81% of the subprojects were properly categorized;
28% had applied successfully the environmental mitigation measures designed; and 48.8% were
without impact to the environment.  These results prove that a highly decentralized,
beneficiary-driven project can apply the environmental safeguards succesfully.
To estimate the economic benefits of the supported subprojects, a representative sample of 50
subprojects was recently evaluated in depth by the CESA Consulting firm under FAO-CP
supervision7. In broad terms, the preliminary results of the evaluation lead to the following
inferences: on average 73% of resources required for subproject investments came from
PRODEPINE and 27% from beneficiary communities; 95% of subprojects directly addressed
priority needs of communities; 40% of subprojects needed budgetary increases to face price
adjustments during implementation; 85% of subprojects are currently in operation; 75% of
subprojects have clear responsibilities assigned; 80% of subprojects were in fact identified by the
communities themselves or with the support of OSG's; communities express satisfaction with
investments executed and services generated for 75% of subprojects. However in general terms
the major shortfalls included: fluctuating community involvement during the subproject cycle;
technical design not always appropriate to the social and environmental conditions; lack of clear
mechanisms to ensure the accountability of OSGs to their constituent communities; and technical
assistance was not always appropriate, opportune and sufficient during start-up operations.
Implementation of this component was highly regarded by the indigenous and Afro population. It
provided their organizations with the means to help communities execute their prioritized
investments. The component mobilized significant labor time by all beneficiary communities
which was provided under reciprocity mechanisms, thus reinforcing social capital and providing
for its application to the delivery of goods and services. Subproject implementation was generally
accompanied with a great sense of pride and ownership, which bades well for the future
sustainability of the investments.
This ICR does not include the Rural Financial Services Program financed 100% by IFAD and
which forms part of this component. This Program was stalled by the country's banking crisis, and
its activities were delayed for almost three years. Accordingly IFAD has extended its program's
Closing Date until March 2004. The evaluation of this credit program would be covered in the
ICR for the proposed PRODEPINE Phase 2 Project, which is under preparation.
Component 4: Institutional Strengthening of CONPLADEIN/CODENPE:
The overall achievement of this component's objectives and outputs is rated Satisfactory. The
-8-



component objective was to enable the GOE to better formulate and execute policies and
programs directed to the indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian population.
The GOE in March 13, 1997, created CONPLADETN as a ministerial level public institution,
ascribed to the Presidency of the Republic, to formulate policies, plans, coordinate and implement
the development of indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples. Later, on December 11, 19988, in
order to include the changes adopted in the New Constitution regarding the definition of
nationalities, the GOE created the Consejo de Desarrollo de las Nacionalidades y Pueblos del
Ecuador, CODENPE, which replaced the former Council. To attend Afro-Ecuadorian issues, the
GOE created the Corporaci6n de Desarrollo Afroecuatoriano, CODAE9.  Both public
organizations were supported by the Project. CODENPE is fully operational and played a key role
in the dialogue between indigenous people and the GOE. On the other hand, CODAE started to
operate only towards the end of the Project, due to political disagreements between
Afro-Ecuadorian organizations and lack of government funding. Afro-Ecuadorians representation
in the Project was led by the National Afro-Ecuadorian Council (CNA), the country's largest
Afro-Ecuadorian  organization, which participated in the Consultative Committee of
PRODEPINE.
As expected, this component supported the preparation of the National Indigenous Development
Plan, which after the validation at community level is ready to be approved by the National
Council of CODENPE. It also completed 114 workshops, mainly related to the preparation of
proposed laws, 63% higher than the estimated by appraisal. Also, 14 public fora were
implemented compared to the 10 expected at appraisal. To support the decentralized
administrative functionality of CODENPE, seven regional offices were established and equipped
as anticipated. CODENPE's use of project funds has obtained a timely and clean audit opinion for
each year of operation.
This component's support for a program of legal reforms on indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
issues was modified during implementation to accommodate the new priorities of the
Constitutional Reform. Most of the original outputs planned were achieved: (a) the Nationalities
and Pueblos Law which was presented to the Congress for approval; (b) a law recognizing
traditional health systems; and (c) several laws protecting indigenous cultures. In addition to the
expected outputs it also prepared laws or regulations concerning childhood and adolescence,
judicial administration, bilingual education, and public participation.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The appraisal (PAD) provided economic and financial analyses for the Rural Investment
Component, which originally made up US$26.7 million (53%) of project costs. During appraisal
the analyses were based on an evaluation of 28 subproject models developed by FAO-CP for the
Project. The combined analyses of the 28 models yielded and an ERR of 38.5% and a NPV of
US$47.5 million. For the ICR, CESA Consultants, under the supervision of FAO-CP, completed
an operational and economic evaluation for a representative sample of 50 subprojects using a
similar methodology. The results of this work are provided in Annex 3 to this ICR. When the
direct and indirect benefits of this sample are applied to the US$16.6 million actually invested, an
ERR of 33% and a NPV of US$23.4 million can be assumed. The calculations demonstrated that
-9-



this component of the Project has probably produced very positive economic impacts, though less
than assumed at appraisal, even with the economic and political shocks which occurred during
implementation.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
The PAD also estimated a weighted average FRR of 34.8% for the 28 subproject models. The
sample evaluated (31 revenue generating subprojects) for the ICR yielded an FRR of 49%.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
The Project had a major development impact by financing the creation and strengthening of
CONPLADEIN and its successor, CODENPE. The latter is the indigenous peoples' national
intermediary with the Government, and its executive secretary is accorded cabinet rank. It now
has demonstrated, with the help of its PMU, capabilities to prepare draft laws and national
development plans, and to administer complex development projects. At a lower level the project
had an equally important impact with OSGs and their communities. The TA support provided
these groups, both indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian, with the skills in participatory planning and
subproject management to complete and operate their investments. Perhaps most importantly the
Project was able to convert a general protest mentality within the target groups to genuine
concern for development. It created linkages to local governments and introduced many people
to these political processes. The Project provided GOE with a timely response to public protests
and unrest, while developing or reinforcing a culture of administration of resources with
accountability, controls, and deliverables.  In short, the Project helped separate  political
discussions from technical ones.
4Fundaci6n Heifer Ecuador, April 2002. Las capacidades de las Organizaciones Indigenas y Afroecuatorianas de
2o. y 3er. Grado: Resultados del Censo de Entidades Ejecutoras de PRODEPINE e Indice de Fortalecimiento
Institucional
Coronel, Rosario, 1998. Censo Nacional de Organizaciones Indigenas y Negras e Indice de Fortalecimniento
Institucional, PRODEPINE, Quito, Unpublished; and Ram6n, Galo, 1998. Informe de los resultados de la
Consultoria sobre el indice institucional de las OSGs, OTGs y Nacionalidades, PRODEPINE, Quito, Unpublished
Corporaci6n OIKOS. 2001. Auditoria Ambiental a la Cartera de Subproyectos Financiados por el PRODEPINE:
Informe de Verificaci6n y Evaluaci6n Ambiental de los Subproyectos
CESA-ECLOF. 2002. Evaluaci6n de Impactos de Subproyectos NPblicos
Decreto No.386 publicado en el Registro Oficial No.86 del 11 de Diciembre de 1998
Decreto No. 1747 publicado en el Registro Oficial No.381 del 10 de Agosto de 1998
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
During the project implementation period, Ecuador went through a severe economic crisis, partly
caused by a drop in world petroleum prices. Additionally, natural disasters such as El Nino
flooding and volcanic eruptions negatively impacted economic growth. A border war with Peru,
political instability (three governments in two years) and civil disturbances also characterized the
period. After a short-lived coup in January 2000, led by indigenous groups and army officials, the
succeeding government dealt more carefully with indigenous issues. These circumstances might
have indirectly benefited the Project, by raising governmental commitment to the indigenous
sector, as demonstrated by the promotion of CODENPE's former Executive Secretary to
Minister of Social Welfare. Nevertheless, the fiscal deficits, financial crises and macroeconomic
-10-



problems, tended to capture government attention and priorities.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The achievement of project objectives was most negatively impacted by the country's economic
crisis, created mostly by poor macro-economic policies. This resulted in hyperinflation, collapse of
the banking system, massive bankruptcy in the private sector and the country's default on its
foreign debt. In response, implementation of the IFAD financed rural credit component of the
Project had to be delayed for almost three years. GOE was unable to provide the required
counterpart funds in a complete and timely manner.
During project implementation there was a reform of the country's Constitution to among other
things, extend special rights to indigenous peoples (nationalities) and Afro-descendants. This
created an enabling environment for these groups' development that confirmed the objectives and
methodology of the Project. On the other hand the legal concept of "nationalities and peoples"
was used by CONAIE, CODENPE and sometimes the GOE as a tool to try to exclude from the
Project groups not strictly organized by ethnic "nationality", such as indigenous people organized
by religious affiliation or by economic or social class like Campesinos.  This approach was
opposed by the Bank, as it ran counter to the inclusive and participatory principles on which the
Project was designed.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The high degree of cultural diversity and the different levels of organization and political influence
attained by interest groups, participating in the Project, produced coordination problems and
political struggles to define composition and control of the Project's managing council and its
Management Unit (PMU) in CODENPE. In general there was a relatively slow decision making
process at all levels of management, due to the indigenous culture, which requires a long
consultation with the stakeholders to resolve any important issue. On the other hand this situation
produced a strong commitment by beneficiaries to the Project's objectives and was primarily
responsible for the Project's successful results. The PMU was able to set up and manage a good
accounting and control system, which permitted clean audit opinions for each year of project
implementation.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
The Borrower and the Bank agreed that because the Project had used 88.8% of the loan
proceeds, it would be appropriate to prepare an advanced ICR for the project, with an evaluation
of results obtained as of June 30, 2002. As is indicated in Table 1 below, as of this date, the
Project had used US$30.5 million or only 72% (not counting the US$7.5 million IFAD Rural
Credit Program) of the total project costs estimated at appraisal. The Project's financing plan is
shown in Annex 2. Counterpart funds provided by GOE amounted to only US$1 million, or
17.9% of the appraisal estimate. GOE's inability to provide US$4.6 million in counterpart funds
had a most negative impact on the first two components. Expenditures under Component 2 only
amounted to 25.5% of the appraisal estimate. Communities receiving investment grants under
Component 3 slightly exceeded their counterpart-financing requirement of 20%. IFAD provided
its co-financing in a timely manner: US$6.3 million, primarily to finance grants for subprojects in
Component 3. The Project's Closing Date was also extended three months to December 31, 2002
to allow completion of those activities which still have unused external financing of about US$4
- 1 1 -



million.
Table 1. Comparison of Cost at Appraisal and Actual Expenditures in US$ million
Components                           Cost at Appraisal  Expenditures at  Actual/Planned %
06/30/02
Institutional Strengthening of Local      7.1               5.6               79.0
Organizations & Communities
Regularization of Land and Water Rights   5.1               1.3               25.5
Rural Investments                        14.9               14.8            99.3
Institutional Strengthening of            7.3               7.7              105.5
Conpladein/Codenpe
Project Preparation Facility               1.4              1.1               78.6
Contingencies                             6.7
TOTAL                                     42.5              30.5               72.0
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability of the Project is rated likely.
The Project is likely to maintain its achievements relative to its objective for the following
reasons: i) the Project design reflects the demands of the indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian
peoples of Ecuador and responds to their long term development agenda; ii) the Project has been
largely appropriated by the beneficiaries who have contributed almost all the local counterpart;
and iii) most communities' capacity for self development has increased. Sustainability of
subprojects financed under the Project is likely, due to the high degree of participation by
communities in identification, preparation, contracting and implementation, which enhances
ownership. Also, the contribution by beneficiaries of the required counterpart funds, ensured
completion of their subprojects and should encourage their finance of recurrent maintenance
costs. Most of the communities participating in the Project successfully formulated local
development plans and implemented their subprojects.They should have improved bargaining
capacity with national development institutions, by providing these institutions with their own
organized set of priorities and vision of development. At the political level CODENPE has
developed into a capable institution with improving capacities to represent the interests of
indigenous peoples, though its capability to manage large development projects will be largely
dependent on PMU consultants. It is now attracting other financing from IFAD, European Union
and Spain, and GOE intends to fully finance CODENPE's core personnel in the future. GOE has
requested the Bank for a follow up operation to reach more communities and to consolidate and
enhance the accomplishments of those which participated in the first PRODEPINE.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Project will continue to operate for six months, up to the end of 2002. This period will be
used to finalize pending activities, especially in the Rural Investment Component. The Rural
Financial Services Program, supported by IFAD, will continue for an additional two years under
the auspices of the proposed PRODEPINE II. The latter will be the primary vehicle to
consolidate the accomplishments of the first project. CODENPE should continue to monitor the
- 12 -



performance of a representative sample of subprojects from PRODEPINE I to gain additional
lessons on how to ensure their sustainability. The project management capabilities of CODENPE
will be difficult to sustain, unless it can internalize the skills of the consultants who make up the
PMU. For this reason the design of the second project should consider whether the key
management and staff of the PMU should be retained as permanent employees. Project
preparation should also explore how the Constitutional concept of "Nationalities and Peoples" can
be accommodated and whether a new project should continue to use regional offices and pursue
the principle of inclusion for all indigenous groups. Preparation of a new project should include a
reevaluation of the options for providing indigenous people with long term access to land in
protected areas, until legislation to grant ownership rights in such areas is passed.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank's overall performance in identification, preparation and appraisal is rated Satisfactory.
The Bank's performance for identification is rated Highly Satisfactory, as the Project was focused
on the development needs of the most vulnerable sectors of the population, so it was highly
consistent with the CAS emphasis on poverty alleviation and with Government development
priorities. The identifying vision of "ethno-development" challenged the conventional approach to
the misconceived regional "indian problem". It was a ground-breaking attempt to use indigenous
culture's positive qualities to promote local employment and growth. The willingness of the GOE
and Ecuadorian society to follow this vision was properly recognized by the identification team as
a unique opportunity to address local development issues in a completely new context.
The Bank's performance in assisting the Borrower with preparation and appraisal is rated
Satisfactory. Bank management recognized the unconventional aspects of the project concept and
assigned the region's most qualified staff and consultants, with an emphasis on social and
anthropology skills. The Bank's Legal Department assigned a specialist on indigenous peoples'
legal issues to support the team for the life of the project. Project design was kept simple, with
four specific components, directly related to the development objectives. The lesson learned from
previous projects on the importance of beneficiary participation became the essence of project
design and preparation. A Project Preparation Facility and Trust Funds were used to finance pilot
subprojects for the Rural Investment Component to develop the ground-breaking concepts and
procedures which would prove such a success during project implementation. As a result project
preparation took two full years.
The Project followed applicable Bank safeguard policies and all financial management and
procurement requirements were met. No specific targets or activities for gender inclusion were
part of the project until the Mid-Term Review, when studies and training in this subject were
added. Performance indicators were properly designed for most activities.  The only one that
proved clearly unrealistic involved outputs for private land purchase and water resources. While
the appraisal correctly analyzed the issues and challenges for this component, it underestimated
the time and effort needed to achieve its outputs. More importantly these activities had to be
curtailed due to lack of GOE financing. The coordination with IFAD, financier of the Rural Credit
- 13-



Program, was very good. The appraisal could not realistically have foreseen the various negative
impacts listed in para. 5.1 above, but the Project's design and reliance on its beneficiaries for
implementation, permitted it to succeed anyway.
7.2 Supervision:
The Bank's supervision of the Project is rated Satisfactory.
The Project enjoyed continuity (identification through two years of supervision) of core Bank
staff who provided a strong skill set and the highest regard for development impact. Missions
were well staffed and with the exception of FY 2001 were timely. A local anthropologist in the
resident mission was made a permanent member of the supervision team to deal with day to day
problems in the field. All these elements played a key role in gaining and maintaining the
confidence of counterpart officials and beneficiary communities. Implementation progress was
closely monitored on a continuing basis using the key performance indicators, and proactive
solutions were found when problems were identified. Financial, procurement, environmental and
operational impact audits were used on a regular basis to assure that the Project's objectives were
achieved and the Bank's Safe Guard Policies were followed. PSR ratings were accurate and
timely. Bank staff worked closely and well with partners such as IFAD and FAO-CP.
In light of the diverse cultural and political interests of the beneficiary groups in the Project,
special attention was given by Bank staff to ensuring that decision making at the various levels of
implementation did not favor one group over another. When GOE and CODENPE interpreted
the Constitutional reform as providing the grounds to exclude some indigenous groups (para. 5.2)
from access to the Project, the Bank insisted that all groups should continue to have access to
project services and investment. When attempts were made by a powerful indigenous group to
replace PMU staff for political reasons, the Bank insisted that decisions could only be based on
technical criteria. This position permitted the PMU to maintain the continuity of its staff to the
benefit of project implementation. Afro-Ecuadorian access to the Project was maintained despite
their losing representation in the newly formed CODENPE. The Bank also supported the
formation of CODAE to represent this group.
OED included this Project in its review of "Quality of Supervision of Risky Projects FYOO-01".
Overall it rated the supervision effort for this Project as Highly Satisfactory. Its only reservation
was a criticism of Bank Management's handling of the budget in FY 2001, when it appears that a
cut in the supervision budget for this Project severely reduced the activities of HQ staff, while at
the end of that year there were excess resources that went unused.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Borrower's performance in project preparation is rated Satisfactory.
GOE's priority for the Project and its commitment to Project objectives was strong from the
beginning. GOE's National Secretariat of Indigenous and Ethnic Minority Issues (SENAIN)
-14 -



played a key role in identifying the Project. It sponsored the creation of a coordinating group
known as the Committee of the Decade of the Indigenous People ( after the U.N. Declaration of
the same name) and organized a series of workshops to prepare an initial project proposal.
GOE's desire to address indigenous issues, though in response to increasing political pressure,
was sincere and manifested itself in timely creation of CONPLADEIN (replacing SENAIN) and
its location under the Presidency's General Secretariat of Administration.
Despite the additional time and complexity of coordinating so many interested groups, GOE
always supported a participatory preparation process. This created a sense of ownership among
stakeholders, which insured the Project's success. It selected a quality team of local consultants
for preparation work. Based on the groundbreaking nature of the Project, it requested a PPF and
undertook an extensive series of pilot subprojects to develop the criteria and procedures for
efficient implementation. These arrangements allowed the Project to get off to a rapid start and to
maintain its schedule, despite the distractions of the economic and political crisis. While the
lessons learned from these pilots were invaluable for successful implementation, the diversity of
indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian cultures, made it difficult to transfer procedures from one to
another. In hind sight, GOE may have over-relied on a "one size fits all" approach in a
multicultural situation. Its preparation for dealing with the financial, procurement, social and
environmental elements of the Project was satisfactory.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Government's performance during implementation is rated: Satisfactory
GOE took a very positive decision for the Project, when it gave CODENPE (successor to
CONPLADEIN) and its PMU operational autonomy. The indigenous groups (primarily
CONAIE) nominate the Executive Director and GOE appoints a minority of management council
members. This arrangement increased indigenous peoples' ownership and commitment and made
CODENPE unlikely to have its management changed in response to political changes in
government. On the other hand GOE was slow to create an institution to replace CODENPE for
Afro-Ecuadorians, who were less well organized and perhaps enjoyed less political power. GOE
successfully implemented the PPF on schedule. Due to the country's severe economic and
financial crisis, GOE was only able to provide 18% of its obligation for the Project's financing
plan. Its counterpart funds were provided only to cover tax obligations and pari-passu
disbursements. Project activities requiring higher financing percentages such as land purchase,
water resource studies and titling of productive lands had to be curtailed as a result. However this
shortfall did not hold up implementation of the Rural Investment Component, as beneficiaries
made contributions exceeding the local counterpart budgeted at appraisal.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
The Project Unit (PMU) performance in implementation is rated Satisfactory.
The PMU was able to maintain the continuity of its technical staff and demonstrated for the most
part, effective management of the Project throughout implementation. To reduce political
interference in hiring decisions, staff were identified and selected with the help of a specialized
personnel agency according to clearly agreed technical criteria. Management and staff shared the
project vision and its emphasis on beneficiary participation at all levels. The PMU carried out
- 15 -



performance monitoring and impact evaluation on a regular basis. The unit complied with the
Bank's Safeguard Policies. The PMU maintained accounts properly at seven regional offices and
consolidated them at headquarters with clean audit opinions delivered in a timely fashion.
Nevertheless there should have been better coordination and cooperation between the PMU and
CODENPE. As the former was staffed with consultants and was in operation before the latter
was created, the PMU management was usually trying to protect its prerogatives from
encroachment by the superior policy and political authority, CODENPE. This situation caused
friction and sometimes slowed down implementation.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is rated Satisfactory.
8. Lessons Learned
The main lessons learned with this project, can be summarized as follows:
*     An ethnic vision of development, which builds on the positive qualities of indigenous
cultures, including a sense of ethnic identity, to mobilize labor and capital can be an effective
vehicle for promoting local employment and growth;
*     Any successful model of "development with identity" must overcome a traditional
basic-needs approach and must facilitate opportunities to generate wealth through productive
initiatives based on the culture;
*     An integrated participatory approach, applied at grassroots level, can create in
beneficiaries a sense of ownership and responsibility for self development; yet the sustainability of
public infrastructure will ultimately depend on the availability of public budget resources to
maintain it;
*     A project design which emphasizes decentralized implementation is crucial for successfully
dealing with ethnic and cultural diversity of beneficiaries. In such instances the design cannot rely
on "one size fits all" methodologies, but procedures should be tailored to different cultures, types
of organizations and settings;
*     Piloting implementation procedures should speed up project implementation and improve
results;
*     The concept of social capital and the notion of community, when applied to development
issues, should be tempered by the reality of differing income levels and personal interest
imperatives;
*     Participation and social capital do not guarantee the absence of discretionality; for
example when administering scholarship programs, care must always be taken to design checks
and balances in the selection process to reduce favoritism and co-opting by elites; also the social
mechanisms of reciprocity do not seem to extend easily into the management of micro-enterprises;
*     A project focused on empowerment should monitor in a systematic way how its own
inputs may affect the relationships between communities and their higher level organizations,
because when the latter handle implementation they should remain accountable to their members;
*     One of the crucial elements in successful implementation of small investment subprojects,
is to ensure that training of beneficiary groups is provided in the right sequence and in a timely
manner;
- 16 -



*     Participatory planning can increase the capacity of beneficiaries to define and implement
their own vision of development and such plans can provide communities with a key instrument
for negotiating priorities with government development agencies and donors;
*     There is a trade-off in community procurement between lump-sum, fixed price contracting
and fully-documented subcontracting. The former delivers the investments more simply and
effectively, while the latter increases paperwork and field supervision, but provides an incentive to
strengthen formal organizational capacities;
*     The transfer of land in environmentally fragile protected areas may require an
accommodating legal framework which confirms the unique access to those lands by indigenous
and Afro-Ecuadorian communities, based upon ancestral rights;
*     In order to have a more comprehensive approach to inclusion, attention should be given to
gender differential issues during appraisal.
Given the rich and varied experiences that can be derived from the implementation of this Project,
the Bank will carry out a study to fully document, examine and capitalize the lessons learned.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
Cr 4277.doc
(b) Cofinanciers:
He revisado el ICR preparado para el prestamo del Banco para el proyecto PRODEPINE y me
parece que refleja bien el estado del proyecto y los avances alcanzados por el mismo.
Hay algunos puntos menores en los puse mi atenci6n los sefialo por parrafo:
4.2 No estoy seguro si patrimony events, bajo la modalidad de concursos, no deberian llamarse
contests. En el mismo parrafo el tema de haber evitado la extinci6n del Pueblo Zaparo me parece
de un valor incalculable y la pregunta que tengo es Lque mas podriamos hacer en este sentido? (i.e
en la Amazonia peruana se han perdido 11 Pueblos para siempre en los uiltimos 40 afnos).
5.1 Habria que mencionar la terrible hiperinflaci6n y las consecuencias traumaticas de la
dolarizaci6n total de la economia y sus fuertes efectos erosivos sobre los servicios financieros y
los negocios de los mas pobres (de hecho perjudicaron fuertemente a las primeras Cajas
Solidarias).
5.4 Cuando se habla de IFAD Rural Credit Program yo preferiria que se trate como IFAD Rural
Financial Services component. Es mas el FIDA nos solo a financiado este componente; por
ejemplo financi6 al 100% el de compra de tierras y valdria la pena aclarar mejor las
contribuciones del Fondo a las diversas partes del proyecto.
6.1 Al Final cuando se habla de Espafia y EU podria indicarse que el FIDA podria tener interes
para una segunda fase.
-17 -



La secci6n que queda debil es la de lecciones ambas instituciones estan aprendiendo bastante mas
de lo que se seiiala alli.
Un tema que interesa particularmente a FIDA es tener estrategias y mecanismos diferenciados
para los diferentes Pueblos y muy en particular para Amaz6nicos frente a los campesinos
indigenas alto andinos. Con respecto a los Afro ecuatorianos tambien se requiere desarrollar
especificidades. Ni todos son iguales, ni la sociedad ecuatoriana gana con un tratamiento
homogenizante. Dicho en otras palabras el proyecto PRODEPINE ha demostrado la viabilidad de
luchar con exito contra la pobreza de los Indigenas y minorias en Ecuador. Pero lo que no se ha
hecho aun es mostrarle a la sociedad Ecuatoriana que sus Pueblos y Nacionalidades generan
riqueza para el conjunto de la sociedad a traves de sus negocios, sus artes, su manejo de sitios
arqueol6gicos, su muisica, sus textiles, sus formas de manejo del territorio, su conservaci6n de la
biodiversidad, su culinaria, sus servicios como el turismo vivencial, etc.
Si habra un segundo PRODEPINE nos gustaria que no sea para financiar obras civiles (estas las
puede hacer cualquier ministerio o Fondo. Deseariamos a centrarnos en la producci6n de riqueza
a partir de la especificidad y los mejores talentos de los indigenas y negros del Ecuador.
Roberto Haudry de Soucy
Gerente Operaciones FIDA
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
10. Additional Information
- 18 -



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
1. Institutional Strengthening of Indigenous and Afroecuadorian Organizations
Number of organizations which have capacity tc                             110 organizatons are able to prepare loca
elaborate local development plans: 100                                    development  plans.  10%  more   tha
appraised.
Percentage of subprojects induded in loca                                 n.a.
development plans: 80% by year 4
Number of organizations which have received                                134 organizatons had received support fo
support for cultural patrimony: 110                                       cutural patrimony. 22%  more than th
number defined by appraisal
Number of organizations with increased access tc                           118 organizations had increased access to
resources: 110                                                            resources. 7% more than appraised.
Closer link between demand and investments                                 92% In the fourth year. Target expected
(Percentage  counterpart contrbution  actually                             90%
contrbuted): 90% by year 4.
Percentage of organizations with favorable extemal                         86% in the fourth year. Target expected: 90%
audit opinion: 90% by year 4
2. Support to Land and Water Rights Regularization
Number of organizations with capacity to elaborate                         7 organizatons are able to elaborat
land/forest NRM plans: 4                                                   land/forest NRM  plans. 75%  more than
appraised
Number of organizabons benefiting from lan                             63 communibes had been benefited from
regularizabon: 80.                                                     land regularizaton and execute land/fores
NRM plans
Number of organizations which have pardcipated i                           40 organizations. 50% of the target defined
the  diagnostc  and  contributed  to  wate                                 by appraisal. In terms of communites 93 had
management action plan: 80.                                                parficipated.
Concept of the ancestral possession translated i                           Agreement between MOE and INDA to
concrete procedures which allow  for activ                                regulate procedures for the approval o
participation of indigenous and afroecuadoda                               land/forest NRM plans and INDA's resolution
organizabons                                                               for titling ancestral land were signed
Follow-up project on community water managemen                             The follow-up project was prepared
under preparaton based on results of diagnosis
3. Rural Investments
Number of families benefiting from subproject                              62,664 families benefited from subprojects.
(matching grants): 40,000                                                  57% higher than appraised
Number of families benefitng from cajas solidadas                          Not evaluated in this ICR
3,000
Number of families benefiting from communi4                                Not evaluated in this ICR
banks: 3,000
Percentage of subprojects achieving expected                               75%  of subprojects achieved expected
economic retums: 75% by year 4                                             economic results. Equal percentage tha
expected.
Reduced poverty (% points): 8                                              n.a.
Percentage ublizabon of subprojects (matchin                               85% of subprojects are currentiy in operabon.
grants after one year): 90 by year 4                                       Target expected 90%
Percentage increase in local savings: 40% by yea                           38% increase in local savings was achieved.
4                                         __Target expected 40%
4. Institutional Strengthening of CONPLADEIN/CODENPE
CODENPE    Plan for Indigenous Developmeni                                 One comprehensive plan was prepared and
included in Carta Social: one per year                                     validated by communites. At appraisal 4
smaller plans were expected.
Favorable Audit opinion : one per year                                     Each year the project obtained clean audi
opinion
Level of disbursements: 95% by year 4                                      123% was achieved. Target expected 95%
Elapsed tme between subproject presentabon and                             3.2 months. Target expected: 2.5 months
approval (average): 2.5 months by year 4.
Elapsed bme between subproject presentaton and                             25% exceeded 4 months. Target expected.
approval (% of cases exceeding 4 months): 20% by                           20%
year 4.                                  .
Number of Annual Operatng    Plans (AOP                                    21 AOPs approved. One per each regional
approved by CCRs: 7 per year.                                              office. 100% of the target
-19-



Output Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                          Projected in last PSR               Actual/Latest Estimate
1. Institutional Strengthening of Indigenous and Afroecuadorian Organizations and Nationalities
Number of Local Development Plans elaborated 211 Local Development Plans have beer 212 Local Development Plans were finalized.
178.                                     finalized                             19% higher than appraised
Number of 1licencdados" trained: 90                                            67 'licenciados' trained. 74% of the targe
defined by appraisal
Number of 'bachilleres" trained: 240                                           335 "bachilleres' trained. 40% more than
appraised
Number of publications: 4
Number of legal assistants trained: 160.                                       160 of legal assistants trained.100% of the
target defined by appraisal
Number of concourses: 80.                                                      5 cufural concourses were developed,
representing 6% of the target defined by
__________________________________________                 ~~ ~~appraisal
Number of videos: 16.                                                          8 videos produced. 50% of the target.
Number of technical staff trained  through                                     646  technical  staff  trained  through
semi-formal training programs: 484.                                            semi-formal training programs. 33% more
than appraised
Number of cultural events: 40.                                                 97 cultural events organized. More than
double the number defined by appraisal
Number of membership organiations equipped                                     207 membership organizabons equipped.
158.                                                                           31% higher than appraised
Number of postgraduate students           Target not defined in the PAD        69 postgraduate students graduated
Number of studies of identites and gender roles  Target not defined in the PAD  3 studies developed
Number of gender promoters                Target not defined in the PAD        20   gender   promoters  trained  and
Inoorporated in local teams
2. Support to Land and Water Rights Regularization
Number of management plans elaborated: 40                                      71 management plans elaborated, including
INEFAN and INDA. 77% more than th
number estimated by appraisal
Number of titles adjudicated: 240.                                             71 tites adjudicated, representing 30% of the
target defined by appraisal
Number of legal reforms elaborated: 3                                          3 legal reforms elaborated
Number of Irrigation systems covered by diagnosbt                              458 irrigation systems covered by diagnostc
study: 1,000.                                                                  study, representing 46% of the target defined
by appraisal
3. Rural Investments
Number of subprojects financed (matching grants)                               654 subprojects financed (matching grants).
800.                                                                           82% of the target defined
Number    of   community   banks   suppor                                      Not evaluated in this ICR
arrangements: 150.
Number of 'cajas solidarias': 50.                                              Not evaluated in this ICR
4. Institutional Strengthening of CONPLADEINICODENPE
Number of Laws/Policies formulated: 5.                                         8 laws and 4 regulabons were elaborated. 2.4
tmes the number defined by appraisal
Elaboraton  of   an   IndicaUve  lndigenous                                    1 Indicative Indigenous Development Plan
Development Plan + Annual Up-dates: 4.                                         elaborated. 25% of the target
Number of workshops: 70.                                                       114 workshops Implemented. 63%  highe
than the estmated by appraisal
Number of forums: 8                                                            14 forums developed. 75%   more than
appraised.
Number of regional offices established: 7.                                     7 regional offices established as defined b
appraisal.
-20-



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equiva et)*
Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage
Estimate    Estimate     of Appraisal
Project Cost By Component                US$ million  US$ million
Institutional Strengthening of Local           7.1         5.6        79.0
Organizations and Communities
Support Land and Water Rights Regularization   5.1         1.3        25.5
Rural Investments                             14.9        14.8        99.3
Institutional Strengthening of                 7.3         7.7       105.5
Conpladein/Codenpe
Project Preparation Facility                   1.4         1.1        78.6
Total Baseline Cost                          35.8         30.5        85.2
Physical Contingencies                         4.4
Price Contingencies                            2.3
Total Project Costs                          42.5         30.5        72.0
Total Financing Required                  _  _32.5S_      29.1 _      89.5
* Table does not include US$7.5 million in Appraisal and US$1.8 in actual disbursements for the
Rural Credit program
-21 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US' million equ valent)
Procurement  Method1
Expenditure Category      ICB     NCB          Other2    N.B.F.    Total
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ C o s t
1. Works                               --         0.1       --       0.1
(0.1)              (0.1)
2. Goods and Equipment                 0.6        1.8       0.00      2.4
(0.6)      (0.9)     (0.00)    (1.5)
3. Land                                                     2.0       2.0
4. Services                                                  --
a. Consultants                                  12.0               12.0
(6.5)              (6.5)
b. Training                                     3.6                 3.6
(3.0)              (3.0)
c.        Mngmt.Services                        2.8                 2.8
Contracts
(2.0)              (2.0)
5. Rural Investments
a.   Grants    Community                        18.8       --       18.8
Subprojects                                      (9.4)               (9.4)
b. Credit                                                  5.0      5.0
6.  Incremental  Operating                         1.9       --       1.9
Costs                                             (I.1)              (1.1)
7. PPF                                             1.4       --       1.4
(1.4)              (1.4)
Total                               0.6        42.4       7.0      50.0
22-_ (0)               (24.4)             (25.0)
- 22 -



Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
Procurement Method1
Expenditure Category             ICB          NCB           Other2       N.B.F.       Total Cost
1. Works                                           --           0.4                         0.4
_____ _____ _____ _____ _   ___ __  L (0.1)      (0.1)
2. Goods and Equipment                             0.6          0.5          --             1.1
(0.6)         (0.4)                      (1.0)
3. Land                                                                      0.3            0.3
4 Services                                                       --           --_--
a. Consultants                                                9.7                        11.8
(6.5)                      (6.5)
b. Training                                                   3.6                         3.6
(3.0)                      (3.0)
c.     Mangmt.       Services                                 3.4                         3.4
Contracts
(1.2)                      (1.2)
5. Rural Investments
a.     Grants     Community                                   9.2                         9.2
Subprojects
(7.8)                       (7.8)
b. Credit 3/                                                                              --
6. Incremental Operating Costs                                   1.7                        1.7
7. PPF1111
Total                                 _         0.6          29.6          0.3           30.5
(0.6)        (21.6)       (0.00)         (22.2)
1/ Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.
2/ Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contra(
staff of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs relate
(i) managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.
3/ Table does not include US$ 1.8 million disbursed by IFAD under the Rural Credit program
-23-



Project Financing by Component (in US$ million gquivalent)*
Percentage of Appraisal
Component              Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest Estimate
Bank    Govt.  CoF.+Others Bank   Govt.   CoF.+Otbers Bank   Govt.   CoF.+ Others
Institutional           5.80    0.60     0.30      5A0    0.08      0.20     93.10   13.30     66.60
Strengthening of Local
Organizations     and
Communities
Regularization of land  1.20    2.80     2.00      0.90    0.01     0.30     75.00   0.40       15.00
and Water Rights
Rural Investments       9.40    0.30     9.50      8.00    0.08     6.80     85.10   26.60     71.60
Institutional           7.20    1.30     0.10      6.80    0.83     0.00     94A0    63.80      0.00
Strengthening       of
Compladein/Codenpe
PPF                     1.40    0.60     0.00      1.10    0.00     0.00     78.60   0.00       0.00
TOTAL                   25.00   5.60     11.90     22.20   1.00     730      88.80   17.90      6130
* Table does not include US$ 7.5 million in the Appraisal Estimate and US$ 1,8 in actual disbursements, for the Rural Credit program
-24 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Community     Subprojects  Beneficiaries   Investment   Annual Operation Annual Net Benefits   NPV
Persons Familic  Projec  Comr     Comr   Othe    Withou     With
muni    munity source        re re-inves
investment   men
Armenia       School          65      -   21,279   6,592     308 10,89(      3,096   1,781   (9,266      2%
Kayamas       School          3       -    7,16E   1,811      6C   1,44C      61A    (267    (4,929'   (6%)
Aggregate     School          9       -   28,44d   8,40i     36   12,33t     3,70    1,514  (14,195,     00
Chilla Grande Infant center   4       -   20,165   7,77(    1,09-  8,96C     5,548   4,45    11,53-,    19%
Chinipamba   Infant center    3       -   21,456   4,753    5,76      -      1,598     41   (12,895      2%
Aggregate     Infant center    7      -   41,62   12,52     6,85;  8,96C     7,145   4,87    (1,359,    120
Balcashi      Health center    -     104  20,573   4,74      652    600       412    (556   (19,8963       -
Utunkus       Pedestrian       -     420  19,621   4,307    2,10      -      4,452   2,604     1,095    13%
bridges
Changuaral    Solar energy     -      1   24,08   8,04(     251             2,858     940  (14,265    (2%)
San Antonio   Solar energy     -     2    15,16A   3,3       33(             5,714   4,440    12,27'    280/
Campanita     Solar energy     -      1   18,87,   5,61      23   C          3,442   1,91f   (4,501      7%
Aggregate     Solar energy     -      6   58,115  17,02      81       -     12,012   7,29t   (6,490,    1001
Ocpote        Drinking         -      5(  20,217   5,86      20       -      (300   (1,705  (25,255
water
San Fco.      Drinking         -      6   25,093   11,025    26       -      (268   (1,437  (34,011
Columbe       water
Verdepamba    Drinking         -      4   29,397  24,268     52       -      1,200   (142   (40,024        -
water
Cebollar      Drinking-              22   21,711   8,586    1,302     -      3,138   2,09    (6,418      8%
water
Aggregate     Drinking         -     38   96,42i   49,735   2,29      -      3,776  (1,187   (80,453,   (4%/)
water                                                                       I
San Isidro    Irrigation       -      5   20,591   7,59      88       -     16,982  16,020    86,519    60%
Pancun       Irrigation        -     13   18,501   6,59E    3,59      -      3,82    2,96      2,75     14%
Ichubam ba    __ _ _ _ ___          _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _  __ _ _  __ _ _ _  _ _ _ _
Calshi        Irrigation       -      7E  24,425   6,10(    1,872           22,34q  21,199   119,71(    73%
Alobamba      Irrigation       -      9    10,19    4,31(    653            36,60   36,131   227,78    252%
Gallo Rumi    Irrigation       -      5   20,784  23,12(     768      -      2,053    1,014  (25,704    (1%)
Aggregate     Irrigation       -     41   94,49    47,74i   7,763           81,816   77,326  411,07l    580c
San Antonio   Watershed        -     18(   2,288    1,24C         -          -        (307   (3,150        -
manag.
Coop. Hospital Soil recovery   -      5   23,538   6,842                     1,87     1,870  (14,826     2%
Aggregate     Natural          -     23   25,826   8,082                     1,876    1,56  (17,976      0%
resources            _
-25-



I      I      ~   ~~~I I      I        I       I       I I           I                 I
Guaranda -    Pastures          -    560   27,491   14,440 102,960           71,495   66,395  192,666    1690
Various                                                                  I
Tsuraku       Perennial        -      3    11,42    6,67     3,20      -      3,60     3,60    (1,491      90/
plantation
Shungubud     Greenhouse       -      5     7,584   2,264    =                  26S  (1,154    (7,928]   =
Tumgubug      Greenhouse        -     41   12,881   4,309      -             (3,997   (6,411  (28,219-
Yanajaca      Greenhouse       -       1   28,39     8,854     14       -      (816   (5,926  (35,887
Rumipamba     Greenhouse        -     5    26,33     8,82      -        -    (7,036   (9,669  (54,037
Aggregate     Greenhouse        -    16t   75,20    24,253     14       -   (11,580, (23,160, (126,070,
Mascarilla    Compost           -     2    24,37     9,93      40       -       72     (682   (26,966
production                           .                                          .
Totorillas    Tree nursery      -     17(  27,651   10,70(     -        -     19,90(  15,012    29,807    430/
Santa Teresita Grain mill       -     23   16,634    4,05      -        -       24S    (833   (16,836 _
Santo Domingo Cheese            -     2    19,444    5,653   1,74       -      4,82    3,66      1,67     13%
factory            I_I
Aggregate     Agro-             -      5   36,076    9,709   1,74       -      5,075   2,829  (15,158,     50
industry
Macas         Radio             -      -   39,021   10,161     -        -     24,531  17,08     35,04     41%
broadcasting
Total                         167   2,62d 626,381 238,443 129,296 21,896     228,93  174,51    440,076    260w
Total - Weighted based on investments for the whole sample (50 subprojects selected)         1,098,07      330c
-26-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty,           Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
Month/Year     Count           Specialty'                     Progress      Objective
Identification/Preparation
07/1995                      6    Task Team Leader (1)
Financial Analyst (1)
Naturl Resource Specialist(l)
Economist(l)
Financial Management
Specialist(l)
Social Scientist (1)
07/1996                      5    Task Team Leader(1)
Financial Analyst(1)
Natural Resource Specialist(l)
Financial Management Specialist
(1)
Social Scientist (1)
Appraisal/Negotiation
07/1997                      7    Task Team Leader (1)
Financial Analyst (1)
Natural Resource Specialist(l)
Social Scientist (1)
Financial Management
Specialist(l)
Legal Counsel(l)
Procurement Specialist(l)
Supervision
11/13/1998                   3    Team Leader (1)                    S              S
Sociologist (1)
Procurement Specialist (1)
4/20/1999                     3   Task Manager (1)                    S             S
Sociologist (1)
Procurement Specialist (1)
11/09/1999                   5    Task Manager (1)                    S             S
Sociologist (1)
Procurement Assistant (1)
Social Dev. Specialist (1)
4/26/2000                     4   Task Team Leader (1)                S             S
Senior Sociologist (1)
Social Devt. Specialist (1)
Procurement Analyst (1)
4/26/2000                     3   Task Team Leader (1)                S             S
Senior Sociologist (1)
Soc. Dev. Specialist (1)
11/20/2000                    4   Task Team Leader (1)                S             S
- 27 -



Sociologist (1)
Soc. Dev. Specialist (1)
Afro Latin Specialist (1)
ICR
06/17/02                    4    Task Team Leader (1)              S             S
Gender Specialist (1)
Consultant (2)
(b) Staff:
Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate  -
No. Staff weeks              US$ (000)
Identification/Preparation              110.0                       170.5
Appraisal/Negotiation                    74.0                       160.1
Supervision                              73.1                      261.3
ICR                                      23.7                       86.0
Total                                   280.8                      677.9
- 28 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Neghgible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
O Macro policies                     O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Sector Policies                    OH OSUOM ON * NA
O Physical                           O H OSUOM O N        * NA
FS Financial                         O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Institutional Development          0 H 0 SU O M 0 N     0 NA
O Environmental                      O H OSUOM O N * NA
Social
? Poverty Reduction            O H OSU*M O N O NA
F Gender                       OH   OSU*M      ON   ONA
Oi Other (Please specify)      O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Private sector development         0 H 0 SU * M 0 N 0 NA
Oi Public sector management          0 H O SU O M 0 N     0 NA
l Other (Please specify)             O H OSUOM O N * NA
- 29-



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactoiy, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bankperformance                                Rating
F Lending                                          *HS OS       OU     OHU
F Supervision                                      OHS OS       OLU    OHU
? Overall                                          OHS OS       OU     Q HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                            Rating
 Preparation                                      OHS OS        OU    O HU
? Government implementation performance            O HS 0 S      0 U   0 HU
C? Implementation agencyperformance                O HS O S      0 U   0 HU
3 Overall                                          OHS OS        OU OU HU
-30-



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
1.    The World Bank. 1997. Indigenous and Afroecuadorian Peoples Development Project.
Project Appraisal Document. Report No. 17217-EC
2.    The World Bank. 1996. Ecuador Poverty Report
3.    Fundaci6n Heifer Ecuador. 2002. Las capacidades de las Organizaciones Indigenas y
afroecuatorianas de 2do.y 3er. Grado: Resultados del censo de Entidades Ejecutoras de
PRODEPINE
4.    Corporaci6n OIKOS. 2001. Auditoria Ambiental a la Cartera de Subproyectos
Financiados por el PRODEPINE: Informe de Verificaci6n y Evaluacion Ambiental de los
Subproyectos
5.    PRODEPINE. Octubre 2000. Informe de Monotoria de Medio Periodo del PRODEPINE.
6.    Supervision Mission and Mid Term Review Reports, 1999-2002 and several Project
documents
7.    Loan Agreement dated June 12, 1998.
8.    CESA-ECLOF. 2002. Evaluaci6n de Impactos de Subproyectos Puiblicos. PRODEPINE
-31 -



Additional Annex 8. Borrower's ICR
Closing Report of the "Indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project"
(PRODEPINE)"
1.    Introduction
A review of the statistical information available on Ecuadorian poverty shows that rural
indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian communities are the largest social groups suffering from
structural poverty. In effect, while on a national level poverty strikes 46 % of all Ecuadorians as a
whole, 86 of every 100 indigenous persons are impoverished. Likewise, with regard to Unmet
Basic Needs, although 52.8 % of the Ecuadorian population lacks basic services, 92.7 % of all
indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities are without access to them. This trend deepens in
tenns of education. While the overall country illiteracy index is 10.8 %, this indicator reaches 42.5
% in indigenous populations and 53.2 % among indigenous women. Similarly, although the
nation-wide average for schooling is 7.6 years, indigenous people have an average level of 2.4
years and indigenous women barely 1.7. Consequently, indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian people
have the worst living conditions, the lowest schooling levels with inappropriate educational
systems, serious unemployment levels, minimal access to health services, and severe social and
economic discrimination.
Rural poverty among indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian nationalities and peoples, a phenomenon
with historic, economic, political, social and cultural roots, is seen in: (i) little or no access to
services aimed to meet the basic needs of rural households; (ii) incomes below the minimum
needed to provide basic foodstuffs, goods and services; and (iii) ethnically grounded economic
and social exclusion and discrimination.
Indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities suffer structural poverty, as they are settled in
ecologically fragile environments (paramos, arid zones or mountain slopes, with degraded soils or
wetlands, that are not appropriate for agriculture), have little or no means of production, are
illiterate or scarcely schooled, have limited production know-how, few work skills, and lack
access to social and productive services and infrastructure.
The root causes and continuance of indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian poverty go back to the
discovery and conquest of the Americas, have been reproduced through ethnically based
economic, social and cultural discrimination and exclusion throughout the republic and, in latter
years, are being aggravated by the effects of macroeconomic models and their respective
development policies. Added to this are other factors such as non-existent or insufficient access to
land and water, weak formation of human and social capital, contraction of public investment in
rural infrastructure, inadequacy of development support services, and absence of a focus on
social-, gender- and generational-related equity in rural development programs.
Structural adjustment policies, the effects of economic integration and the opening of markets,
have all strongly contributed to the impoverishment of these communities and altered their income
- 32 -



structures. The lack of work skills and illiteracy limit stable access to an already weak labor
market in Ecuador. Whenever indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian persons gain access to the labor
market, they end up with poorly paid jobs. Therefore, community survival strategies maintain a
significant dependence on agricultural activities for revenues, combining this with income from
temporary wage labor and migration within the country and abroad.
Excessive sub-division of agricultural properties, pressures from population growth, devaluation
of peasant labor, migration, and difficulties in finding productive agricultural employment, are all
factors that show clear signs of reproducing the rural indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian economy.
Nevertheless, this process does not signal the social and cultural disintegration of communities,
even when members are involved in several forms of production. Despite their diverse economic
practices, communities conserve their social cohesion when facing conflicts, promoting their
demands and participating in festivities, cultural events and ritual acts. Thus, material poverty
among indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities has its counterpart in customs and practices
that are different from other social groups, with solidarity networks based on family and
community ties, which reproduce social unity through labor sharing and deeply-rooted forms of
reciprocity that maintain family relations as a means of economic and social survival, as well as
ancestral knowledge, lore and practices that reflect priceless traditions and cultural wealth.
Besides their language and sense of ethnic identity, the distinctive features of indigenous and Afro
Ecuadorian communities include attachment to their ancestral land and a rich cultural heritage.
2.    Goals of PRODEPINE
The "Indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project" (PRODEPINE) was made
possible through the dialogue and coordination achieved between the Government of Ecuador,
indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian organizations, the World Bank, and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (WFC).
The goals set for PRODEPINE were: (i) To build managerial capacities among the indigenous
and Afro Ecuadorian organizations of Ecuador; (ii) To integrate indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian
peoples into democracy, incorporating their own view of development and empowering their
present resources and human / social capital; (iii) To decrease poverty levels by diversifying
sources of income and employment; and (iv) To develop the ability of State institutions to
implement a decentralized participatory planning system that responds to the demands of
indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities. The project strategy aimed at building the
technical, legal and institutional capacities of indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian organizations, that
are necessary to strengthen the sustainable development of their communities.
In meeting these goals, PRODEPINE implemented four components:
1.    Strengthening of Nationalities, Peoples and Organizations, aimed at capacity building in
second- and third-tier indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian organizations in the following areas: (i)
Participatory planning, follow-up and evaluation; (ii) Support for training the technical teams of
national organizations and equipping second-tier organizations; (iii) Human resource training
through scholarship programs for indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian youth to pursue undergraduate,
-33-



postgraduate, supplementary high school and semiformal training programs; (iv) Strengthening
the cultural heritage of nationalities and peoples, including a gender focus; and (v) A special
program for strengthening smaller-sized nationalities. The implementation of this component
enabled indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities and organizations to take the development
process into their own hands, in keeping with their vision and cultural standards.
2.    The Land and Water component, including: (i) Registration and legalization of landholding
rights in productive, forest, and ancestral areas; (ii) Loans for the purchase of land, financed by
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (WFC), to mitigate ownership conflicts in
areas of high pressure due to population growth; (iii) Assessment and development of action plans
for irrigation systems in Andean communities; (iv) Training of indigenous and African descent
paralegal personnel; and (v) Support for a schedule of selected legal reforms. Implementation of
this component focused on contributing to better, more secure access to land and water resources
by the indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian population.
3.    The Rural Investments component consists of both public or community investments and
private investments. Public investments are executed by financing small sub-projects that are
requested, designed, implemented, and managed by communities through second-tier
organizations. The public or community investment sub-component of PRODEPINE has financed
different small-scale subprojects with funds from the World Bank and the International Fund for
Agricultural Development (WFC): (i) social infrastructure works; (ii) infrastructure for
production; (iii) natural resource management; and (iv) training and technical assistance, including
pre-investment studies. In addition to the above, the International Fund for Agricultural
Development (WFC) is funding a rural financial services sub-component aimed at promoting and
strengthening local saving and loans.
4.    The CODENPE and CODAE Institutional Strengthening component focused on the
following areas: (i) Financial management and administration; (ii) Program of legal reforms,
policymaking and the National Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Development Plan; and (iii)
Establishment of a Project Execution Unit with seven regional offices. The project funded
technical assistance, training for CODENPE staff, purchase of goods and equipment, as well as
administrative costs. Implementation of this component enabled the Government of Ecuador to
better formulate and execute policies oriented towards the indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian
sectors.
3.    Results, Effects and Impacts.
To achieve the expected results, effects and impacts, PRODEPINE designed various instruments
and participatory methodologies, many of which have been requested and utilized by other
national and international institutions. Outstanding among our methodological contributions are:
(i) PRODEPINE's decisive support to the FAO for developing the RURALINVEST
methodology for the participatory assessment of rural investments; (ii) Design of a methodology
for measuring the social capital of indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian organizations; (iii) Design of a
methodology for preparing Local Development Plans; and (iv) Design of an Environmental
Assessment and Monitoring methodology for rural development projects.
- 34 -



During the four years of PRODEPINE's execution, the component for Strengthening
Nationalities, Peoples and Organizations achieved the following results: Support for 210 Local
Development Plans prepared by 194 second- or third-tier organizations involving a population of
1,345,493 indigenous people and 93,585 afro-Ecuadorians linked to 4,748 grass-roots
communities spread throughout 19 of the 22 provinces, 108 of the 215 cantons, and 434 out of a
total of 788 rural parishes. Following the design of Local Development Plans, 207 Executing
Agencies received office equipment and/or furnishings. Over these four project years, 110 second-
or third-tier organizations are capable of designing Local Development Plans, that is: (i) they were
able to improve Local Development Plan contents, quality and socialization, not just as regards
the "Planning Document", but basically in the social participatory process; (ii) They have achieved
a sense of community identification with "their" Local Development Plan; (iii) they incorporated
or strengthened a culture of participation in the decision-making system of organizations and
communities; (iv) they institutionalized the scheduling, follow-up, evaluation, and systematization
of experiences, as management practices; (v) they strengthened community self-management
capabilities; and (vi) they promoted inter-cultural work, establishing strategic alliances for the
promotion of local development, under concrete proposals that answer to specific determinations
of rural poverty on a local level.
Participatory Planning has helped break with paternalism, as communities and organizations
became aware of their role and importance as subjects of local development. Having thus
generated a culture of participation in decision making, investments were rationalized according
to the demands of the most impoverished sectors. That fact that 98 % of all sub-projects funded
by PRODEPINE responded to objectives and proposals established by the communities
themselves in their Local Development Plans sets a precedent that substantially changes civil
society's behavior with regard to development. Now, with the preparation of Local Development
Plans, indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian organizations have an instrument by which to negotiate
proposals with local governments, private entities, and cooperation institutions for investments in
poverty mitigation. During these four years of project activities, 118 second- and third-tier
organizations have achieved greater access to NGO resources.
The human resource training program was designed to strengthen local human and social capital.
With this perspective we helped 69 students continue their post-graduate studies in collective
rights, local management, constitutional law, political science, gender, or in environmental
management and natural resources. Currently, 547 youth are doing university studies, 67 of which
have achieved their undergraduate degree. In the compensatory high school program, 414 are
working to complete their secondary studies and 335 have already graduated. Additionally, the
project helped 646 students take non-formal training courses in different areas: agro-ecology,
collective rights, computers, soil conservation, agroforestry, paramo management and
conservation, gender and development, conflict resolution, teaching, or water management
systems for human consumption.
The human resource training program encouraged young students to approach different
organizations and find a place there for participation. This made it possible to develop the
capacities of executing agencies, since 70 % of the students approached these organizations
- 35-



offering to help in their activities. The assistance of these scholarship recipients from different
backgrounds lead them to strengthen their identity and self-esteem, acknowledge Ecuador's
cultural diversity, and understand the need to nurture inter-cultural processes. Also, upon
receiving large groups of indigenous or afro-Ecuadorian students, the universities democratized
their academic areas, achieved changes of attitude among professors and students, and
encouraged reforms and updates in their curriculums, including subjects like local development,
decentralization and/or inter-cultural studies.
The Cultural Heritage Program promoted 97 cultural events, including several gatherings for
cultural reflection, inter-cultural fairs, traditional food and craft contests, cultural forums, and
ancestral festivities. Eight cultural videos were promoted, and ten publications were supported,
including "Memorias del Kuraray" (awarded the Eugenio Espejo Prize in 2001 by the
Municipality of Quito for best research project). During the four years that PRODEPINE was
executed, 134 organizations received cultural strengthening support for activities focused on
salvaging, appropriating and consolidating the material patrimony and living cultural heritage of
indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian peoples. This program helped strengthen the cultural identity of
the different nationalities and peoples of Ecuador, through critical reflection on their current
situation and the need to build a proposal for self-managed, sustainable development, with
identity. Our purposes in implementing this program were: (i) to promote inter-cultural relations
and peaceful coexistence among Ecuadorians through research, recreation and dissemination of
ancestral cultural expressions; and (ii) to promote in Ecuadorian society an environment of
tolerance and respect for the cultural expressions of indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian nationalities
and peoples.
Subsequent to the mid-term evaluation, PRODEPINE included a gender program for promoting
equal participation by men and women in all project activities. The gender focus being quite a
sensitive issue in ancestral cultures, we did not attempt to force ideas on them from the outside, as
this could have had counter-productive effects. In this regard, in view of the cultural diversity of
our nationalities and peoples, the methodology proposed was to avoid a unified approach, but
rather attempt to discover the different roles that men and women play in each of the indigenous
and African descendant cultures, promoting reflection on the need to build equitable relations
among men and women, and identifying investment strategies with gender equity in all project
components and programs.
To date: (i) three studies have been done on gender roles and six more are being carried out
among different nationalities and peoples; (ii) a proposal has been prepared for gender indicators;
(iii) the participatory planning methodology has been improved to identify differences in the
demands of men and women, as well as among adults, youth and children; (iv) a methodology is
being designed for the identification, design and execution of sub-projects with a gender focus; (v)
methodologies are being prepared for training local governments and indigenous and
afro-Ecuadorian organizations in gender issues. In this way we hope to help eradicate the factors
of discrimination that affect indigenous and African descendant women, facing up to social and
economic privileges that were traditionally related to gender differences, and creating
opportunities to strengthen women's participation in decision making, access to resources, as well
as technical and leadership capacities.
- 36 -



The program for strengthening smaller nationalities - Siona, Secoya, Cofain, Huao, Shiwiar,
Zapara, Awa, Epera, Chachi, and Tsachila - lacked the strategies and policies and did not have a
system for planning, follow-up and evaluation with clearly established indicators to measure
expected products, effects and impacts following project intervention. However, some fruits can
be pointed out, such as: (i) Strengthening of the Zapara nationality, which was able to salvage its
cultural identity, values- and language and received recognition from UNESCO as a cultural,
immaterial and oral heritage of humanity; (ii) Strategic alliances with NGOs, promoted by
PRODEPINE to unite institutional efforts; (iii) Support for 130 high school students and 39
undergraduate students from these nationalities; (iv) Formation of technical teams from the
nationalities themselves; (v) Strategic Development Plans for these nationalities; (vi) CODENPE
now has basic guidelines for a cultural strengthening policy for these nationalities and peoples;
and (vii) we have projects that were proposed for cultural identity, practices and heritage, to
support the cultural strengthening of these nationalities and peoples.
The Land and Water component achieved the following results: (i) In lands belonging to the
INDA, 105,596 hectares were legalized through title deeds awarded to 55 grassroots
communities that together group 1,832 beneficiary families; (ii) In lands belonging to the Ministry
of the Environment (formerly INEFAN) 17,084 hectares were legalized for 16 grassroots
communities inhabited by 273 beneficiary families; (iii) Currently in process. of legalization are
112,085 hectares belonging to the INDA and 18,270 hectares belonging to the Ministry of the
Environment; (iv) As a prerequisite for legalizing land, we supported the development of 55
management plans for land belonging to INDA and 16 management plans for land belonging to
the Ministry of the Environment; (v) We supported the training of 128 men and 32 women as
legal aids for the land legalization process and in conflict management; (vi) 458 community
irrigation systems were assessed, with a total length of 2,647 kilometers of irrigation ditches
covering an area of influence of 16,792 hectares belonging to 37,194 beneficiary families
inhabiting 793 communities affiliated to 40 second-tier organizations; and finally, (vii) a credit
program was executed with financing from the International Fund for Agricultural Development
(WFC), to purchase land in the provinces of Imbabura, Pichincha, Cotopaxi, Tungurahua, and
Bolivar, with 8 loans to purchase 634 hectares and benefit 185 families.
The process of registering and securing these title deeds has made it possible to achieve legal
security for the ancestral lands of 44 indigenous and 19 afro-Ecuadorian communities that,
threatened by the pressures of timber companies, settlements and migration from Colombia, risk
being intervened to devastate the tropical rain forest, with the consequential environmental, social
and cultural impacts that are contrary to the interests of the communities.
The study of community irrigation ditches identified the main natural resource problems in 793
communities, their current irrigation infrastructure problems, and the social economic conditions
of their populations. The action plan included: social irrigation management, crop scheduling, an
environmental management plan, final project designs, improvement works and drawings for each
irrigation ditch studied, a project budget, and the financial investment assessment for each
irritation ditch. The estimated investment amount for rehabilitating all irrigation ditches is US$
31,457,617.
- 37 -



The activities of the rural investment sub-component for public benefit were implemented by 152
executing agencies (139 second- or third-tier organizations and 13 municipalities), covered 18
provinces, 73 cantons, and 193 parishes, and benefited 359,707 persons. The following
achievements were had during the four years of PRODEPINE execution: (i) communities
developed 1,918 sub-project profiles in the field; (ii) executing agencies prepared 830 final
sub-project designs and 151 special pre-investment studies for grass-roots communities; (iii) 654
sub-projects were funded by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD)
or the International Fund for Agricultural Development (WFC), for an external investment
amount of US$ 12,025,188, in addition to the equivalent of US$ 4,584,393 as the 27.6 %
community counterpart; (iv) 338 of the 654 financed sub-projects, representing 51.7 % of the
sub-project portfolio, were for social infrastructure (classrooms, school dining halls or shelters,
water systems for human consumption, radio stations, health centers, child development centers,
and solar energy), 256 sub-projects, equal to 39.1 %, were community production infrastructure
(irrigation systems, agro-industries, road improvements, greenhouses, inter-connected electricity),
52 sub-projects or 8 % were environmental investments (micro watershed protection and/or
management, soil recuperation and/or conservation, environmental forestation), 7 sub-projects,
equal to 1 %, were training for production systems, and 1 sub-project was for cultural heritage
development and conservation; (v) to date, the executing agencies have concluded 521 of the 654
financed sub-projects, leaving 133 sub-projects to be completed, which are currently in process;
(vi) the audit report stated that 83 % of all organizations had a favorable audit report, in 85 % of
all sub-projects the executing agencies fulfilled satisfactorily with the acquisitions procedures
established by PRODEPINE, in 82 % of all sub-projects the expense supports presented by
executing agencies enabled accounting and filing financial statements, in 88 % of all sub-projects
the project design was appropriate and directly related to sub-project objectives, in 82 % of all
sub-projects work costs and quality were reasonable, in 90 % of all investments the communities
fulfilled the counterpart established in the sub-project design, and in 100 % of all sub-projects the
beneficiary population was within the criteria established in the Regulations for Public and
Community Investments; (vii) The sub-project funding program generated 9,994 temporary jobs
and 2,859 permanent jobs.
The average value for sub-projects financed by PRODEPINE amounted to US$ 25,397, of which
US$ 18,387 was foreign investment and US$ 7,010 was community contributions. The average
PRODEPINE investment required per beneficiary was US$ 45.48 for social investments; US$
30.69 for productive investments, and US $ 18.46 for environmental investments.
Due to delays by executing agencies in presenting accounting supports, and because of high
inflation rates in Ecuador during three project execution years, 38 % of the investments had
funding extensions with regard to the original execution agreements, for a total of US$ 1,305,232.
However, it is important to highlight that, according to the sub-project impact assessment, the
original investment plus the funding extension, that is the total amount invested, was not greater
than the current value of investments made. This impact assessment study, carried out by an
independent consulting firm based on a random sampling prepared by the FAO, determined that
the income and benefits generated by the 51 sub-projects have a internal financial rate of return of
between 19 % and 27 %, considering a conservative scenario and an optimistic one. Furthermore,
- 38 -



the internal economic rate of return is between 9 % and 15 % in these two scenarios.
The environmental audit, carried out by a private consulting firm with a random sample of 43
sub-projects, produced the following results: 81 % of all sub-projects correctly applied the
environmental categories established in the regulations, 96 % of all sub-projects correctly
identified the corrective measures for impacts caused by interventions, and 67 % effectively
applied identified measures.
The CODENPE institutional strengthening component had the following results: (i)
institutionalization of the CODENPE National Council and formation of a technical team with
propositional capabilities, establishing the foundations for a dialogue between the government and
indigenous peoples; (ii) twelve draft laws aimed to defend the interests of the different
nationalities and peoples; (iii) preparation of a development plan for the nationalities and peoples;
(iv) preparation of four strategic pilot plans and supporting technical documents to define the
territorial circumscriptions of the Kayampi, Kafnari and Saraguro peoples and the Chachi
nationality; (v) organization of 114 workshops and 14 forums on collective rights with the
participation of leaders, directors, teachers of inter-cultural bilingual education, and other social
stakeholders related to the organizational strengthening of nationalities and peoples, who used
their newly-acquired knowledge to define novel mechanisms for relations between the State and
the indigenous peoples.
As for institutional strengthening of the project, we should point out: (i) installation' and operation
of a local area network and a wide area network at CODENPE; (ii) implementation of the
Rikukpacha information system; (iii) installation, control and monitoring of the base station, and
personnel training in the correct operation of the mobile GPS; (iv) seven local area networks and
one wide area network in operation between its regional offices; (v) two specific applications and
four desk-top applications at the national office and in the 7 regional offices; (vi) a map of
PRODEPINE interventions, updated to July 2002, with parish level detail and 6 thematic maps on
different programs of the project; (vii) a monthly scheduling system using operational plans that
have been rigorously followed and debated, providing very precise progress reports on all project
components per consultant, per regional office, and a national summary; (viii) Organization and
maintenance of a digital library with the most important documents on project activities; and (ix)
satisfactory administration of resources, with four successful audits.
With help received through the Institutional Strengthening component, CODENPE was able to
exercise clear leadership vis-a-vis the State as the entity responsible for inter-institutional
coordination for executing state policies aimed to strengthen the different nationalities and
peoples. In addition, it is important to highlight CODENPE's function as a mediator during the
dialogues between the National Government and the Indigenous Organizations on issues such as
land conflicts, the irrigation fund, and the indigenous migrant situation. Finally, the CODENPE
Institutional Strengthening component contributed to: (i) Promoting transversal State attention to
indigenous demands; (ii) Facilitating conflict resolution within the democratic institutional
structures of the State; and (iii) Supporting the inclusion of indigenous demands on the agendas of
local govermnents.
- 39 -



To overcome social exclusion and marginalization, we have promoted a new style of public
administration, encouraging social participation, empowerment and accountability as effective
instruments for prioritization and problem solving aimed at reducing poverty among indigenous
and afro-Ecuadorian peoples. In this way we have contributed decisively to creating a culture of
participation within State decentralization and modernization, not solely to channel their demands,
but to ensure their presence when decisions are made. A participatory focus in the government,
while requiring greater efforts and resources, creates a sense of participant identification with
social programs and will make it possible to reach a national consensus regarding economic,
social and environmental strategies for reducing poverty, recovering governance and social
stability. Poverty reduction strategies and social policies are much more effective when arising
from a national consensus in which the poor feel they are effectively represented.
PRODEPINE was able to achieve its goals satisfactorily thanks to the following factors: (i) A
good technical approach to the project; (ii) The project incarnates excellent experiences in
intercultural work, social representation and consensus among indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian
nationalities, peoples and organizations; (iii) Despite some non-fulfillment by the governnent
counterpart, the project achieved important State support; (iv) An excellent national technical
team and efficient regional technical teams, composed of professionals, representing the best
human capital available among indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian nationalities, peoples and
organizations, ensured correct project execution and satisfactory, optimal fulfillment of the goals
set; (v) Mutual trust, information flows, and on-going training of executing agencies to build
consensus around the need to ensure compliance with the technical requirements and procedures
established in the credit agreement between the Ecuadorian government, the World Bank and the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (WFC); (vi) Systematic training and follow-up
for NGOs and local technicians providing technical assistance to executing agencies; (vii)
Systematic World Bank accompaniment to guarantee the technical focus and application of
procedures established in the credit agreement.
4.    Lessons Learned.
1.    The relationship among indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian organizations, the World Bank,
the International Fund for Agricultural Development (WFC), CODENPE, CODAE, and
PRODEPINE has been one of learning from each other, making it possible to clearly understand
the different ways of thinking that orient the behavior of each stakeholder.
2.    The roles, functions and relations arnong CODENPE, CODAE and PRODEPINE were
clearly defined in order to avoid politicizing the project. CODENPE and CODAE have a
policy-making role, while PRODEPINE is the Technical Unit for the implementation of these
policies, based on the following guidelines: (i) A participatory approach avoiding the exclusion of
beneficiaries and their representatives; (ii) Agile structure and procedures ensuring Project
efficiency and efficacy; and (iii) Acknowledgement of the different ways indigenous and
afro-Ecuadorian nationalities and peoples are organized. In order to avoid conflicts and better
respond to the new legal and institutional framework, it is necessary to define the scope and role
of indigenous organizations in the reconstitution of nationalities and peoples, and to work towards
coordinating the different dynamics currently found in indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian
organizations.
-40 -



3.    PRODEPINE has not been exempt from internal conflicts, and to solve them, we have
identified different types of conflicts. Several arose from a lack of information and of space for
participation, communication and debate. In this case, we promptly made room for dialogue and
reflection. Other conflicts arose from non-fulfillment of established agreements and consensus, in
which case, we worked on developing a culture of fulfillment of duties and obligations.
4.    The experience of the "Indigenous and Afro Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project"
(PRODEPINE) demonstrates a need to promote participatory planning of local development, in
order to respond appropriately to the country's decentralization and de-concentration processes.
The need is to train grass-roots communities to organize their own research, systematically
interpret their realities, propose the best solutions to their problems, and actively participate in
building their own future and controlling their own destinies. The experiences had show that
indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian communities understand their problems well and should
participate in decision-making processes related to solving those problems. In this process,
PRODEPINE has promoted stakeholder training and reflection, supporting them with instruments
and enabling communities to jointly build their assessments and analyses and to identify rural
development projects in a participatory fashion.
5.    Notwithstanding the above, communities are still trapped in a welfare approach to
development; the patronizing attitudes of the State and certain local governments, private
companies and NGOs do not help to overcome paternalism. Four years of activities in
PRODEPINE are not enough to build a culture of development based on social participation,
empowerment and accountability. In addition, indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian organizations need
to develop prospective analyses, gather the lessons learned, systematize their experiences,
promote lines of reflection, analysis and research. However, locally, PRODEPINE has contributed
to building a ethic of resource management and has promoted social participation and an
inter-cultural approach. Now the challenge is to go from paternalism to empowerment, from
isolated or sectoral focuses to integral visions, from small, single projects to investment initiatives
organized around long-term local development proposals.
6.    The technical focus of PRODEPINE contributed to the formation of human and social
capital by strengthening local capacities. The understanding that communities have of the need to
fulfill certain procedures and apply given methodologies in order to comply with technical
requirements, ensure quality products and services and achieve the expected effects and impacts,
disciplines local leaders and technicians and promotes a culture of planning, programming, and
responsibility on the job. The experiences generated by PRODEPINE have contributed
significantly to the formation and improvement of local social capital, and demonstrate the
importance of institutional strengthening for improving management capacity. This has made it
possible to include community demands on the agenda of local governments, promote institutional
alliances, and form networks aimed to solve concrete development problems.
7.    Although including communities does not in and of itself guarantee the success of an
assessment or of identifying the most appropriate solutions to their problems, the empowerment
of impoverished populations leaves behind their secular abandonment and increases the
possibilities of adding their opinions and participation to decision making, thus opening new
avenues to the prevention of deepening inequalities. In this line we have designed methodological
instruments that attempt to facilitate reflection by local populations regarding their major
problems, so that after studying the alternatives and analyzing the opportunities around them,
rural communities can adopt the most appropriate solutions. The design of different types of
-41 -



participatory instruments and methodologies has been one of the most outstanding achievements
of PRODEPINE, and it is imperative to develop, strengthen and disseminate this line of work.
8.    The survival strategies of indigenous and afro-Ecuadorian families combine various
sources of income: agricultural activities, temporary labor, and migration. The economic viability
of rural areas is not solely related to traditional agricultural production and farm wage labor, but
also with the formation of micro-enterprises for production, promotion of different rural services,
and in general any sector where men and women participate in employment- and
income-generating activities. In the Andean areas of Ecuador, the average parcel of indigenous
families is less than one hectare, so increasing agricultural productivity is not necessarily the most
appropriate way to reduce poverty. Often the promotion of food security through traditional
crops draws attention away from crop diversification, market opportunities and increased income.
We must understand that indigenous families with very little or no land are the poorest in rural
environments, so aid should not be focused solely on projects to increase land productivity.
Rather it is imperative to expand the concept of rural development with a productive focus that
takes rural-urban relations into account. Small to medium cities establish links with surrounding
rural areas and promote opportunities for rural producers through the creation of centers that
provide services or encourage trade and, in several cases, are where policy decisions are made
that affect rural areas.
9.    The lessons learned during these four years of PRODEPINE-funded rural investments
have enabled us to draw certain conclusions: (i) The sustainability of social infrastructure
investments - classrooms, water for human consumption, electricity, rural roads, childcare
centers, or health centers - is ensured when operational personnel and/or supplies are included on
the budgets of local public entities (offices of the Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Health
and/or Municipalities). (ii) In the case of community-operated infrastructure works - community
centers, radio stations, solar energy, or irrigation - their administrative powers should enable them
to organize so as to make it possible to fund operational costs and recover investments by
charging tariffs for service use or other means that are socially accepted by the communities. (iii)
With regard to investments supporting production and community productive infrastructure,
despite the importance of social capital, it is not possible to assign micro-enterprise roles to
communities. (iv) Critical factors for the success of productive sub-projects include an adequate
response to market demands, the risk factor that beneficiaries must assume, and the
micro-enterprise organization of users. (v) Continual training, the flow of information, and
systematic field monitoring of local technicians, are factors that enable qualitative improvements
in the technical assistance of executing agencies and prevent local NGOs or technicians from
interpreting community demands "in their own way".
10.   No doubt, PRODEPINE is a new experience in which we have all grown. We have
learned to work as a team and solve problems through consensus building, and we have cultivated
tolerance and understanding, in such wise that our programming and evaluation has enabled us to
establish corrective measures that are necessary and appropriate to the task. PRODEPINE has
been quite a positive, novel experience for us all, and has represented an opportunity to
understand and experience an inter-cultural approach.
Quito, Ecuador
August 2002
-42 -



This report relates the World Bank funded activities of PRODEPINE from September 1998 to June 2002.
However, we must acknowledge that our success would not have been possible without the support of the
Intemational Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD). The ending date to close this World Bank credit
agreement will be December 31st of this year, so some of the data submitted in this report will vary by final project
termination.
Quito, Ecuador
August 2002
-43 -















Repori No.:         25361
Type:      ICR



