Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4277-EC
Loan Agreement
(Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples Development Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  June 12, 1998
LOAN NUMBER 4277-EC
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 12, 1998, between REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR (the 
Borrower) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
(the Bank).
WHEREAS (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the 
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this 
Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist in the financing of the 
Project;
(B)
the Borrower intends to contract from the International Fund 
for Agricultural Development (IFAD) a loan (the IFAD Loan) in an amount 
of 10,850,000 Special Drawing Rights to assist in financing Parts B.4 and 
C.2, and part of Part C.1 of the Project on the terms and conditions set 
forth in an agreement (the IFAD Loan Agreement) to be entered into 
between the Borrower and IFAD;
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and 
Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995, with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
Section 6.03 is modified to read:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Bank.  If (a) the right 
of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall have 
been suspended with respect to any amount of 
the Loan for a continuous 
period of thirty days, or (b) at any time, the Bank determines, 
after 
consultation with the Borrower, that an amount of the Loan will not be 
required to 
finance the Project’s costs to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, or (c) at any 
time, the Bank determines, with 
respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds 
of the Loan, 
that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives 
of the 
Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Loan during the 
procurement or the execution of such 
contract, without the 
Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to 
the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the amount of 
expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (d) at 
any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of any contract to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is inconsistent with the 
procedures set forth or 
referred to in the Loan Agreement and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of  such contract which 
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, or (e) after the Closing Date, an amount of the Loan shall 
remain unwithdrawn from 
the Loan Account, or (f) the Bank shall have 
received notice from the Guarantor pursuant to 
Section 6.07 with 
respect to an amount of the Loan, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, 
terminate the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals with 
respect to such amount.  Upon 
the giving of such notice, such amount 
of the Loan shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several 
terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“Annual Operating Plan” means any of the plans referred to 
in Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement;
(b)
“Central Bank” means Banco Central del Ecuador, the 
Borrower’s central bank;
(c)
“CONPLADE-IN” means Consejo Nacional de Planificación y 
Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas y Negros, the Borrower’s national 
council for the planning and development of indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian peoples established by the CONPLADE-IN Decree  (as 
defined below);
(d)
“CONPLADE-IN Decree”  means the Borrower’s presidential 
decree of March 13, 1997;
(e)
“Credit Manual” means a manual to be adopted by the Borrower 
setting forth the criteria and procedures for implementation of Part C.2 
of the Project, as the same may be amended from time to time;
(f)
“Cultural Patrimony Activities” means activities for the 
identification and promotion of archeological and ritual sites, 
implementation of festivities, preparation of audiovisual documents with 
ethnographic materials, implementation of contests to strengthen cultural 
heritage and traditions, and publication of literary works, which are of 
significance to Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples and meet the 
Page  3
eligibility criteria set forth in the Operational Manual (as defined 
below);
(g)
“Economic Subproject” means a subproject which is eligible 
for financing, as a sub-loan, out of the proceeds of the IFAD Loan in 
accordance with the provisions of the IFAD Loan Agreement and the Credit 
Manual;
(h)
“Fiscal Year” means the Borrower’s fiscal year which 
commences on January 1;
(i)
“Forested Land Demarcation and Titling Activities” means 
activities for the demarcation and titling of forested land which is in 
the patrimonium of the Borrower under the jurisdiction of INEFAN and in 
ancestral possession by Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples including, 
if needed, the preparatory work leading to the recognition of juridical 
status of the Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Community (as defined below) 
to be granted the land title;
(j)
“Implementation Agreements” means collectively the 
agreements to be entered into by the Borrower pursuant to the provisions 
of Section 3.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(k)
“INDA” means Instituto Nacional de Desarrollo Agrario, the 
Borrower’s agrarian development institute established by the Borrower’s 
law No. 54 published in the Registro Oficial (as defined below) on June 
14, 1994, as amended on August 15, 1994;
(l)
“Indicators” means the performance, implementation, and 
impact indicators set forth in  a supplemental letter of even date 
herewith;
(m)
“Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Community” means a community 
of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples within the Project Area which 
is eligible for participating in, or as a beneficiary of, the Project in 
accordance with the provisions of the Operational Manual (as defined 
below);
(n)
“Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Organizations” means any 
association, union, federation or other organization of Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples which is registered in the registry of such 
organizations maintained by the Borrower’s Ministries of Social Welfare, 
Education, Culture and Sports, and Agriculture and Livestock, is 
operating in the Project Area, and is eligible for participating in, or 
as a beneficiary of, the Project in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual;
(o)
“Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples” means indigenous 
and Afro-Ecuadorian peoples residing in the Project Area;
(p)
“INEFAN” means Instituto Ecuatoriano Forestal y de Areas 
Naturales y Vida Silvestre, the Borrower’s institute for forest, and 
natural and wildlife areas established by the Borrower’s law No. 08 
published in the Registro Oficial  on September 16, 1992, as amended on 
November 8, 1996;
(q)
“Infrastructure and Social Subproject” means a subproject 
which is eligible for financing, as a grant, out of the proceeds of 
either the Loan or the IFAD Loan in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual;
(r)
“Land Demarcation and Titling Activities” means activities 
for the demarcation and titling of land which is within the jurisdiction 
of INDA and in ancestral possession by Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian 
Peoples including, if needed, the preparatory work leading to the 
recognition of juridical status of the Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian 
Community to be granted the land title;
Page  4
(s)
“Land Legislation” means the Borrower’s Agrarian Development 
Law, law No. 54 published in the Registro Oficial on June 14, 1994, as 
amended on August 15, 1994; Law of Forestry and for the Conservation of 
Natural Areas and Wildlife, law No. 74 published in the Registro Oficial 
on August 24, 1981; Law Creating INEFAN, law No. 8, published in the 
Registro Oficial on September 16, 1992; Resolution 001 of INEFAN 
published in the Registro Oficial on June 27, 1996; and collectively the 
land demarcation procedures to be issued pursuant to the provisions of 
Schedule 1, subparagraphs 3 (b), (c) and (d) of this Agreement;
(t)
“Operational Manual” means a manual, satisfactory to the 
Bank, setting forth the criteria and procedures for implementation of all 
parts of the Project other than B.4 and C.2 thereof, as the same may be 
amended from time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Bank;
(u)
“Other Land Titling Activities” means activities for the 
demarcation and titling of land of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples 
for which a payment for the land acquired is required and which are to be 
financed exclusively out of the proceeds of the IFAD Loan;
(v)
“Parroquia” means any of the political subdivisions of the 
Borrower’s territory referred to in article 11 of the Borrower’s Law of 
the Municipal Regime published in the Registro Oficial on October 15, 
1971;
(w)
“Project Area” means the mostly rural area comprising the 
288 parroquias listed in the letter furnished by the Borrower to the Bank 
on November 5, 1997, which were selected as those in which Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples are the predominant population, and any other 
parroquia as the Borrower and the Bank shall agree;
(x) 
“Project Management Unit” means the unit referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement;
(y)
“Project Preparation Advances” means the project preparation 
advances granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of 
letters dated respectively April 7, 1995 and April 19, 1995; and June 11, 
1997 and July 4, 1997, between the Borrower and the Bank;
(z)
“Protected Areas” means any of the areas defined in articles 
69 and 70 of the Borrower’s law No. 74 referred to in Section 1.02 (s) of 
this Agreement;
(aa)
“Protected Areas Demarcation and Titling Activities” means 
activities for the demarcation, and recognition of usufruct rights and/or 
titling of land which is located in Protected Areas, and in ancestral 
possession of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples including, if 
needed, the preparatory work leading to the recognition of juridical 
status of the Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Community to be granted the 
land title;
(bb)
“Registro Oficial”  means the Borrower’s official gazette;
(cc)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(dd)
“Subproject” means collectively Infrastructure and Social 
Subprojects and Economic Subprojects; and
(ee)
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made by CONPLADE IN out of 
the proceeds of the Loan for the financing of part of the cost of an 
Infrastructure and Social Subproject in accordance with the provisions of 
the Operational Manual.
ARTICLE II
Page  5
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount 
equal to twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the 
Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required 
for the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and 
maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in the Central Bank or a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank including, in the case the account is opened in 
a commercial bank, appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or 
attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this 
Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf 
of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the 
amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation 
Advances withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid 
charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the 
Project Preparation Advances shall thereupon be canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be September 30, 2002 or such 
later date as the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify 
the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment 
charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum 
on the principal amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate 
for each Interest Period equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total 
Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and 
including the date of this 
Agreement to, but 
excluding, the first Interest Payment Date occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period from and including 
an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding the next 
following Interest Payment 
Date.
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this 
Agreement.
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, 
the London interbank 
offered rate for six-month 
deposits in Dollars for value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the initial Interest Period, for 
value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring on or next 
preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: 
(A) one half of one 
percent (1/2 of 1%); (B) 
minus (or plus) the weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) the London interbank offered rates, or 
Page  6
other 
reference rates, for six-month deposits, in respect 
of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or portions thereof 
allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans or 
portions thereof made by it that include the Loan, as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per 
annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and 
LIBOR Total Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the 
determination thereof.
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting 
the determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.05, 
the Bank determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a 
whole and of the Bank to apply a basis for determining the interest rates 
applicable to the Loan other than as provided in said Section, the Bank 
may modify the basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the 
Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower of the new 
basis. The basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its 
objection thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the 
Loan.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable 
semiannually on May 15 and November 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the 
Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 
to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the 
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, 
and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through CONPLADE-IN, with 
the assistance of:
(i)
INDA in respect of Parts B.1 and B.5 of the Project; 
and
(ii)
INEFAN and INDA,  in respect of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4, 
and B.5 of the Project;
all with due diligence and efficiency and in 
conformity with appropriate 
administrative, 
financial, engineering, environmental, social, and technical 
practices, and the Annual Operating Plans, and shall provide, 
promptly as 
needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the 
Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of 
this Section, the Borrower shall allocate in each of its annual budgets, 
and make available promptly as needed, the counterpart funds required for 
the Project as provided in the Annual Operating Plan for the respective 
year.
Section 3.02. (a) The Borrower shall, through CONPLADE-IN, under 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, enter into an agreement 
each with:
(i)
INDA in respect of Parts B.1 and B.5 of the Project; 
and
(ii)
INDA and INEFAN in respect of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4 and 
B.5 of the Project;
setting forth their respective obligations in the 
Page  7
implementation of their 
parts of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the 
Implementation Agreements in such manner as to protect the interest of 
the Borrower and the Bank and to achieve the purposes of the Loan, and 
except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, 
amend, abrogate or waive the Implementation Agreements or any provision 
thereof.
Section 3.03. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement 
of the goods, works and consultants’ services required for the Project 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by 
the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.04. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 
(a) of this Agreement, the Borrower shall maintain, until completion of 
the Project, a Project management unit, and regional units, not exceeding 
in the aggregate seven, all staffed by professionals with qualifications, 
experience, functions and responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank, 
assisted by qualified personnel in adequate numbers.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to 
monitor and evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the 
Indicators, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof;
(b)
by no later than November 15 of each year, until completion 
of the Project, furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual operating 
plan for the implementation of the Project during the upcoming twelve 
months, such plan to comprise: (i) the main activities to be carried out 
under the Project during the respective year; (ii) the objectives, and 
expected results or outputs of such activities; (iii) the corresponding 
cost estimates and budgets, including the counterpart funds; (iv) the 
proposed revisions to the Indicators, if applicable; and (v) the relevant 
institutional arrangements and responsibilities;
(c)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank on or about January 31 and July 31 each year, 
commencing July 31, 1998, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) 
of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the 
Project during the period preceding the date of said report and setting 
out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period 
following such date;
(d)
review with the Bank:  (i)  by February 15 and August 15 
each year, or such later dates as the Bank shall request, the reports 
referred to in subparagraph (c) of this Section; and (ii) by August 15, 
2000, in addition to the reports referred to in paragraph (c) of this 
Section, the management capabilities of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian 
Organizations and CONPLADE-IN for implementation of the Project as 
designed and any changes that might be required; and
(e)
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the 
efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports 
and the Bank views on the matter.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall ensure that Infrastructure and 
Social Subprojects are:  (a) appraised, selected, carried out, financed, 
monitored and supervised in accordance with the provisions of the 
Operational Manual; and (b) to the extent possible, financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan and the IFAD Loan in a ratio of 60:40 of the total 
number of grants each year of Project implementation.
Page  8
Section 3.07. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General 
Conditions and without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank 
and furnish to the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date 
or such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower 
and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views 
with the Borrower on said plan.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be 
maintained records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and 
expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part 
thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for 
the Special Account for each Fiscal Year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent private auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any 
case not later than four 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of 
such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning 
said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as 
the Bank shall from time to time reasonably 
request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from 
the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance 
with paragraph (a) of this 
Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has 
received the audit report 
for the Fiscal Year in which the 
last withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in 
the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section and that the report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the statements 
of 
expenditure submitted during such Fiscal Year, 
together with the procedures 
and internal controls 
involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related withdrawals.
Page  9
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
INDA or INEFAN shall have failed to perform any of their 
obligations under their respective Implementation Agreements;
(b)
the CONPLADE-IN Decree or any of the Land Legislation shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to 
affect, in the Bank’s opinion, materially and adversely the ability of 
the Borrower to carry out the Project;
(c)
the IFAD Loan Agreement shall have failed to become 
effective by October 30, 1999, or such later date as the Bank may agree; 
provided however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not apply 
if the Borrower established to the satisfaction of the Bank that adequate 
funds for the Project are available to the Borrower from other sources on 
terms and conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower 
under this Agreement; and
(d)
(i)
Subject to subparagraph (ii) of this paragraph:
(A)
the right of the Borrower to withdraw the 
proceeds of the IFAD Loan or 
any grant or other 
loan made to the Borrower for the financing of the 
Project shall have been suspended, canceled or terminated in whole or 
in part, pursuant to the terms of the IFAD Loan 
Agreement or any other 
agreement providing 
therefor; or
(B)
any such loan shall have become due and payable 
prior to the agreed 
maturity thereof.
(ii)
Subparagraph (i) of this paragraph shall not apply if 
the Borrower establishes 
to the satisfaction of the Bank 
that: (A) such suspension, cancellation, 
termination or prematuring is not caused by the failure of the Borrower 
to 
perform any of its obligations under such 
agreement; and (B) adequate funds 
for the Project are 
available to the Borrower from other sources on terms and 
conditions consistent with the obligations of the Borrower under this 
Agreement.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General 
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
(a)
Any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after 
notice thereof shall have been given by the Bank to the Borrower.
(b)
The events specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) (i) (B) of 
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur, subject to the proviso of 
paragraph (d) (ii) of that Section.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional 
conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning 
of Section 12.01 (c) of the General Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been adopted by CONPLADE-IN; and
Page  10
(b)
the Annual Operating Plan for calendar year 1998 has been 
approved by the Bank.
Section 6.02. The date September 15, 1998 is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance and Public Credit of the 
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes 
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the 
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance and Public Credit
Avenida 10 de agosto y Jorge Washington
Quito, Ecuador
Cable address: 
Telex:
MINFINANZAS
22358 MINFIN
Quito, Ecuador
with copy to:
Consejo Nacional de Planificación y 
Desarrollo de los Pueblos Indígenas y Negros
García Moreno 1150 y Chile (entre Chile y Mejía)
Quito, Ecuador
For the Bank:
International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in 
their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of 
America, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF ECUADOR
By /s/ Alberto Maspons
Authorized Representative
Witnessed by:
/s/ Pedro Aguayo Cubillo
Page  11
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
 RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Maritta Koch-Weser
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin American and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the 
Loan to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to 
be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
   Dollars)
to be 
Financed
(1)
Civil works
   100,000
85%
(2)
Goods
 1,500,000
85%
(3)
Consultants' services
 9,000,000
90%
and training
(4)
Service contracts:
100%
(a) for Land
   800,000
)
Demarcation and
)
Titling Activities
)
)
(b) for Forested Land
   270,000
)
Demarcation and
)
Titling Activities
)
)
(c) for Protected
   180,000
)
Areas Demarcation
)
and Titling Activities
)
)
(d) for Cultural
   700,000
)
Patrimony Activities
)
(5)
Subproject Grants
 7,500,000
100% of the 
amount
of the Grant
(6)
Incremental operating
 1,100,000
90% until 
with-
costs
drawals under 
this
Category have 
reached
an aggregate 
amount
of $650,000; 
and 70%
thereafter
(7)
Refunding of Project
 1,600,000
Amount 
due pursuant
Page  12
Preparation Advance
to Section 
2.02 (c)
of this 
Agreement
(8)
Unallocated
 2,250,000
TOTAL
25,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Incremental operating costs” means the incremental 
expenses incurred on account of Project implementation, management and 
monitoring, including office supplies, vehicle operation, travel and 
supervision costs but excluding salaries of officials of the Borrower’s 
civil service; and
(b)
the term “Service contracts” means the costs of works, 
materials and services related to the implementation of any Land 
Demarcation and Titling Activity, Forested Land Demarcation and Titling 
Activity, Protected Areas Land Demarcation and Titling Activity, and 
Cultural Patrimony Activity.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals 
shall be made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding 
the equivalent of $2,500,000, may be made on account of payments made for 
expenditures before that date but after September 1, 1997; 
(b) 
payments made for expenditures for Part B.1 of the Project, 
under Sub-category (4) (a) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
unless: (i) the Implementation Agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement shall have been entered into by the parties 
thereto; and (ii) procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for land 
demarcation, and titling have been adopted by INDA;
(c)
payments made for expenditures for Part B.2 of the Project, 
under Sub-category (4) (b) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
unless: (i)  the Implementation Agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement shall have been entered into by the parties 
thereto; (ii) procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for land demarcation 
and titling have been adopted by INDA and INEFAN for Protected Areas; and 
(iii) Resolution 001 has been amended, in a form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, to clarify the interinstitutional arrangements 
for land titling in forested land (other than in Protected Areas);
(d)
payments made for expenditures for Part B.3 of the Project, 
under Sub-category (4) (c) of the table in paragraph 1 of this Schedule, 
unless: (i) the Implementation Agreement referred to in Section 3.02 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement shall have been entered into by the parties 
thereto; (ii) the Bank shall be satisfied that the Borrower’s legislative 
framework authorizes the titling or recognition of usufruct rights, as 
the case may be, of land in ancestral possession of Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples which is located in Protected Areas; and (iii) 
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for land demarcation, titling, or 
granting of usufruct rights, as the case may be, have been adopted by 
INDA and INEFAN for Protected Areas; and
(e)
payments for expenditures for Infrastructure and Social 
Subprojects which IFAD shall have financed or agreed to finance under the 
IFAD Loan Agreement.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
Page  13
(a)
goods and works, as the case may be, procured in accordance 
with the provisions of Section I, Parts B.3 and B.4 (other than those for 
which prior review is required under Part C.2 (b) of Section I of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement), and B.5 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, 
training, Subprojects Grants and incremental operating costs under 
Categories (3), (5) and (6), respectively, of the table in paragraph 1 to 
this Schedule; and
(b)
consultants’ services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms, and $50,000 equivalent for 
individual consultants (other than those for which prior review is 
required under Part D.2 of Section II of Schedule 4 to this Agreement);
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice 
to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to improve the quality of life of 
poor Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples by providing improved access 
to land and financing of Subprojects.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such 
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from 
time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Institutional Strengthening of Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Organizations and 
Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Communities
1.
Provision of technical assistance, training (including workshops 
and seminars) and equipment, as required to strengthen the capabilities 
of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Organizations and Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Communities in:
(a)
the planning, following a participatory methodology, and the 
preparation, implementation and maintenance of Subprojects;
(b)
financial management and administration;
(c)
the formulation, review and evaluation of proposed policies 
and legal reforms affecting Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples 
including in particular, the cultural patrimony thereof; and 
(d)
human resource development, including implementation of a 
distance high school education program and university level studies on 
local community development.
2.
Carrying out of Cultural Patrimony Activities.
3.
Preparation and implementation of a plan for the revitalization of 
selected Indigenous Communities which, due to the small number of members 
thereof and disadvantaged status, are in danger of extinction, including, 
inter alia, a review of their organizational aspects, defense of the land 
and resources, cultural demands, natural resource management and 
provision of basic services.
4.
Training of members of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Communities 
as legal assistants, by providing such members with basic skills on, 
inter alia, land tenure issues, community development, environmental 
issues, biodiversity and ecotourism.
Part B:
Land and Water Regularization
1.
Carrying out of Land Demarcation and Titling Activities.
Page  14
2.
Carrying out of Forested Land Demarcation and Titling Activities.
3.
Carrying out of Protected Areas Land Demarcation  and Titling 
Activities.
4.
Carrying out of Other Land Titling Activities.
5.
Strengthening of the capabilities for land demarcation and titling 
of INDA’s and INEFAN’s staff through the provision of the technical 
assistance and equipment required therefor.
6.
Elaboration of demarcation and titling procedures of the Land 
Legislation and any required revisions to the Land Legislation.
7.
Diagnosis of the availability of water resources and related water 
rights in the Project Area and, based on the results thereof, elaboration 
of an action plan for the construction, rehabilitation and/or improvement 
of irrigation schemes to be owned and managed by Indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian Communities.
Part C:
Subprojects
1.
Financing of Infrastructure and Social Subprojects.
2.
(a)
Financing of Economic Subprojects.
(b)
Strengthening of first-tier financial institutions and the 
Borrower’s rural financial system, and provision of technical assistance 
for the preparation and implementation of Economic Subprojects.
Part D:
Institutional Strengthening of CONPLADE-IN
1.
Installation and operation of a management and information system 
in CONPLADE-IN.
2.
Formulation of a national plan for the development of Indigenous 
and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples.
3.
Formulation of a program of legal reforms, including, inter alia, 
elaboration of and dissemination of: (a) an indigenous and 
Afro-Ecuadorian peoples development law and regulations thereof; (b) a 
new communes law and regulations thereof; (c) a law for the recognition 
of indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian traditional health systems; and (d) a 
law on indigenous peoples cultures.
4.
Establishment and operation of the Project Management Unit in Quito 
and regional offices thereof.
5.
Training and provision of technical assistance and equipping to 
CONPLADE-IN as required to carry out the activities mentioned in Parts D. 
1 through D.4 of the Project.
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by March 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
 Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in Dollars)*
On each May 15 and November 15
beginning May 15, 2003
Page  15
through May 15, 2014
1,040,000
On November 15, 2014
1,080,000
______________________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be 
repaid, except as provided 
in Sections 4.04 (d) of the General 
Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits" published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and 
August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of this 
Section.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures
1.
Limited International Bidding
(a)
Vehicles shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines.
(b)
Grouping of contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for vehicles shall be grouped 
in bid packages estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more.
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods (other than vehicles) shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.  In the procurement of goods in accordance with this Part 
B.2, the Borrower shall use standard bidding documents satisfactory to 
the Bank.
Page  16
3.
International and National Shopping
Goods (other than vehicles) estimated to cost less than $50,000 
equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount not to exceed $300,000 
equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
international or national shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Procurement of Works
Works shall be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts 
awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall 
include a detailed description of the works, including basic 
specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of agreement 
acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The 
award shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price 
quotation for the required work, and who has the experience and resources 
to complete the contract successfully.
5.
Direct Contracting
Goods and works for Infrastructure and Social Subprojects costing 
$25,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, up to an aggregate amount of 
$3,700,000, may be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding 
or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project 
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with 
the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured pursuant to the 
provisions of Parts B.1 and B.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to the first two contracts each procured 
pursuant to the provisions of Parts B.3 and B.4 hereof, the following 
procedures shall apply:
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier and to the 
execution of any contract 
for works following the 
procedures set forth in Parts B.3 and B.4 hereof, the 
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison and 
evaluation 
of quotations received;
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract for works, the 
Borrower shall provide 
to the Bank a copy of the 
specifications and the draft contract;
(iii)
in addition, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 
(f) and 2 (g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines 
shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Page  17
Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of the Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” 
published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the 
following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, 
consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Consultant 
Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and 
the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants services to be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the 
preceding paragraph.  The short list of consultants for services 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Least-cost Selection
Services for external auditing of Infrastructure and Social 
Subprojects estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Selection Based on Consultants Qualifications
Services for training and Cultural Patrimony Activities estimated 
to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 
3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Single Source Selection
Services for assignments requiring substantial involvement and 
knowledge of Indigenous and Afro-Ecuadorian Peoples’ issues, community 
needs, and or participatory approaches may, with the Bank's prior 
agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 
3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in 
paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines (other than for the tasks set 
forth in Parts C.1, C.2 and C.3 of Section II of this Schedule) shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant 
Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, 
the proposed plan for the selection of consultants under the Project 
Page  18
shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken 
in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by the 
Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third 
subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
consulting firms estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $100,000, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second and 
third subparagraphs of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or 
more, the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and terms of 
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its 
prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded only after said 
approval shall have been given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of 
individual consultants estimated to cost less than the equivalent of 
$50,000 the terms of reference of the consultants shall be furnished to 
the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 1 of this 
Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
Section III.  
Special Provisions
A.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B.1 
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Bids shall be submitted in one single envelope, and the name of 
each bidder and the total amount of each bid, as well as any alternative 
proposals, if they have been requested or permitted, shall be read aloud 
when opened.
2.
Foreign bidders shall not be required to have a local 
representative for purposes of submitting bids.
3.
Foreign bidders shall be permitted to have their financial solvency 
certified by a foreign bank acceptable to the procuring party without 
recertification by any Ecuadoran bank or other Ecuadoran person or 
entity.
4.
Bid and performance bonds and guarantees issued by foreign sureties 
approved by the procuring party shall be admissible without 
recertification or other participation by any Ecuadoran bank or other 
Ecuadoran person or entity.
5.
Letters of credit issued to any supplier of goods or provider of 
services shall not be required to be counter-guaranteed by such supplier 
or provider in whole or in part. This shall not prevent the procuring 
Page  19
party from obtaining other performance warranties from such suppliers or 
providers.
B.
In addition and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Guidelines, the following 
provisions shall govern all procurement of goods referred to in Part B.2 
of Section I of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign contractors and suppliers shall be allowed to bid on all 
contracts.
2.
The date for the opening of bids shall be set on a date which shall 
be at least thirty days from the date of the last advertisement of the 
invitation to bid.
3.
The invitation to bid shall be advertised for at least three days 
in a newspaper of wide circulation in Ecuador.
4.
Contracts must be awarded to the bidder whose bid was evaluated as 
the lowest and responsive, in accordance with criteria set forth in the 
bidding documents.
C.
In addition to and without limitation or restriction to any other 
provisions set forth in this Schedule or the Consultant Guidelines, the 
following provisions shall govern all employment of consultants referred 
to in Section II of this Schedule:
1.
Foreign consultants shall not be required to be locally registered 
as a condition of participation in the selection process.
2.
Foreign consultants shall not be required, either directly or 
indirectly, to give any participation in or share of any consulting 
contracts to any local firm or person.
3.
Foreign consulting firms shall not be required, as a condition to 
provide services, to be registered in Ecuador with a minimum capital 
different from that required for Ecuadoran firms.
4.
Foreign consultants, either individuals or firms, shall not be 
required to pay fees to the Ecuadoran Consultants’ Association that are 
different from those required for Ecuadoran consultants.
5.
No consultant shall, at the time he or she is carrying out his or 
her contractual obligations as consultant, hold civil service office or 
any other position in an agency of the Borrower or any Ecuadoran public 
sector entity, nor shall such consultant have any right to re-entry into 
any such office or position upon the conclusion of his or her consulting 
services.
Section IV.   Internal Approvals
1.
With respect to the procurement of goods to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, any approval of bidding documents and contracts 
required under the laws of the Borrower shall be given only by 
CONPLADE-IN.
2.
With respect to the employment of consultants, any approval of 
contracts or of consultant selection processes required under the laws of 
the Borrower, shall be given only by CONPLADE-IN.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through 
Page  20
(6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for  the 
Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from 
time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of 
$2,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the 
Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, 
however, that unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Authorized 
Allocation shall be limited to an amount of $1,000,000 until the 
aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total 
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or 
exceed $5,000,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized 
Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the 
Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate 
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts 
as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposits 
into the Special Account at such intervals as the 
Bank 
shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the 
Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other 
evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4 of 
this Schedule 
for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the 
Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan 
Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in 
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, 
the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
furnish to the Bank such documents and other evidence showing that such 
payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all 
further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Loan 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General 
Page  21
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, 
within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this 
Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and 
accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Borrower 
of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower 
to make withdrawals from the Loan account pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to 
the eligible Categories for the Special Account, minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, 
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the 
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by 
notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only 
after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible 
expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in 
an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional 
evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to 
the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by 
the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Borrower has 
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any 
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover 
further payments for eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the 
Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) 
and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
