Document of
The World Bank    FiLtE  CUl
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 2721-IND
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
January 22, 1980
Projects Department
East Asia and Pacific Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in ithe performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World flank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit      -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00            =  Rp 625
Rp 100             =  US$0.160
Rp 1 million       =  US$1,600
WEIGHiTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)   =   1000 grams = 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton       =   1,000 kgs = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)        10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)        =   39.37 inches
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
AARD          -  Agency for Agricultural Research and Development
Alang-alang  -  A coarse grass (Imperata cylindrica), establishing itself
after the slash and burn cycle
ARP           -  Assisted Replanting Project
BAPPENAS      -  National Development Planning Agency
BI            -  Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank)
BIMAS         - Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs
(short-term farm-input credit program)
BPPB          -  Estate Crops Research Institute, Bogor
BPPM          -  Estate Crops Research Institute, Medan
BRI           -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DG            -  Directorate General
DGE           -  Directorate General of Estates
DPD           -  Provincial Estate-Crop Service (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah)
drc           -  Dry rubber content
DTE           -  Export Crops Fund (Dana Tanaman Expor)
GCC           -  Group Coagulating Center
GOI           -  Government of Indonesia
Hak milik    -  Certificate of title to land obtained under customary law
ICB           -  International Competitive Bidding
MOA           - Ministry of Agriculture
NES           -  Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project
NR            -  Natural rubber
NSSDP         -  North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project
PMU           -  Project Management Unit
PLPT          -  Field Officer of Integrated Project
Repelita III -  Indonesia's Third Five-Year Plan, April 1979-March 1984
RRC           -  Rubber Research Center
RSS           -  Ribbed Smoked Sheet (of rubber)
SIR           -  Standard Indonesian Rubber
SR            -  Synthetic Rubber
Sawah         -  Irrigated or flooded rice paddies
SRDPU         -  Smallholder Rubber Development Project Unit
WSSDP         -  West Sumatra Smallholder Development Project



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
1.  PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Project Background.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         1
Agricultural Sector Objectives.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         I
Role and Performance   . .  . .    . .... . .. . . . . .  .      .     .     .    . . .  1
Food Crops   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                .  .  .  .  .     .. . .   2
Perennial Crops  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         3
Area Development  and Transmigration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        4
Role of Government.. . . . . . . . . .  . . .                                            4
Bank Lending Strategy  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   .                       5
2.  THE RIBBER SUBSECTOR AND THE PROJECT AREA
Production   . . . . . .     . .   . .    . . . . . . . .   . .*. . . .*. .              6
Smallholders   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                         7
Estates . ..                      .                    . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Institutions Involved in the Subsector.  . . . . . . . . . . . .                         8
Rubber Research  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 .  .   .    .. .  . .   9
Smallholder Planting Programs  . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . .                    10
Bank Group Lending  for Rubber  ....  .               .    .. .    . .  . .    . . .    12
The Project Area.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        12
3.  THE PROJECT
I
Formu]Lation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                       14
Objeclives   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        15
General Description..                                                                   15
Field Development  . . . . . . . . . . . .          .. . . . . . .          .  .  .    .  16
Nurseries  . . . . . . .         .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  ..  .  .  .   .....   17
Road Construction and Maintenance  . . . . . . . .    . . . .  .                        18
PMU and SRDPU Development  ....  .               .  .  .  . .. .    . ...............    18
Project Phasing               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                        19
Cost Estimates   . . . . . . . . . . . .    . .   . . .    . . . . . . .               20
Financing  .              .  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .                 22
Procurement  ...       .       .  .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .  .  .  . ...  .    . . . . .   .. 23
Disbursement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. .                 .  .  .  .   .  .  .  .    .  24
Accounts  and Audit   . . . . . . *. .           .  .  .  . . . . . . . . .      .    .  24
Studies  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ..  .                .  .  .  .  ....       .  25
Pilot Programs and Start-up of Future Projects . . . . .    . . .                      25
This cocument has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
.ftheir ofcial duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- il -
Page No.
4.  PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Project Management in Jakarta      .. ......                         27
Provincial Level.      . . . . . . . . . . . . .  .  .  .  .  .      27
Project Management Unit (PMUs)    .  .  . .  .  .  . . . . . . . . .   28
Staffing and Salaries . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   29
Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) ...  .  .  .  .  .  .    . . . . . . .  .   .    29
Road Constructon . . . . . . . . . . .    . . . . . . . . . . . . .   30
Technical Assistance       . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       . .    30
Training .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   31
Farmer Selection  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   . . ...  . .  .  .    31
Land Exchange and Tenure  . . . . *. o. . . . . . . . . . . . .   32
Extension .*. . . . . . . . . . . . ............... .   * ....       32
Monitoring and Reporting  ... .  .     .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    .    33
Start-up Implementation Schedule . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   33
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
Planting Material . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   34
Fertilizer  .          . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . .    35
Agro-chemicals .        .          . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   35
Labor Requirements  .             . . . . . .  .  . .   .    .    .    .   .    36
Rubber Yields and Production  .....       . .    .            ....    36
Intercropped Rice Yields and Production . . . . . . . . . . . .   36
6. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
World Rubber Market .      .      .       . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   37
Marketing and Processing in the Project Areas . . . . . . . . .      37
F arm   Income   .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  39
Subloan Collection  ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .    ......  .   .    39
Financial Impact on BRI ... .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .......  .   .   40
Cost Recovery ....  .    .....  .  .  .  . ...  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    41
7. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   41
Rate of Return Calculation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   42
Sensitivity Analysis .               . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   43
Risks   ....  .      .  .  .  .  .  .  .   ....  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .  .   .    44
Environmental Effects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   44
8. RECOMMENDATIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   45



- iii -
List of Tables in Main Report
2.1  :[ndonesia Average Annual Rubber Production, 1960-78
3.1  Estimated Phasing of Plantings
3.2  ]?roject Cost Summary
3.3  Project Financing Plan
6.1  B3RI Revenue Under the Project
7.1  Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
1. Detailed Project Cost
Table la:  Estimated Phasing of Nurseries
Table lb:  Nursery Costs
Table  2:  Family Labor Costs
Table  3:  Mechanized Land Clearing Costs
Table  4:  Spraying Costs
Table 5a:  Fertilizer Requirements
Table 5b:  Rubber Development Material Costs
'Table  6:  Intercrop Material Costs
Table  7:  Land Title Costs
Table  8:  Road Construction and Maintenance Cost
Table  9:  Building Costs
Table 10:  Tractor-Trailer Costs
Table 11:  Vehicle Costs
Table 12:  Training Costs
Table 13:  Technical Assistance Costs
Table 14a: Project Staff Requirements
Table 14b: Project Staff Costs
Table 14c: Administration Costs
Table 15:  Cost of Studies
Table 16:  Future Project Pilot and Start-up Costs
Table 17:  Summary Project Phasing
Table 18:  Allocation of Contingencies by Category
Table 19:  Post-Project Maintenance Costs
Table 20a: Rubber Development Costs/ha: Hard Clearing, No Inter-
cropping
Table 20b: Rubber Development Costs/ha: Hard Clearing, 2 Years
Intercropping
Table 20c: Rubber Development Costs/ha:  Tractor Clearing, 2 Years
Intercropping
Table 21:  Material Quantities and Unit Prices - Total Project
2. Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
3. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
4. Production and Income
Table 1:   Estimated Smallholder Rubber Yields
Table 2:   Farm Model Summary - Replanting, 2 Year Intercropping



- iv -
5. Economic Analysis
Table 1:   Calculation of Economic and Financial Price for Rubber
Table 2:   Calculation of Economic Farm-gate Price of Paddy
Table 3:   Calculation of Economic Price for Urea and TSP
Table 4:   Project Costs
Table 5:   Project Benefits
6.  Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
7.  Draft Terms of Reference for Studies
8.  Monitoring and Reporting Proposals
9.  Statements of Expenditure
10. Selected Data and Documents in the Project File
MAPS
14714 Anjungan Project Area
14715 Prabumulih Project Area
14716 Taluk Kuantan Project Area
CHART
20981 Project Organization
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission composed of
Messrs. D. Elz, K. Arichandran, J. English (IDA) and 0. Peries (consultant)
which visited Indonesia in May/June 1978, and a reappraisal mission composed
of Messrs. S. Ettinger, H. Matheson (IDA) and A. Campbell (consultant) which
visited Indonesia in June/July 1979.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1. PROJECT AND SECTOR BACKGROUND
Project Background
1.01      The Government of Indonesia (GOI) has requested IDA assistance to
plant (new planting and replanting) and maintain about 38,500 ha of small-
holder rubber in Riau, South Sumatra and West Kalimantan provinces, and
to maintain an additional 8,000 ha planted in 1975-79. The project
would also strengthen the institutional framework of GOI's overall
smallholder rubber development program, and would provide rural roads,
staff training, technical assistance, studies and preparation for future
projects.
1.02      The project was identified by GOI with IDA assistance, and
reflects the national needs and priorities outlined in GOI's Third Five-Year
Plan (Repelita III), April 1979 - March 1984. The project was prepared by GOI
and IDA, which drew on feasibility studies by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative
Program and by Indonesian consulting groups.
Agricultural Sector Objectives
1.03      The Government's major objectives for the agricultural and rural
sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise the incomes of the
rural poor; (b) increase domestic food supply to keep pace with rising
demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of smallholder
tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of Indonesia's land,
water and other natural resources.
Role and Performance
1.04      Some 15.6 million smallholder families produce subsiLstence and
cash crops on 15.8 million ha, while 1,800 estates occupying 2.2 million ha
produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil, and tobacco. Despite a 4%
average annual growth of production, agriculture's share of GI)P has declined
from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its share of exports dropped from 45% to
37% due mainly to the markedly increased value of oil exports.  Never-
theless, agriculture provides 80% of non-oil exports, and remains of over-
whelming importance to the great majority of Indonesians: nearly 80% of the
population lives in rural areas, and agriculture is the major source of
income for about two-thirds of rural households and one-tenth of urban
households.



- 2 -
1.05      Employment.  Agriculture's share of total employment decreased
from 69% in 1961 to 64% in September 1971, while in 1976 it ranged between
66% in March and 60% in October./l Nevertheless, agriculture remained by
far the largest single source (with 46%) of new employment during 1971-76.
Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture appear quite promising,
given the sustained increases in the smallholder area, due to land and
irrigation development, including that under publicly-sponsored and
spontaneous transmigration. In Java, rehabilitation of irrigation systems,
which generated significant employment in the last decade, should continue
to provide additional construction and farm work.
Food Crops
1.06      Production Growth.  Given its limited manpower and financial
resources, GOI has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irri-
gation rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fer-
tilizer and high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS
credit program. The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% p.a. over 1974-77,
in the wake of severe declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on
private sector fertilizer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall,
and unprecedented attacks by pests and diseases, principally the brown plant
hopper and associated viruses. In 1978, rice production increased by 10%,
with better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and
nationwide Government distribution of recently-introduced pest-resistant
varieties. Over the past decade, output of secondary food crops (maize,
cassava, soybeans, peanuts, and sweet potatoes) grew more slowly, at an
average of only 1.6% p.a., composed of a 1.1% p.a. average decline in area
(much of this land shifting to irrigated rice) and a 2.7% p.a. increase in
yield.
1.07      Demand-Supply Balance.  These gains in food output did not keep
pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand due to rising population and
incomes.  Indonesia became the world's largest rice importer, with a record
import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and about 1.3 million tons in 1978.
Simultaneously, wheat imports rose to 1.4 million tons in 1978, cassava
exports nearly disappeared, and soybean, maize, and coconut oil imports
began to grow. The "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for Major Food Crops"
(Report No. 2374-IND of March 3, 1979) concluded that even with expanded
irrigation, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food
production growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit
up to at least 1990, with an annual rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons.
/L In 1976, shares were 63% in March and 57% in October in Java, and 72%
and 66%, respectively, elsewhere. The total drop in agricultural
employment from March to October was 6.7 million. Precise estimation is
difficult due to the surveys' shifting definitions and seasonal timing.



- 3 -
1.08       Future Strategy.  To keep rice imports at some reasonable fraction
of the world rice trade, and to prevent a widening food production-consumption
gap, productivity and area of both rice and secondary food crops must be
increased. In Java, rice-cropping intensity could be raised through water
storage projects and by exploiting groundwater. Rice yields and
cropping intensity can also be increased by constructing tertiary irrigation
and drainage systems, and improving support services. In the Other Islands
there is potential for new irrigation systems, including tidal and swamp
land development. Despite the scarcity of high-yielding tropical varieties
of secondary food crops, yields of existing varieties could be increased
substantially by improved husbandry, including use of fertilizer and
pesticides. GOI is giving increasing attention to marketing, credit,
seeds and research aimed at varietal improvement for secondary crops. Bank
assistance for these efforts is planned.
Perennial Crops
1.09      Perennial crops occupy about a third of total cropped land
(coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate about 43% of
total noni-oil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber area
and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and oil
palm are grown primarily on estates. Despite recent higher world prices for
Indonesia's major tree crop products, only oil palm has shown sustained
large increases in production, due to investment by Government and private
estates. With the long immaturity of tree crops, static production levels
are a symptom of past low prices and neglect, especially inadequate research
and extension, and failure to replant with higher-yielding varieties.
1.10      Smallholder Development.  Efforts to revitalize the! smallholder
tree crop sector are commencing on several fronts. One new aLpproach, which
is being supported by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders
(NES) projects, is for Government estates to plant and maintain tree crops
on previously undeveloped land for three years, using farmers selected to be
settlers (including local landless families and transmigrants) as employees,
and thereafter to provide the settlers with inputs, extension services, and
processing facilities. Tree crops are also being included in transmigration
projects. While the NES approach has been mainly for new settlers, GOI has
also initiated national programs to assist geographically concentrated
groups cf existing smallholders to plant rubber or coconuts themselves,
with fairly intensive support from Project Management Units (PMUs). This
is the approach of the proposed project. Efforts to design a lower-cost
system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on management are also
starting. Given the vast area of overaged and low-yielding smallholder
rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects for these crops, and the
Other Island's land availability and natural comparative advantage



in them, rapid expansion of smallholder tree crops, using all suitable
approaches, is a high priority. As these programs will place a heavy demand
on technical and managerial personnel, major recruitment and training
efforts are required.
Area Development and Transmigration
1.11      Java.  In 1978, about 85 million people lived in Java, at a density
approaching 650/sq km. The island, with 7% of Indonesia's land area, has
45% of the cropped area and 63% of the population. Java generally has
higher fertility and better infrastructure than the Other Islands; however,
its cultivable land is almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds
cultivation already exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to
increasing erosion, downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and
irrigation canals. GOI is preparing watershed development and integrated
development projects to address this problem. In addition, rural develop-
ment programs designed to meet basic needs and to generate employment and
production have been developed for certain critically poor areas of Java.
1.12      Other Islands.  In the Other Islands, population density is
generally low, and undeveloped land is available. The primary program for
new area development there, as well as for creating employment and
settlement nuclei for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. An organized
transmigration program is important for regional and natural resource
development in the Other Islands, production of food and export crops, and
creation of employment and improved living conditions for landless Javanese.
Unfortunately, this program has long been hampered by unrealistic
expectations of its potential for resolving Java's population problems and
for stimulating large-scale regional development, by overly ambitious
targets, and by weak, uncoordinated implementation. Confronted by
-management problems, GOI reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita
III, by transferring implementation responsibility from the Directorate
General of Transmigration to the line agencies normally responsible for each
sector. This measure needs to be complemented by continued attention to
technical and policy issues including (a) the suitability of the land for
food crops, (b) the role of tree crops and livestock, (c) appropriate target
incomes and farm sizes, (d) the extent of Government financial, marketing
and other services to settlers, and (e) the role of spontaneous migration.
The Second Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND and Credit 919-IND) is
expected to address some of these issues.
Role of Government
1.13      While the private sector should be encouraged to expand its role
in agricultural input supply, marketing, and processing, Government
bears the major responsibility for infrastructure, resource conservation,
and other services. Despite marked improvements over the past decade, overly
centralized procedures, weak regional planning, and technical and managerial
manpower constraints have impeded agricultural and rural development
planning and implementation. GOI's concern for area development has also
increased the need to strengthen provincial and local planning capabilities.



- 5 -
Future programs responsive to GOI's stated objectives will necessarily be
complex, requiring closely coordinated programs of agriculturaLl research,
extension, input supply, credit, land development, transport, pricing policies
and marketing. GOI must therefore continue to strengthen its key rural
development institutions, particularly through the education, recruitment,
training and retention of technical manpower.
Bank Lending Strategy
1.14      GOI and the Bank generally agree on overall objectives and strate-
gies for the rural sector.  While views sometimes differ on the relative
emphasis to be given to different investments, and on the teclnical design of
some projects, such differences are not impeding Bank Group operations
generally and are usually resolved by further analysis and dialogue.
1.15      Projects.  Since the first of 13 irrigation projects was approved
in 1968, the Bank Group's agricultural lending has rapidly expanded to
include estate and smallholder tree crops, fertilizer production and
distribution, sugar, livestock, fisheries, research, extension, training,
seeds, transmigration, integrated rural development, and resource survey and
mapping. The Operations Evaluation Department's Sector Operations Review of
Bank Group agricultural lending in Indonesia (Report No. 2166, dated August
9, 1978) concluded that despite deficiencies in some projects, the Bank's
portfolio in Indonesian agriculture was "of overall good quality and likely
to contribute substantially to increased production." Within the context of
GOI's agricultural objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III,
future Bank lending is expected to focus on:
(a)  a diversified irrigation, flood protection, drainage and swamp
reclamation program to intensify rice cropping on Java and to
extend water management in the Other Islands;
(b)  support services, including second phase projects
for agricultural research, extension and seeds;
(c)  smallholder tree crop planting programs; and
(d)  area development projects aimed at (a) watershed MaLnagement to
conserve soil and ensure long-term productivity in the densely
populated areas of Java, (b) integrated rural development of poor
areas on Java, and (c) transmigration.
1.16      Sector Work.  These projects have been and will continue to be
complemented by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income
distribution, irrigation, agricultural support services, and food crop
production have improved the Bank's understanding of the sector's needs and
of GOI's policies.  Reviews of the rubber subsector, the transmigration
program, secondary food crops, land tenure, and the supply and requirements
of technical and managerial manpower for agriculture are undesrway.



- 6 -
2. THE RUBBER SUBSECTOR AND THE PROJECT AREA
Production
2.01      Indonesia, once the world's largest natural rubber producer, is
now second to Malaysia, producing about 840,000 tons and exporting 800,000
tons' in 1978 - 20% of world trade. Indonesia's third largest export
commodity, rubber comprised 6% of total agricultural GDP, 9% of export
earnings and 17% of non-oil exports in 1978, and provides employment
full-time for 2 million people and part-time for about 5 million.
Production (Table 2.1) averaged 700,000 tons p.a. in 1960-64, and increased
on average by 1.6% p.a. to 810,000 tons p.a. in 1970-74, due mainly to area
expansion. From 1970-74 to 1975-78, average yields and total production
stagnated, due to: (a) the after effects of a continuous, though erratic
decline in prices from the early 1950s through 1975 which discouraged
planting, and (b) failure to improve poor agricultural practices of
smallholders and private locally-owned estates. Production appears to be
rising slowly again now, in response to higher prices.
Table 2.1: INDONESIA AVERAGE ANNUAL RUBBER PRODUCTION, 1960-78
Years             1960-64       1965-69       1970-74      1975-78
Production ('000 ton)
Smallholders             483           526           570            555
Estates                  220           223           238            250
Total                  703           749           808            805
Area ('000 ha)
Smallholders           1,506         1,661         1,839          1,875
Estates                  n.a.          523           497            455
Total                  n.a.        2.184         2,336          2,330
Yield (kg/ha)
Smallholders             321           317           310            296
Estates                  n.a.          426           479            549
Total                  n.a.          343           346            345



-7-
Smallholders
2.02      About 69% of national production comes from 1.25 million small-
holder families, with average rubber holdings of 1.5 ha. Smallholder pro-
duction, of which 70% comes from Sumatra and 19% from Kalimantan, grew from
an average 480,000 tons in 1960-64 to 570,000 tons in 1970-74, an increase
of 1.7% p.a, due to a 2.0% p.a. increase in area. In 1975-78 average
production was down to about 555,000 tons, a decrease of 0.6% p.a.
reportedly due to lower yields (from 310 kg/ha to 296 kg/ha). In the
absence of major planting programs, this gradual decline would continue, as
it is estimated that 35% of smallholder plantings date from 1940 or earlier
and 30% from 1941-50; most of these probably have declining yields, and some
areas are being abandoned,/1 especially where excessive bark consumption
has made further tapping very difficult.
2.03      Rubber was introduced into Indonesia early in this century, and
spread rapidly among smallholders in Sumatra and Kalimantan because it fit
in well with their traditional system of shifting cultivation, whereby newly-
cleared land was cropped for a few years and then left to recover under
secondary forest. By planting rubber, the farmers not only provided for
future income, but also established use rights to the land. ]'ractically all
Indonesian smallholder rubber was developed under this system,, and some
30-50,000 ha p.a. is still being planted in this way. The farmers generally
carry out no maintenance, and return to the area only to tap. A "rubber
jungle" develops, renewing itself through natural regeneration. Yields
probably never exceed 400-500 kg/ha, and begin declining 15-20 years after
planting, with the normal drying up of the original trees exacerbated by
careless and often overly-intensive tapping; their self-sown replacements
are even less productive because they face more competition for water,
nutrients and light during their development period.
2.04      This very low input, low output system served Indonesian smallhol-
ders for decades. But declining yields, development of greatly improved
planting material, availability of fertilizer, the increased cost of tapping
labor (due largely to competition from the timber industry), rising per
capita incomes and consumption, and improved long-term market prospects,
have made the large-scale upgrading of this sector highly desirable. Most
Malaysian smallholder rubber has already been replanted along modern lines,
and Thailand is moving rapidly in the same direction. During Repelita I and
II Indonesia lacked the financial and managerial resources to carry out more
than pilot replanting programs, but the sector has been given high priority
in Repelita III. As the smallholders themselves have neither the financial
resources, access to inputs nor technical knowledge to utilize high yielding
planting material, a major Government effort is required.
/1 This may be the main reason for the reportedly lower yields, as the data
on area do not always exclude untapped rubber.



- 8 -
2.05      Until the November 1978 devaluation, the average annual income
of rubber smallholders was about $100/capita (in 1978 prices), well below
the absolute poverty line of $130/capita. The devaluation, coupled with
recent increases in the world rubber price, brought the average rubber
smallholder income to $135/capita (in December 1979 prices), compared to a
$110/capita absolute poverty line. However, domestic inflation and
declining yields may make much of this gain temporary.
Estates
2.06      The well-established estate rubber sector of 455,000 ha comprises
Government-owned (200,000 ha), private locally-owned (182,000 ha), and
foreign-owned (73,000 ha) estates. Total estate production in 1977 was
255,000 tons, of which 65% came from Sumatra, 30% from Java and 5% from
Kalimantan. Despite a decline in the Government estates' rubber area from
225,000 ha in 1970 to about 200,000 ha in 1977, due to abandonment of
overaged trees and conversion of some areas into oil palm, production
increased from 118,000 tons to 150,000 tons, as yields rose from 525 kg/ha
to 725 kg/ha due to improved management and replanting with high-yielding
clones. Private foreign estate companies, whose area remained virtually
constant, increased production in the same period from 40,000 tons to about
55,000 tons, by raising yields from 540 kg/ha to 750 kg/ha. The private
local estates on the other hand, with production of 52,000 tons, have yields
as low (285 kg/ha) and static as those of smallholders. If present trends
continue, the total estate rubber area will decline to 315,000 ha by 1990,
but production will increase to 340,000 tons. The Government estates and
private foreign estates can expect continued high production from existing
trees, as 65% and 60% of these, respectively, were planted in the past 15
years; for private national estates the figure is only 27%.
Institutions Involved in the Subsector
2.07      The Ministry of Agriculture (MOA) is made up of five Directorates
General (DGs) - Estates, Fisheries, Food Crops, Forestry and Livestock -
plus the Agency for Agricultural Research and Development (AARD), the Agency
for (Agricultural) Education and Training (AET), and the support staff of
the M4inister. The DG Estates (DGE) regulates all private estates and
smallholdings involving tree crops and industrial crops, which include
rubber, coconuts, oil palm, tea, coffee, sugar, tobacco, and spices. DGE
now contains five directorates in Jakarta: Planning, Production, Farm
Management, Rehabilitation and Development, and Plant Protection./I The
increasing number of externally-financed DGE projects has put considerable
strain on these directorates, and long delays in project implementation have
resulted. To expedite implementation, DGE has created a Special Team for
Externally-Assisted Projects to provide technical assistance to the project
units on matters related to the special implementation requirements of such
projects in procurement, budgeting, recruitment, project start-up and legal
advice.
/1 The last two were just established in October 1979.



2.08      Development activities at provincial and district levels are handled
by the Provincial Estate Crop Services (Dinas Perkebunan Daerah - DPDs).  The
DPDs are responsible technically to the DGE but administratively to the
provincial governments. Extension services to tree crop smallholders are
limited by the inadequate quantity and sometimes quality of D1?D personnel.
Steps toward expanding routine extension services for rubber smallholders are
proposed for inclusion in the National Agricultural Extension II Project.
2.09      Responsibility for public sector estates rests with the Support
Staff for Agricultural Enterprises Unit, which reports to the Minister.
Technical assistance to the MOA Support Staff and DGE under the three NES
Projects (Loans 1499-IND, 1604-IND and 1751-IND) has improved operation of
the public estate system and facilitated preparation and implementation of
the NES smallholder components. Some of these consultants and their counter-
parts in the MOA Support Staff are now working with the Special Team.
2.10      Three other ministries involved in the rubber industry are (a)
Trade and Cooperatives, which determines policy on product specification,
quality control and smallholder marketing, (b) Industry, which licenses
processors, and is responsible for the Standard Indonesian Rulbber (SIR) scheme
(para. 6.02) and (c) Finance, which, with the approval of the National
Development Planning Agency (BAPPENAS), provides funds for development.
2.11      Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI), the Government commercial bank for
the agricultural and rural sector, serves as a channeling agency for
smallholder rubber finance under the North Sumatra Smallholder Development
Project (NSSDP, Credit 358-IND) and the NES I, II and III Projects, and
would be the credit institution for the proposed project. BRI has been
gaining experience in long-term credit operations under the Smallholders and
Private Estates Tea Project (Credit 400-IND) and the Fisheries Credit
Project (Credit 480-IND). BRI was hard-pressed by the very rapid
expansion of its branch and village unit network during the early 1970s as
the BIMAS program expanded nationwide, but has now returned to a more
manageable growth rate. It is being assisted in term lending by a team of
five consultants financed under the Rural Credit Project (Credit 827-IND).
Rubber Research
2.12      Rubber research has been conducted by the Estate Crops Research
Institutes in Bogor (BPPB) and Medan (BPPM) now under AARD, and the smaller
Rubber Research Centers (RRCs) at Tanjung Morawa (North Sumatra) and Getas
(Central Java) run jointly by and for the Government estates.. BPPM and RRC
Tanjung Morawa serve northern and western Sumatra, while BPPE. and RRC Getas
deal with southern Sumatra, Java and the other islands. The research effort
has been hampered by shortage of skilled staff, and so far, very little has
been smallholder oriented. The research performance should iLmprove markedly
when the many staff now being trained abroad return.
2.13      Under the Agricultural Research Project (Loan 1179--IND), a new
Rubber Research Institute is being built at Sungai Putih (North Sumatra),
which will absorb the rubber section of BPPM and take over the basic



- 10 -
research being done by the RRCs, leaving the latter to do applied research.
In addition, the BPPB branch at Sembawa (South Sumatra) is being upgraded
into a separate smallholder rubber research institute. The respective roles
of Sungai Putih, Sembawa and Bogor still need further definition. The
rubber component of the Agricultural Research Project is about 18 months
behind schedule; completion of the main facilities is expected in mid-1981.
Smallholder Planting Programs
2.14       GOI smallholder rubber planting schemes began in 1959, when a
rubber replanting fund was established from cess payments, for provision of
clonal seedlings and cash payments (towards the cost of replanting) to
farmers. Through Repelita I (April 1969-March 1974) emphasis remained on
distribution of planting material, as the financial and managerial demands
of this approach were very low. However, the planting material was often
poor, because the nurseries lacked adequate funds, staff and fertilizer.
Furthermore, financial control was weak, and there was virtually no monitor-
ing of what happened to the seedlings after they left the nurseries.
2.15       By the start of Repelita II (April 1974-March 1979), attention had
turned to concentrated development using area-specific PMUs. In 1973, the
first one was set up at Aek Nabara, North Sumatra under the NSSDP, and in
1974 at Abai Siat (West Sumatra Smallholder Development Project - WSSDP)
assisted by the Federal Republic of Germany. The NSSDP included:
(a) 5,300 ha of new rubber in blocks (on abandoned estates), mechani-
cally cleared by the PMU and then given over to former estate
laborers and nearby smallholders who planted and maintained it
to maturity under PMU supervision, with assistance on credit for
2 ha apiece; and
(b) 2,700 ha of rubber replanting, on a grant basis, one ha apiece by
individual smallholders (within specified project areas, but not
in blocks), under PMU supervision.
The plantings were completed on time, and the rubber trees' growth has
exceeded expectations and has been generally close to estate standards. The
key to success was a high-calibre PMU, including three consultants for the
first four years, with staff salaries competitive with those of estates.
This success has induced many participants to replant additional areas on
their own, purchasing the inputs for cash from the PMU.
2.16       The WSSDP replanted 3,000 ha on a block basis, managed directly by
the PMU for two years before being returned to the smallholders under PMU
supervision. Although implementation was slowed by the substantial land
reallocation needed to provide smallholders with two ha each in the replanted
blocks, the project has been successful, due primarily to the high quality
of the PMU and its consultant support.



- 11 -
2.17      To develop lower cost and less management intensive rubber
replanting, GOI, in 1974, began the Assisted Replanting Project (ARP) and
Group Coagulating Center (GCC) programs. The ARP uses PMUs to supervise
replanting, with a target of about 2,000-4,000 ha/year apiece. The GCCs are
smaller PHUs, whose primary goal is replanting up to 850 ha/year, although
they also assist with rubber processing and marketing. Five AlRPs /1 and
about 25 GCCs had been established as of mid-1979, in areas selected for
their concentration of unproductive rubber and their accessibility.
2.18      The ARP/GCC program replanted about 1,000 ha in 1976 /2, 3,000 ha
in 1977 and 12,000 ha in 1978, established a few relatively well functioning
PMUs, and has generated considerable smallholder interest. But it has
suffered from (a) shortage of qualified staff, (b) inadequate and delayed
provision of budgetary funds /3, (c) the poor germination and survival rates
of rubber seed delivered to the PMUs, (d) almost total unavailability of
fertilizer when needed, and (e) absence of maintenance after the replanting
year. As a result, the plantings vary widely in quality, and are in general
well below the NSSDP/WSSDP standards.
2.19      In December 1978, GOI decided that direct field development costs
of the ARP/GCC and other perennial crop programs would henceforth be
financed by credit from Bank Indonesia (BI) and BRI to the smallholders.
This was done to (a) make the program more equitable, replicable and
consistent with other programs (such as NES), (b) teach the farmers that
they should not look to Government just for handouts, and must make good use
of the invrestment in order to repay, and (c) tap the assets of the banking
system for financing the program.
2.20      Unfortunately, as the detailed arrangements took about eight
months to work out, neither grant nor credit funds were availa'ble for land
clearing during April-October 1979, so only about 20% of the 30,000 ha
ARP/GCC 1979 replanting target has been achieved, compared to 60% of the
1978 target of 20,000 ha. This will make it even more difficult to reach
the 50,000 ha p.a. target for 1980-1984 /4, which is in line with the need
/1  The three in the proposed project (para. 2.22), plus one each in Jambi
and North Sumatra.
/2  The GOI budgetary year April 1976-March 1977; planting is normally
done in October-December.
/3  The rubber export cess was terminated in 1974, both because of inadequate
financial control over the use of those funds, and in order to increase
the farm-gate rubber price at a time of depressed prices. Although
primary reliance was then placed on budgetary grants, money remaining
in the cess fund has been lent to DGE to meet urgent rubber development
needs for which budgetary funds could not be made available in time.
Such 'Loans outstanding total about $2.2 million.
/4 DGE has a 7-year plan (April 1978-March 1985) to replant 300,000 ha.



- 12 -
to replant 60,000 ha p.a. for the 1.8 million ha of smallholder rubber to be
replanted over the trees' 30-year production cycle.
Bank Group Lending for Rubber
2.21      Bank Group assistance for smallholder rubber has included the
NSSDP ($5 million), NES I ($26 million of a $65 million loan), NES II
($59 million of a $65 million loan) and NES III ($57 million of a $99
million loan). The three NES projects are targeted to new plant 54,700 ha
and replant 7,500 ha. NES I and II, which became effective in January and
September 1978, respectively, started slowly due to inadequate budgeting of
local funds, but are now progessing satisfactorily.  Smallholder rubber
development is also starting on a modest scale under the Transmigration and
Rural Development Project (Loan 1318-IND). These projects, plus the
proposed project, are expected to increase smallholder rubber production by
about 18% (100,000 tons/year) at full development. Rubber rehabilitation on
Government estates was financed under Credits 155-, 194- and 319-IND, as
well as NES I, II and III. A recent Operations Evaluation Department
project performance audit rated Credits 155- and 194-IND physically and
financially successful. Credit 319-IND is ahead of schedule, and its rubber
and oil palm plantings are good.
The Project Area
2.22    The three most advanced PHUs under the ARP program, at Taluk Kuantan
(Riau), Prabumulih (South Sumatra) and Anjungan (West Kalimantan), were
selected for further upgrading and expansion under the proposed project.
The areas were first surveyed in 1975 by the Institut Pertanian Bogor
(Taluk Kuantan), a consortium of Indonesian universities (Prabumulih), and
Nusa Consultants (Anjungan), and some portions selected as initial ARP areas.
Nearby areas can be brought into the program by the PMU, with agreement of
the DPD and local government, provided conditions are suitable and there is
sufficient farmer interest.  In all three areas, the number of farmers
applying to participate has exceeded the PMUs' implementation capacity.
2.23      Taluk Kuantan (Map 14716) lies on the Kuantan river in the
district (kabupaten) Indragiri Hulu, 155 km south of the Riau provincial
capital, Pakanbaru, and 150 km west of Rengat, the district capital and
nearest port. It is a junction for roads to Pakanbaru, Rengat and West
Sumatra. These roads are all scheduled for paving and major upgrading
during Repelita III, making this an excellent area for agricultural
development. As the project area is quite compact, extending some 75 km
along the main roads and the river, only short access roads to the planting
areas would need building or upgrading.



- 13 -
2.24      The locality is generally hilly, but contains relatively extensive
undulating to flat uplands, and considerable sawah (irrigated or flooded
rice paddies) along the river. The soils are mainly brown and red-yellow
podzolics. Rainfall is about 2,500 mm/year and well-distributed, with some
160 mm/montlh in the dry season (June-September). Farm size averages 4.2 ha
chiefly in rubber (2.7 ha) and rice (1.1 ha), usually in scattered holdings.
The 19 villages surveyed for initial participation contain 26,000 ha of
rubber, the main source of cash income for 87% of the 12,800 families.
2.25       Prabumulih (Map 14715) is in Lematang Ilir Ogan Tengah (LIOT)
district, a'bout 90 km south-west of Palembang, the provincial capital.
Prabumulih is a junction on the South Sumatra railway, with tracks leading
to its district capital Muaraenim, 60 km away, to Palembang and to Lampung.
The area is well-served with provincial, district and village roads, although
the secondary roads flood frequently during the wet season. A number of
all-weather roads maintained by the Pertamina Oil Company run through the
area also. The project area is widely scattered over 160 km.
2.26      I'he land is generally gently undulating to flat, with swampy areas,
but little sawah. The soils are mostly brown and red-yellow podzolics, with
areas of low fertility sandy soils. Rainfall averages about 2,450 mm/year,
with a distinct dry season (rainfall about 100 mm/month) from June to August.
Farm holdings average 3.2 ha, with about 2.0 ha rubber, 1.0 ha padi on a
shifting cultivation system and 0.2 ha mixed crops. More than 20% of the
rubber is n1o longer productive. There are extensive scrub/alang-alang areas
potentially suitable for rubber development (this is the one project area
with considerable new planting under the ARP).  About 90% of the 22,000 farm
families in the villages surveyed derive their cash income mainLy from rubber,
as smallho:Lders or tappers. Alternative work prospects are limited mainly to
timber and road work.
2.27       knjungan (Map 14714) lies 63 km north of the provincial capital,
Pontianak, and 25 km east of the Pontianak district capital, Mempawah. Two
project sulbunits (Toho and Mandor), are in Pontianak district, and stretch
for about 80 km along main branch roads. A third subunit, Singkawang,
is in Sambas district, 112 km north of Anjungan. Good roads link the main
villages, and several are planned for upgrading during Repelita III, but
secondary roads often flood during rains.
2.28      The locality is generally hilly with steep slopes and undulating
uplands and sawah areas in the narrow valleys. The soils are mlainly brown-
yellow podzolics. Rainfall is relatively high, averaging about 2,800 mm/year,
with no pronounced dry season (June-September rainfall averages; about 190 mm/
month). T'he conditions are suitable for rubber growing, provided terracing
is done to minimize erosion. The average holding includes 3.0 ha of rubber,
0.6 ha of sawah and 0.5 ha of other crops. More than 60% of the rubber is
estimated to exceed 30 years of age.



- 14 -
3. THE PROJECT
Formulation
3.01      The NSSDP demonstrated that high quality smallholder rubber could
be developed under the PMU system; however, that project's demands for
technical and managerial expertise were too intensive for full replicability
on a large enough scale for Indonesia's needs. The ARP program proved that
PMUs organized at much lower cost could direct and supervise large-scale
rubber planting, although with considerable sacrifice of quality. The
proposed project would incorporate the lessons of both experiences at an
intermediate level of management. It would also be managerially less
intensive than the NES projects, in that the farmers would be aided to do
their own planting, instead of having it done for them by estates. In
addition, it would include pilot efforts to develop an even less intensive
approach, especially for areas where spontaneous, scattered rubber planting
is taking place under the shifting cultivation system (paras. 3.38-3.39).
3.02      Other ways to keep down unit costs were examined.  Reduced
fertilizer or herbicide levels, or lower quality planting material, would
have long-term adverse affects on rubber yields far outweighing the cost
savings. Project cost has been kept down, however, by making cash payments
to farmers, for specific tasks accomplished, at only 50% of the going
wage (subject to a minimum payment of Rp 500/man-day)./L This is considered
the minimum necessary to induce and permit farmers to devote adequate
attention to their rubber plantings. Increasing production from existing
trees by applying fertilizer or latex stimulants was also considered;
however, returns from such investment in the "rubber jungle" would, be
minimal, and demands on scarce managerial resources excessive.
3.03      Originally, the project was to be limited to replanting, as the
areas already under rubber are generally the most suitable, having better soil
and less slope, and being closer to the villages and roads (or rivers).
Since Novenber 1978, however, the farm-gate price of rubber has doubled in
Indonesia (due in part to the rupiah devaluation), changing the relative
economics of new planting vs replanting. In many cases, it is now
preferable to develop new rubber land (from secondary forest or alang-alang)
while continuing to tap the old trees. In other areas, where suitable
unused land is not available near the villages, or where the old rubber
trees are virtually unproductive, replanting is called for. The project
would therefore be open to both; 60-70% is expected to be replanting.
3.04      Negotiations for a Rubber Replanting Project were held in December
1978, immediately after GOI decided to put such projects on a credit basis
(para. 2.19), and before the full nature of the credit system had been deter-
/1 Initially, the rate would be Rp 500 ($0.80)/man-day in all three areas.



- 15 -
mined. GOI subsequently decided that it wanted BRI to play a more major
credit role, as partial risk taker and financier, than just as a channeling
agent as agreed at the December 1978 negotiations. During discussions that
followed in February/March 1979, it also proposed changes in project cost
and organization. Full reappraisal was therefore undertaken in June/July
1979; the project title was then changed to reflect the inclusion of new
planting. Successful rubber replanting programs in Malaysia and Thailand
are being carried out on a grant basis, financed by export cesses. Although
such a system also appears preferable for Indonesia, in view of the
administrative burden (on BRI and DGE) of a credit system and the
possibility of a high default rate, IDA acceded to GOI's decisicin, as with
proper safeguards (paras. 4.08-4.10 and 6.11), a credit system should also
be workable.
Objectives
3.05      The project's main objectives would be to:
(a) raise the incomes of some 32,000 smallholder families, some 30% of
which are in the absolute poverty group;
(b)  increase Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings from rlbber; and
(c) build the institutional framework and data base for the national
smallholder rubber program.
General Description
3.06      The project would finance a five-year (April 1980-Marczh 1985) time
slice of rubber development in the three project areas.  It wou:Ld include all
activities of the three PMUs, so they could undertake procurement, budgeting
etc. efficiLently under a single system. The main components would be:
(a) planting and maintaining to maturity about 38,500 ha of small-
holder rubber, including intercrops, and maintaining to maturity
a further 8,000 ha planted during 1975-79 (paras. 3.08-3.11);
(b)  developing about 775 ha of nurseries to provide the material for
the planting program (paras. 3.12-3.14);
(c)  constructing about 200 km of secondary village roads and 900 km of
estate-type roads, and upgrading about 300 km of village roads, to
provide access for inputs and for rubber marketing (para. 3.15);
(d)  strengthening the PIUs and a newly created Smallholder Rubber
]Development Project Unit (SRDPU) in Jakarta, which would supervise
and assist them, through recruitment and training of some 200
technical and administrative staff (in addition to about 100 at
present), employment of four consultants (on rubber production,



- 16 -
training, finance and organization), and provision of vehicles,
warehouses and staff housing (paras. 3.16-3.20); and
(e) carrying out studies, pilot programs and start-up activities for
future projects, both along the lines of the proposed project and
for minimal assistance to spontaneous planters (paras. 3.35-3.40).
3.07      To provide a wide spread of benefits, and to ensure that each family
could properly develop and tap its rubber, there would be a two ha planting
limit for each family. Families with more than two ha to tap would generally
have to hire share-tappers who, not being concerned with the trees' long-run
output, would be likely to damage them by overtapping and excessive bark
consumption. To ensure that the smallholders could develop their land without
needing substantial hired labor, which is not always available and which might
not perform at the requisite standards, one ha would be cleared and planted
the first year and the second ha three years later. An assurance to this
effect was obtained during negotiations. This phasing would also tie in
well with the credit system (para. 4.08). Where mechanical land preparation
was used (para. 3.09), both ha could be planted in the same year.
Field Development
3.08      Farmer Groups.  Farmer groups have been found to be the most
efficient means of disseminating extension advice and carrying out certain
difficult land development tasks. The smallholders would organize themselves
into groups of about 10-30 families, generally with contiguous land
holdings, and then apply to the PMU to enter the project. Any land
redistribution required to create blocks of at least 20 ha with no more than
2 ha per family would be the responsibility of the farmer groups and village
leaders (para. 4.16). The farmers would select unpaitl group leaders, who
would be a major channel of communication with the PMU, both for receiving
advice and directions, and for making the groups' demands known. Most of
the land clearing, land preparation, planting, and fertilizer mixing and
application would be done by the farmer groups, under cooperative effort
(gotong royong). The groups would later form the nuclei of group marketing
organizations (para. 6.07).
3.09      Land Clearing and Planting.  Prior to (or just after) felling, the
trees would be poisoned to reduce spread of root disease to the new rubber.
Land clearing would generally be done by hand, using machetes, axes and
cross-cut saws to remove undergrowth and fell the old rubber trees. Farmer
groups could use their cash payments to hire chainsaw gangs, operated by the
PMU if private contractors were not available, if land clearing started late
and needed to be accelerated, many large trees were to be felled, or insuf-
ficient labor was available. The PMUs would purchase 430 chainsaws for this
(Annex 1, Table 3). About 75% of the project area in Prabumulih is expected
to be scrub/alang-alang land. Hand clearing of this is ineffective, as the
alang-alang would quickly re-establish itself.  The PMU would therefore pur-
chase 31 medium (70-85 hp) tractors, to plough and harrow this land twice.
Land clearing should be completed by May/June, to allow at least two months



- 1 7 -
for the trees and brush to dry before being burned, stacked and reburned.
(Burning bolh clears the land for planting and returns some phosphates and
potash to the soil.) Planting should take place in October-December, after
lining and digging the holes (planting distance 2.5 m x 8 m, for 500
trees/ha) and terracing as necessary (on slopes between 8% and 15%).
3.10      Intercropping.  On lands not requiring terracing, farmers would be
encouraged to intercrop rubber (generally with upland rice, sometimes followed
by a secondary food crop) for up to three years, before planting cover crops,
provided they applied adequate fertilizer.  Intercropping would provide
additional earnings and would induce the farmers to devote more attention to
the land.  As the BIMAS program is very limited in the projecX areas, the
project would provide fertilizer, seed and pesticides (Annex 1, Table 6) for
intercrops.  As in the NlSSDP, these inputs would be provided as part of the
long-term credit, to ease the farmers' short-term financial situation and to
minimize administrative costs. Farmers would not be permitted to grow
intercrops detrimental to the rubber (e.g. cassava), or to intercrop a third
year if weeds were not being controlled adequately.
3.11      Weed Control.  After land clearing or harvesting intercrops, the
main problem is control of alang-alang and other weeds. This would be dealt
with in four ways: (a) leguminous cover crop mixture (18 kgs/ha Pueraria,
Calopogoniun and Centrosema) would be sown in the interrows at the time of
planting the rubber, or immediately after the final intercrop harvest; (b)
herbicide would be sprayed on extensive areas of alang-alang, by PMU-hired
teams (Annex 1, Table 4); (c) oil or herbicide would be hand-wiped on smaller
stands of alang-alang, as well as following sprayings; and (d) considerable
digging and slashing of weeds would be undertaken by the farmers throughout.
Nurseries
3.12      Budwood.  PMU nurseries (Annex 1, Tables la and lb) would produce
all the necessary planting material. Clonal budded stumps would be used,
whereby budwood of a few recommended clones is grafted onto rootstock, with
the rubber trees acquiring the high yielding genetic characteristics of the
budwood scions. Sufficient budwood nurseries have been established at Taluk
Kuantan and IPrabumulih; these would be productive throughout the five-year
project period. About 12 ha of additional budwood nurseries are being planted
at Anjungan t1o produce the recommended clones (para. 5.02).
3.13      Rootstock.  New rootstock nurseries would be established each year,
for the following year's planting. One ha of nursery can supply about 60 ha
of field plantings.  Seed received from Government estates for rootstock
nurseries at Taluk Kuantan and Prabumulih had germination rates in 1978 of
only 30-35% Ipara. 5.04), compared to about 80% at Anjungan. To correct this,
the PMUs would arrange for seed delivery directly with the estates, instead
of continuing the present complex bureaucratic system. The rubber
production consultant might suggest further improvements.  Bare-root budded
stumps would be supplied for field planting.



- 18 -
3.14      Supplies.  Field casualties are estimated at about 15% of the budded
stumps planted. Budded stump replacements from the rootstock nursery would be
acceptable if supplied within 2-3 months, early enough in the rainy season.
In about two-thirds of the cases, replacement would come too late for this.
Therefore about 10% of the rootstock nurseries' output would be grown in
polybag nurseries for supply the following year.
Road Construction and Maintenance
3.15      Both new roads and upgrading of existing roads (Annex 1, Table 8)
are needed for delivery of project inputs by tractor-trailer or small truck.
Some 200 km of secondary village roads (with a compacted earth or gravel
surface about 3 m wide) and 900 km of estate-type roads (about 1.8 m wide
earth roads of lower compaction standards) would be constructed, and a
further 300 km of village roads upgraded in the main development areas. No
planting should be more than one km from a road. Unit cost estimates,
including provision for bridges and culverts, are $2,000/km for estate-type
roads, $3,500/km for new village roads, and $2,000/km for upgrading village
roads, plus $1,500/km for about 150 km of village roads where soil
characteristics necessitate gravel surfacing. About $300/km/year would be
provided for maintenance of the village roads, and $200/km/year for the
estate-type roads.
PMU and SRDPU Development
3.16      Staffing and Administration.  The combined SRDPU and PIUs' staff,
now about 175, would increase to over 500 by 1984 (Annex 1, Table 14a).
About 175 of those would be Field Officers (PLPrs), directed by some 25
Field Supervisors. The project also includes the full operating costs of
the SRDPU and PMUs (Annex 1, Table 14c).
3.17      Training.  The SRDPU, assisted by the training consultant, would
plan, coordinate and schedule training for all 300 SRDPU and PHIUs' technical
and administrative staff (paras. 4.13-4.14). Most training would take place
at regional agricultural training centers, with field work on Government
estates and in other smallholder planting schemes.
3.18      Technical Assistance.   About 156 man-months of technical
assistance (para. 4.12) would be provided to the SRDPU and the Special Team,
at an estimated total cost of $1.2 million. The average man-month cost,
including salary, costs, fees, international travel, housing and subsis-
tence, is expected to be about $7,300. The total estimated cost also
includes local travel and some minor items (Annex 1, Table 13). Technical
assistance would also be obtained, on contract, from appropriate Go-vernment
estates, which would supply senior technical staff on a "visiting agent"
basis to advise the PMUs on field problems. In addition, the PMUs would
contract with the Soil Research Center at Bogor, or other qualified
organizations, to survey potential new planting areas (chiefly in South
Sumatra) to ensure their suitability. The Soil Research Center is to be
strengthened under the forthcoming National Agricultural Research (II)
Project.



- 19 -
3.19      Tractor-Trailers and Vehicles.  About 20 medium-sized (60-70 hp)
tractors with trailers, and 9 trucks would be procured for transporting
inputs from warehouses and nurseries to the fields. Motorcycles would be
provided for PLPTs and Field Supervisors, four-wheel drive vehicles for
Provincial Unit Managers and PMU Managers and Assistant Managers, and sedans
for the S`RDPU Manager, Division Heads and consultants in Jakarta (Annex 1,
Tables 10 and 11).
3.20      Buildings.  The PMUs have houses, offices and utility buildings
financed under the ARP program. Additional housing for Field Supervisors
and above would be constructed (PLPTs generally rent or are provided with
houses in the villages they serve). In addition, large warehouses (3-6,000
tons capacity) would be built at the PMU headquarters, and smaller ware-
houses (2-300 tons) at subunit offices, primarily for holding fertilizer
(six months' supply) between delivery and distribution to the farmers. The
building program is in Annex 1, Table 9. The housing would be of standard
designs approved by BAPPENAS. A consultant (recruited under NES I) has
already designed the warehouses.
Project Phasing
3.21      The estimated phasing of planting to be financed under the project
is as follows:
Table 3.1: ESTIMATED PHASING OF PLANTINGS
Actual /a                        Projected               Total
19I75/76 1977   1978   1979   1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   1980-84
--------------------------------   (ha)  -------
Taluk
Kuantan   600   700  1,000  1,000  2,000  2,600  3,200  3,800   4,400   16,000
Prabumulih  100   300    900       -  1,000  1,250  1,500  1,750   2,000    7,500
Anjungan      -   400  2,000  1,000  2,000  2,500  3,000  3,500   4,000   15,000
Total     700 1,400  3,900  2,000  5,000  6,350  7,700  9,050  10,400   38,500
/a  Total plantings over 1975-79 were about 10,000 ha; of this, about 8,000 ha
is estJimated to have been planted and maintained well enouglh to be
eligible for project assistance.



- 20 -
These targets would be reviewed each September by GOI and IDA, based upon
the PMUs' performance. If its implementation capacity grows rapidly, the
Prabumulih PMU might undertake a larger program in the latter project years.
The phasing of nursery areas to meet this schedule is in Annex 1, Table la,
and the overall phasing of expenditures in Annex 1, Table 17.
Cost Estimates
3.22      Total project cost is estimated at $70.5 million (Rp 44.1 billion),
of which $23.0 million (33%) is foreign exchange. Unit costs are based
on December 1979 levels and were derived from data gathered during re-
appraisal, updated for actual or estimated inflation (10%) over July-December
1979. Physical contingencies of 20% have been added for civil works and 10%
for all other items except family labor./I Expected price increases amount to
40% of total base costs plus physical contingencies, assuming inflation rates
of 15% p.a. for local costs in calendar 1980 and 1981 and 10% p.a.
thereafter, and 9% p.a. for foreign exchange costs in 1980, 8% in 1981 and
7% thereafter. Price contingencies by category and year are in Annex 1,
Table 18.
3.23      Project cost is defined as the costs to be incurred by GOI over
April 1980-March 1985./2 Costs thereafter until maturity (up to March 1990) on
trees planted under the project would total about $18.2 million (Rp 11.4 bil-
lion) in December 1979 prices (Annex 1, Table 19)./3 At negotiations, an
assurance was obtained that GOI would allocate adequate funds to maintain
all project plantings until maturity; these expenditures would be eligible
for Bank Group financing under any follow-up projects. The unit rubber
development cost (in December 1979 prices, excluding physical contingencies)
would average about $1,300/ha, of which $975 (75%) for nursery and field
development comprises the credit component (Annex 1, Tables 20a-c), and $325
(25%) for infrastructure and overheads is in the noncredit component. In
addition, farmers' own labor contributions (the 50% not reimbursed) would
total $17.7 million during the project period, or $430/ha. Cost estimates
are summarized in Table 3.2.
/1 Because payments to family labor would be based upon estimated labor
requirements for different tasks.
/2 Except for up to $600,000 for retroactive financing (para 3.33) of
expenditures in preparation for the 1980 plantings.
/3 This is only for the trees planted by 1984. Up to an additional 15,800 ha
would be planted in 1985-87 by farmers who planted their first ha in
1982-84; the cost of these trees (about $20 million) would be eligible
for Bank Group financing under any follow-up projects.



- 21 -
Table 3.2:  PROJECT COST SUMIIARY /a
%   of
Local  'Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total  For. Base
--- (Rp billion) ---    --- (US$ million) --- Exch. Cost
Credit Component
Nurseries                1.6    0.6      2.2      2.5     1.0     3.5    28      8
Family labor             7.2     -       7.2    11.6        -    11.6      -    25
Mech. land clearing /b  0.7    0.7       1.4      1.1     1.1     2.2    50      5
Spraying                 0.5      -      0.5     0.8        -     0.8      -     2
Rubber development
materials /c           2.0    4.7      6.7     3.2      7.5    10.7    70    23
Intercrop materials      0.3    0.5      0.8     0.6      0.8     1.4    60      3
Land title               0.3      -      0.3      0.5      -      0.5      -     1
Subtotal               12.6    6.5    19.1    20.2    10.5    30.7    34    66
Noncredit Component
Roads                    1.3    1.2      2.5     2.0      1.9     3.9    48      8
Buildings                0.6    0.3      0.9     0.9      0.6     1.5    38      3
Tractor-trailers          -     0.3      0.3      0.1     0.4     0.5    85      1
Vehicles                 0.1    0.2      0.3     0.1      0.4     0.5    70      1
Training                 0.4      -      0.4     0.7        -     0.7      -     2
Technical assistance    0.3    0.6       0.9     0.5      0.9     1.4    65      3
Administration           2.7    0.2      2.8     4.2      0.3     4.5      8    10
Studies                  0.3    0.3      0.6     0.5      0.5     1.0    50      2
Future project pilot
and start-up costs      0.7    0.4      1.1     1.2      0.6     1.8    33      4
Subtotal                6.5    3.4      9.8    10.3      5.5    15.8    34    34
Total Base Cost        19.1    9.9    29.0    30.5    16.0    46.5    34   100
Physical contingencies    1.4    1.1       2.5      2.2     1.8     4.0    45      9
Expected price increases  9.3    3.2    12.5    14.8        5.2    20.0    26    43
Total Expected
Prolect Cost         29.7   14.3    44.0    47.5    23.0    70.5    33   152
Xa The impilementing agencies are exempted from all taxes except the 5% tax on
civil works; this amount ($260,000 in base costs) is included above; more
than offsetting it are Government subsidies on urea and TSP fertilizer
(some $450,000 in base costs).
/b  $1.1 million for purchase of chainsaws, tractors, ploughs and harrows, plus
$1.1 m:illion operating costs.
/c Fertilizer, agro-chemicals and cover crop seeds.



- 22 -
Financing
3.24      IDA Credit.  The proposed IDA credit of $45 million is equivalent
to 65% of project cost (excluding $1.0 million of vehicles covered by
"reserved procurement" - see para. 3.30). As foreign exchange is $23.0
million, IDA would finance local costs of $22.0 million, equivalent to 46%
of local costs. The 65% financing is based on the policy in effect during
project processing; it was conveyed to GOI and used by it in planning and
budgeting.
3.25      Government Funds.  The remaining $25.5 million would be financed
by Bank Indonesia (BI) and BRI (in a ratio of 80:20) for the credit
component, and a recently established Export Crops Fund (Dana Tanaman Expor
- DTE) in the Ministry of Finance for the noncredit component. The DTE
receives all the revenue from a recently introduced export tax on palm oil,
tea and coffee, which will later be extended to rubber and pepper. DTE
revenue, which would be used only for planting and rehabilitation of
perennial crops, is currently about $40 million/year ($32 million from palm
oil, $5 million from coffee, and $3 million from tea) so it will have ample
funds for the project. Table 3.3 shows the proposed financing plan.
Table 3.3: PROJECT FINANCING PLAN
(in current prices)
Local  Foreign  Total   Local  Foreign  Total
--- (Rp billion) ---    ----(US$ million) ---
Credit Component
IDA                       10.6      9.3    19.9    17.0    15.0    32.0
BI                         6.9        -      6.9    11.1         -    11.1
BRI                        1.8               1.8      2.8        -     2.8
Subtotal                 19.3      9.3    28.6    30.9    15.0    45.9
Noncredit Component
IDA                        3.1      5.0      8.1      5.0     8.0    13.0
GOI (DTE)                  7.3        -      7.3    11.6         -    11.6
Subtotal                10.4      5.0    15.4    16.6       8.0    24.6
Total Project
IDA                       13.7     14.3    28.0    22.0    23.0    45.0
BI                         6.9        -      6.9    11.1         -    11.1
BRI                        1.8       -       1.8      2.8        -     2.8
GOI (DTE)                  7.3        -      7.3    11.6         -    11.6
Total                    29.7     14.3    44.0    47.5    23.0    70.5/a
/a  Plus farmers' labor contribution of $17.7 million (as  farmers would
receive payments for their labor at only 50% of the going wage).



- 23 -
3.26      Budgetary System.  The SRDPU and PMUs would prepare annual work
programs and budgets by the end of October, which would be approved by
BAPPENAS and the Mlinistry of Finance not later than the last week of
January. The Ministry of Finance would then direct BI to make available
each quarter, in advance, the necessary funds, from BI/BRI resources for the
credit component and from the DTE for the noncredit component. These funds
would be deposited in accounts in BRI, and would be disbursed at the
direction of the PMUs and the SRDPU, directly to smallholders (for the cash
payments), to suppliers/contractors, or to the SRDPU or the PMUrs themselves.
The DTE would provide any prefinance.
3.27      Credit System.  The credits to smallholders would be repaid by
them over 20 years, including a seven-year interest-free grace period, with
an interest rate of 6% p.a. thereafter. This low interest rate! reflects the
general Government policy on credit to estate crop smallholders, and is
considered acceptable for this project because the primary cost recovery
would be t'hrough taxes (para. 6.14). GOI, BRI and BI would shLare the risk
on principal in the ratio 70:25:5; BRI would assume the full risk on
interest due. GOI would pay BRI, out of the DTE, an interest subsidy to
cover its costs and risks (paras. 6.12 and 6.13).  Although uniform input
packages would generally be given, credit amounts would vary between about
$900/ha and $1,100/ha depending upon the local wage rate, the duration of
intercropping, the extent of terracing, the method of land clearing, and the
chemicals required. Farmers who replanted in 1975-79 on a gran,t basis would
receive credit for expenditures starting April 1980.
3.28      These credit arrangements would be spelled out in a F'inancing
Agreement between BI (on behalf of GOI) and BRI, and a Subfinancing
Agreement between BRI and DGE. The signing of such Agre&ments, acceptable
to IDA, would be a condition of disbursement for the credit comlponent.
Procurement
3.29      Fertilizer (except urea), agro-chemicals, tractors, and other equip-
ment and materials ($16.9 million) would be awarded through international
competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group Guidelines. A
preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty, whichever is
lower, wouLd be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation of bids.
3.30      Locally advertised competitive bidding, following GOI procedures
which are acceptable to IDA, would be used for: (a) equipment and supplies
costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, subject to an aggregate ceiling
of $1.5 million (if in amounts less than $10,000, prudent shopping could be
used, with at least three price quotations, up to an aggregate of $500,000);
(b) buildings ($2.5 million) and road construction and maintenance ($6.4
million), which are not suitable for ICB because they are scattered over
large areas and involve relatively small amounts of financing spread over
five years (up to an aggregate of $1.0 million, these could be carried out



-24 -
by force account); (c) cover crop seeds ($1.4 million), in which Indonesia
is competitive, because it is essential that these be available promptly
when needed to prevent weed infestation; and (d) vehicles (except tractors)
($1.0 million), in accordance with GOI policy prohibiting most vehicle
imports; as this is "reserved procurement", these vehicles would not be
eligible for financing (para. 3.24) or disbursements under the project in
accordance with Bank-Group pol'icy.
3.31      Urea ($3.2 million) would be obtained at GOI-determined prices,
which are uniform nationwide, from distributors designated by P.T. PUSRI,
the GOI-owned fertilizer manufacturing monopoly. Indonesia is a net urea
exporter; PUSRI's production cost is around 35% below the import parity
price, and, to stimulate fertilizer use, the price is lowered further by GOI
subsidy. Rubber seeds ($1.4 million) would be obtained from qualified
estates (para. 5.04) selected by DGE, at prices negotiated between DGE and
the estates; ICB is unsuitable because the seeds must be planted shortly
after they fall.
3.32      Procurement under ICB would be carried out by the SRDPU, with
assistance from its consultants. Local procurement would be done by the PMUs
subject to SRDPU approval. Bidding documents for all contracts estimated to
exceed $200,000 would be reviewed by IDA before issuance. The remaining
costs are labor and administrative and operational expenditures ($36.3
million) not suitable for any of the above procedures.
Disbursement
3.33      Disbursements would be made at the following rates:  (a) for
equipment (excluding vehicles) and materials (excluding urea and seeds),
(i) 100% of the cif cost of directly imported items, (ii) 95% of the ex-
factory price of locally manufactured items, and (iii) 65% of expenditure
on imported but locally procured items; (b) 100% of expenditure on urea,
technical assistance, training, studies and pilot programs; (c) 60% of the
cost of rubber, cover crop and intercrop seeds, civil works, labor, machinery
operation and land title.   Disbursements for equipment, materials,
technical assistance, and civil works would be made against full
documentation. For training, studies, pilot programs, labor, machinery
operation, land title, and force account work, disbursements would be made
against statements of expenditure (see Annex 9), with the supporting
documentation retained by the SRDPU and available for inspection by IDA.
Retroactive financing of up to $0.6 million is recommended for nursery,
housing and training costs incurred after April 1, 1979. The proposed
allocation of loan proceeds is in Annex 2, and the estimated schedule of
disbursements in Annex 3. Disbursements are expected to be completed by
March 1986.
Accounts and Audit
3.34      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that (a) separate
accounts would be maintained to record all project transactions, (b) annual
project financial statements and the accounts of BRI related to the project



- 25 -
would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association, and
(c) these audited accounts and the audit report would be submitted to the
Association within nine months after the end of each GOI financial year.
The State ALuditor is expected to do the auditing.
Studies
3.35       live studies (Annex 1, Table 15) would be carried out under the
project:
(a)  feasibility of areas proposed for a follow-up project (para. 3.37);
(b) the nature and extent of spontaneous rubber plantiag in Indonesia,
including the farmers' interest in obtaining and paying for
improved planting material, fertilizer and agro-chemicals,
and how to devise systems for input distribution and DPD
extension (paras. 3.38-3.39);
(c) existing rubber holdings (location, age, yield, average size,
farmers' incomes, etc.), utilizing aerial photography and DGE's
computerized data system, to help plan the long-run rubber deve-
lopment program;
(d)  mnarketing and processing of Indonesian smallholder rubber, to help
cletermine components for future projects (group marketing organi-
zations; new block rubber factories; a smallholder market
iLnformation system; improved market roads, etc.); and
(e) rubber industry taxation (at all stages), to obtain better data
on project cost recovery, and to recommend improvements in the
system; the Ministry of Finance would direct this study.
At negotiations, terms of reference for these studies were agreed upon (Annex
7), and an assurance was obtained that consultants to carry them out would be
selected, with qualifications and experience and on terms and conditions
satisfactory to IDA, by December 31, 1980.
Pilot Programs and Start-up of Future Projects
3.36      Follow-up Project.  Outside the project area, GOI is proceeding
with the ARP/GCC program (paras. 2.17-2.18), but has modified it to bring it
in line, as much as possible given management and staffing constraints, with
the proposed project, including provision of inputs, extension and cash
payments to farmers throughout the six year period before tapping. The main
differences are that under ARP/GCC (a) management is less intensive, (b) the
PMUs remain directly under the DPDs instead of the SRDPU, and (c) Bank Group
procurement guidelines are not necessarily followed.
3.37      DGE has proposed a follow-up project in about two years, using
this project as a model, to upgrade the two ARPs not in this project (in
Jambi and North Sumatra) and five new ARPs now being established (in Jambi,
Riau, West Kalimantan, North Sumatra and South Sumatra). To help prepare



- 26 -
for this project, the present project would include (a) feasibility studies,
(b) improvement and expansion of nurseries, (c) training of ARP staff, and
(d) provision of vehicles and buildings. Upgrading of the GCCs would be
looked into for subsequent projects.
3.38      Assistance to Spontaneous Planters.  An estimated 30-50,000 ha of
rubber is being new planted or replanted by smallholders each year (para.
2.03) outside of GOI programs ("spontaneously"), using very poor planting
material and usually no other inputs. As these farmers are planting on
their own, they would not need cash payments for their activities. The
provision of good planting material and extension advice, and the availability
of fertilizer and herbicides (probably for cash, possibly subsidized), could
increase substantially the yield of their plantings, although not to the
level of the proposed project. No successful model for a minimum package
project has yet been established for scattered plantings in remote areas.
The crucial elements would be (a) the study of spontaneous planting (para.
3.35), (b) pilot efforts for the DPDs to provide extension to the
spontaneous planters and to either distribute inputs themselves or help set
up a private or cooperative distribution system, and (c) production of
planting material for spontaneous planters.
3.39      Under the present project, the PMUs in Taluk Kuantan, Prabumulih
and Anjungan would expand their rootstock nurseries (sufficient budwood
would already be available; polybags would too complicated to use) to
produce planting material for 10,000 ha of spontaneous planting (1,000 ha in
1981, increasing to 2,000 ha, 3,000 ha and 4,000 ha per year the subsequent
three years, depending upon demand and delivery system performance).  The
DPDs in the three project provinces would then distribute the budded stumps
to smallholders for a nominal fee, along with rock phosphate for the
planting hole (100 kg/ha) and advice on planting methods. The project would
also provide vehicles (for distribution) and staff training for the DPDs.
3.40      Implementation Program.  The estimated costs of these pilot
programs and start-up work are in Annex 1, Table 16. Agreement on a
detailed program for the use of the funds for each of the two parts of this
component would be a condition of disbursement for that sub-category. The
project consultants could help prepare these.



- 27-
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION AND EXECUTING AGENCIES
Project Management in Jakarta
4.01      The DGE has overall responsibility for project implementation.
The new Special Team for Externally-Assisted Projects in DGE (para. 2.07)
would assist the SRDPU with budgeting, procurement, recruitment, etc.
4.02      The SRDPU was created in January 1979, to implement the proposed
project; ilt is expected to be given the same responsibiity for follow-up
projects. As a special unit in the DGE, the SRDPU has more operational
and financial autonomy than a regular directorate. The SRDPU Manager is
appointed lby the Minister of Agriculture on the recommendation of the
Director General of Estates. An assurance was obtained that IDA would be
given an opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the
nominees before any new SRDPU Manager is appointed. His three main deputies
are the Technical, Finance and Administration Division heads. Senior SRDPU
staff would travel extensively to assist the PMUs.
Provincial Level
4.03      Small Provincial Units of the SRDPU, headed by Provincial Unit
Managers, have been established in the three provincial capitals.  Each
includes a Treasurer responsible for the PMU's accounts, in accordance with
Ministry of Finance regulations, and a Supplies Officer to facilitate
delivery of project inputs. When additional PMUs come under the SRDPU
in follow-up projects, the Provincial Unit would coordinate between them.
The Provincial Unit Manager, as well as the PMU Manager would report
directly to the SRDPU Manager (see Project Organization Chart 20981).
4.04      The ARP/GCC PMUs come directly under the DPD Head (now called
"Inspector" because he inspects all estate-crop projects on behalf of both
the Governor and the Director General of Estates). However, the rapid
development of the PMU system, especially for rubber and coconuts, has left
the DPDs inadequate resources for their regular extension and regulatory
activities. DGE has therefore decided that the DPDs would focus on the
latter, with project units in Jakarta gradually taking over supervision of
the PMUs. This centralized direction would also be important for
establishing policies and standards for the national programs. Later, when
the DPDs have been strengthened and the planting programs have become too
large for efficient direction from Jakarta, control should be decentralized
again. In the proposed project, the Inspector, assisted by the Provincial
Unit Manager, would coordinate between the PMU and other agencies at the
provincial level. He would serve as Secretary of a Provincial Coordinating
Committee chaired by the Provincial Development Planning Agency (BAPPEDA)
Head, and including representatives of local government, BRI, Agraria (see
para. 4.17), Public Works (see para. 4.11) and DG Foodcrops (for advice on
intercropping), and of farmer groups, as well as of the PMU. The Committee
would, inter alia, review the PNIU's annual performance and plans and help
arrange the necessary support from other agencies.



- 28 -
Project Management Units (PMUs)
4.05      The existing PMUs in Taluk Kuantan, Prabumulih and Anjungan would be
the field implementing units and would:
(a) select farmers based on the eligibility requirements (para. 4.15);
(b) grow the planting material in their nurseries;
(c) distribute planting material, fertilizers, agro-chemicals and other
inputs to project farmers (in the absence of any adequate commercial
or cooperative distribution network);
(d) provide the equipment and hire and train workers for land clearing
with tractors or chainsaws and for spraying alang-alang;
(e) instruct farmer groups on proper husbandry techniques;
(f) visit individual farms to provide advice, assess timing for inputs,
and confirm whether farmers had performed tasks sufficiently well
to be paid for their labor; and
(g) coordinate at the local level other project services (road construc-
tion and maintenance; land survey and title issuance; credit.
4.06      Each PMU would be headed by a Manager, with Assistant Managers for
(a) nurseries, (b) administration, (c) finance, (d) machinery and workshops,
and (e) subunits of 3-4,000 ha of plantings. Each subunit head would be
assisted by Field Supervisors, and under them PLPTs. One PLPT would supervise
about 100 farmers in the year of planting, or 150-200 farmers during the
maintenance period, with one Supervisor to five to seven PLPTs. The total
number of PLPTs would grow from 75 in 1980, to 175 in 1984. The administra-
tion section would handle personnel recruitment and training, procurement and
distribution of inputs, and monitoring. The finance section would maintain
accounts for each participating farmer, showing inputs and services delivered,
cash payments made, and the outstanding loan. These accounts would be
maintained in a form in which they could be handed over to BRI after three
years (para. 4.08)./1
/1 Accounting requirements for state banks differ from those of other
Government agencies. The farmer accounts kept by the PMUs would have to
satisfy both BI and Ministry of Finance regulations.



- 29 -
Staffing ax1d Salaries
4.07      l'o attract and retain well-qualified and dedicated staff, often in
competition with estates, project salaries would be above regular civil
service rates. At negotiations, agreement was reached on the salary scales
(Annex 1, Table 14b), and an assurance obtained that GOI would continue to
provide the compensation necessary to attract and retain suitable staff.
Although most senior positions would be filled by civil servants, about 200
additional technical and administrative staff would be needed for the project.
Most would be recent high school and university graduates. Existing
agricultural educational institutions, some of which are being assisted
under the Agricultural Education Project (Credit 288-IND), are expected to
provide sufficient graduates.
Bank Rakyalt Indonesia (BRI)
4.08      13RI would serve initially as a channel and source for project funds.
Then, three years after a farmer entered the project, he would become a direct
BRI client, provided he had no bad debts and had maintained his rubber
satisfactorily. (The three-year period could be extended if development of
the farmer"s plantings had been retarded by factors outside his control, such
as adverse weather or unavailability of inputs.) Farmers not accepted as BRI
clients would be ineligible for further assistance on their first ha or for
any help on their second ha./I Many project area farmers (40% in the one
small sample taken) have old bad debts, averaging Rp 20,000 ($32), from BIMAS.
These would be deducted from the first two years' cash payments to farmers for
work under the project, to demonstrate that Government is serious about loan
repayments, and to satisfy BRI and BI regulations.
4.09      BRI would make all the cash payments to farmers, at the PMUs' direc-
tion. This would establish in the farmers' minds the idea that they had a
debt to BRI. It would also make repayment/deduction of BIMAS debts easier,
and encourage farmers to save in savings (Tabanas) accounts.
4.10      ]3RI branches in Rengat (Riau), Muaraenim and Prabumulih (South
Sumatra), and Mempawah and Singkawang (West Kalimantan) would handle the
major tranisactions with the aMUs, while their village or mobile units would
distribute cash payments to and collect loan repayments from the small-
holders. Based on experience under the NSSDP, one BRI staff would be
needed for each 250 participants, to handle cash payments initially, and
later to keep loan accounts. Thus, about 30 village unit staff would be
needed in 1980, growing to 120 by 1984. There are now eight village units
in the project area; some 22 additional ones would be needed, based upon 4
staff per village unit. At negotiations, an assurance was obtained that
adequate village or mobile units would be established. In Jakarta, BRI's
j| GOI would bear the full risk of loan default by these farmers, although
BRI would share the risk on clients it accepted (para. 3.27).



- 30 -
Investment Credit Bureau would deal with the project, with assistance, as
needed, from the consultants financed under the Rural Credit Project
(Credit 827-IND). An extensive analysis of BRI is in the Rural Credit
Project Appraisal (Report No. 1741-IND).
Road Construction
4.11      Responsibility for project road construction and maintenance would
rest with the District Office or the local office of the Provincial Public
Works Service.   Technical assistance on road alignments, technical standards,
tender evaluation, and supervision of contractors would be provided by the
Provincial Public Works Service or, if necessary, by local consultants
financed under the project. The annual program for project road works would
be agreed between each PMU and District Office, based on the planting program,
by October 15 of each year.  Roads constructed under the project would
complement the local rural road improvement programs.
Technical Assistance
4.12      As new institutions carrying out a difficult and large-scale
program, the SRDPU and PMUs would need technical assistance. The project
provides four internationally recruited advisers, for three years each, on:
(a) organization and management, including functions and staffing of the
SRDPU and the PMUs, and ways of strengthening the Prabumulih PMU;
(b) finance, including SRDPU and PMU internal control, management
information, budgeting, and coordination with BRI on the credit
system;
(c) training; and
(d) rubber production, including seed supply, nursery operation,
suitability of proposed areas for new planting, and extension.
The consultants would also advise on the overall smallholder rubber planting
program, assist in project preparation, and train counterpart staff. At
negotiations agreement was reached on the terms of references for these
consultants and an assurance was obtained that consultants with qualifications
and experience acceptable to IDA would be appointed by December 31, 1980, on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. In addition, one man-year of
consultancy would be provided to the Special Team in procurement and
disbursement, to supplement two other consultants (financed under NES I) now
working there (on finance and rubber production). DGE is now preparing a long
list of firms to contact regarding their qualifications and their interest in
being on a short list to bid for the consultancy positions; the contract might
be given to one or several firms.



- 31 -
Training
4.13      One-month training courses organized by the Agency for Education
and Training, in cooperation with the DGE, were held in 1977 ancl 1978 for
all ARP/GCC managers and assistant managers, including those from the three
project PMUs.  In addition, new high school or university graduates joining
PlIUs are given two weeks of training on extension methology, fo:Llowed by four
to six weeks of practical experience on Government estates. M0ost PMU
technical staff have had this training.  There appears to be a need to make
the classroom training more practical and to supplement the experience on
estates with field training in other smallholder planting schemes.  In
addition, special training for project administrative and financial staff is
necessary, as well as training of budgrafters for the nurseries.
4.14      Funds are provided under the project for training PMU and SRDPU
technical and administrative staff (Annex 1, Table 12). An assurance was
obtained that a detailed training program would be prepared by the SRDPU
and presented to IDA for approval by September 30, 1980. The proposal would
include the training schedule, syllabi for the various grades of staff,
facilities to be utilized, any outside/overseas training, and itemized costs.
The classroom training is expected to be at regional agricultural centers,
especially the DPD Extension Center at Sungai Tiga, Jambi, to be upgraded
under the NES II Project. Refresher courses, short practical sessions at
field sites, and individual on-the-job training would also be emphasized.
Farmer Selection
4.15      The PMUs would select farmers based on the following criteria (which
incorporate existing ARP criteria):
(a) they reside permanently within 5 km of the land to be planted;
(b) they are fit and above 18 years of age;
(c) they either own rubber land or work as share-tappers;
(d) the rubber trees on the land to be replanted are low--yielding;
(e) the soil, slope and drainage of the land are suitable;
(f) their family labor is sufficient to develop project plantings;
(g) they do not own more than 2 ha of sawah; and
(h)  they agree to abide by all project rules, to maintain cultivation
standards laid down by the PTIU, and to sign BRI subloan agreements.



- 32 -
Farmers who failed to maintain their holdings satisfactorily, after due
warnings, would be denied further assistance until they brought their
plantings up to standard.
Land Exchange and Tenure
4.16      To facilitate supervision and input supply, planting would generally
be on blocks of at least 20 ha. Farmers with small, dispersed pieces of land,
which would be difficult to develop efficiently, would be encouraged to
exchange these for an equal area (up to two, one-ha parcels)/L in planting
blocks. This might be communal or abandoned/unclaimed land, but elsewhere the
local community would arrange land exchanges or sales between farmers, before
applying to the PMU to enter the project. (This has been done relatively
smoothly so far in the project areas.) Where substantial communal or
abandoned/unclaimed land exists, the village might allocate this to share-
tappers without rubber land /2 or to farmers with less than 2 ha of rubber.
PLPTs with land in the project area could participate in the project to gain
more first-hand experience and to increase their commitment to the project and
their effectiveness with farmers. The PHUs would assist PLPTs without land
there to get allocations from the local community. However, PLPTs who failed
either to perform their jobs or to maintain their rubber adequately would
forfeit their jobs, as well as further project assistance.
4.17      Under Indonesian customary (adat) law, land that has been perma-
nently developed or occupied for a reasonable period is deemed to be privately
owned and can secure certificates of ownership. The issuance of such title
(hak milik) by the DG Agraria is a complex and lengthy procedure including
a cadastral survey. The advantages of the hak milik are that owners can use
it as collateral for borrowing from banks and as a firm basis for land sales,
and that it prevents any future disputes about ownership of the land.   To
meet BRI requirements, hak milik would be issued within three years of their
entrance into the project to all farmers maintaining adequate cultivation
standards, but would be retained by BRI as security until subloan repayment
was completed. Funds for carrying out the land surveys and issuing the hak
milik would be included in the project (Annex 1, Table 7).
Extension
4.18      A major PMU function would be providing practical technology and
management guidance to farmers. As the farmers would already be organized
into groups, and would have to adhere to fairly strict schedules for land
/1 These should be near each other or preferably adjacent, for efficiency
in tapping, but arranged so as to permit contiguous blocks to be cleared
in both years one and four.
/2 Landlessness is not a major problem in the project areas; most share-
tappers are young unmarried men who have not yet obtained land.



- 33 -
clearing, burning, planting, fertilizing, intercropping, weeding, etc., a
training-and-visit extension system would be appropriate, whereby PLPTs
receive specialized training periodically and transmit this through farmer
groups at least twice per month. Assistance from the Project U'nit of the
National Food Crops Extension Project (Loan 1267-IND) would be sought for
designing this system. Farmers would also be brought to PMU headquarters for
training and to work out annual implementation schedules.
4.19      The most critical areas for extension would be:  (a) contour plant-
ing and terracing on slopes exceeding 8%; (b) planting depth, with the bud
patch above soil level; (c) tree pruning in the early stages, to remove stock
shoots and lateral branches; (d) cover crop establishment; (e) weeding, to
avoid forming depressions around the young rubber trees, which causes
waterlogging and exposes surface roots; (f) hand methods, such as oil wiping,
to prevent spread of alang-alang, especially in the fallow periods between
intercrops; (g) fertilizer mixing and application; (h) inspection and
treatment of young trees affected by root disease; and (i) tapping.
Monitoring and Reporting
4.20       Project monitoring and reporting would concentrate on the (a) pro-
ject implementation rate, (b) quality of plantings, (c) economic status of
participants before and after planting, (d) unit costs, (e) credit system and
(f) institutional development. A computerized national perennial-crop data
system, nolw being set up by DGE, can meet most project reporting needs, and be
easily adapted to meet the remaining ones. When project plantings reach
maturity, emphasis would shift to rubber yields, marketing and processing, and
subloan relpayment. The SRDPU would plan and coordinate monitoring and report-
ing; data collection would be primarily the PMUs' responsibility. Semi-annual
pr*ogress reports would be sent to IDA. Monitoring and reporting proposals
agreed between IDA and DGE are in Annex 8.
Start-up Imnplementation Schedule
4.21      The project would commence on April 1, 1980, the start of GOI's
1980/81 fiscal year. Land clearing should begin soon thereafter, to be ready
for planting in October-December 1980. To achieve the 1980 planting target of
5,000 ha, while adequately maintaining 8,000 ha planted in 1975-79, DGE,
the SRDPU and the PMUs have submitted the 1980/81 budget request for the
project to the Ministry of Finance and BAPPENAS, have planted t'he necessary
rootstock nurseries, and are in the process of:
(a) procuring 7,100 tons of fertilizer, 200 tons of herbicide, 29
tractors and 128 chainsaws (tender documents acceptable to IDA have
already been prepared);
(b)  recruiting about 29 PLPTs (to bring the total to 80), plus
additional administrative, financial and senior technical staff;



- 34 -
(c)  preparing 12 ha of additional budwood nurseries at Anjungan;
(d)  discussing project road construction with Provincial Public
Works Services and District Offices; and
(e)  discussing with BRI the establishment of new village or mobile
units in 1980.
Progress on these items was reviewed at negotiations; provided progress
remains satisfactory, the 1980 planting program should be achievable.
5. AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION
5.01      Achieving high smallholder rubber yields requires clonal planting
material, fertilizers, agrochemicals for weed control and prevention of root
disease, maintenance labor, and close supervision and technical guidance.
Planting Material
5.02       Five hundred clonal budded stumps would be planted per ha.  The main
clone recommended for smallholders in Indonesia is GT1; also recommended are
AVROS2037 and PR107.1   The 20 ha of budwood nurseries at Taluk Kuantan are
mostly GT1, with a small section of AVROS2037; the 10 ha at Prabumulih are all
GTI. The 12 ha at Anjungan, however, contain 70% PR300, with the remainder
GT1, LCBl320, and PR303. LCB1320 is not recommended for smallholder planting,
and the PR300 series clones are provisionally recommended for limited planting
only (up to about 20% of an area). Twelve ha of additional budwood nurseries
are therefore being established at Anjungan, using GTI.
5.03      The nurseries at Taluk Kuantan and Prabumulih produce budwood for
brown budding; at Anjungan most sections produce green budsticks,/2
which requires better management, especially regular pruning to control the
number of shoots. However, as seed for West Kalimantan comes from West Java,
where seed falls mainly in February/March, this is the most expeditious way to
produce budded stumps there; so far it has been working satisfactorily.
/1 Report by the Team for Certification of Rubber Planting Materials,
Directorate General of Estate Crops, Jakarta 1978.
/2  With brown budding the rootstocks are budgrafted 8-10 months after
planting, and for green budding at 4-6 months. Brown budding would
be used on rootstock seedlings from September/October seed collections,
and green budding on the seedlings from February/March seed collections
in order to produce budded stumps for October/November field planting.



- 35 -
5.04      Very low seed germination rates have been a major constraint in
Taluk Kuantan and Prabumulih.  The main problem has been long delays between
seed fall and delivery, due to the long distances between approved seed
sources in North Sumatra /1 and the PMU nurseries, a bureaucratic delivery
system, and lack of incentives for Government estates supplying seed.  GOI
has recently decreed a new seed collection/distribution system, with (a)
selected Government estates serving as regional coordinators and provincial
subcoordinators, (b) BPPM and BPPB responsible for identifying potential seed
sources on both Government and private estates in North Sumatra, South
Sumatra, Lampung, West Java and East Java, (c) seed prices negotiated between
DGE and the estates for a guaranteed 75% germination rate, and (d) delivery
arranged directly between the estates and PMUs. The new system should be a
substantial improvement; its operation would be evaluated by the rubber-
production consultant.
Fertilizer
5.05      During the five years after planting, a total of 545 kg/ha urea,
960 kg/ha rock phosphate, 335 kg/ha muriate of potash, and 235 kg/ha kieserite
would be applied to the rubber trees (Annex 1, Tables 5a and 5b). Farmer
groups would mix the fertilizers under PHU supervision, so that individual
smallholders would receive a dressing ready for application. Intercrops would
get 125 kg/ha urea, 75 kg/ha triple superphosphate (TSP) and 20 kg/ha muriate
of potash in the first and second years, and two-thirds of these rates in year
three. Cover crops would get a one-time application of 320 kg/ha rock
phosphate if no intercropping, or 160 kg/ha following intercropping (due to
residual intercrop phosphate).
Agro-chemicals
5.06      The weed alang-alang (Imperata cylindrica) is a fire hazard in young
rubber areas and a serious competitor for moisture and nutrients. Trained
PHU-hired teams, using knapsack sprayers, would spray areas of alang-alang if
necessary shortly before planting or after completion of intercropping.  About
20 kg/ha of dalapon or other herbicide would be required (spread over two or
three treatments) followed by alang-alang oil (20 liters/ha) for wiping
treatment of sporadic alang-alang growth. These amounts would be supplied, as
needed, on credit. Additional herbicides would be available for cash only, as
they should not be required with proper maintenance. Tree poison (40
liters/ha) would be applied to old rubber trees, preferably before felling, to
reduce sources of root disease. Other chemicals would be supplied on credit
if required for pest/disease control (e.g. for root disease treatment).
/1  Generally only seed of GT1 and other recommended clones from approved
estates may be used for rootstocks. Riau and South Sumatra are supplied
from North Sumatra, where the main seed fall is September/October.



- 36 -
Labor Requirements
5.07      The project would utilize family labor to the fullest possible
extent. The labor requirement is greatest in year one (Annex 1, Table 2),
especially for land clearing and preparation, which have to be completed well
before the rainy season to permit (a) adequate drying out and stacking of
felled trees before burning, (b) alang-alang control during the dry season
when growth is less vigorous, and (c) lining and holing in preparation for
planting in October/November at the beginning of the rainy season. Most of
the tasks lend themselves to cooperative effort, for which there is a long
tradition in Indonesia.
5.08      Land with 50% terracing (and hence no intercropping), would require
602 man-day/ha over six years, of which 50 are for building and maintaining
the terraces. Flat land (with intercropping for one, two or three years)
would require about 540 man-day/ha, excluding labor on the intercrops.Lj
Scrub/alang-alang land, which would be cleared by tractors, would require
about 100 man-days/ha less.
Rubber Yields and Production
5.09      With the inputs proposed and reasonable field management, yields
should peak at around 1,200 kg/ha (in year 17 after planting), and average
885 kg/ha /2 over the 25-year tapping period (Annex 4, Table 1). Tapping
would commence in the latter half of year 6 (five years after planting), and
410 trees/ha would be tappable by year 8; thereafter tree numbers would
decline gradually due to wind damage, brown bast and other diseases.
5.10      Total rubber production (through year 2013) from the 38,500 ha to be
planted under the project is estimated at 850,000 tons. For the 8,000 ha
planted in 1975-79, with an assumed peak yield of 1,000 kg/ha and average
yield of 715 kg/ha, total production would be 145,000 tons. The total
estimated production of one million tons from the project area would be about
3.3 times as high as projected output without the planting program.
Intercropped Rice Yields and Production
5.11      Rice yields are projected at 1.2 tons paddy/ha in years one and two,
and 0.8 tons paddy/ha in year three (when shade from rubber reduces the paddy
area). Assuming 65% of the rubber area is intercropped the first year, 50%
the second year and 15% the third year, total paddy output from the project
would be about 58,000 tons.
/1 Labor requirements for intercropping average 57 man-days/ha in year 1,
77 in year 2 and 60 in year 3.
/2 This is 25% below the projected NES III smallholder yield of 1,180 kg/ha.



- 37 -
6. MARKETS, PRICES, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS AND COST RECOVERY
World Rubber Market
6.01      From 1950 to 1977, world rubber consumption increased at an average
of 6.3% p.a. (from 2.4 million tons to 12.3 million tons) while rapid
technological advances in synthetic rubber (SR) production lowered the average
price of natural rubber (NR) c.i.f. New York for ribbed smoked sheet (RSS) 1
from $2.75/kg to $1.20/kg (in constant December 1979 prices).11 Despite
steady progress in NR technology, in the face of falling prices NR output grew
by only 3.2% p.a. and its share of the market fell from 67% to 30%. Further
technological advances in NR production, together with the higher cost of
producing SR since the large oil price increases, have improved NR's pros-
pects. I'he rubber price (in constant December 1979 prices) is expected to
remain around $1.30/kg through the early 1980s, and then increase to $1.45/kg
by 1990. World rubber consumption is expected to grow by about 5.3% p.a.
through 1990, and NR production by about 4.0% p.a. from 3.7 million tons in
1978 to 6.1 million tons in 1990. The world market could absorb at least an
additional 1 million tons of NR and reduce SR output accordingly. Increased
NR production, as from the proposed project, would, therefore, have no adverse
price effect; it would instead induce SR producers, who face much shorter lead
times between investment and production, to cut back expansion.
6.02      Traditionally, Indonesian smallholders' rubber was exported mainly
as low-grade RSS 4 and 5. In the late 1960s, Indonesian rubber millers
invested heavily in crumb rubber factories to produce Standard Indonesian
Rubber (SIR). These factories are able to use even very poor quality slabs to
produce SIR 20 and 50, which although low grade, are much in demand for
automobile tires, and sell at a discount of only 5-7% from top quality SIR 5.
As Indonesia's rubber output has stagnated over the past decade, these
factories have generally operated below capacity, and some have closed.
Marketing and Processing in the Project Areas
6.03      Because of very low yields, most farmers give little attention to
rubber quality. At yields of only 2-3 grams/tree/tapping day, and with poor
tapping techniques, about one third of the output (compared to 15-17% for
/1 The average prices for RSS 1, c.i.f. New York, have been as follows (at
constant December 1979 dollars/kg): 1950-54, $2.75; 1955-59, $2.35;
1960-64, $2.00; 1965-69, $1.45; 1970-74, $1.20; 1975, $0.90; 1976-78,
$1.20. Other rubber prices have moved similarly.



- 38 -
higher-yielding rubber) is tree lace and cup lump,/l which get combined in
large, irregular slabs, often with much bark and dirt due to carelessness and/
or misguided efforts to increase weight. The remaining rubber is generally
formed into sheets (although some is combined into the slabs) which are run
through a mangle to produce thin, ribbed unsmoked sheets, which can then be
sun-dried by farmers to about an 80% dry rubber content (drc). The thicker
slabs generally dry only to 35-40% drc.  Because of high dirt and water
content, which increase transport costs, necessitate further drying and
cleaning by the millers, and result in a poorer finished product, farmers get
about 20% less (in terms of drc) for the slabs. Because the slabs' quality is
so variable, dealers often make higher margins on them by intentionally
underestimating drc content.
6.04      The rubber marketing chain generally goes from farmer to sub-
collector, village collector, town trader, and crumb rubber factory. Some
cleaning and drying normally occurs in the process. The factories are in the
main port towns, because access to electricity, banks, telecommunications,
machinery repair and shipping is more important than local transport savings.
Rubber from Anjungan area goes to factories in Pontianak and Singkawang, from
Prabumulih to Palembang, and from Taluk Kuantan to Pakanbaru, Rengat and
Padang. Most rubber moves by road, the rest by river. The factories
generally finance the town traders, who in turn finance village collectors and
through them subcollectors, although some independent traders and collectors
sell to the highest bidder. Prices are set by the factories, with the
middlemen apparently taking fixed margins. Prices fluctuate in accordance
with world market (Singapore) prices, which are transmitted daily by radio.
There appear to be sufficient competing factories and middlemen in the project
areas to make the system fairly competitive. (This is less true in more
remote areas or where production is less concentrated.)
6.05      At present, the f.o.b. price for SIR 20 is about Rp 730 ($1.17)/kg.
After subtracting taxes (Rp 85/kg), milling costs (Rp 63/kg), transport
(Rp 22/kg), traders' margin (Rp 50/kg) and mangling (Rp 10/kg), the farmgate
price for sheet rubber is about Rp 500/kg (of drc), or about 68% of the
f.o.b. price (Annex 5, Table 1). For slab, the farmgate price is about
Rp 410/kg, or 56% of f.o.b. The weighted average is Rp 470/kg, or 64% of
f.o.b./2
/1 The percentage is higher where share-tapping is practiced, as the tappers
can keep all of this material, but only two-thirds of the sheets.
/2 A figure often quoted is that smallholders receive only about 40% of
f.o.b. This was true in more remote areas (where transport costs and
traders' margins are higher) when the f.o.b. price was about 50% of its
present level; but marketing and processing costs have since risen
proportionately less than rubber prices, thereby raising the farmgate:
f.o.b. ratio.



- 39 -
6.06      By 1990, the f.o.b. price (in December 1979 prices) is expected to
reach Rp 815 ($1.31)/kg. Taxes would be somewhat higher (Rp 95/kg), but
traders' imargins would be down (Rp 40/kg) because of group marketing (para.
6.07), and transport costs would drop (Rp 17/kg) because of project road
improvements. The farm-gate price for sheet rubber would be some Rp 590/kg
(72% of f.o.b.), and for slab Rp 505/kg (62% of f.o.b.). Furthermore, the
percentage of slab would decline from about 33% to 17%, since with higher
yields (a) the share of tree lace and cup lump in total output: would drop
and (b) it would pay farmers to take better care of their rubber. The
weighted average price would be about Rp 575/kg, or 70% of f.o.b.
6.07      The NSSDP has helped organize group marketing organ:Lzations, which
invite middlemen to weekly auctions. Though still in its infancy, the system
has worked well so far by bypassing the lowest layer (subcollector) in the
marketing chain, because the rubber quantity is enough to attract larger
dealers directly. This system would be used in the proposed project; the
existing farmer groups (para. 3.08) would provide a good basis for group
marketing.
Farm Income
6.08      Preproject incomes in the project area average about $135/capita,
or $685/family of five, of which about 60% is from rubber. Without the
project, rubber yields, currently about 300 kgs/ha, would continue to decline,
to about 220 kgs/ha by 1995 (especially as there is intensive tapping at
present prices), and income would drop to about $120/capita.
6.09      Farm incomes of replanters would average 5% below incomes without
the project during the first six years; income from intercropping and project
cash payments would offset most of the loss of existing rubber trees and
outside income (due to the project's labor demands). By year seven, income
would approximate preproject levels. Thereafter, it would inLcrease rapidly;
total net income at full development (years 11-30) would average about twice
preproject income.  New planters would suffer no interim income drop.  The
farm model data are summarized in Annex 4, Table 2.
Subloan Collection
6.10      Under the NES projects and the NSSDP (new planting only), subloan
collection is to be through new block rubber factories on Government estates,
to which smallholders would be required to sell rubber.  Such a system would
not be suitable for the proposed project because (a) private block rubber
processing capacity serving the areas is already adequate, and (b) as the
farmers are spread over a fairly wide area, in which many private rubber
merchants are active, marketing would be difficult to control.
6.11      The farmers would all receive land title certificates (para. 4.17),
which would be held by BRI as collateral. However, as foreclosure is not
general:Ly feasible in Indonesia, this collateral has little more than



- 40 -
psychological value. In conjunction with BRI, BI and local governments,
the project financial consultant would examine whether less drastic sanctions,
such as BRI temporarily taking over use of rubber trees of smallholders in
default, and using revenue from the trees for repayment, would be feasible.
Financial Impact on BRI
6.12      As a commercial bank, BRI should cover its costs and risks from
income under the project. BRI would obtain the following revenue with
respect to each participating farmer.
Table 6.1: BRI REVENUE UNDER THE PROJECT
Years
1-3                   4-7                  8-20
IDA portion        1% (from DrE)         6% (from DTE)           6% (from farmers)
BI/BRI portion   10.5% (from DTE)    10.5% (from DTE)            6% (from farmers)
4.5% (from DrE)
10.5% Total
The payments on the IDA portion would increase after year three because BRI
would be administering the farmers' accounts. BRI would pay no interest on
the IDA funds, and 3% p.a. on the BI funds (the normal rate from BI to state
banks). The average cost of BRI's own funds is about 6.5% p.a. BRI's average
s.pread would be 2.9% p.a. in years 1-3, and 6.3% p.a. in years 4-20./i
6.13      Based on one village unit serving 1,000 farmers (para. 4.10) and
costing Rp 4.0 million/year to operate, a spread of 1.2% p.a. would cover
village unit administrative costs. As incremental administrative costs at the
branch, regional and head office levels are likely to total about the same as
this, the 2.9% p.a. spread in years 1-3 should suffice. In years 4-7, BRI
would have a surplus and be able to build up a small reserve against future
defaults. This, plus BRI's 6.3% margin thereafter, would be enough to cover a
default rate on principal and interest of up to about 50% and should there-
fore be more than sufficient to protect BRI. /2
/1 On the 68% IDA portion, it would be 1% and then 6%; on the 26% BI portion,
7.5% throughout; and on the 6% BRI portion, 4% throughout.
/2 50% default on interest (at 6% p.a.) = 3.0% p.a.; 50% default on
principal works out to about 1.7% p.a. (with BRI taking 25% of the risk).
BRI's annual margin, less 2.4% p.a. administrative costs, would be 3.9%
p.a., and its years 4-7 accumulated surplus would be equivalent to
about 1.3% p.a. thereafter.



- 41 -
Cost Recoverv
6.14      Presently, GOI and local authorities collect about Rp 70 billion
($112 million)/year in direct taxes and charges on the rubber subsector,
amounting to Rp 90/kg, or 12% of the f.o.b. rubber price. The main taxes are
on milling and export, plus the IPEDA tax on production (nominally 5% but
actually much lower).  These duties go into general revenue; less than 10% has
usually been made available to the rubber industry. At projected prices and
yields, these taxes would produce about 55% cost recovery (discounting at 10%
p.a.). Repayinent of the subloans would produce an additional 13% cost
recovery./1. The critical income level for the rural population on the Other
Islands is about $100/capita, and is expected to rise by about 5% p.a.
(the projected growth rate of GDP/capita) to some $200/capita in 1995. The
participants' average income is about $135/capita, expected to reach about
$260/capita after 15 years. There is thus a case for increasing cost
recovery, and GOI is expected to impose an additional export tax on rubber
(para. 3.25), of about 5% of the f.o.b. value; this would increase cost
recovery to some 91%. There may also be a case for reviewing the need for
additional charges, in light of need for GOI revenue, equity issues (as these
taxes are paid even by nonbeneficiaries) and possible production disin-
centives. The rubber industry taxation study (para. 3.35) would address these
issues.
7. BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION
Project Benefits and Beneficiaries
7.01      The proposed project would increase the incomes of some 32,000
smallholder families (about 160,000 people),/2 about 30% of whom would be
below the absolute poverty line. Increased foreign exchange earnings over the
/1  An increase in the interest rate to 10.5%, compounded during the grace
period, would raise cost recovery by 6%.
/2  11,350 families who would plant one ha in 1980 or 1981 would plant a
second ha in 1983 and 1984; 15,800 families would plant only their
first ha (in 1982-84); and some 4,500-5,000 families, who planted
a total of 8,000 ha in 1975-79, would get assistance in maintenance.



- 4 2 -
life of the rubber trees would be about $875 million (in constant December
1979 prices),/1 an average of about $30 million/year. The project would
assist in the regional development of areas in Sumatra and Kalimantan, carry
out studies and pilot programs, and strengthen the organizations for the
national smallholder rubber development program.
7.02      Project area underemployment would drop, as annual labor require-
ments would increase by about 75 man-days/ha due to more intensive rubber
cultivation, equivalent to about 10,000 full-time jobs. Two ha of clonal
rubber, plus an average of 1.3 ha of food crops, would fully employ a farm
family of some 2.5 workers.   About 1,100 unskilled jobs would be created in
project nurseries and land clearing and spraying teams.
Rate of Return Calculation
7.03      The economic rate of return calculation compares the "with"
(project) and "without" situations. Calculations are made only for the 38,500
ha planted in 1980/84, as it is difficult to estimate how much of the output
from 1975-79 plantings would be attributable to maintenance under the
project. In addition to rubber, the only other benefit would be intercropped
rice.
7.04      All project investment to final maturity (March 1990), including
farmer labor contributions and physical contingencies, is costed in the
economic analysis, except: (a) half the cost of secondary village roads,
as these roads would provide other benefits; (b) studies and future project
pilot and start-up costs; and (c) direct costs of maintaining the 8,000 ha
planted in 1975-79.
7.05      Opportunity Costs.  Financial prices have been used in the economic
analysis (in December 1979 constant terms), except as follows:
(a) for rubber, the projected financial farm-gate price is Rp 575/kg,
but the economic price is Rp 670/kg because of Rp 95/kg processing
and export taxes (Annex 5, Table 1);
(b) for intercropped rice, the GOI purchase price is Rp 105/kg, but
Rp 152/kg is the present economic import-parity price, rising to
Rp 177/kg by 1985 (Annex 5, Table 2); and
(c) for urea and TSP, the GOI-subsidized financial price to small-
holders is Rp 70/kg, but the economic price for both, based on world
market projections, would be Rp 125-130/kg average over 1980-83,
increasing to Rp 155/kg by 1985 (Annex 5, Table 3).
/1 Based only on the rubber planted during 1980-84; 850,000 tons production,
less 175,000 tons output foregone = 675,000 tons, times $1.31 f.o.b.



- 43 -
Unskilled labor's economic opportunity cost has been set at the going wage (of
Rp 1,000/man-day in Anjungan and Taluk Kuantan, Rp 800 man-day in Prabumulih),
because labor markets in the areas are reasonably competitive anid the limited
underemploymient is offset by the fact that alternative employment is mainly in
tapping rubber, growing rice, or cutting timber, and the economic value of
those crops exceeds their financial value. Since the rupiah devaluation, a
standard conversion factor of 1.0 is being used for Indonesia, as the official
exchange rate of US$1.00 = Rp 625 is estimated to reflect the value to the
economy of foreign exchange./I   The estimated economic rate of return would
be 14%.  The economic cost and benefit streams are in Annex 5, Tables 4 and 5.
Sensitivity Analysis
7.06      Cross-over values for investment cost, yield, farm-gate rubber
price and area planted, based on a 10% opportunity cost of capital, would be
as follows:
Table 7.1: SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS
Appraisal    Cross-over    Percentage
Variable                                 value       value           change j
Investment cost (Rp billion) /b           52.9          93.6          +77%
Average rubber yield (kg/ha)               885           655           -26%
Farm-gate economic rubber
price /c (Rp/kg)                         675          435           -35%
Area planted (ha) /d                    38,500        15,500          -60%
/a The percentage change which reduces the net present value to zero.
/b On 38,500 ha, including farmer labor, at economic prices.
/c After new trees are in production.
/d With overhead costs assumed fixed.
A1  Local costs are expected to inflate at a faster rate than foreign
exchange costs and benefits; however, as there would be an approximately
offsetting change in the standard conversion factor, no adjustment for
this is needed in the economic analysis.



- 44 -
Project viability is slightly more sensitive to yield than to the world market
price of rubber because a drop in the latter would also reduce the value of
output foregone by cutting down old rubber trees. Changes as large as those
shown in Table 7.1 are considered unlikely.
Risks
7.07      The two main risks in the proposed project are poor management and
a low subloan repayment rate by farmers. The only successful smallholder
planting programs to date (the NSSDP and WSSDP - paras. 2.15-2.16) used more
intensive management. The SRDPU and PMUs must be strengthened to advise,
assist and supervise some thirty thousand rubber smallholders, and to ensure
the timely availability of inputs. The new Special Team (para. 2.07) would
help expedite project implementation. In addition, the project provides (a) a
management structure with more flexibility and authority than under the
regular civil service, (b) higher salaries to attract and retain competent
personnel, (c) staff training, and (d) consultancy in organization and
management, finance, training and rubber production. Similar planting
programs have been successful in neighboring countries, and with the above
arrangements the project is expected to achieve its objectives.
7.08      There is no experience yet in Indonesia regarding subloan repayment
by rubber smallholders. Experience with other crops, however, suggests that
collections may be poor where repayments cannot be automatically deducted when
the crop is marketed. To establish good subloan repayment habits, partici-
pants would be required to repay any bad debts under BIMAS out of their cash
payments for labor made under the project, and would begin repaying loans on
their first ha while still obtaining assistance on their second. An attempt
would be made to use group marketing organizations as repayment channels,
and the possibility of BRI collecting from defaulters by hiring people to tap
their rubber would be investigated (para. 6.11). Poor repayment performance,
while not affecting the economic benefits of the project, would defeat the
financial and educational objectives (para. 2.19) of using credit for such
programs.
Environmental Effects
7.09      The project would mainly replace existing old rubber with new
rubber, with the addition of terracing, where necessary, to control erosion,
and a leguminous cover crop to build up soil fertility. The new planting of
rubber would productively utilize scrub/alang-alang land, which has
deteriorated through successive cycles of shifting cultivation. Intercropping
would be confined to flat and gently undulating land to minimize soil
erosion. Fertilizers would be applied to the foodcrops and rubber to avoid
depletion of soil nutrients. The small quantities of agro-chemicals used
would have no significant adverse environmental effects.



- 45 -
8. RECOMMENDATIONS
8.01      Assurances were obtained during negotiations that:
(a)  each farmer would obtain assistance for no more than two hectares;
the second hectare would be developed three years after the first,
unless the land was prepared mechanically (para. 3.07);
(b)  GOI would allocate adequate funds to maintain all project plantings
until maturity (para. 3.23);
(c)  separate accounts would be maintained to record all project trans-
actions; annual project financial statements and the annual accounts
of BRI related to the project would be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Association; audited accotnts and the
audit report would be submitted to the Association within nine
months after the end of each financial year (para. 3..34);
(d) consultants to carry out studies of (i) the feasibil:Lty of areas
proposed for a follow-up project, (ii) spontaneous rubber planting,
(iii) existing rubber holdings, (iv) marketing and processing, and
(v) rubber industry taxation, would be selected, with qualifica-
tions and experience and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
IDA, by December 31, 1980 (para. 3.35);
(e) before any new SRDPU Manager is appointed, IDA would have an
opportunity to comment on the qualifications and experience of the
nominees (para. 4.02);
(f) GOI would provide the compensation necessary to attract and retain
suitable staff (para. 4.07);
(g) BRI would establish adequate village or mobile units in the project
area, (para. 4.10);
(h) consultants on (i) organization and management, (ii) finance, (iii)
training, and (iv) rubber production, with qualifications and
experience and on terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, would be
appointed by December 31, 1980 (para. 4.12); and
Ci) the SRDPU would send to the Association for approval, by Septem-
ber 30, 1980, the project training program (para. 4.14).



- 46 -
8.02      The signing of a Financing Agreement between BI, acting for GOI,
and BRI, and a Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and the DGE, acceptable to
IDA, would be a condition of disbursement for the credit component (para.
3.28).
8.03      IDA approval of detailed implementation programs to be submitted by
DGE would be a condition of disbursement for the pilot programs and start-up
of future projects subcomponents (para. 3.40).
8.04      With the above assurances, documentation and conditions, the
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of $45 million. The Borrower
would be the Republic of Indonesia.



- 47 -                             ANNEX 1
I'able la
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Phasing of Nurseries
Existing    Nursery Areas under the Project       Total
area     1980   1981   1982   1983   1984    1980-84
_____________________--- (ha) ----------------------
Taluk Kuantan
Rootstock /a        40        34     44      54     64     74       270
Polybag             -          4      5       6      8      9        32
Budwood             20        20     20      20     20     20        /b
Prabumulih
Rootstock /a        12        17     21      25     30     34       127
Polybag              -         2      3       3      3      4        15
Budwood             10        10     10      10     10     10        /b
Anjungan
Rootstock           62        34     42      50     59     67       252
Polybag             -          4      5       6      7      8        30
Budwood             12        20     20      20     20     20        /b
/a The Taluk Kuantan and Prabumulih rootstock  nurseries for each year need
to be planted the previous October-December.
/b Budwood nurseries would remain productive throughout the project period.



- 48 -                                ANNEX 1
Table lb
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Nursery Costs
(December 1979 prices)
A. Rootstock
Cost per ha (Rp'000)
Other
Labor      Fertilizer      Seeds      material      Total      % F.E.
Year 0              650          792          581           77        2,100        33
Year 1              766            -            -           60          826         6
Total          1,416           792          581          137        2,926        26
Harvest  No. of
year       ha     1979/80   1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   Total
------------------------ (Rp million) --------------------
1980/81      85       179         70         -        -         -         -        249
1981/82    107          -       225        88         -         -         -        313
1982/83    129          -          -      271       107         -         -        378
1983/84    153          -          -         -      321       126         -        447
1984/85    175          -          -         -        -       368       145        513
Total    649        179       295       359       428       494       145      1,900
B. Budwood
Cost per ha (Rp'000)
Other
Labor  Fertilizer  material  Total  % F.E.
1. Maintenance for brown budding
(Taluk Kuantan and Prabumulih)    193          352          -       545     53
2.  Planting for green budding
(Anjugan)                           495         55         57       607     13
3. Maintenance for green budding
(Anjugan)                           201        176          -      377      39
No. of
ha        1980/81    1981/82    1982/83    1983/84    1984/85          Total
----------------------- (Rp million) -------------------------
1.       30            16          16          16          16          16          80
2.        12            7           -           -           -           -           6
3.       20             8           8           8           8           8          40
Total                31          24          24          24          24         127



ANNEX 1
Table lb
49-                                Page 2
C. Polybag
Other
Labor         Fertilizer         material         Total          % F.E.
---------------------------- (Rp'000) ---------------------------
Cost/ha         960              165                711           1,836           40
1980/81   1981/82   1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   Total
Number of ha                  10         13         15         18        21        77
Cost (Rp million)             18         24         28        33         39       142
D. Summary
/a
1979/80  1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85   Total   % F.E.
------------------ (Rp million) ------------------------
Rootstock    179       295       359       428       494       145     1,900       26
Budwood         -        31       24        24        24        24       127       47
Polybag         -        18       24        28        33       39        142       40
Total       179      344       407       480       551      208      2,169       28
/a  For retroactive financing.
Note: For further details, see Implementation Volume.



- 50 -                                                   ANNEX 1
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Family labor Costs
(December 1979 prices)
Family Labor for Rubber Development /a
Year 1       Year 2       Year 3        Year 4       Year 5        Year 6       Total
------------------------- (man-days/ha) -------------------------------
1.  Hand cleared, no intercrops               283           111          68            54           44            42          602
2.  Hand cleared, 1 intercrop                  213          129          68            48           42            42          542
3.  Hand cleared, 2 intercrops                 213           85          98            60           42            42          540
4.  Hand cleared, 3 intercrops                 213           85          62            82           54            42          538
Planting   No. of    No. of
year   intercrops    ha    1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90
-------------------------------- (total man-days '000) ---------------------------------
1975-6    0-1           700       29        29         -         -         -          -         -         -        _         -
1977       0-2        1,600       86        69        67         -         -          -         -         -        -         -
1978       0-1        3,000      204       156       129       126         -         -          -         _        _         _
2           900       88        54        38        38         -         -          -         -        -         -
1979        0           800       89        54        43        35        34          -         -         -        -         -
1           800      103        54        38        34        34         -         -         -        -          -
2           400       34        39        24        17        17         -          -         -        -         -
1980        0         1,750      495       194       119        95        77         74         -         -        -         -
1           750      160        97        51        36        32        32         -         -        -         -
2         1,750      373       149       172       105        74        74         -          -        -         -
3           750      160        64        47        62        41        32         -          -        -         -
1981        0         2,220        -       628       246       151       120        98        93          -        -         -
1           955        -       203       123        65        46        40        40         -         -         -
2         2,220        -       473       189       218       133        93        93          -        -         -
3           955        -       203        81        59        78        52        40          -        -         -
1982        0         2,695        -         -       763       299       183       146       119        113        -         -
1         1,155        -         -       246       149        79        55        49        49         -         -
2         2,695        -         -       574       229       264       162       113        113        -         -
3         1,155        -         -       246        98        72        95        62        49         -         -
1983        0         3,170        -         -         -       897       357       216       171        139      133         -
1         1,355        -         -         -       289       175        92        65        57       57          -
2         3,170        -         -         -       675       269       311       190        133      133         -
3         1,355        -         -         -       289       155        84       111         73       57         -
1984        0         3,640        -         -         -         -    1,030        404       278        197      160       153
1         1,560        -         -         -         -       332       201       106        75       66        66
2         3,640        -         -         -         -       775       309       357       218       153       153
3         1,560        -         -         -         -       332       133        97        128       84        66
Total             46.500   1,821    2.916    3,196    3,966    4.669    2,703           1,984     1,341       843       438
Cash payments at avg.
Rp 485/man-day /b
(Rp million)                     883    1,414    1,550    1,924    2,264         1,311       962        650      409       212
Less
Tractor clearing (no. of ha)  750          938    1,125    1,312       1,500
Rp million (at
Rp 42,000/ha) /c              32        39        47        55        63
Chain sawing (no. of ha)       1,275    1,625    1,975    2,320    2,670
Rp million (at
Rp 59,000/ha) /d              75        96       117       137       158
Net Cash Payments             776    1,279    1,386    1,732    2,043
(Rp million)                I                                         I
I-------------- 7,216 ----------------I
/a  Excludes labor on the intercrops; 100 days less labor in Year I if land cleared by tractor.
/b  Rp 500/man-day in Anjungan and Taluk Kuantan; Rp 420/man-day average in Prabumulih.
/c  Rp 420/man-day (in Prabumulih) x 100 mean-days/ha labor saving.
/d  Rp 40,000/ha operating costs plus Rp 19,000/ha depreciation; this would be paid by the farmers out of their
cash payments, and is costed in Annex 1, Table 3.



ANNEX I
- 51 -                                Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Mechanical Land Clearing Costs
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  Total
Tractors
No. of ha prepared /a             750       938    1,125    1,312    1,500   5,625
Total no. needed /b                15        19        23        27        31        -
Annual purchase (to permit
bulking)                         19         -         8         -         4      31
Purchase cast (Rp million)/c   279            -       118         -        59     456
Operating cost (Rp million) /d  39           49        59        69        79      295
Subtotal                    318        49       177        69       138      751
Chainsaws
No. of ha cleared /e            1,275    1,625    1,975    2,320    2,670   9,865
Total no. needed If               128       163       198       232       267        -
Annual increment                  128        35        35        34        35      267
Replacement (after 3 years)         -         -         -       128        35      163
Total annual purchase             128        70 /g      -       162        70     430
Purchase cost (Rp million)/h    74           40         -        94        41      249
Operating cost (Rp million)/i   51           65        79        93       107      395
Subtotal                    125       105        79       187       148      644
Total (Rp million)          443       154       256       256       286   1,395
/a  75% of Prabumulih area.
/b  50 ha apiece.
Ic  Rp 12.4 million apiece, for 75 HP tractor, plus plough (Rp 1.1 million) and
harrow (Rp 1.2 million).
/d  15 hrs/'ha (2 ploughings, 2 harrowings) x Rp 3,500/hr = Rp 52,500/ha.
/e  30% of area not prepared by tractor.
If  10 ha/year apiece.
/g  For bulking
/h  At Rp 580,000 each.
/i  24 man-days/ha x Rp 1,000/man-day, plus 80 chainsaw hours/haL x Rp 200/hr
- Rp 40,000/ha.



ANNEX 1
- 52 -                               Table 4
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Spraying Costs
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  Total
Sprayers
No. of ha sprayed              2,000    3,540    5,350    7,430    8,780  27,100
Total no. needed /a              100       177       268      372       439        -
Annual increment                 100        77        91       104       67      439
Replacement                        -         -         -      100        77      177
Total annual purchase /b         268         -         -      348         -      616
Purchase Cost (Rp million)/c    14           -         -        17        -       31
Operating costs
(Rp milllion) /d                36        67       96       134       158     490
Total Cost (Rp mil.)        50        67       96       151       158     521
/a One per 20 ha; sprayed after rubber planting or final intercrop.
/b With bulking.
/c Rp 50,000 apiece.
/d  18 man-days/ha x Rp 1,000/man-day.



- 53 -                          ANNEX 1
Table 5a
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Fertilizer Requirements /a
Year 1    Year 2    Year 3    Year 4    Year 5    Total
------------------------ Kg/ha -----------------_______
Rubber Trees
Urea                        38       134        118        124       129       543
Rock phospbate             175/b     245        188        180       172       960
Muriate of potash           25        86         71         68        86       336
Kieserite                   25        74         47         45        43       234
Cover Crop                  320 kg rock phosphate in Year 1 if no Lntercropping.
160 kg rock phosphate after intercropping.
/a Year of procurement; application partly in following year.
/b Includes 100 kg in planting hole.



INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Development Material Costs
(December 1979 prices)
Total
1980/81   1981/82    1982/83   1983/84   1984/85   1985/86   1986/87   1987/88   1988/89              1980/81-1984/85
Tree Poison (ha) /a                   4,250      5,412      6,575       7,738      8,900           -          -          -           -          32,875
(liters '000 at 40 1/ha)              170        216        263        310         356          -          -           _          -            1,315
(Rp million at Rp 525/1)               89        114        138        163         187          -          -           -          -              690
Dalapon/Herbicide (ha) /b             3,450      3,372      5,398       7,295      8,645      5,883      4,997       1,560           -          28,160
(tons at 20 kg/ha)                     69         67        108        146         173        118        100          31          -              563
(Rp million at Rp 2,600/kg)           179        174        281        380         450        307        260          81          -            1,464
Alang-Alang Oil (ha) /c               4,700      5,950      7,822      8,770    12,693       15,190    13,575        9,725      5,200           39,935             1
(liters '000 at 10 1/ha)               47         60         78         88         127        152        136          97         52              399            @
(Rp million at Rp 350/1)               16         21         27         31          44         53         48          34         18              140            1
Other Agro-Chemical                       7          10          9         16         20          24         29         21           -               62
(Rp million) /d
Cover Crop Seeds (ha) /b              3,450      3,372      5,398       7,295      8,645      5,883      4,997       1,560           -          28,160
(tons at 18 kg/ha)                     62         61         97        131         156        106         90          28          -              507
(Rp million at Rp 1,000/kg)            62         61         97        131         156        106         90          28          -              507
Urea (tons) /e                        1,169      1,812      3,545       3,003      3,949      4,236      3,342       2,457      1,342           13,478
(Rp million at Rp 68/kg)               79        123        241        204         269        288        227         167         91              917
Rock Phosphate -
Rubber (tons) /e                    2,453      3,655      4,875      5,909       7,488      6,727      4,908       3,429      1,789           24,380
Cover crop (tons) /e                  832        894      1,423      1,679       1,966        942        799         250          -            6,789
(Rp million at Rp 53/kg)              174        241        334        402         501        406        302         195         95            1,652
Muriate of Potash (tons) /e             721      1,116       1,565      1,851      2,447      2,607      2,015       1,485        894            7,695
(Rp million at Rp 84/kg)               61         94        131        155         206        219        169        125          75              646
Kieserite (tons) /e                     545        859      1,156       1,405      1,793      1,815      1,127         857        447            5,758          -3
(Rp million at Rp 100/kg)              55         86        116        141         179        182        113         86          45              576
Total (Rp million)                      722        924      1,374       1.623      2,012      1,585      1,238         737        324            6,640
/a Total planting less area tractor cleared.
/b Applied in Year 1 or year after last intercrop.
/c Applied in 2 years following use of dalapon (1 year if dalapon used in Year 4).
/d Rp 1,000/ha in Year 3, Rp 2,000/ha in Year 4 (for root disease, fungus infestation, etc.).
/e See Annex 1, Table 5a.



- 55 -                                ANNEX 1
Table 6
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Intercrop Material Costs
A. Costs per Hectare (Rp '000/ha)
Year 1          Year 2           Year 3           % F.E.
Fertilizer /a                    15.4             15.4             9.2              60
Pesticide (2 liters)              2.8              2.8             2.8              80
Rice seed (30 kg)                 4.0              -               -                 -
Total                      22.2             18.2             12.0             59
B.  Area Intercropped (ha)
Planting
year           1980       1981       1982        1983       1984       1985       1986
1979            400          -          -           -          -          -          -
1980          3,250      2,500        750          -           -          -          -
1981              -      4,130      3,175        955           -          -
1982              -          -      5,005      3,850      1,155           -          -
1983              -          -          -      5,880      4,525      1,355           -
1984              -          -          -          -      6,760      5,200      1,560
Total      3,650      6.630      8.930    10,685    12.440        6.555      1,560
C. Total Cost
Total
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    1985    1986    1980-84
Urea (tons)        456     829   1,079   1,288   1,497         752      117      5,149
(Rp million at
Rp 68/kg)          31      56       73       87      102       51        8        350
TSP (tons)        274      497      647      773      898      451       70      3,089
(Rp million at
Rp 70/kg)          19      35       45       54       63       32        5        216
Muriate of
Potash (tons)       73     133      173      206      240      120       19        824
(Rp million at
Rp 84/kg)           6       11      15       17       20       10        2         69
Pesticides
(Liters '000)       7       13       18       21       25       13        3         84
(Rp million at
Rp 1,400/1)        10       18      25       29       35       18        4        118
Rice Seed (tons)  98        124     150      176      203        -        -        751
(Rp million at
Rp 125/kg)         12       16      19       22       25        -        -         94
Total
(Rp million)     78      136      177      209     245      111       19        846
/a  125 kg urea, 75 kg TSP, 20 kg muriate of potash in Years 1 and 2; 60% in
Year 3.



- 56 -                                  ANNEX 1
Table 7
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Land Title Costs
A. Cost per Ha for Hak Milik
Rp
Forms                                                                           2,300
Measurement, evaluation and decree                                              8,000
Certificate                                                                       700
Total                                                                    11,000
B. Total Cost for Hak Milik
Planting year               1979    1980    1981    1982    1983    1984
Total
Title year                   1980    1981    1982    l983    1984    1985  1980-84
No. of ha                   2,700   5,000   6,350   7,700   9,050  10,400   30,800
Total cost (Rp million)        30      55       70      85      100     114       340



ANNEX 1
Table 8
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Road Construction and Maintenance Costs
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   Total
Distances                                   ----------------   (km)   -----------------
Construction
Estate--type roads                     150    150    175    200    225        900
New village roads                       30      35     40      45     50      200
Upgrading village roads                 50      55     60      65     70      300
Graveli.ng                              20      25     30    :35      40      150
Maintenarice
Estate-type roads                        -    150    300    475    675          -
Village roads                            -      80    170    270    380
Total Costs                  Rp'000/km    ------------ (Rp million) -------------
Construction
Estate--type roads         1,250       188    188    219    250    281   1,125
New village roads          2,200        66      77     88      99    110      440
Upgrading village roads   1,250         63      69     75      82     88      377
Graveling                     940       19      24     29      :33    38      143
Maintenance
Estate-.type roads            125        -      19     38      59     84      200
Village roads                 190        -      15     32      51     72      170
I'otal                           336    392    481    574    673   2,456



ANNEX 1
Table 9
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Building Costs
A. Houses
Unit      Total
Size  1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  Total    cost         cost
(sq m)                  No. ---------------  (Rp '000) (Rp mil)
Managers             120   3      -     -      -     -     3       10,000        30
Assistant managers   70  10       2     2     -      -    14        6,000        84
Field supervisors/
staff               50  20     8      7     -      -    35        4,000      140
B. Buildings
Unit       Total
1980   1981   1982   1983   1984   Total    cost          cost
------------------ mZ ------------------ -Rp/m')  (Rp million)
Central
warehouses      2,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  1,000  6,000  80,000          480
Sub-unit
warehouses        400    200    200    100    100  1,000  80,000           80
Machinery
storage
& workshop      1,000    500    500       -       -  2,000  60,000        120
C.  Total Cost
1980            1981           1982            1983             1984           Total
--------------------------------- (Rp million) ------------------______________
422             170             166             88               88              934



-59 -                            ANNEX 1
Table 10
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Tractor-Trailer Costs
(Rp million)
Unit   Total
1980    1981    1982    1983    1984    Total   cost   cost
--------------------- No --------------------   (Rp million)
Tractor-trailers /a  10         4        -        6        -      20    13.5   270.0
Trailers /b             3       2        -        -        -       5      2.3    11.5
Total Cost    141.9    58.6          -      81        -        -     -      281.5
/a  About 65 hp; for input distribution to farmers: 7 at Taluk Kuantan,
10 at Anjungan and 3 at Prabumulih.
/b  To go with the land-clearing tractors at Prabumulih (Annex 1, Table 3),
which could be used for haulage when available.



- 60-                             ANNEX I
Table 11
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Vehicle Costs
Unit      Total
1980    1981   1982    Total       cost       cost
---------  No. -______-----   (Rp'000)   (Rp mil)
Motorcycles /a                90       45     65      200         515       103
Four-wheel drives /b          18        2      2       22       5,100       112
Sedans /c                      9        -      -        9       7,000        63
Trucks  d                      6        3      -        9       5,700        51
Total Cost (Rp million)   235        50     44       -            -       329
/a  100 cc; for PLPTs and Field Supervisors; 5 needed in 1983 and 10 needed
in 1984 would be procured in 1982 to allow bulk purchase.
/b  For PMU Managers and Assistant Managers (field, nursery and administra-
tion), and Provincial Unit Managers.
/c  For Project Manager, Consultants and Division Heads,
/d  About 3 ton pick-ups, for long-haulage of inputs; 3 per PMU.



-  -                             ANNEX 1
Table 12
INDONESIA
STILLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Training Costs
Per course    Total
Rp'OOO---
1.  Induction Training; (4-week course at Govt. estate
or agricultural training center for 25 trainees -
PLPTs, field supervisors and senior staff)
Travelling (airfare Rp 80,000/trainee)                      2,000
Living expenses (Rp 10,000/day/trainee)                      7,000
Local transportation (Rp 2,000/day/trainee)                  1,400
Training materials                                             400
Fees for instructors (Rp 50,000/day)                         1,400
Training center overheads                                      600
Total Cost per Course                                   12,80)  102,400 /a
2. Field TrainLing at Government Estate and Smallholder Scheme
(6 weeks, 25 trainees - PLPTs and Field Supervisors)
Travelling (average return airfare)                         3,000
Living expenses (Rp 10,000/day/trainee)                    10,500
Local transportation (Rp 2,000/day/trainee)                 2,100
Estate costs and overheads                                  4,500
Total Cost per Course                                   20,100  160,800 /a
3. In-service Training
(1-week uipgrading course at regional training center for
25 trainees - PLPTs and Field Supervisors)
Travel:Ling and local transportation (Rp 30,000/day/
trainee)                                                  750
Living expenses (Rp 10,000/day/trainee                    1,500
Materials                                                    100
Fees for instructors (Rp 25,000/day)                        150
Training center overheads                                    100
Total Cost per Course                                    2,600   20,800 /a
4.  Specialized training for senior staff (20 people)              1,5C0   30,000
5. Bud Grafter Training
Practical training course - 1,000 trainees                           40,000
On-the-job training        - 2,000 trainees                          55,000
Total                                                            409,000
/a  Eight coutses times 25/course = 200 trainees, for Items 1-3.



ANNEX 1
- 62 -                               Table 13
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Technical Assistance Costs
Cost per
Man-month   Total Cost
($)
A. Consultants - 156 man-months
Foreign Exchange Costs
Basic salary                                     2,600       405,600
Social benefits                                    700       109,200
Overseas allowances                                500        78,000
International travel                               500        78,000
Mobilization and miscellaneous                     200        31,200
Ffrm's overheads                                 1,000       156,000
Subtotal                                   5,500       858,000
Local Costs
Housing and utilities                            1,500       234,000
Car operation                                      300        46,800
Other internal travel                              300        46,800
Per diem                                           300        46,800
Miscellaneous                                      100        15,600
Subtotal                                   2,500       390.000
Total                                       8,000    1,248.000
B. "Visiting Agents"
1 visit per month per project area = 180 visits.
Cost per visit          Rp '000
Salary (one week)       150
Travel                  100
Subsistance              50
Estate overheads        100
Total               400
Total Cost Rp 72 million = $115,000
C. Land Suitability Assistance
10 man-months of local consultancy, times $4,000/man-month = $40,000.



ANNEX 1
- 63 -                              Table 14a
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Staff Requirements
No. of people (by GOI fiscal year)
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85
SRDPU - Headquarters
Project manager                          1         1         1         1         1
Internal auditor                         1         1         1         1         1
Finance division head                    1         1         1         1         1
Financial officers                       2         2         3         4        4
Program and budget officers              1         '         2         2        2
Technical division head                  1         1         1         1         1
Technical officers                       2         2         3         4        4
Training officer                         1         1         1         1         1
Administrative division head             1         1         1         1         1
Administrative officers                  2         2         3         4        4
Purchasing officers                      1         1         2         2        2
Monitoring officer                       1         1         1         1         1
Staff assistants                         6         7         8         9       10
Secretaries and clerks                  12        16        19       22        25
Drivers                                  8        10        12        14        14
Laborers                                 6         8        10        12        14
Subtotal                              47        56       69        80        86
SRDPU - Provincial (combined)
Provincial managers                      3         3         3         3        3
Treasurers                               3         3         3         3        3
Supplies officers                        3         3         3         3        3
Staff assistants                         3         6         6         9        9
Secretaries and clerks                   6         7         8         9       10
Drivers                                  6         6         6         6        6
Messengers                               3         3         3         3         3
Subtotal                              27        31       32        36        37
Project Management Units (combined)
Field managers                           3         3         3         3        3
Assistant managers (planting)            6         8        10        10        10
Field supervisors                       15        20        25        25       25
PLPTs                                   75       115       160      165       175
Assistant managers (nursery)             3         3         3         3         3
Nursery staff                            6         7         8         9        10
Assistant managers (finance)             3         3         3         3         3
Financial staff                          6         7         8         9       10
Assistant managers (administration)   3            3         3         3         3
Administrative staff                     9        11        13        15        17
Assistant managers (machinery
and workshops)                         3         3         3        3         3
Mechanics                               10        12        14        15        15
Secretaries and clerks                  25        30        35       40        45
Drivers                                 27        34        41        46       51
Messengers/watchmen                     12        14        16        18        20
Subtotal                             206       273      345       367       393
Total                                280       360      446       483       516



- 64 -
ANNEX I
Table 14b
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Staff Costs /a
(December 1979 prices)
Unit
cost/yr              Total cost (Rp million)
(Rp'000)  1980/81 1981/82 1982/83 1983/84 1984/85  Total
SRDPU - Headquarters
Manager                   3,700      3.7     3.7      3.7     3.7      3.7      18.5
Division head             3,200/b   9.6      9.6      9.6     9.6      9.6      48.0
Senior staff              1,750/c  19.3    19.3    28.0    33.2    33.2    133.0
Staff assistants            70011   4.2      4.9      5.6     6.3      7.0      28.0
Secretaries and clerks    500       6.0      8.0      9.5    11.0    12.5       47.0
Drivers                     350      2.8     3.5      4.2     4.9      4.9      20.3
Laborers                    200      1.2     1.6      2.0     2.4      2.8      10.0
Subtotal                         46.8    50,6    62.6    71.1    73.7    304.8
SRDPU - Provincial
Managers                  2,400/e   7.2      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2      36.0
Senior staff              1,750ic  10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5    10.5        52.5
Staff assistants            700/d   2.1      4.2      4.2     6.3      6.3     23.1
Secretaries and clerks    500       3.0      3.5      4.0     4.5      5.0     20.0
Dr-ivers                    350     2.1      2.1      2.1     2.1      2.1      10.5
Messengers                  200     0.6      0.6      0.6     0.6      0.6       3.0
Subtotal                         25.5    28.1    28.6    31.2    31.7    145.1
PMUs
Field managers            2,400/e   7.2      7.2      7.2     7.2      7.2     36.0
Assistant managers        1,750/c  31.5    35.0    38.5    38.5    38.5    182.0
Field supervisors         1,000/f  15.0    20.0    25.0    25.0    25.0    110.0
PLPTs, mechanics            700/d  59.5    88.9   121.8   126.0   133.0    529.2
Other staff               1,000    21.0    25.0    29.0    33.0    37.0    145.0
Secretaries and clerks    500    12.5    15.0    17.5    20.0    22.5          87.5
Drivers                     350     9.5    11.9    14.4    16.1    17.9         69.8
Messengers/watchmen         200     2.4      2.8      3.2     3.6      4.0      16.0
Subtotal                        158.6   205.8   256.6   269.4   285.1  1,175.5
Total                           230.9   284.5   347.8   371.7   390.5  1,625.4
/a  Including allowances.             /d  Base salary  Rp 425,000.
/b  Base salary Rp 2.4 million.       /e  Base salary  Rp 1.75 million.
/c  Base salary Rp 1.25 million.    /f  Base salary  Rp 720,000.



- 65 -
ANNEX I
Table 14c
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Administration Costs
1980  1981  1982  1983  1984  Total
----------- Rp million ------------
Staff salaries and benefits                231   285   348   372   390  1,625
SRDPU travel to project areas               25    30    35    40    45    175
PMU staff and provincial unit
travel to Jakarta                         10    10    10    10    10       50
Operation of project vehicles               60    75    90   105   120    450
Office equipment                            80    40    10    10    60    200
Office operation and rent                   35    40    40    40    45    200
Survey equipment                            38     -      -     -      -     30
Miscellaneous                               20    20    20    20    20    100
Total                                 499   500   553   597   690  2.833



- 66 -                             ANNEX 1
Table 15
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cost of Studies
Consultancy   Consultancy   Other    Total
Study                          man-months      cost /a      costs     cost
----------$  1000   -- .-----
Feasibility studies for
follow-up project                       8              56          40       96
Spontaneous rubber planting               10             70         130/b    200
Existing rubber holdings                  30            210         300Li    510
Marketing and processing                  12              84         60       144
Rubber taxation                            4              28         20       48
Total                               64             448         550      998
/a At $7,000/man-month - mixture of foreign and local consultants.
/b Including for aerial photography and analysis.



-67 -                               ANNEX 1
Table 16
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Future Project Pilot and Start-Up Costs
Rp million      $ '000
A.  SRDP Follow-up Projects
Nurseries (150 ha)                          350           560
PMU staff training (100 people)               38           60
PMU buildings and vehicles                    88          140
PHU vehicles                                  62          100
Subtotal                               538           860
B. Assistance to Spontaneous Planters
SRDP nurseries (180 ha)                     400           640
DPD staff training (150 people)               62           100
DPD vehicles                                 100           160
Subtotal                               562           900
Total                                1,100         1,760



- 68 -
ANNEX I
Table 17
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary Project Phasing
/a
1980/81  1981/82  1982/83  1983/84  1984/85  Total  % FE
------------------ (Rp million) ------------------
Nurseries                          523       407       480       551      208   2,169    28
Family labor                       776    1,279    1,386    1,732    2,043   7,216         -
Mechanical land clearing           443       154       256       256      286   1,395    50
Spraying                            50        67        96      I5n       158      521      5
Rubber development materials        722      924    1,374    1,623    2,012   6,655    70
Intercrop materials                 78       136       177       209      245      846    60
Land title                          30        55        70        85      100      340      -
Road construction & maintenance  336         392       481       574      673   2,456    48
Buildings                          422       170       166        88       88      934    38
Tractor-trailers                   142        59         -        81        -      282    80
Vehicles                           235        50        44         -        -      329    70
Training                           100       120       100        59       30      409      -
Technical assistance               100       300       255       200       22      877    65
Administration                     499       500       553       597      690   2,833       8
Studies                             50       250       250        74        -      624    50
Future projects                     50       150       300       300      300   1,100    33
Without Contingencies
Total foreign exchange         1,681    1,652    2,073    2,218    2,308   9,932   100
Total local cost               2,875    3,361    3,915    4,362    4,547  19,060         -
Total                       4,556    5,013    5,988    6,580    6,855  28,992    38
Physical Contingencies
Total foreign exchange           197       189       237      251       266   1,141
Total local cost                 252       237       286      296       289   1,360
Total                         449       426      523       547       555   2,501
Price Contingencies
Total foreign exchange           134       313       622      914    1,234   3,217
Total local cost                 342    1,001    1,756    2,644    3,515   9,258
Total                         476    1,314    2,378    3,558    4,749  12,475
Total Cost
Total foreign exchange         2,012    2,154    2,932    3,383    3,808  14,289
Total local cost               3,469    4,599    5,957    7,302    8,351  29,678
Total                       5,481    6,753    8,889   10,685   12,169  43,967
/a Including retroactive financing.



- 69 -                                                                                        ANNEX I
INIONIESIA
57641.DOLOER 01IB801 DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Alloction ofOanneE    by C.t.goco
1--9a2V/Ri                     19818                       196/B                       1983/84                      1984/85                         Total
Bas     mEie                Ease    PrEc                 as     PotBse                      FrEes                Bass    price                 Bass      Price
Coa   ... Eio- Totl         cost.. taEg. no-l          cas   O-.IEE. Toal          cost.. tatttg. Total          Eost  ceatEog. Total          cos t             TaEB . Tt.l
-oeEo  nocage               146     IV       156       lIe       19      133       135       36     171        DO4       57      211          58      28        84         6071      150      757
Loca   cot                       37      41      418        29        82      37I4 45                    090        397      12       623         10      110       260      1,562        604    2,166
Total                        523     54       374        407     102      508        400     181      661        551     283       834        208     138       614       2,169       734    2.923
FaBily Labor
La...l cat-   oa                776      65      8~61     1.279      358  1.637       1.386      582   1.968      1.732      987   2.719       2.043   1.491    3,334        7.216   3.503  10,716
Oath- Loed Oact-ia
F-togo ..oob.ago                221      13      236          77      13      96        128       35     163        126       47      175         143      69       212         697       179      876
Local coat                      221      24      246          77      22       99       128       54     182        E28       73      201         143     104       247         698      277       975
Total                        443     39       482        154       33     189        236     019      343        756    120        37 6       286     17        039       1.395       456    1.851
F .. lgac heos                    25      2        27                                                                       - - -          -       -         -          25         3       27
L.a   cost                        25      3        26        67       19      86         96       40     136        151       86      237         150     115       170         466      263       759
Total                         50       5   5              67       19      86        9L6      48Q    136         151      86       237        158     115       273         321       265       786
Bbb-e Bo.- Materials
FDaret8a  ah-ae.                505      35      340        6477    1710     7575       962      206   1,222      1.1836    4270    1,556      1.408      676    2:C64       4,659    1.501    6.160
Loca    cost                  217     74       24'1       277        a7    355        412     173      565       687      270       765        604     481    1.045        1,896       884    2.990
Total                        722     39       782        924     188  1.112       1.374      433  1.607       1.623      698    2.321      2.012  1.117    3.229         6_655    2.495    9.150
FOe-B   eaoag                    47       3       50         62       14      96        106       29     135        125       46      171        147       71      118         508       163       671
Loca   cot                        31      3        34        34       15      69         71       38     EDO         84       48      132         96       72      270         338       166       306
Total           78      6        04        1~~~~~~         ~~~~~36 _ 29  160  177  59  236        2099 4            303        245      143       288         846      331    1.177
Lasad Title.
Local Ias -t   tEL1               35      3       33         51       15      75         70       29      99         83       48      133        100       13      1 73        340       168       508
Foreigaeachaage        ~~~1651    11     171        188       32     220        2531     42      293        076     102       370        323     155       078       1,179       362    1,541
tonal n t                       275      19      194        234       57     261        250      1035    335        398     170       4668       350      236      606       1,277       607    1,884
Total                        336     30       366        392      89       8_ 481            167.2  648        574      272        _6       2       411    1.084       2.5           69     .2
Baildi.ga
Foe-aaea-haage                  166      11      171         65       11      76         63       17      80         33       12       45         33       16       49         355        67       422
Local es-                       260      29      291        103       29     134        103       43     146         355      31       66         53       60       95         579       172       751
Total                       .427     40       462        170      40      210        166      60      226         88      43       131         80      56       146         834      239    1.I73
Faot.ga shcbasa                 120       8      128         50        9      59           -       -       -         68       26       95          -        -        -         238        43       281
Local not22                               2        26          9       3       12          -       -       -         12        7       19          -        -        -           44        12       56
Venal                        E41     10       E52         59      12       71          -                           1      33       114          -       -         -         282        15      337
Vehicles
OoretoooacBano                  165      12      1777        35        6      41         31        0      39          -        -        -          --                -         231        26       257
Lo1oos70                                8       78         15        4      29         13       5       1B                                                                    98        17      115
Total                        235     20(-     255         54      10       60         44      13      3L7         -        -         -          -       -         -         39        43       372
Local.. coo -toa               1800     11      111        120      314     15 4       180      42      142         59      34         3         30       22       52         409       1509      08
T-chetca.d is.tat...
Ooeetoasocbaoas         ~~~655    3       790       :95      33      2,20       165      45     210        130       48       170         15        7       22         570       138      708
l_otos                            35      4        39       105       29     134         90       30     128         70      40       010           7       5       12         307       116       423
Tonta                        100       9      009        300      62      362       255       03     338        200       00      280          20      12        34         877      234    1.131
Foeelgseacbaage         ~~~~24    2       26         24       4       28         27       7       34         29      11        40         81      39       120         184        63      247
Loca   cot                      075      52      327        476      133     609        536     221      747        568     323       891        609      466    1,053       2.654    1.173    3.827
Tonal                        499     54       553        500     137      637       553      228     781        597      334      931        690      483    1.173       2.838    1.236   4.074
F-ioEooa-bage                     25      2       27        125       21     146        125       34     159         37       14       51          -        - -                312        71       383
Laca.  cast                      23       3       28        125       35     168        125      33      178         37      21        58          -        -        -         312       012       424
Total                         52O      5       3         256      56      106       25O       6      337          74      35       109          -       -         -         624       183      67
ForeIg  esohoog                   17      1       10         50        9      59        100       27     127        140       37      137        1CR       nO      148         367       122       405
tona   cos                        53      4        37       100       20     120        200       64     284        200     114       314        200      143      043         733       373    1.106
Total                         53      5        55       _150      3 7     107       300      111     411        500      515       451        304     19         91      1.100       45    1.595
Totsal
Pae ,aohoage             1,681    120    1,001,    1:652       20,1  1:733      2,073      538   2:,631     2.21       92       09       2300   1:.109    3.117        9,952    2.889   12.621
Local cost           2,675    314    3,10,9      3,61        3   4206        3,51    1,66    5.51        4,6    2,475    6,837        4.547  3304    7.5            908       8,664  27.724
Total                     4.556   434   4.990         5.013  1.216  6J122        79_66   2.194  8.182         6.580  3.296    9.876        6.855  4.413  11.260         28.992  11.553  40.545
_cegseclag                 197     14       211        169      32      221       237       64     301        351       93      344        2t       125       391      1,140       320    1,466
Loa -ot                     252      28      280        237       64      303       286      120     406        396     169       465        289      211      500       1,360       594    1,954
Tonal                        449     42       491       426       9      524        573      184     70 7       547      262      809        1575     336       891      2.500       92 2    3s422
Grasd Tonal
F-rego e-cbao0                1,676    134    2,0~12      1,941      3232,754        2,31V      622   792        2.469      9414    3,33       2,5714   1  234    3:,180    11.072    3,217~  14,209
Loa   ca                   3,2       342    3,46       3,90    1001  4.5 9         4,271   1,9    5957         4,656   2,44    7302         4.836  3,55    0.51          20.420 9.250   29.670
Total                     3.035   474    5.481        5.439  1_314  4,753         4,511  2,378   .8089        7,127  3.558  10,485         7.410   4.749  12,159        31.692   12,475  43.967
For-E8n e-hasg                     70 19  ,toah'a)                  171                        220                         37                           481
Loca   cot                        11  19_onthol                     280a                        420                        5 7%                          7 3%



ANNEX 1
- 70 -                              Table 19
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Post-Project Maintenance Costs
1985/86  1986/87  1987/88  1988/89  1989/90   Total
------------------ (Rp million) ------------------
Family labor                  1,311       962      650       409       212    3,544
Rubber dev. materials         1,585    1,238        737      324         -    3,884
Intercrop materials             111        19         -        -         -       130
Land title                      114         -         -        -         -       114
Road maintenance                268       268       268      268       268    1,340
Administration                  500       400       300      200       100    1,500
Subtotal                3,889    2,887    1,955    1,201         580   10,512
Physical contingencies          295       220       157      106        64       842
Total                    4,184    3,107    2,112    1,307         644   11,354



- 71 -
ANNEX 1
Table 20a
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Development Costs/Ha
Hand Clearing, No Intercropping
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6   Total
-----------_______---- Rp'000 ----------
Planting Material            47        8       -        -        -       -        55
Fertilizer                   34       36      29       29      29        -       157
Rock phosphate             26       13      10       10       9        -        68
Muriate cf potash           2        7       6        6        7       -        28
Kieserite                   3        7       5        5       4        -        24
Urea                        3        9       8        8       9        -        37
Agro-Chemicals               73        4       5        2        4       -        84
Tree poison                21       -        -        -       -        -        21
Dalapon/Herbicide          52        -       -        -       _        -        52
Alang-alang oil             -       4        4        -       -        -         8
Miscellaneous               -        -       1        2       -        -         3
Cover Crop Seed              18       -        -        -       -        -        18
Spraying                     23       -        -        -       -        -        23
Family Labor /a             142      55       34       27      22       21       301
Total                       337      103      68       58      51       21       638
($1,021)
/a At Rp 500/man-day.



- 72 -
ANNEX I
Table 20b
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Development Costs/Ha
Hand Clearing. 2 Years Intercropping
Year I Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6   Total
----- ---------------- Rp'OOO ------------
Planting Material            47        8       -        -       -        -         55
Fertilizer                   17      36       37       29      29        -        148
Rock phosphate              9       13      18       10       9        -         59
Muriate of potash           2        7       6        6        7       -         28
Kieserite                   3        7       5        5       4        -         24
Urea                        3        9       8        8       9        -         37
Agro-Chemicals               21        -      53        6        4       -         84
Tree poison                21        -       -        -       -        -         21
Dalapon/herbicide           -       -       52        -       -        -         52
Alang-alang oil             -        -       -        4        4       -          8
Miscellaneous               -        -       1        2       -        -          3
Cover Crop Seed               -        -      18        -       -        -         18
Spraying                      -        -      23        -       -        -         23
Family Labor /a             107      42       49       30      21       21        270
Total                       192       86     180       65      54       21        598
($957)
/a At Rp 500/man-day.



ANNEX 1
Table 20c
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rubber Development Costs/Ha
Tractor Clearing, 2 Years Intercropping
Year 1 Year 2  Year 3  Year 4  Year 5  Year 6   Total
-----------------______ Rp'000 ----
Planting Material           47        8       -        -       -        -       55
Fertilizer                  17       36      37       29      29        -      148
Rock phosphate             9       13      18       10       9       -        59
Muriate of potash          2        7       6        6       7        -       28
Kieserite                  3        7       5        5       4       -        24
Urea                       3        9       8        8       9        -       37
Agro-Chemicals               -        -      53        6       4        -       63
Dalapon/herbicide          -        -      52        -       -        -       52
Alang-alang oil            -        -       -        4       4       -         8
Miscellaneous              -        -       1        2       -       -         3
Cover Crop Seed              -        -      18        -       -        -       18
Spraying                     -        -      23        -       -       -        23
Tractor Cle!aring           88        -       -        -       -        -       88
Family Labor /a             57       42      49       30      21       21      220
Total                      209       86     180       65      54       21      608
($973)
/a At Rp 500 man-day.



- 74 -
ANNEX 1
Table 21
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Material Quantities and Unit Prices - Total Prolect
(December 1979 Prices)
Unit          Quantity    Unit Price   Total cost
(Rp'OOO)    (Rp million)
Fertilizer
Rock phosphate              tons            33,509           53          1,776
TSP                         tons             3,089           70            216
Muriate of potash           tons             8,519           84            716
Kieserite                   tons             5,758          100            576
Urea                        tons            18,627           68          1,267
Compound (15:15:6:4)        tons             5,384          110            593
Subtotal                                                          5,144
Agro-Chemicals
Tree poison              '000 litre          1,315          525            690
Pesticides               '000 litre             84        1,400            118
Dalapon/herbicide           tons               563        2,600          1,464
Alang-alang oil          '000 litre            399          350            140
Miscellaneous               -                    -            -             70
Subtotal                                                          2,482
Seeds
Rubber                      million             68        Rp  7 @          476
Cover crop                  tons               507        1,000            507
Intercrop (rice)            tons               751          125             94
Subtotal                                                          1,077
Other
Polythene strips            million             49        Rp  1 @           49
Polybags                    million            1.9        Rp 27 @           52
Barbed wire                 meters         490,000        Rp 35 @           21
Sand, bamboo, lining pegs,
posts, tools, nails         -                               -             37
Subtotal                                                            159
Total                                                             8,862



75 -                          ANN0EX 2
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Proposed Allocation of Credit Proceeds
Cost /a       Credit    Disbursement
Total   Foreign   amount          rate
-- $ million ---------
I.   Credit Expenditures               43.2      13.9       29.8
A. Tractors and equipment          1.4       1.1        1.1           /b
B. Urea                            2.9       1.7       2.9          100
C. Rubber, cover crop and
intercrop seeds                2.7      0.3        1.6           60
D. Other materials                13.5      10.3      10.5           /b
E. Labor, machinery operation
and land title                22.2      0.3       13.3           60
F. Retroactive financing           0.5       0.2       0.4           /c
II.  Noncredilt Expenditures           21.8       6.8       11.2
A. Civil works                     7.2       3.1       4.3            60
B. Tractors and trailers           0.6       0.5       0.5           /b
C. Consu:Ltant services            1.9       1.1       1.9          100
D. Studies                         1.4       0.6        1.4         100
E. Training                        0.7       -         0.7          100
F. SRDP :[I start up
(excL. vehicles)              1.1       0.2        1.1          100
G. Spontianeous planting
pilots (exc. vehicles)         1.1      0.2        1.1          100
H. Retroactive finance             0.3       0.1       0.2           /c
I. Vehicles                        1.0       0.6       -              0
J. Administration                  6.5       0.4       -              0
III. Unallocated - Physical
contingencies                     5.5      2.3        4.0            7
IV. Total                             70.5      23.0       45.0            -
/a  Includes price contingencies.
/b (i) 100% of the cif cost of directly-imported items; (ii) 95% of the
ex-factory price of locally-manufactured items; and (iii) 65% of
expenditures on imported but locally-procured items.
/c  Same as for specific categories financed.



-76 -                         ANNEX 3
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal year                                   Cumulative
and Semester                                    Disbursements
(US$ million)
FY81
First                                              0.5
Second                                             2.5
FY82
First                                              5.0
Second                                             8.0
FY83
First                                              11.5
Second                                            15.5
FY84
First                                             20.5
Second                                            25.5
FY85
First                                             32.0
Second                                            38.0
FY86
First                                             42.0
Second                                            45.0



- 77 -                               AITEX 4
Table 1
INDONESIA
SMAILHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Smallholder Rubber Yields
Planting             Tapping
year                year               Trees/ha               Kg/ha
6                  1                  380                    220 (6 months)
7                  2                  400                    510
8                  3                  410                    660
9                  4                  400                    745
10                  5                  390                    P25
11                  6                  380                    870
12                  7                  370                  1,000
13                  8                  360                  1,030
14                  9                  350                  1,070
15                 10                  340                  1,100
16                 11                  330                  1,120
17                 12                  320                  1,200
18                 13                  310                  1,180
19                 14                  300                  1,140
20                 15                  290                  1,110
21                 16                  285                  1,080
22                 17                  280                  1,000
23                 18                  275                    980
24                 19                  270                    930
25                 20                  265                    900
26                 21                  260                    830
27                 22                  255                    750
28                 23                  250                     700
29                 24                  245                    620
30                 25                  240                    550
Average yield per annum:  885 kg/ha.
Based on initial planting density of 500 trees/ha with 15% supplying.
Tapping system. S/2 D/2 100%.  180 tapping days per annum.



- 78 -
ANNEY 4
Table 2
INDO1ESIA
SlfALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Farm liodel Summary - Replanting, 2 Years Intercropping
(in December 1979 Prices)
Without
project                                       Ilith project
Year       1    15      1       2    3       4       5    6    7    8       9       10    11-22   23-30
11arvested Area (ha)               4.1  4.1
Rubber                           2.8  2.8    1.8    1.8  1.8    0.8    0.8  1.8  1.8  1.8   2.0            2.0      2.0      2.0
Rice - wet land                  0.7  0.7    0.7    0.7  0.7    0.7    0.7  0.7  0.7  0.7   0.7            0.7      0.7      0.7
- dry land                 0.3  0.3    1.3    1.3  0.3    1.3    1.3  0.3  0.3  0.3   0.3             0.3     0.3      0.3
Othier crops                     0.3  0.3    0.3    0.3  0.3    0.3    0.3  0.3  0.3  0.3   0.3            0.3      0.3      0.3
Production (kg)
Rubber - replanted                 -    -       -       -    -       -       -  220  510  660   965   1,335   1,770   1,770
- old                    840  615    540    530  520    230    225  220  215  210            -        -       -        -
Rice - wet land                  840  840    840    840  840    840    840  840  840  840   840            840      840      840
- dry land                 240  240  1,440  1,440  240  1,440  1,440  240  240  240   240             240     240      240
Gross Value of Production
(Rp'000)
Rubber - replanted                 -    -       -       -    -       -       -  120  290  385   560        775   1,025   1,025
- old                    395  345    255    250  250    115    115  115  120  120            -       -        -        -
Rice - wet land                   85   85      85      85   85      85      85.  85   85   85    85         85       85       85
- dry land                  25   25    145    145   25    145    145   25   25   25    25              25       25      25
Other crops                       80   80      80      80   80      80      80   80   80   80    80         80       80       8C
Net Value of Production
(Rp' 000)
Rubber - replanted /a              -    -       -       -    -       -       -   85  210  275   405        560      740      740
- old /a                 285  250    185    180  180         85     85   85   85   85        -        -       -        -
Rice - wet land /b                55   55      55      55   55      55      55   55   55   55    55         55       55       5C
- dry land /b               15   15       95    100   15       95    100   15   15   15    15          15       15      15
Other crops                       50   50      50      50   50      50      50   50   50   50    50         50       50       5C
Farm income (Rp'000)               405  370    385    385  300    285    290  290  415  480   525            680      860      860
Off-farm incone (Pp'000)            25   25        -      -    -        -      -    -    -    -        -        -       -        -
Project cash payments (Rp'000)    -    -    105          45   50    135       65   70   30   20    20           -       -        --
Subloan repayments (Rp'000)/c        -    -       -       -    -        -      -    -    -  (75)  (75)    (75)   (150)
Total incone (Rp'000               430  395    490    430  350    420    355  360  445  425   470             605     710      860
--------- 380 average ----------
Incremental net income                           50       -  (75)    (5)   (65) (55)  30   15    60          200      310      46'i
Financial rate of return:) 50%
/a 40% sharetapped (sharetapper get 70%).
/b 35% goes to hired labor.
/c In current prices - considerably less in constant December 1979 prices; (32), (29), (26) and (28) in years
8, 9, 10 and 11-22, respectively at 10% inflation throughout.



ANNEX 5
79 -                              Table 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic and Financial Price for Rubber
(December 1979 prices)
Present (1979)         Pro;ected (1990)
(Rp/kg)  (US$/kg)       (Rp/kg)  (US$/kg)
RSS1, c.i.f., NY                       813      1.30             906     1.45
SIR 20, c.i.f., NY                     772      1.24            857      1.38
less shipping & brokerage            (42)    (0.07)            42    (0.07)
SIR 20, f.o.b. Indonesia               730      1.17            815      1.31
less export and sales taxes /a    (85)    (0.14)              (915)   (0.15)
SIR 20, ex-factory                     645      1.03            720      1.16
Sheets     Slab           Sheets     Slab
--- (Rp/kg) ---           --- (Rp/kg) ---
SIR 20, ex-factory                   645         645             720       720
less direct milling costs          (35)        (67)           (35)       (67)
less depreciation & profits        (28)        (35)           (28)       (35)
less transport to mill             (12)        (28)           (12)       (28)
Rubber, ex-dealer                     570        515             645       590
less traders' margins              (50)        (80)            (40)      (70)
less local transport               (10)        (25)             (5)      (15)
less cost of mangling               (10)         -            (1LO)        -
Rubber, farmgate                      500        410             590       505
Financial. value (weighted avg.) lb        470                        575
plus taxes                                85                         95
Economic value                             555                        670
Ia  Consisting of a (i) export tax of 4.75% of f.o.b., (ii) advance payment
export tax (MPO Ekspor) of Rp 10/$1.00 of f.o.b., (iii) sales tax (PPN)
at 5% of the raw material cost, and (iv) advance payment sales tax of
2% of the raw material cost.
/b Now 67:33, but to be 83:17 in 1990 (see para. 6.06).



ANNEX 5
Table 2
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Farm-gate Price of Paddy
(December 1979 prices)
Present           Projected
(1979)            (1985)
Item                                Operation   Rp/kg  US$/ton   Rp/kg  US$/ton
Rice
World Price /a                                  255      408       303      485
Indonesian Imports /b                 X         229      367       273      437
Freight & insurance                   +          13       20        13       20
CIF Indonesia                                   242      387       286      457
Transfer to wholesalers               +            8      12         8       12
Mills to wholesalers                  -            3        4        3        4
Ex-mill price                         -         247      395       291      465
Paddy
Conversion to paddy /c                %         157      250       183      293
Milling costs less value
of by-products                      -           0        0         0        0
Farm operations                       -            2       3         2        3
Gross farm-gate price                           155      247       181      290
-Farm-gate price
net of transport losses /d          Z         152      242       177      284
/a Thai, white rice, 5% brokens, f.o.b. Bangkok.
/b 90% of above; quality adjustment.
/c 63% rice recovery ratiQ.
/d 2% transportation losses between field and mill.



ANNEX 5
- 81 -                              Table 3
INDONESIA
SMALLhLOL)ER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Calculation of Economic Price for Urea and TSP
(December 1979 prices)
1980-82                1985
(Rp/kg) (US$/ton) (Rp/kg) (US$/ton)
Urea
World prLce, f.o.b., Europe              103       165         128        205
Value ex--factory, Palembang Ja          113       180         138        220
Plus distribution to project
area                                   17        27           17        27
Economic price in project area  b    130          207          155        247
TSP
World price, f.o.b. US Gulf               90       145         120        190
Plus shipping to Indonesia                18        28          18         28
Plus distribution to project area         17        27          17         27
Economic price in project area a         125      200          155        245
/j Indonesian urea sells in Asia and enjoys about a $15/ton transport
premium over European exports.
/b The present subsidized delivered price is Rp 70/kg.



ANNEX 5
- 82 -                                                                            Table 4
S. 0. S      00.....00............. 00'   Q00.00-                                                C    _04.04
Z010                       r         c=Q0  0Q                                OC09      11111' 06 
C.   0        0 _ ---00o0t000000                             r--r---   0000                 'on-
SEO  S
E   o        ro0w v00C00a0>-
=    O00       <           1 t s~rr
s0 0i   s        .0-   00         (-.. r  cau    N_olI I I I tII I    t il      1111111I1111 j|    II 
C a C 
.00 o       r'0 Q l_ .O00_0001         -1xa          )<v        00 40-0 1- 0 . e1. _ a u '-c-1.00_
0                     aue    qc 0  040000000000000  cOm100a 0    C-0UiVU1.040..... 4000'n0000c>
I- L.
,0.-  0 o          000>tn
o 0              __N  .-l  
H ~     ~      I =     It I000oc,cococo00                                            000        0
00O0
t
0> 
000 a1 0 4 D00000 0_4 _                                                        0.-.0000400400r014 e   c ca >>  > > >   - -0_ 
0~~~t 0  00                             oocooocooood           
ono   .                               001    400000000                       00000000..
0. 0J 0s
'~~~.1  JS000o~   .aaa>N         >QM    
0q  0.                                                                                                                              . XC -              __.  ^ NU  !l  { S S O  r 0.)i)f.)O{  ----^^^^^
R~              00 w0_404040oo_____--.0.0.0.00.0.0.._____
ir~~~~0                          0 C000000   00o000000n0000000e0,0
.-  ~           .-0           00      00                                                                                              I
4.   0                                                                                                           .    0.
.-D    00D      noo o                  *:                                                                          01 C
t;;o          ..      .    ..      .                                                                                 0
-                                                                                                              1" 0oo___N__cooc 
040~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0
000                                                                                                             1" S
'00o                                                                        fI
D   ,   ,.00                                                   D
O- o    0      00 0                                                                                               0C
00 .                                                                                                                  0  :
.   C   X   C                                                                          =~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0  ,0
;, _ .H S  o < un _ < N _ _ n o                                                             :h~~00    0
-V'o                                                                                                              .u C  .0    rN_O' 
0000aaa>O>>88o8880-                                                                                        =, 4-
0--.  0  0   -4   - -    .-.04 -                                        -__0 IN.N(1O1WNO           N         | -



INDONESIA
SHALLJIOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Project Benefits (from 38,500 ha)
Planting year
1980      1981       1982       1983        1984      Total      Rubber    Effective   Production    Rice         Rice        Total         Net
5,000 ha  6,350 ha  7,700 ha   9,050 ha  10,400 ha  38,500 ha  value /a          area    (1.2 ton/ha)  price         Value     Benefits   Benefits
-----------------------  ton ' 000 -------------------------  (Rp bil.)  (ha '000)   (ton '000)  (Rp/kg)    (Rp bil.)  (Rp bil.)   (Rp bil.)
1980       -          -         -          -          -           -         -             3.3          4.0       155          0.6        0.6          (4.2)
1981       -          -         -          -          -           -         -             6.6          7.9        160         1.3        1.3          (5.4)
1982       -          -         -          -          -           -          -            8.8         10.6        165         1.7        1.7          (7.8)
1983       -          -         -          -          -           -         -            10.5         12.6        170         2.1        2.1          (9.0)
1984       -          -         -          -          -           -         -            12.2         14.6       175          2.6        2.6          (9.9)
1985       1.1        -         -          -          -           1.1        0.7          6.1          7.3        177         1.3        2.0          (7.2)
1986       2.6        1.4       -          -          -           4.0        2.7          1.2          1.4        177         0.2        2.9          (6.6)
1987       3.3        3.2       1.7        -          -           8.2        5.5                                                         5.5          (2.7)
1988       3.7        4.2       3.9        2.0        -          13.8       9.2                                                          9.2           0.9           m
1989       4.1        4.7       5.1        4.6        2.3        20.8       13.9                                                        13.0           5.0
1990       4.4        5.2       5.7        6.0        5.3        26.6       17.0                                                        17.8           9.4
1991       5.0        5.5       6.4        6.7        6.9        30.5       20.4                                                        20.4          11.9
1992       5.2        6.4       6.7        7.5         7.7       33.4       22.3                                                        22.3          13.9
1993       5.4        6.5       7.7        7.9        8.6        36.0      24.1                                                         24.1          15.7
1994       5.5        b.8        7.9       9.1        9.0        38.3       25.7                                                        25.7          17.3
1995       5.6        7.0       8.2        9.3       10.4        40.5      27.0                                                         27.D          18.7
1996       6.0        7.1       8.5        9.7       10.7        42.0       28.1                                                        28.1          20.0
1997       5.9        7.6       8.6       10.0       11.1        43.2      29.0                                                         29.0         -21.2
1998       5.7        7.5       9.2       10.1       11.4        44.0       29.4                                                        29.4          21.8
1999       5.6        7.2       9.1       10.9       11.6        44.4      29.7                                                         29.9          22.3
2000       5.4        7.0       8.8       10.7       12.5        44.4       29.7                                                        29.7          22.5
2001       5.0        6.9       8.5       10.3        12.2       43.0       28.7                                                        28.7          21.7
2002       4.9        6.4       8.3       10.0       11.9        41.5       27.7                                                        27.7          21.0
2003       4.7        6.2       7.7        9.8       11.5        39.9      26.7                                                         26.7          20.0
2004       4.5        5.9       7.5        9.1       11.2        38.2      25.6                                                         25.6          19.2
2005       4.2        5.7       7.2        8.9       10.4        36.3       24.5                                                        24.3          18.1
2006       3.8        5.3       6.9        8.4       10.2        34.6       23.2                                                        23.2          17.1
2007       3.5        4.8       6.4        8.1         9.7       32.5       21.1                                                        21.7          15.8
2008       3.1        4.4       5.8        7.5        9.4        30.2       20.2                                                        20.2          14.4
2009       2.8        3.9       5.4        6.8         8.6       27.5       o8. 4                                                       1.4          12.7
2010                  3.5       4.8        6.3         7.8       22.4       15.0                                                        15.0           9.8           -3
2011                            4.2        5.6         7.3       17.1       11.4                                                        11.4           6.8           a,
2012                                       5.0         6.4       11.4        7.6                                                         7.6           3.7
2013                                                  5.7         5.7        3.8                                                         3.8           0.7           U u,
/a At Rp 670/kg
Economic Rate of Return = 14%



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Consultants
General
1.        The consultants would focus initially on the Smallholder Rubber
Development Project (SRDP), but would also advise on the overall smallholder
rubber planting program, and would assist in the preparation of future proj-
ects. To the extent feasible, the Organization, Financial and Training
Advisers might later also assist with the implementation of the smallholder
coconut development program. Each adviser would work closely with one or
more senior SRDPU staff, who would be their counterparts. Provision of
on-the-job training to these counterparts, and to more junior staff as well,
would be a major responsibility of each adviser. Contracts are expected to
be for two years, renewable for a third year by mutual agreement. Each
adviser would report regularly to the SRDPU Manager, both orally and in
writing, on the progress of his work and the problems encountered, and would
have direct access to the Director General of Estates and his directors as
necessary. The advisers would also be expected to cooperate closely with
each other and with other senior DGE staff, including those in the Team for
Assistance to NES Projects. All would be based in Jakarta, but would be
expected to travel frequently to the project areas. Prior knowledge of
Indonesia and the Indonesian language, although not essential, would be
highly desirable.
Financial Adviser
2.        The Financial Adviser's main counterpart would be the Finance
Division Head. The Adviser would have four main areas of concern: (i)
internal financial control and management information of the Project Unit
and PMUs; (ii) expediting the budgetary system to ensure the provision of
funds when needed; (iii) in conjunction with BRI and BI, working out the
details of the long- and short-term credit systems; and (iv) training
SRDPU and PMU financial staff. The more detailed areas of involvement would
be as follows:
(a) Internal control and management information:
(i) financial and cost accounting;
(ii) funds management;
(iii) inventory control;
(iv) financial aspects of procurement;



-85-                                   ANNEX 6
Page 2
(v)  internal audit;
(vi)  liaison with external auditors;
(vii) management information;
(viii) annual accounts and quarterly progress reports; and
(ix)  disbursement requests to IDA.
(b) Budgetary process
(i) preparation of annual projet budgets;
(ii) budget clearance process through DGE, MOA, BAPPENAS and
Ministry of Finance; and
(iii) disbursement of funds from the DTE, though BI and BRI.
(c) Credit system
(i)  procedures for converting advances from DTE into subloans;
(ii)  cash disbursements by BRI;
(iii) harmonizing GOI and BRI record-keeping systems; and
(iv)  loan collection system, including possibility of BRI
getting revenue directly from tapping of defaulters' trees.
(d) Training
(i) on-the-job training of financial staff; and
(ii) formal training needs of staff.
3.        Qualifications.  The Financial Adviser should have:
(a)  a university degree in a relevant field and be a member
of a recognized accountancy institute - e.g., Certified Public
Accountant or Institute of Chartered Accountants;
(b)  at least 10 years post-qualification experience in financial
and management accounting, including at least three years in a
managerial capacity in a large public or private establishment,
preferably in the agricultural sector; and



ANNEX 6
- 86 -                          Page 3
(c) experience in internal control, management information,
budgetary processes, credit systems, and staff training.
Organization and Management Adviser
4.        The Organization and Management Adviser's main counterpart would
be the Administration Division Head. He would advise and assist on the
following:
(a) the functions, organization and related staffing requirements
and job descriptions for the SRDPU;
(b) the degree of PMU autonomy in procurement, recruitment, etc.;
(c) strengthening the Prabumulih PMU;
(d) the organization of the PMUs;
(e) the role of the Provincial Units, and means of coordinating
with other agencies; and
(f)  in conjunction with the Financial Adviser, design of the manage-
ment information system.
He would also work closely with the heads of the Planning and Budget, and
Efficiency and Execution units in the Secretariat of the DG of Estates.
5.        Qualifications.  The Organization and Management Adviser should
have relevant postgraduate training and broad experience designing,
evaluating and working in administrative systems in developing countries,
preferably involving implementation of agricultural projects.
Technical Adviser
6.        The Technical Adviser's main counterpart would be the Technical
Division Head. The Adviser would provide overall technical guidance, and,
together with his counterpart, would supervise the technical field staff.
Specifically, he would advise on:
(a) improvement of the seed supply system;
(b) implementation of the training and visit extension system;
(c) planning, coordinating and supervising field cultivation and
nurseries;
(d) soil suitability in areas proposed for new planting, especially
in South Sumatra;
(e) technical aspects of procurement; and



-87 -                               ANNEX 6
Page 4
(f) performance standards for farmers to qualify for cash payments and
continued assistance.
7.        Qualifications.  The Technical Adviser should be an agronomist
with a thorough knowledge of rubber cultivation, and at least t'hree years'
managerial experience with smallholder rubber programs.
Training AIviser
8.        The Training Adviser's counterpart would be the Project Unit's
Training Officer. He would advise on the overall technical, managerial,
administrative and other training requirements for SRDP implementation.
He would be concerned with the implementation and updating of the training
program. Specifically, he would advise on and assist in:
(a) identification of the needs and priorities for training;
(b) expansion and improvement of facilities at the training centers;
(c) development of a program for field training of PMU staff by
selected Government estates and smallholder planting schemes;
(d) preparation of teaching material and development of courses
for project staff;
(e) recruitment, training and evaluation of trainers for the courses;
(f) need for outside training of project staff;
(g) formulation of a monitoring and evaluation system for the various
training programs; and
(h) training needs of the DPDs, in preparation for projects to assist
spontaneous planters.
9.        Qualifications.  The Training Adviser should have relevant
postgraduate education and experience in teaching and training adults at
various levels, for immediate translation of knowledge and skills into
actual implementation. He should be familiar with training programs in
agriculture, especially for tree crops.



- 88-                               ANNEX 7
Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for Studies
I. Spontaneous Rubber Planting
A. Objectives
1.  To find out the nature and extent of spontaneous new planting
and replanting of rubber in Indonesia.
2.  To determine the interest of spontaneous planters in using and
paying for improved planting material and other inputs.
3.  To devise a system for the distribution of inputs and extension
services to spontaneous planters.
B. Outline of Study
1.  Approximate annual area of new planting and replanting, by
province and district (where possible).
2.  Degree of concentration of these plantings; identification of
areas of concentration for pilot projects.
3.  Objectives of farmers in planting rubber; extent to which
availability of inputs might increase area of planting.
4.  Interest of farmers in (a) clonal budded stumps, (b) fertilizer
and (c) herbicides, and willingness and ability to pay for them.
5.  Means for distribution of clonal budded stumps and rock
phosphate for the planting hole by the DPD, and for provision of
extension advice on their use, including vehicle, staffing and
organizational requirements.
6.  System for making fertilizer and agrochemicals available to
spontaneous planters; issues are (a) role of DPD, cooperatives
or private dealers, (b) whether all should be on cash basis or
any credit or subsidy should be introduced, and (c) provision of
extension on how to use the inputs.
C. Data Sources
1.  Aerial photography by BAKOSURTANAL for (1) and (2) above.  This
might be integrated with the general study of smallholder rubber
(see study II below).



-89 -                               ANNEX 7
Page 2
2. Interviewing sample of farmers for (3) and (4) above.
3. Examining capabilities of DPDs, cooperatives and private dealers.
4. Study would be carried out initially in Riau, South Sumatra and
West Kalimantan.
II. Existing Rubber Holdings
A. Objectives
1. To improve the data base for DGE's computerized monitoring system.
2.  To select priority areas for rubber development projects.
3. To determine the extent to which future projects (aL) should be
geographically intensive (like the SRDP) or extensive and (b)
should focus on new planting or replanting.
B. Outline of Study
1. Existing rubber area, by province (and district,
where feasible), starting with Riau, Jambi, North Sumatra, South
Sumatra and West Kalimantan.
2. Age of plantings.
3. Average yield.
4. Extent of nonproductive trees.
5. Size distribution of holdings.
6.  Average income (by source) and income distribution of rubber
farmers.
,7. Extent of share-tapping.
83. Use of inputs.
9. Interest in replanting.
C. Data Sources
1. Existing reports on sector, to determine what information gaps
need to be filled.
2. Aerial photography.
3. Sample inspections on the ground.
4. Farmer interviews.



- 90-                             ANNEX 7
Page 3
III. Marketing and Processing of Smallholder Rubber
A. Objectives
1. To determine what improvements in the production, marketing
and processing system are needed, both in project areas and
selected other areas, to increase the percentage of the f.o.b.
export price received by smallholders.
2. To determine what additional processing facilities are needed
in the project area, both to improve the quality of rubber
produced and to handle the additional input.
3. To recommend whether any such additional facilities should be
financed under future smallholder rubber projects, and if so,
by whom such facilities should be owned and managed.
B. Outline of Study
1. Efficiency of existing marketing and processing system in each
project area and selected other areas.
(a)  Quantity and quality of rubber produced.
(b)  Prices, margins and profits at each stage.
(c)  Quality, quantity, efficiency and utilization of
processing equipment.
(d)  Extent of competition in marketing and processing.
(e)  Employment in marketing and processing.
2. Recommendations for improvements in each area.
(a)  Investments needed in processing facilities.
(b)  Who should operate processing facilities (cooperatives,
private sector, Government estates, etc.).
(c)  Organization of rubber collection and sale.
(d)  Pricing policy.
(e)  Education of smallholders on rubber quality, pricing,
etc.
(f)  Extent to which the construction of new facilities should
be financed under future smallholder rubber projects.
(g)  Need for improved transport facilities.



- 91 -
ANNEX 7
Page 4
C. Data Sources
1. Interviews with farmers, traders and processors.
2. Collection of rubber price data.
3. Examination of processing facilities.
IV. Rubber Industry Taxation (to be supervised by Ministry of Finance)
A. ObJectives
1. To determine present extent of cost recovery through taxation
under planting programs.
2. To recommend improvements in rubber taxation system to increase
equity and cost recovery and reduce administrative costs.
B. Outline of Study
1. Taxes officially levied on rubber production, marketing,
processing and export.
2. Extent to which taxes are actually collected.
3. Extent of extra-legal taxation on rubber.
4. Impact of taxes on marketing and processing system.
5. Administrative system and costs of tax collection.
6. Proposals for improvements.
C.  Data Sources
1. Interviews with local, provincial and national officials
concerned (from DGE, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Local
Government and Ministry of Trade).
2. Interviews with farmers, traders, processors and exporters.



- 92 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 5
V. Feasibility of Areas Proposed for Follow-Up Prolect
A. Objective: To determine which of the seven ARP areas are suitable
for expanded rubber planting under a follow-up project (SRDP II),
approximately what areas of new planting and replanting should be
included, and what road improvements are needed.
B. Outline of Study
1.  Maps of area showing:
(a) location of towns and villages,with population figures;
(b) communications - roads, tracks and rivers, showing
distances between main centers;
(c) present land utilization (e.g. estates, smallholder
rubber, other tree crops, sawah, upland arable,scrub/
alang-alang, forest);
(d) topography and soils - indication of slopes and
distribution of main soil types.
2.  Tables of:
(a) rainfall and other available climatic records;
(b) statistics on smallholder rubber - by Kecamatan, area,
age of plantings (% distribution), average yield,
extent of share tapping;
(c) rubber processing facilities - volume handled
(monthly), types of product;
(d) rubber marketing system - prices at different
stages for each grade of rubber (monthly, for the
past 12 months), list of licensed dealers;
(e) size distribution of holdings of rubber and other crops;
(f) farm income from: (i) rubber; (ii) other crops; and
(iii) off-farm employment (specify types available in
locality).
3.  Explanations of:
(a) labor situation (wages, landless families, skilled
labor);
(b) availability of land for agricultural development (with
reference to maps);
(c) availability of tractors and chainsaws;
(d) main problems affecting production of rubber;
(e) operation of other development schemes in area (e.g. BIMAS).
C. Data Sources
(a) aerial photography with ground control;
(b) interviews with representative sample of farmers and traders;
(c) local officials.



ANNEX 8
- 93 -                              Page 1
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER, DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Monitoring and Reporting Proposals
A. Background and Objective
1.        The monitoring and reporting system would keep GOI and IDA
informed of progress and problems in project implementation, to enable them
to: (i) take prompt action to correct bottlenecks or other problems; (ii)
design future projects based on this experience; and (iii) have the
necessary data for eventual preparation of the project completion report and
evaluation of the project's performance. A computerized national
perennial-crop monitoring system is being set up by the DGE. To the extent
possible, tlne project would utilize this system's output so as to minimize
duplication. Reporting and monitoring under the various Bank Group financed
perennial-crop projects would also be coordinated.
B. Developments to be Monitored
2.        Baseline data on participating smallholders:
(a) area, number of separate parcels, age of trees, yield and prices
received for rubber;
(b) area of other crops;
(c)  income, by source;
(d)  number of workers in family;
(e)  use of hired labor and other inputs in rubber production; and
(f)  slope, soil type, distance from road and village and previous
land use of planting area.
3.        Implementation rate:
(a) selection of areas for new planting and replanting, and arrange-
ment for any necessary land transfers;
(b) signing of project participation agreements by smallholders;



94                                 ANNEX 8
Page 2
(c) land clearing and planting;
(d) issuance of hak milik;
(e) provision of fertilizer and other inputs;
(f) construction of roads and buildings; and
(g) nursery development.
4.        Institutional development:
(a) staff recruitment, training and retention; and
(b) size and performance of farmers' groups.
5.        Quality of development:
(a) height, girth and mortality rate of plantings;
(b) extent of alang-alang;
(c)  disqualification of farmers for inadequate field maintenance;
(d) maintenance and condition of roads;
(e) extent and yields of intercropping; and
(f) farmers' satisfaction with project conditions and implementation.
6.        Financial aspects:
(a) unit costs of nurseries and field development;
(b) incomes of participating farmers (from intercropping, other
crops, paid labor, etc.); and
(c) timely provision of necessary project finance.
C. Responsibility and Preparatory Measures
7.        SRDPU to set up system, with assistance of Organization
and Financial Advisers.
8.        Proposed specific format for reporting to be sent to DGE by IDA.
9.        Data collection proposals to be examined in light of evaluation
study of NESDP.



-95 -                          ANNEX 9
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Statements of Expenditure
1.        Statements of expenditure would be used for disbursement on the
following items:
(a)  Nursery labor ($1.7 million to be disbursed, including all
contingencies) and minor local materials ($0.2 million);
(b)  IFamily labor ($10.3 million), operation of land clearing and
spraying equipment ($1.5 million), and intercrop seeds ($0.2
million) for field development;
(c)  Payments to DG Agraria for land title certificates ($0.5 million);
(d) Local training of SRDPU and PMU staff ($0.8 million);
(e) Local staff used for data collection on studies ($0.2 million); and
(f)  Force account work on road construction, upgrading and maintenance
($0.5 million).
The disbursements would be made based on work performed, as certlfied in
quarterly disbursement requests prepared by the SRDPU. Unit costs would be
agreed beforehand by the IDA staff supervising the project, based on up-to-date
cost data.
2.          For nursery, field development and land title costs, unit costs
would be on a per ha basis for each activity; these rates might vary between
provinces. Reimbursement request for payments to family labor would also be
supported by statements from BRI certifying the amount actually paid out by BRI
village units to the farmers. Statements of expenditure regarding training
would specify the location, content and length of each course, and the names and
positions of each trainee. Statements of expenditure for studies would give the
names of the local staff who carried out the data collection. F'or road
construction, the unit costs would be per km for each activity.
3.          To carry out these tasks the existing Finance Division Head of the
SRDPU would be supplemented by at least two Financial Officers plus junior
staff, as well as an Internal Auditor and a Monitoring Officer (Annex 1,
Table 14a). Their main tasks would be to ascertain the latest unit costs for
the activities concerned, and check that the PMUs had actually accomplished the
work reported. The Assistant Manager (Finance) of the PMUs, who would, under
the Indonesian system, be responsible to the Ministry of Finance as well, would
keep accounts in a way that permitted IDA to check that the reported amounts had
actually been disbursed. With this staff, the SRDPU and PMUs should be able to
carry out their responsibilities in this regard. As BRI would 'keep separate
accounts for cash disbursed to participating farmers, it would 'have no
difficulty in providing the necessary supporting statements.



- 96                                ANNEX 10
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Selected Data and Documents in the Project File
A. General Reports and Studies Relating to the Agricultural Sector.
A.1 World Bank, "Commodity Price Forecasts," May 1979.
A.2 "Employment and Income Distribution in Indonesia," Report No. 2378-IND,
February 20, 1979.
A.3 World Bank, "The World Rubber Economy: Structure, Changes, Prospects,"
June 1978.
B. Staff Appraisal Reports for Related Indonesia Projects.
B.1 The NES I Project, Report No. 1465c-IND, October 31, 1977.
B.2 The NES II Project, Report No. 1950a-IND, June 15, 1978.
B.3 The NES III Project, Report No. 2350c-IND, July 18, 1979.
B.4  The National Food Crops Extension Project, Report No. 1105a-IND,
May 7, 1976.
B.5 The Agricultural Research and Extension Project, Report No. 646a-IND,
April 8, 1975.
B.6 The Second Agricultural Training Project, Report No. 2274d-IND,
April 9, 1979.
B.7 The Transmigration II Project, Report No. 2349b-IND, May 14, 1979.
B.8 The Rural Credit Project, Report No. 1741-IND, June 1, 1978.
B.9 The North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project, Report No. PA-1409,
January 19, 1973.
C. Reports Relating Specifically to this Project.
C.1 Survey Agro Ekonomi, "Assisted Replanting Program, Prabumulih," Jakarta,
September 1975.
C.2 Institut Pertanian Bogor, "Assisted Replanting Program, Taluk Kuantan,"
1975.
C.3 Nusa Consultants, "A.R.P. Unit Anjungan," Jakarta, 1975.
C.4 "GTZ Smallholder Rubber Project Abai Siat W. Sumatra," Royal Tropical
Institute, Amsterdam, April 1978.
C.5 "Report by the Team for Certification of Rubber Planting Material,"
DGE, Jakarta 1978.
C.6 Implementation Volume, November 1979.



IBRD 14714
109                                    i      l    ji                                                                                      -.-PROINCIAL ROUNDARf5             DECEMBER 1979
o50oh  China   ea    BRUNEI
S.ul A                                                                                                          JNGAPO:0 :              SNTA> A  L A Y S I A
Sou k,                                                                                                                                                   KA11M4NTAN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~esa/HpKAllAVAN~ 
CAmeS                     n                                                                                                                                    S /  SUMATRA<   9 - 2   (ALIMANTAA......<. ATL7ESNIA
Seia             2                <i oSsrnbool  SAMB> ,                                                                                                                            '    ASt  r2 j1tAVA    N   ~jDBOK  j    
I? C7 ~~~~~~                                                                        ~.
\            J   of f/              A~~~~~~~~~~~D I S T eC  T                                                                        R;;u  jJ 1              t -         ;      -   r
SINGOAWANG                         aLwfliOi                                                                                            k
Sonic onin      Bengkayung                                 Bola Kaorongon .
Knrimsnti4}   (kra ''\                      '.s     ~8 
:   Poangkot!aa , t                                                                                                    DISTRICT
Sido ME1K4tRAt    /SANGGAU                                            .                 5;I
9\  PONTIANAK                                                                                         VINDONESIA
\\DISTRICT               /            /SAN(-,-AU)                                                                                       IN O E A
SINTANG                 SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
) J   i  )glayor    Osf</  1ANJUNGAN  PROJECT AREA    
West  Kalimantan  Province
Tomon    /                                                      7    PROJECT AREAS
1X >1              *                                                                            NonA                               PMAU HEADQUARTERS
\ S t ,, : ,I Ns-gor PNkt R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PU  UB-UNIT OFF CES
   PROTVINC AL CAPITALS
K       :L  .  Ji                                                      0       DISTRICT CAPITALS
- J        MAIN  ROADS
Whis map has boes pneperd by the .
Vrdeksrftuifff or -Z'wy         0   tJ)g)            9                KETAPANG                               /                                                              OTHER ROADS
the svnvvrienss af th rea"rod of     /
treport to which itsattached                                                                                                      M IF \ESc-                                         RIVERS
ma donis-Mtiorts sed and the                                                      DISTRICT                                        25                S
hui_ndarie= showsnsnthis:neX ap th, t                                                                                                               _            /               -   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
do anrt impsly, an the part of the              
WldSeans andto aIhomls aea, fny                                                                                                    25         5 _                               -    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
jadymeat so the 50501 staoss sf                                                                5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ DOMETERS
see torsrtor or sot endorsemnnrt                      \    / 
or aosaptasnoe of sash hoasdarmesn              
.~ ~ ~ ~~~9 IID .                                                                                    .i                              I                      I2;






IBRD  14715
105                   DECEMBER 1979
164
i  >   5                                                               , ts  ,   .........................   t  j   <A MUSI  BANYUASiN   DISTRICT
NOT ,                                                                                SKAYU
SUMATRA        .M-A  L A  Y S  I A
%      RIU'\st ,S[GdR                  l                                  /aNa            -                                     A PALE   ANG                
o     RIAU`         N APOIR
N                    ~~~~~~~~~~KAILovANTAN  30                                                                                                                              30-
C\   NKIU SUMATRA--                 
N        I.~~~~~~'U 
\-~~~  JAMP/ PUIV
Are ot TMop                  i      ONEulS IE A     MUSIRA  /AS    )g)yq                                              l     m          
MD 11 SAM/>UNG DST I5  r                               f'   -'  /   / gW 3/gi /j g 9) KOMERINGILIR
DISTRICT
----                                                                                                      KAYUAGUNG
L 4MU&;AENIm 0                                                       INDONESIA
I V  9   LAHAT  lSTRICT   t'/    ''-7       /SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
LAH                                                    X                                                     DISTpI(-<l / } /C\7/> | jX  (DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PRABUMULIH PROJECT AREA
South  Sumatra  Province
672 __|/PROJECT AREA                   40
A      PMU HEADQUARTERS
\   <S >   <   Bandar                                                                                ( /   /  BATURAJAi4;s  i)    PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
X   \   41        \                       /0                                                                                                  DISTRICT CAPITALS
-    MAIN ROADS
IF.  OTHER ROADS
OGAN  KOMERIN N             LU                                          -         RAILROADS
D [)ISTR!CT    \                                                      RIVERS
DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
; / n d , a ,2                           cp,              X                                        >~'            \    >-                            -  -  PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
1//           w                                   gMuradua                                           -   -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
O c e cz n    >   d                          A                       )              g~~~~~~~~ lA/VIPUNG
P RO  V/NCE                         2     0         80   100 Kdoneters
This mhp 000 been prepared by the Wortd Bok skstoff,e,u,lo0-ry for the oonvenlce                                                                      9   2    405   6      0   0     i5 Metes
of the reoders of the report to which it ik attfched, The denonetions used and the
bouooa6ries ohotoP on this ,op do not imply, on the part of the World Bank end its        )
Offilhtrtes. any iudgment On the l1gal statoo of any territory or ene  e.doro.nent or
ccoaptonce of sofh boundaries.
1030                                                        1040                                                        105'






IBRD  14716
101                                                                                          1 03'                                     DECEMBER 1979
) >   t_;oZ   XW         trn   3  9 0- 0 ar  -                      gE               2=  '  < rUrl{1rlAtt   ( 2 )3t    \                                   11>IN DO3NESIA
ACo 'i'>         SoOUT  C^ine $w. r'pid r '                      Dut-t:=nt:if  0 ,.<^,t,,,; 0   d i '04 t0000 0;: lg 040, 2:      g 0            SMALLHOLDER   RUBBER
Cd        Dumai                                                                          ~~~~~~~~~~~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUA4ATA'A      AIA  Y  S Al~'                                                                                                                TALUK   KUANTAN   PROJECT  AREA
SINGAPORE                                                                                                                                   Riau  Province
U 0 <A < !   ;2,PIAl/  J Po Of MOP;                                                                                                                             t - J   PROjECT AREA
W o XE.5r-\    <    t      i   WKALIMANTAN                  (                                                                                                       PMU HEADGUARTERS
t  S- J JAMB/ _ N   L\   f '   \g\<             ,                        BENGKALIS                        AE)                                                       PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
'/J d   u    OAGRULUB ST//fP/-/  r c)l-N                                    -                                                                         0l  D I S I R I C T  \  <   :  o  DISTRICT CAPITALS
AW   5UMArRA                                                        DI SI CT                                                                        -         MAIN ROADS
t'>   [L    Jorrrwa ;:5ra r n: X:             /  1                                      ,   |                                                         l ( JUIIlHtR ROALS
Java C :E:  : %; XMPUASJ  ?  y gr; X rg:    /   ~<~ ~\\                    (;>   0R         tt                                 -~--    RIVERS
f   n A.ndi:an SeeL2rl \  0 ::E   t       ;:          Q   S            f            \                             f      WN        ax                                 _   _   DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
Ind~ao  O  e an                                             >=      /                                         }                                     \               -   -   PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
-   Ifr\- INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
Dooe
K A  M P A R              PAKANBARU                                     -                            U       
Lbr~ks kap,rig                                                    ~p.r/;
S/MA    A \\
\ru\INDRAGIRI
Payokombuh
\N r, RAOIRI   HLU U DISTRICT
0 \ > ) --- > / zMuor~~~~~~~~~~'aalembu                                                             \                              H I L I R t.-
, ; 0 2 \ 2 \ \ > * 9 9 / ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~D I S TR I CT    )~                                                                                     KILOMETERS
C c , i e   5t / O , .   eD d   t  :h eDNG|\Q V,-  
d\ docfr fittj  00th,Ofl Of the                                                                                                         I>
toidhteot rethe /rdhe it hettdrf_g
amtrletet o,ttrtr n ,r                           \c o-- g
e,eOretOteoo, of e 'h h eotr,teent                         101                          \ /              10tBs.
REN~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A






INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT ORGANIZATION
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT
PROJECT UNIT ISRDPUP
OvsnH.                                               D.ivison Head
Sertion                                              ExesinSeto                                                                     ,**.j         S
F , -111. I 1                                    Trtrurt
PROJECT MANAGEMENT UNITS (PMUxI                                                                         -MU-en-ger-
Mchanics andp                 Ad-minisnrativeIF-
N-rsey Sattf               P,iad Suotr-s-r                 iacc  tt
Wormd Panic - 20981



