Document of
The World Bank                                        Aft PY
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2696-IND
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
January 30, 1980
This dswcet bhs a resrotd distibufion and may be used by recpiPnts ody in ike pedormsce of
their ofcila duti_. Its cotiteansy ns otherwise be discleod withut World Bfnk authorlzadon.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit     -  Rupiah (Rp)
US$1.00           -  Rp 625
Rp 100               US$0.160
Rp 1 million         US$1,600
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 kilogram (kg)   =   1,000 grams - 2.205 pounds
1 metric ton          1,000 kgs = 2,205 pounds = 0.98 long ton
1 hectare (ha)       10,000 square meters (sq m) = 2.47 acres
1 meter (m)       =   39.37 inches
GLOSSARY AND ABBREVIATIONS
Alang-alang  -  A coarse grass (Imperata cylindrica), establishing itself
after the slash and burn cycle
ARP          -  Assisted Replanting Project
BAPPENAS     -  National Development Planning Agency
BI           -  Bank Indonesia (the Central Bank)
BIMAS        -  Mass Guidance for Self-Sufficiency in Foodstuffs
(short-term farm-input credit program)
BRI          -  Bank Rakyat Indonesia
DG           -  Directorate General
DGE          -  Directorate General of Estates
DTE          -  Export Crops Fund
GCC          -  Group Coagulating Center
ICB          -  International Competitive Bidding
NES          -  Nucleus Estates and Smallholders Project
NSSDP        -  North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project
PMU          -  Project Management Unit
Repelita III -  Indonesia's Third Five-Year Plan, 1979-1984
SRDPU        -  Smallholder Rubber Development Project Unit
GOVERNMENT OF INDONESIA - FISCAL YEAR
April 1 - March 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Credit and Prolect Summary
Borrower:        Republic of Indonesia
Amount:          $45 million equivalent
Terms:           Standard
RelendinR
Terms:         Credit would be repaid by smallholders over 20 years,
including a seven-year interest-free grace period,
with an interest rate of 6% p.a. thereafter.
Project
Description:   The project's main objectives are to raise the incomes
of some 32,000 smallholder families, most of whom are in
the poverty group; to earn foreign exchange; and to build
the institutional framework and data base for the national
smallholder rubber program. In particular, the project
would (a) plant and maintain until maturity about 38,500 ha
of smallholder rubber, and maintain a further 8,000 ha
planted during 1975-79; (b) develop nurseries to provide
high-yielding clonal planting material; (c) construct
village and estate-type roads to facilitate input distri-
bution and rubber marketing; (d) strengthen the implement-
ing units through recruitment, training and technical
assistance; and (e) carry out studies, pilot programs and
start-up activities for future projects. The two main
risks in the proposed project are poor management and a low
subloan repayment rate by farmers. The proposed project
includes measures to minimize these risks.
Estimated                                          Local   Foreign   Total
Cost:                                            ----- ($ million)…
Credit component
Family labor                   11.6         -     11.6
Nurseries                       2.5       1.0      3.5
Rubber development materials   3.2        7.5     10.7
Land clearing, intercrop
materials and other           2.9      2.0       4.9
Subtotal                   20.2     10.5      30.7
Noncredit component
Roads                           2.0       1.9      3.9
Buildings                       0.9      0.6       1.5
| This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of |
their official duties. Its contenst may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
Administration           4.2        0.3       4.5
Technical assistance
and studies            1.0        1.4      2.4
Training                 0.7          -      0.7
Vehicles and tractors   0.2         0.8       1.0
Future project
start-up costs         1.2        0.6      1.8
Subtotal            10.3       5.5      15.8
Total Base Costs        30.5       16.0     46.5
Physical contingencies    2.2         1.8       4.0
Price contingencies       14.8        5.2      20.0
Total Project Costs    47.5        23.0     70.5
Financing Plan:
Local   Foreign   Total
…---- ($ million) -----
IDA                         22.0      23.0      45.0
Government                  11.6         -      11.6
Bank Indonesia              11.1                11.1
Bank Rakyat
Indonesia                  2.8         -      2.8
Total                     47.5      23.0      70.5
Estimated
Disbursements:   IDA FY:        1981   1982   1983   1984   1985   1986
Annual         2.5    5.5    7.5   10.0   12.5    7.0
Cumulative    2.5    8.0   15.5   25.5   38.0   45.0
Rate of Return:    14%.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           No. 2721-IND, dated January 22, 1980.



REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT OF
THE INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A
PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT CREDIT TO THE REPUBLIC OF INDONESIA
FOR A SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
development credit to the Republic of Indonesia for the equivalent of $45
million on standard IDA terms to help finance a Smallholder Rubber Develop-
ment Project. The proceeds of the credit would be relent to smallholders for
20 years, including a seven-year interest-free grace period, with an interest
rate of 6% p.a. thereafter.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        An economic report, "Indonesia:  Growth Patterns, Social Progress
and Development Prospects" (No. 2093-IND dated February 20, 1979) was dis-
tributed to the Executive Directors on February 26, 1979. An updating
mission recently visited Indonesia and a Country Economic Memorandum will be
distributed in February 1980.
Background
3.        The Republic of Indonesia is an archipelago nation of more than
13,000 islands covering a land area in excess of two million sq km. With
over 135 million people, it is the world's fifth most populous nation. The
population density exceeds 650 persons per sq km in Java, where 65% of the
population live, but averages less than 30 persons per sq km in the rest of
the country. Over 82% of the population lives in rural areas; and agricul-
ture accounts for about 62% of total employment, though only slightly over
30% of GDP. GNP per capita is estimated at $360./1
4.        Over the last thirteen years, Indonesia's economic, social and
institutional development has surpassed that of most other heavily populated,
poor countries. Although the new government in 1966 inherited a severely
dislocated and bankrupt economy, it rapidly brought hyperinflation under
control, established full convertibility of the currency and regained the
confidence of western creditors. During the First Development Plan period,
Repelita I (1969/70 to 1973/74), a major rehabilitation of the neglected
infrastructure was initiated, the investment rate was doubled to 18% of GDP
and an average real GDP growth rate of over 9% p.a. was achieved. During
Repelita II (1974/75 to 1978/79), economic activity was fueled by a dramatic
increase in foreign exchange resources resulting from the world commodity
boom, the quadrupling of oil prices and expanded public and private foreign
capital inflows. Net oil exports increased from $640 million in 1973 to
/1  1978 figures.  World Bank Atlas, 1979.



- 2 -
$4.0 billion /1 in 1978, which enabled real Government expenditure to
increase by 20% annually and encouraged a 7% average annual GDP growth
rate. Not all sectors have shared in this growth. In particular, the
performance of nonextractive exports, with some exceptions, such as coffee
and palm oil, has been disappointing; rubber exports, for example, have
stagnated since 1971, and manufactured exports are only now giving any
indication of sustained growth. In addition, there has been little evidence,
despite increased foreign exchange resources, that the post-oil future of
the economy has been assured through a broad-based expansion of the industrial
sector.
Social Developments
5.        While there is general agreement that overall growth in the
economy - an annual rate of almost 8% over ten years /2 - has been impres-
sive, views diverge on the degree to which the poor have shared in
this increased income. The National Household Surveys for 1970 and 1976
indicate that while overall income disparities almost certainly widened
between those two dates, there was nevertheless a considerable improvement
in the consumption of all income groups., with real consumption expenditure
of the bottom 40% of the population probably increasing at between 3.5% and
5.5% annually. Growth in per capita income was generally higher in Java
than in the Other Islands and higher in urban than in rural areas.
6.        Employment growth has been rapid in the 1970s (an average of 4.7%
p.a. between 1971 and 1976, compared with a total population growth of 2%).
However, it is likely that there has been a slight increase in the level of
open unemployment due to a greater rate of growth of working age population
than of total population and to increased participation rates (50% in
September 1971, 55% in October 1976). Most (54%) of the increased employ-
ment during this period was absorbed in nonagricultural activities, result-
ing in a decline in the share of agricultural employment from 66% to 62%.
Within the nonagricultural sector, employment increases largely resulted in
proliferating small-scale enterprises in the manufacturing and service
sectors, where productivity is generally extremely low.
7.        Government-sponsored programs deserve at least part of the credit
for many of the major advances of the last decade. In particular, the BIMAS
and INMAS rice intensification schemes and the Government public works (INPRES)
programs have demonstrated the Government's capacity to marshal resources in
pursuit of its social goals. Between 1971/72 and 1976/77 real expenditures
increased at an annual average rate of 37% on Health and Family Planning,
/1 Includes Liquified Natural Gas ($225 million).
12 Gross Domestic Income grew even faster; about 9.5% p.a. - due to improve-
ments in terms of trade.



- 3 -
45% on Education, and 31% on Housing and Water Supply, resulting in the rapid
development of social infrastructure. For example, Indonesia's health
centers, which totalled 1,058 in 1969, were increased to 4,029 by 1977;
between 1973 and 1978, 31,000 primary schools were constructed and primary
school enrollment is expected to reach 85% in 1979, up from 60% in 1974.
Perhaps the most significant achievement of the First and Second Development
Plans has been the success of the National Family Planning Program,
established in 1970, in reducing the overall population growth rate to below
2%. Fertility rates have fallen by almost 20% on Java and Bali, where almost
30% of married women in the reproductive age group are practicing modern
methods of contraception.
8.        Despite these advances, however, the magnitude of the poverty pro-
blem, the lack of food security, and the inadequacy of basic public services
remain overwhelming. In 1976, an estimated 50 million people, over one third
of Indonesia's total population, spent less than $90 a year (at 1976 prices
and exchange rate) and a large proportion of the labor force was seriously
underemployed in both rural and urban areas. Moreover, the continued pre-
valence of numerous debilitating diseases, which often stem directly from
nutritional deficiencies and unsanitary living conditions, results in
extremely low life expectancy at birth and a very high mortality rate.
Life expectancy at birth in Indonesia is only 48 years (most recent estimate)
compared with 60 years in the Philippines and 67 years in Malaysia.  For the
same countries, infant mortality rates are respectively 126, 65 and 35 per
thousand. Every year in Indonesia approximately 600,000 infants less than
one year old die. These statistics reflect both low incomes and the under-
lying inadequacy of basic public services. Over 100 million Indonesians
remain without access to safe water or sanitary excreta disposal; there are
only 6 physicians and 6 nurses per 100,000 of the population; and almost 40%
of the adult population are illiterate.
Development Strategy in the Nonoil Economy
9.        The rehabilitation of infrastructure which has made possible the
impressive growth rate over the last decade and which was underpinned past
development policy must now give way to a new strategy as the task of
rehabilitation is now essentially completed. The Government has recognized
this in preparing the Third Development Plan, Repelita III (1979/80 to
1983/84). Three primary goals have been specified: a more equitable
distribution of the benefits of growth, a high growth rate, and national
stability. A high priority must now be given to the industrial sector
since neither agriculture nor services can be expected to absorb the
large projected increases in the labor force (1.4 million p.a. up to the
year 2000) and simultaneously ensure rising real wage rates.
10.       The prospects for an outward-looking labor-intensive industrial
development have been improved by some of the policy actions taken in recent
months. The most dramatic of these was the devaluation of the rupiah from
Rp 415 to Rp 625 per US dollar on November 15, 1978. Its purpose was to
reverse some of the adverse relative price changes in the economy that had



-4-
occurred earlier in the decade and thus to encourage a shift of resources
away from the nontraded goods sector towards labor-intensive import substi-
tution and export industries. In support of the aims of Repelita III and
the devaluation, the Government has also simplified the investment licensing
process and exporting procedures and introduced a system of export certifi-
cates - tax rebates - to encourage exporters. A new corporation tax law
was promulgated in March 1979 providing greater incentives to entrepreneurs,
particularly those in smaller-scale ventures and those using the services
of a public accountant. On the monetary side a start has been made in
making the commercial banking system more responsive to the needs of small-
scale enterprises.
11.       A detailed industrial development strategy has not yet been articu-
lated, although the Repelita III document acknowledges that private invest-
ment will be relied upon as the primary means of industrial job creation.
Despite the improvements outlined above, it is not yet clear that private
entrepreneurs will be able or willing to invest sufficiently in those
sectors most conducive to job creation and income growth. In particular
there are two issues that require urgent attention. First, although some
improvements have been made, many entrepreneurs still complain about cumber-
some administrative procedures and controls associated with the highly
centralized government bureaucracy. Second, the high level of effective
protection, which has increased over the last year, may encourage the
misallocation of scarce capital and managerial resources. Indonesia's
potential for manufactured exports is considerable but it is unlikely that
these exports will ever provide the stimulus to growth that has been enjoyed
by other smaller East Asian countries. In the medium term it is more likely
that Indonesia's "engine of growth" will be its own large domestic market.
However, it is important that barriers to trade be reduced in order to
provide appropriate market signals and to encourage those sectors in which
a genuine comparative advantage exists. The formal tariff structure is
probably less significant than the high administrative costs and delays
associated with importing. The important improvements made in exporting
procedures over the last year have demonstrated that rapid changes can be
made in this area. Similar advances on the import side would improve resource
allocation by reducing the proliferation of domestic industries that have
little prospect of ever attaining international competitiveness. In many
countries devaluation has been accompanied by a rationalization of the tariff
structure. Although this has not yet occurred in Indonesia, the recent
increases in oil revenues have, by substantially increasing foreign exchange
reserves, provided an additional opportunity.
Short-Run Stability and Long-Run Development
12.       Medium-term prospects for the balance of payments and the Govern-
ment budget have improved fundamentally in recent months. Three factors -
the devaluation, an improvement in the nonoil terms of trade, and the oil
price rise - have been responsible. The effect of the devaluation on the
external accounts is still not clear although there is some evidence of signi-
ficant supply-side response in some sectors. The improvement in the balance



-5-
of payments that followed immediately after November 1978 was due less to
the devaluation than to favorable developments in the world prices of
primary commodites./l As a result, Indonesia achieved an external surplus
of over $700 million in 1978/79. Mfost important, however, has been the
increase in the export price of crude oil from less than $15 a barrel in
early 1979 to $32 a barrel by January 1980. This is expected to generate
additional oil and LNG export earnings of $3.1 billion in 1979/80. Budget
revenues have also benefitted from these developments. Since over half of
the Government's revenues were denominated in foreign exchange, an immediate
effect of the devaluation was to dramatically increase budgetary revenues
in terms of rupiah. As a result of the oil price increases, budget revenues
from oil and LNG are predicted to rise from $3.7 billion in 1978/79 to
$8.9 billion in 1979/80.
13.       These favorable developments, while clearly presenting a valuable
opportunity to undertake development programs and stimulate private indus-
trial enterprise, may also present serious problems of short-run price and
monetary stability. This potential conflict could be seen, for example,
in the measures taken by the Government to ameliorate the inflationary
effects of the devaluation, which, while successful in keeping prices under
control, sometimes tended to counteract the desired effects of the devalu-
ation.  Notable here was the tight control exerted over private sector
credit creation which may have restricted investment in those export
sectors that the devaluation was designed to encourage. In addition, the
increased foreign exchange revenue presents potentially difficult problems
of monetary management. The manner in which Indonesia increases its capa-
city to absorb imports effectively will be a primary determinant of
Indonesia's future growth prospects.
Domestic Resource Mobilization and External Capital Flows
14.       In the immediate future, the availability of foreign exchange will
not be a constraint on development due to both the increase in export revenues
and the consequent improvement in creditworthiness. (In 1979 Indonesia's
debt-service ratio has fallen from 18% to 16%).L2. In the medium and long
run, however, the situation is less clear, due to uncertainty about how
quickly Indonesia will be able to absorb its sudden increase in wealth, and
because projections of future export revenues remain highly speculative. It
is therefore important that increased efforts be made to mobilize domestic
financial resources. The Government's concern with this issue is demonstrated
by its stated intention of eliminating budget subsidies on consumer goods. To
this end, domestic prices of all oil products were increased by an average of
about 40% in April and May 1979, although the budget savings have since been
nullified by increases in international prices. There is considerable scope
for improving the nonoil tax base, which accounts for less than 45% of total
/1 The nonoil terms of trade improved by 42% between October 1978 and
July 1979.
/2 Ratio of debt service payments to commodity export earnings, with oil
and gas on a net basis.



- 6 -
revenues. For example, taxes on personal and business incomes amount to only
3% of GNP, and taxes on consumption, 2.5% of GNP. Expanding the tax base,
eliminating loopholes, and improving administration, are the obvious means of
securing a larger and more equitable tax burden. The mobilization of private
sector financial resource is bindered at present by the absence of attractive
long-term financial instruments, but the Government's encouragement of the
fledgling Jakarta Stock Exchange will hopefully result in an important source
of domestic funds in the medium term.
15.       The Inter-Governmental Group on Indonesia (IGGI) remains the princi-
pal source of external capital, including Official Development Assistance
(ODA), to the country. The Bank recommended to the IGGI meeting in April
1979 that total ODA (bilateral and multilateral) should average at least
$2.3 billion a year during 1979-83 and that for 1979, the figure should
be at least $1.93 billion, of which 70% should be on concessional and semi-
concessional terms. At that meeting, indications of commitments from IGGI
members for 1979 amounted to the recommended level and it was agreed that the
Bank's recommendations should be approximately met.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
16.       As of December 31, 1979, Indonesia had received 44 IDA credits
totalling $769.8 million, and 45 Bank loans amounting to $2,575.0 million.
IFC investments totalled $62.2 million. The share of the Bank Group in
Indonesia's total (disbursed) external debt outstanding at the end of 1977
was about 8%, and the share of debt service about 1.8%. By the end of 1978,
these ratios are estimated to have increased to around 8.3% and 3%, respect-
ively. Annex II contains a summary of IDA credits, Bank loans and IFC invest-
ments as of November 30, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing
projects.
17.       During Repelita I, and in line with the objectives of this First
Plan, a high proportion of Bank Group lending was directed toward the reha-
bilitation of deteriorated infrastructure and production facilities, meeting
the critica r'shortage of skilled manpower, and technical assistance needed
for pre-investment studies and project execution. As the focus of the Govern-
ment's policy shifted during Repelita II towards expansion of productive capa-
city in the agriculture, transportation and power sectors, as well as improve-
ment in the quality and delivery of basic public services, the thrust of our
lending changed to focus on these objectives. Given the critical importance
of agriculture (including transmigration) for employment, food security
and exports, over one third of Bank Group-supported projects have been in
this sector. In addition, loans and credits have been extended to virtually
all other sectors of the economy, including fertilizer production and distri-
bution, transportation, education, urban development, water supply, rural
development, nutrition, industrial development financing (including small
industry development), power, telecommunications, population and technical
assistance.



-7-
18.       Indonesia is currently in the process of implementing its Third
Five-Year Plan, Repelita III. As noted in Part I above, this document, while
stressing the need for continued high growth and stability, departs from
previous Plans by placing special emphasis on income distribution and poverty
alleviation. This focus, which is fully in line with the conclusions of the
Basic Economic Report, in turn requires greater attention to employment
generation and improvements in basic public services. While the Government's
agricultural programs are expected to generate significant employment oppo~-
tunities, the long-term solution to Indonesia's employment problem is prima-
rily dependent on the articulation and implementation of a coherent labor-
intensive industrialization strategy. To support this effort we plan to
expand significantly our hitherto modest involvement in this sector. As part
of this initiative, an operation designed to support several industrial DFCs
through an umbrella institution (most probably Bank Indonesia) is at an
advanced stage of preparation, and projects to support export processing
zones, wood processing and further expand Bank assistance to small-scale
enterprise are at various stages of identification and preparation. A
comprehensive program of economic work in the industrial sector is being
initiated to provide the necessary understandings and backup for this expanded
operation.
19.       Outside industry, no major shifts in the balance of Bank Group
lending are expected. Given the importance of rice production, irrigation
will continue to absorb a substantial portion of Bank Group agricultural
lending; however, the Bank also plans to take further initiatives to promote
secondary food crops (para. 25 below). For example, the proposed Second
Agiculture Extension, Second Agriculture Research and Second Seeds projects,
will give greater emphasis to these crops. Continued support for the pro-
vision of basic services (population, education, health, nutrition, urban
development and water supply) as well as the traditional sectors (power and
transport) is also anticipated. Since it is clear that the achievement of the
Government's employment and equity objectives will become increasingly
dependent on the development of appropriate sectoral policy packages and
strategies, institutions, and staff development, it is expected that the focus
of the above operations will gradually broaden to a subsector and sector
approach. The proposed sectoral approach is designed to enable our assistance
to be responsive to these demands, and to continue our institution-building
efforts in a broader context than has been done hitherto.
20.       Although Indonesia's project implementation performance is generally
in line with the overall average for the Bank, both the Bank and the Govern-
ment have become increasingly concerned about the level of disbursements,
which has shown a declining trend in the past three years. While some of
this decline is accounted for by a shift in several sectors towards "newer,'
type poverty-oriented projects, many of the problems appear to be related to
the Government's cumbersome budgetary, procurement and payment procedures,
including issuance of tender documents and opening of letters of credit.
These problems are further compounded by the severe shortages of both mana-
gerial and technical manpower. A number of steps have been taken by the
Government and the Bank to address these issues. Several special Bank



-8-
missions have visited Indonesia to analyze the problems and make recommenda-
tions for simplifying budgetary and financial procedures. The Government and
the Bank have also instituted formal and regular joint review procedures to
identify general and project specific problems and work out corrective
measures. The first of these reviews was held in early March 1979 and a
second, more comprehensive one, in June. In addition, a procurement seminar
(planned to be the first of a series) was held in Jakarta in September 1979.
As a consequence of these joint initiatives, over the past few months the
Government announced several measures to streamline the more complex budgetary
and financial procedures affecting project implementation.  Finally, to reduce
initial project implementation difficulties, many operations are now being
presented for Board approval at a later stage in the project cycle. It is
still too early to assess the effect of these steps on project implementation,
but improvements are expected.
21.       From 1968 until 1974, all lending to Indonesia was made through IDA.
Due to the country's improved creditworthiness following the commodity and oil
price boom in 1973/74, the bulk of the Bank Group's subsequent lending has
been through IBRD loans. Although Indonesia's foreign exchange earnings are
expected to increase further as a result of the recent oil price rise, a
portion of Bank Group lending will still be on IDA terms, primarily on poverty
grounds - per capita GNP ($360 in 1978) is well below the IDA cutoff of $625.
Given the uncertainty of the effect of the recent oil price increases on
Indonesia's resource constraints, the issue of IDA lending beyond the current
fiscal year will be kept under regular review. In the past, due to domestic
resource constraints, the Bank has financed local costs, particularly in high
priority projects in the rural sector. However, because of the increased
availability of finance following the recent oil price increases, financing of
local costs will be progressively reduced and will only be limited to
occasions where it will make a significant contribution to the project.
22.       The proposed project, which is consistent with the strategy
discussed above, constitutes the third lending operation presented to the
Executive Directors this fiscal year, and would bring total lending to date in
FY80 to $156 million. IDA finance of 65% of total project cost is based on
the policy in effect during project processing, and was the basis on which
Government did its planning and budgeting. Projects for agriculture exten-
sion, agriculture research, irrigation, nucleus estates and smallholders, and
power are expected to be ready for presentation in the next several months.
PART III - THE AGRICULTURAL AND RURAL SECTOR
23.       Objectives.  The Government's major objectives for the agricul-
tural and rural sector are to: (a) create productive employment to raise
the incomes of the rural poor, (b) increase domestic food supply to keep
pace with rising demand; (c) expand agricultural exports, particularly of
smallholder tree crops; and (d) ensure productive, sustainable use of
Indonesia's land, water and other natural resources.



-9-
24.       Role and Performance.  Nearly 16 million smallholder families
produce subsistence and cash crops on about 16 million ha, while 1,800 estates
occupying 2.2 million ha produce mainly rubber, sugar, tea, palm oil and
tobacco. Despite a 4% average annual growth rate of production, the agricul-
tural sector's share of GDP has declined from 40% to 31% since 1968, while its
share in total exports dropped from 45% to 37% due mainly to the markedly
increased value of oil exports. Nevertheless, agriculture still provides 80%
of nonoil exports, employs 60-66% of the total labor force (depending on the
season), is the major source of income for about two-thirds of rural house-
holds and one-tenth of urban households, and accounted for 46% of incremental
employment during 1971-76. Outside Java, employment prospects in agriculture
appear quite promising, given the sustained increases in the smallholder area,
including that developed by publicly-sponsored and spontaneous transmigration.
On Java continued irrigation rehabilitation is expected to generate signifi-
cant employment.
25.       Food Crops.  Given its limited manpower and financial resources,
the Government has concentrated on increasing the production of rice, the
preferred staple food of the great majority of Indonesians. Rice production
increased rapidly (4.5% p.a.) between 1968 and 1974, chiefly due to irrigation
rehabilitation and the provision to irrigated rice growers of fertilizer and
high-yielding variety seed, financed largely through the BIMAS credit program.
The growth rate slowed markedly to 1.7% over 1974-77, in the wake of severe
declines in fertilizer usage (due to restrictions on private sector fertili-
zer trade), successive seasons of untimely rainfall, and unprecedented attacks
by pests and diseases. In 1978, rice production increased by 10%, with
better weather, improved and liberalized fertilizer distribution, and nation-
wide Government distribution of pest resistant varieties. Over the past
decade, output of secondary food crops (maize, cassava, soybeans, peanuts,
and sweet potatoes) grew at only a combined annual rate of 1.6%. These gains
in food output did not keep pace with the 3.5-4.0% p.a. increase in demand,
stimulated by rising incomes. Over the decade, Indonesia became the world's
largest rice importer, with a record import of 2.3 million tons in 1977, and
about 1.3 million tons in 1978, while wheat imports reached 1.4 million tons
in 1978. The Bank report (March 1979), "Indonesia - Supply Prospects for
Major Food Crops," (No. 2374-IND) concluded that even with expanded irriga-
tion, and improved technology, extension, credit and marketing, food produc-
tion growth would not exceed 3.5% p.a., leaving a basic food deficit up to at
least 1990, with a rice deficit alone of 2-3 million tons annually.
26.       Area Development.  Rural development programs designed to meet
basic needs and to generate employment and production have been developed
for certain critically poor areas of Java. Cultivable land in Java is
almost fully utilized, and in some higher watersheds cultivation already
exceeds ecologically safe limits, contributing to increasing erosion,
downstream flooding, and siltation of ports, dams, and irrigation canals.
The Government is preparing watershed development and integrated development
projects to address this problem.



- 10 -
27.       Transmigration.  The primary program for new area development in
the Other Islands, as well as for creating employment and settlement nuclei
for Javanese migrants, is transmigration. Confronted by management problems,
the Government reorganized the program in preparation for Repelita III, by
transferring implementation responsibility from the Directorate General (DG)
of Transmigration to the appropriate technical agencies. This measure needs
to be complemented by continued attention to a variety of technical and policy
issues, some of which the Second Transmigration Project (Loan 1707-IND and
Credit 919-IND) is expected to address.
28.       Bank Group Lending Strategy.  Since the first of 13 irrigation
projects was approved in 1968, the Bank Group has rapidly expanded its
agricultural lending. Within the context of the Government's agricultural
objectives and priorities, as outlined in Repelita III, future Bank Group
agricultural lending is expected to focus on: (a) a diversified irrigation,
flood protection, drainage and swamp reclamation program to intensify rice
cropping on Java and extend water management in the Other Islands; (b) support
services including second phase projects for agricultural research, extension
and seeds; (c) smallholder tree crop planting programs; and (d) area devel-
opment and transmigration. These projects will continue to be complemented
by extensive sector work. Analyses of employment and income distribution,
irrigation, agricultural support services and food crop production have been
completed, and reviews of the rubber subsector, the transmigration program,
secondary food crops, land tenure and supply and demand for technical and
managerial manpower for agriculture are under way.
29.       Perennial Crops.  Perennial crops occupy about a third of total
cropped land (coconuts and rubber account for 80% of this), and generate about
43% of total nonoil export revenue. Smallholders cultivate 80% of the rubber
area and virtually all coconuts, coffee, cloves and pepper, whereas tea and
oil palm are grown primarily on estates. Past efforts to revitalize the
smallholder tree crop sector were very limited. One new approach, supported
by three Bank-financed Nucleus Estates and Smallholders (NES) Projects (Loans
1499-, 1604- and 1751-IND), is for Government-owned estates to plant and
maintain tree crops on previously undeveloped land for three years, using
farmers selected to be settlers as employees, and thereafter to provide the
settlers with inputs, extension services and processing facilities. While the
NES approach has been mainly for new settlers, the Government has also
initiated national programs to assist existing smallholders to replant rubber
or coconuts themselves, with fairly intensive support from Project Management
Units (PMUs). This is the approach of the proposed project. Efforts to
design a lower-cost system of tree crop planting with minimal demands on
management are also starting. Given the vast area of overaged and low-
yielding smallholder rubber and coconuts, the good market prospects and
employment potential for these crops, and the Other Islands' land availability
and natural comparative advantage in them, the rapid expansion of smallholder
tree crops, using all suitable approaches, is a high priority.



- 11 -
The Rubber Subsector
30.       Production.  Indonesia, once the world's largest natural rubber
producer, is now second to Malaysia, producing about 840,000 tons and
exporting 800,000 tons - 20% of world trade. Indonesia's third largest
export commodity, rubber, comprised 6% of total agricultural GDP, 9% of
export earnings and 17% of nonoil exports in 1978, and provides employment
full-time for 2 million people and part-time for about 5 million. Produc-
tion has stagnated since 1970, due to (a) a continuous, though erratic
decline in prices from the early 1950s through 1975 which discouraged
tapping and planting, and (b) failure to improve poor agricultural practices
of smallholders and locally-owned private estates.
31.       Smallholders.  Rubber was introduced into Indonesia early in this
century, and spread rapidly among smallholders in Sumatra and Kalimantan
because it fitted in well with their traditional system of shifting culti-
vation. About 69% of national production now comes from 1.25 million small-
holder families, with average rubber holdings of 1.5 ha. The farmers gener-
ally carry out no maintenance, and return to the area only to tap. Declining
yields, development of greatly improved planting material, availability of
fertilizer, and improved long-term market prospects have made the large-scale
upgrading of this sector highly desirable.
32.       Smallholder Planting Programs.  Government smallholder rubber
planting schemes began in 1959, with emphasis on distribution of clonal
seedlings to farmers. During Repelita II, attention turned to concentrated
development using area-specific PMUs. In 1973, the first one was set up
under the North Sumatra Smallholder Development Project - NSSDP (Credit
358-IND). The plantings were completed on time, and the rubber trees'
growth has exceeded expectations. The key to success was a high-calibre
PMU, including three consultants for the first four years, with staff
salaries competitive with those of estates. This success has induced many
participants to replant additional areas on their own.
33.       To develop lower cost and less management-intensive rubber
replanting, the Government, in 1976, began the Assisted Replanting Project
(ARP) and Group Coagulating Center (GCC) programs, using PMUs to supervise
replanting. The ARP/GCC program replanted about 1,000 ha in 1976, 3,000 ha
in 1977 and 12,000 ha in 1978, established a few relatively well-functioning
PMUs, and has generated considerable smallholder interest. But it has
suffered from: (a) a shortage of qualified staff; (b) inadequate and
delayed provision of budgetary funds; (c) poor germination and survival
rates of rubber seed; (d) unavailability of fertilizer when needed; and (e)
absence of maintenance after replanting. As a result, the plantings vary
widely in quality and are, generally, well below the NSSDP standards.



- 12 -
34.       In December 1978, the Government decided that direct field deve-
lopment costs of its perennial crop programs would be financed by credit from
Bank Indonesia (BI) and Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) to the smallholders. This
was done to: (a) make the program more equitable, replicable and consistent
with other programs (such as NES); (b) teach the farmers that they should not
look to Government just for handouts, and must make good use of the investment
in order to repay; and (c) tap the assets of the banking system for financing
the program. Unfortunately, as the detailed arrangements took about eight
months to work out, neither grant nor credit funds were available for land
clearing during April-October 1979, so only about 20% of the 30,000 ha ARP/GCC
1979 replanting target has been achieved. This will make it even more
difficult to reach the 50,000 ha p.a. target for 1980-1984.
35.       Bank Group Lending for Rubber.  Bank Group assistance for small-
holder rubber has included the NSSDP ($5 million) and NES I, II and III
($229 million combined). NES I and II started slowly due to inadequate
budgeting of local funds, but are now progressing satisfactorily. These
projects, plus the proposed project, are expected to increase smallholder
rubber production by about 18% (100,000 tons/year) at full development.
Rubber rehabilitation on Government-owned estates was financed under Credits
155-, 194- and 319-IND, as well as NES I, II and III. A recent OED project
performance audit rated Credits 155 and 194-IND physically and financially
successful. Credit 319-IND (Fourth Agricultural Estates Project) is ahead of
schedule, and its rubber and oil palm plantings are good.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
Formulation
36.       The NSSDP demonstrated that high quality smallholder rubber could
be developed under the PMU system. The ARP program proved that PMUs organized
at much lower cost could direct and supervise large-scale rubber planting,
although with considerable sacrifice of quality. The proposed project,
which was prepared by the Government and IDA, drawing on feasibility studies
by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and by Indonesian consulting groups,
would incorporate the lessons of both experiences at an intermediate level
of management. It would be managerially less intensive than the NES projects,
in that the farmers would be aided to do their own planting, instead of
having it done for them by estates. The Staff Appraisal Report is being
circulated separately to the Executive Directors. Supplementary project
data are provided in Annex III.
37.       Negotiations for a Rubber Replanting Project were held in December
1978, immediately after the Government decided to put such projects on a
credit basis, and before the full nature of the credit system had been
determined.  The Government subsequently decided that it wanted BRI to play
a more central credit role, as partial risk taker and financier, instead of
just as a channeling agent as had been agreed at negotiations. During
discussions that followed in February/M4arch 1979, it also proposed changes in



- 13 -
project cost and organization. Full reappraisal was, therefore, undertaken in
June/July 1979; the project title was then changed to reflect the inclusion of
new planting, as an increase in the price of rubber had made new planting more
attractive, in comparison to replanting, in many areas. The negotiations ior
the reappraised project were held in Washington D.C. on December 10-18, 1979.
General Pang Suparto, Director General of Estates, Ministry of Agriculture,
led the Government delegation.
Objectives and General Description
38.       The project's main objectives would be to: (a) raise the incomes
of 32,000 smallholder families, some 30% of whom are in the absolute poverty
group; (b) earn foreign exchange; and (c) build the institutional framework
and data base for the national smallholder rubber program.
39.       The three most advanced PMUs under the ARP program, at Taluk
Kuantan (Riau), Prabumulih (South Sumatra) and Anjungan (West Kalimantan),
would be upgraded and expanded under the proposed project. The project would
finance five years (April 1980-March 1985) of rubber development in the three
areas. The main components would be:
(a) planting and maintaining until maturity about 38,500 ha of
smallholder rubber, including intercrops, and maintaining until
maturity a further 8,000 ha planted during 1975-79;
(b) developing about 775 ha of nurseries to provide the high-yielding
clonal planting material for the planting program;
(c) constructing about 200 km of secondary village roads and 900 km of
estate-type roads and upgrading about 300 km of village roads, to
provide access for input distribution and rubber marketing;
(d) strengthening the PMUs and a newly-created Smallholder Rubber
Development Project Unit (SRDPU) in Jakarta, which would supervise
and assist the PMUs, through recruitment and training of some 2C;
professional staff (in addition to about 100 at present), employ-
ment of consultants, and provision of vehicles, warehouses and
staff housing; and
(e) carrying out studies, pilot programs and start-up activities for
future projects.
40.       Farmer groups have been found to be the most efficient means of
disseminating extension advice and carrying out certain land development
tasks. The smallholders would organize themselves into groups of about 10-30
families with contiguous landholdings, and then apply to the PMU to enter the
project. To spread the benefits widely and ensure that each family could
properly develop and tap its rubber, there would be a two ha planting limit
for each family, with the second ha developed three years after the first



- 14 -
(Section 3.05 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). Any land redistri-
bution required to create blocks of at least 20 ha with no more than 2 ha per
family would be the responsibility of the farmer groups and village leaders.
41.       Intercropping.  Where suitable, farmers would be encouraged to
intercrop rubber (generally with upland rice) for up to three years. Inter-
cropping would provide additional earnings and would induce the farmers to
devote more attention to the land. As the BIMAS program is very limited in
the project areas, the project would provide fertilizer, seed and pesticides
for intercrops.
42.       Technical Assistance.  Four advisors would be internationally
recruited, not later than December 31, 1980, to assist the SRDPU for three
years on (a) organization and management, (b) finance, (c) training and (d)
rubber production (Section 3.07 of the draft Development Credit Agreement). A
procurement/disbursement consultant would also be attached to the Special Team
(para. 44) for one year. The estimated cost of this 156 man-months of tech-
nical assistance would be $1.2 million. The average man-month cost including
salary, costs, fees, international travel, housing and subsistence is expected
to be about $7,300. The total estimated cost also includes local travel and
some other minor items. Technical assistance would also be hired from appro-
priate Government-owned estates on a "visiting agent" basis, and from the Soil
Research Center or other qualified organizations to examine the suitability of
potential new-planting areas.
Pilot Programs for Spontaneous Planters and Start-up of Future Projects
43.       About 30,000-50,000 ha of rubber is being new-planted or replanted
by smallholders each year outside of Government programs ("spontaneously"),
using very poor planting material and usually no other inputs. The project
would include: (a) a study of spontaneous planting; (b) pilot efforts at
strengthening the Provincial Estate-Crop Services' ability to provide
extension to the spontaneous planters and to arrange input distribution; and
(c) production of planting material for 10,000 ha of spontaneous planting.
In addition, the project would finance feasibility studies and start-up
costs (on nurseries, staff training, vehicles and buildings) for a follow-up
project to upgrade the remaining ARPs. A detailed implementation program,
acceptable to IDA, for the use of funds for pilot programs and start up costs,
would be a condition of disbursement of these subcomponents (paras 3(c) and
3(d) of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit Agreement).
Organization and Management
44.       Directorate General of Estates (DGE) and SRDPU.  The DGE regulates
all private estates and smallholdings involving tree crops and industrial
crops, but its institutional capabilities have not been adequate for the
large-scale smallholder development program in Repelita III. The DGE has now



- 15 -
created a Special Team for Externally-Assisted Projects, which would, inter
alia, expedite implementation of the proposed project. The SRDPU was
created in January 1979, as a special unit in the DGE, to implement the
proposed project. The SRDPU Manager is appointed by the Minister of
Agriculture on the recommendation of the Director General of Estates; any
replacement would be appointed after consultation with IDA (para. 3.02(c)
of the draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       Project Management Units (PMU).  The PMUs in Taluk Kuantan,
Prabumulih and Anjungan would be the field implementing units and would:
(a) select participating farmers; (b) grow the planting material in their
nurseries; (c) distribute all inputs; (d) undertake land clearing with
tractors or chainsaws, where appropriate; (e) instruct farmer groups on
proper husbandry; (f) visit individual farms to provide advice, assess timing
for inputs, and confirm whether farmers had performed tasks sufficiently
well to be paid for their labor; and (g) coordinate other project services.
One Field Officer (PLPT) would supervise about 100 farmers in the planting
year, or 150-200 farmers during the maintenance period.
46.       BRI.  BRI would serve initially as a channel and source for
project funds. Then, three years after a farmer entered the project, he
would, in accordance with his agreement with the PMU, become a direct BRI
client, provided he had contracted no bad debts and had maintained his
rubber planting satisfactorily. Farmers not accepted as BRI clients would
be ineligible for further assistance. There are now eight BRI village units
in the project area; some 30 additional ones or equivalent mobile units
would be provided.
47.       Monitoring and Reporting.  Project monitoring and reporting by the
SRDPU would concentrate on the (a) project implementation rate, (b) quality
of plantings, (c) economic status of participants before and after planting,
(d) unit costs, (e) credit system and (f) institutional development. When
project plantings reach maturity, emphasis would shift to rubber yields,
marketing and processing, and subloan repayment.
Project Cost and Financing
48.       Total project cost is estimated at $70.5 million, of which
$23.0 million (33%) is foreign exchange. The tax element in the project is
insignificant. Physical contingencies of 20% have been added for civil
works and 10% for all other items except family labor. Expected price
contingencies amount to 40% of total base costs plus physical contingencies.
Costs incurred after March 1985 until maturity (up to March 1990) on trees
planted under the project would total an additional $19.5 million (at
December 1979 prices), and would be financed by the Government (Section
4.02(a) of the draft Development Credit Agreement) unless included under any
follow-up projects. The rubber development cost (at December 1979 prices,



- 16 -
excluding physical contingencies) would be about $1,300/ha, of which $975
(75%) for nursery and field development comprises the credit component, and
$325 (25%) for infrastructure and overheads is in the noncredit component. In
addition, as farmers would be paid the equivalent of only 50% of the going
wage for their labor, their own labor contributions (the 50% not reimbursed)
would be worth $430/ha.
49.       The proposed IDA credit of $45 million is equivalent to 65% of
project cost (excluding $1.0 million for vehicles covered by "reserved pro-
curement"; see para. 56). IDA would finance $22.0 million of local costs.
The remaining $25.5 million would be financed by three Government sources:  BI
and BRI (in a ratio of 80:20) for the credit component, and the Export Crops
Fund (DTE) in the Ministry of Finance for the noncredit component. The DTE
receives all the revenue from a recently introduced export tax on palm oil,
tea and coffee, which is expected to be extended to rubber.
50.       The credit extended to smallholders would be repaid by them
over 20 years, including a seven-year interest-free grace period, with an
interest rate of 6% p.a. thereafter. This low interest rate reflects the
general Government policy on credit to estate-crop smallholders, and is
considered acceptable for this project because the primary cost recovery
would be through taxes (para. 53). These credit arrangements would be
spelled out in a Financing Agreement between BI, on behalf of the Government,
and BRI, and a Subfinancing Agreement between BRI and DGE. The signing of
such Agreements, acceptable to IDA, would be a condition of disbursement for
the credit component (para 4(b) of Schedule 1 to the draft Development Credit
Agreement). The Government would bear the foreign exchange risk.
Accounts and Audit
51.       Annual project financial statements and the accounts of BRI related
to the project would be audited by independent auditors acceptable to IDA;
these audited accounts and the audit report would be sent to IDA within nine
months after the end of each Government financial year (Section 4.01 (b) of
the draft Development Credit Agreement). The auditing is expected to be
undertaken by the State Auditor.
Financial Analysis
52.       Farm Income.  Incomes in the project area average about $135/capita,
of which about 60% is from rubber. Incomes of project replanters would aver-
age 5% lower with the project than without, during the first six years.
Thereafter, income would increase rapidly: total net income at full develop-
ment (years 11-30) would average about twice pre-project income. New planters
would suffer no interim income drop.



- 17 -
53.       Cost Recovery.  Existing taxes on rubber production, milling and
export (equal to about 12% of the f.o.b. rubber price) would produce about
55% cost recovery (discounting at 10% p.a.). Repayment of the subloans for
the credit component would produce an additional 13% cost recovery. As
"with project" incomes would be above the critical income level,/l there
is a case for increasing cost recovery, and the Government is expected to
impose an additional export tax on rubber of about 5% of the f.o.b. value,
which would increase cost recovery to some 91%.
Agricultural Production and Marketing
54.       Achieving high rubber yields requires clonal planting material,
fertilizers, agrochemicals for weed control and prevention of root disease,
and close supervision and technical guidance. With the inputs proposed and
reasonable field management, yields should peak at around 1,200 kg/ha, and
average 885 kg/ha over the 25-year tapping period. Total rubber production
from the 38,500 ha to be planted under the project is estimated at 852,000
tons. Total paddy output would be about 58,000 tons.
55.       The rubber price (at constant December 1979 prices) is expected to
remain around $1.30/kg through the early 1980s, increasing to $1.45/kg by
1990. Increased natural rubber production would not lower prices; it would
instead induce synthetic rubber producers, who face shorter lead times between
investment and production, to cut back expansion. The local rubber marketing/
processing system serving the project areas is reasonably competitive and has
sufficient capacity to handle projected output.
56.       Procurement.  Fertilizer (except urea), agrochemicals, tractor-
trailers, and other equipment and materials ($16.9 million) would be awarded
through international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
Guidelines. A preference equal to 15% of the c.i.f. cost or the customs duty,
whichever is lower, would be extended to local manufacturers in the evaluation
of bids. Locally advertised competitive bidding, following Government
procedures which are acceptable to IDA, would be used for: (a) equipment and
supplies costing less than $50,000 equivalent each, subject to an aggregate
ceiling of $1.5 million (if in amounts less than $16,000, prudent shopping
could be used, with at least three price quotations, up to an aggregate
of $500,000); (b) buildings ($2.5 million) and road construction and mainte-
nance ($6.4 million), which are not suitable for ICB because they are scat-
tered over large areas and involve relatively small amounts of financing
spread over five years (up to an aggregate of $1.0 million of these could be
carried out by force account); (c) cover crop seeds ($1.4 million), in which
Indonesia is competitive, because it is essential that these be available
promptly when needed to prevent weed infestation; and (d) vehicles (except
tractors) ($1.0 million), in accordance with GOI policy prohibiting most
vehicle imports; as this is "reserved procurement," these vehicles would not
be eligible for financing or disbursements under the project, in accordance
with Bank Group policy.
/   Incomes per capita would rise from about $135 now to $260 in 1995.  The
critical income level, now about $100, would reach some $200 by then.



- 18 -
57.       Urea ($3.2 million) would be obtained at Govenment-determined
prices, which are uniform nationwide, from distributors designated by P.T.
PUSRI, the Government-owned fertilizer manufacturing monopoly. Indonesia
is a net urea exporter, with domestic production costs around 35% below the
import parity price. Rubber seeds ($1.4 million) would be obtained from
qualified estates selected by DGE, at prices negotiated between DGE and
the estates; ICB is unsuitable because the seeds must be planted shortly
after they fall. Procurement under ICB would be carried out by the SRDPU,
with assistance from its consultants. Local procurement would be done by
the PMUs subject to SRDPU approval. Bidding documents for all contracts
estimated to exceed $200,000 would be reviewed by IDA before issuance.
Disbursement
58.       Disbursements would be made at the following rates:  (a) for
equipment (excluding vehicles) and materials (excluding urea and seeds,
(i) 100% of the c.i.f. cost of imported items, (ii) 95% of the ex-factory
price of locally manufactured items, and (iii) 65% of expenditure on
imported but locally procured items; (b) 100% of expenditure on urea, tech-
nical assistance, training, studies and pilot programs; (c) 60% of the cost
of rubber, cover crop and intercrops seeds, civil works, labor, machinery
operation and land title. Disbursements for equipment, materials, technical
assistance, and civil works would be made against full documentation. For
training, studies, pilot programs, labor, machinery operation, land title,
and force account work, disbursements would be made against statements of
expenditure, with the supporting documentation retained by the SRDPU and
available for inspection by IDA. Retroactive financing of up to $0.6 million
is recommended for nursery, housing and training costs incurred after April 1,
1979. Disbursements are expected to be completed by March 1986.
Benefits and Risks
59.       Benefits.  The proposed project would increase (from $690 to
$1,375 on average) the incomes of some 32,000 smallholder families (about
160,000 people), about 30% of whom are below the absolute poverty line
of $110/capita (December 1979 prices). Increased foreign exchange earnings
over the life of the rubber trees would be about $875 million, an average of
some $30 million/year. The project would also strengthen the organization
of the national smallholder rubber development program. Incremental farm
labor requirements would be equivalent to about 10,000 fulltime jobs. In
addition, about 1,100 unskilled jobs would be created. The estimated
economic rate of return would be 14%.
60.       Risks.  The two main project risks are poor management and low
subloan repayment by farmers. The project design seeks to minimize these
risks by providing (a) a management structure with more flexibility and
authority than under the regular civil service, (b) competitive salaries,
(c) staff training, and (d) consultancy. In addition, the new Special Team
would help expedite implementation. Similar planting programs have been



- 19 -
implemented successfully in neighboring countries, and with the above
arrangements the proposed project is expected to achieve its objectives.
Poor repayment performance, while not affecting project economic benefits,
would defeat the financial and educational objectives of using credit for
the program. To establish good repayment habits, participants would have to
repay any bad debts under BIMAS out of their cash payments for labor made
under the project, and would begin repaying loans on their first ha while
still obtaining assistance on the second. The use of group marketing
organizations as repayment channels, and the possibility of BRI collecting
from defaulters by hiring people to tap their rubber, would be investigated.
Environmental Effects
61.       The project would mainly replant old rubber with new rubber, with
the addition of terracing to control erosion, and a leguminous cover crop
and fertilizer to build up soil fertility. The new plantings would produc-
tively utilize scrub/alang-alang land which has deteriorated through
successive cycles of shifting cultivation. Intercropping would be confined
to reasonably flat or gently undulating land to minimize soil erosion. The
small quantities of agro-chemicals used would have no significant adverse
effects.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
62.       The Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of Indonesia
and the Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided for
under Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Associa-
tion, are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
63.       Special conditions of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III.
64.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
65.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
January 30, 1980
Washington, D.C.



- 20 -
ANNEX I
flDONETU - S L VCATOIS ~Page  1  of  5  pages
womasuWUEa  GRCiOps (ADMS!fl A41[GES
LAD AmA ( SAMD 5Q. 10f.)                             -   C                                 SAXII
ISAL            2027.1                               5                              SAME     X=  8ZGUZ
AGICIUTL         292.9                                mS?m  lCIEU     GZGRAUC    mco0            icoN
1960 ,      1970 UTSSTDIAR      / SCIdaon        cam           oup
GNP PU CAPITA MSS)                    60.0       L40.0    360.0            528.9      209.6       467.5
UTIGY COlISUPT!OU P  CAPTA
(EM4GBAIS OF COAL EqJVALUT)        129.0       120.0     230             371.1       83.9       262.1
POPATION AM VITAL STALtSCS
POPDLAXZOY. M-U&&  (Ko.LS0ES)       94.7       117.6     135.3
UPa  POPLUTION (MC?lT Of TOL) 14.6              17.1      18.4            27.4       16.2        24.6
P0LAT01 POJIJESTIMO
POPULATIGE Di TU  2000 (MIL"NS)                        307.0
STA5tIU! POULAInON 0=ML3O1)                            357.0
I 5?TTIEaI POPUDIr   IS                  1      1    2145
POPULATION DZNSly
PU SQ. M.                         47.0        58.0      66.0           154.8       49.4        45.3
PE  SQ. IN. AGUCMMUAL LAD        337.0       419.0    456.0            566.7      252.0       149.0
POONLAFOW ACZ 52T00CT11 (PDT?)
o-u4 TMs.                         40.8        44.0      41.0            41.3       43.1        45.2
15-4  uS.                         56.1        53.5      56.0             54.9      D3.2         51.9
65 YU. AND ABOon                   3.1         2.5        3.0             3.3        3.0         2 a
POPVLATTOW GcOV  RATE (P1105)
TOTAL                              2.1         2.2       2.0             2.4        2.4         2.7
t134Jf                              ..         3.7       3.3             4.3        4.6         4.3
CRUDE BIRTH RATE (PU T8OUS5)        47.0        43.0      37.0            30.2       42.4        39.4
CRlDC DEATE RATE (PI TOUSLUD)       23.0        I.0      16.0             8.3       1L9         11.7
GROSS ZPRMDUCTiON &AIT               2.8         3.2       2.4             2.1        2.9         2.7
FAM.LY PLANNING
AGCZPILIS. AUAL (TEUUS5)            ..       181.1    2213.0
USERS (PUCTE? OP UAI   WOMEN)    ..            0.2      19.0            34.1       12.2        13.2
FOOD LWD CTRT10O1
Mt2EX OP rooo PN3DuCTTON
PR CAPITA (1969-71-100)          96.3        100.0    105.0            106.2       98.2        99.6
PUL CAPIrTA SUPPLT 0P
CAWEIES (PEUCE! OP
R3QUIlRElTS)                    89.0        91.0      96.0           104.1       93.3        94.7
P&rEIxS (CRAMS PU DAY)            43.0        43.0      43.8            57.4       52.1        54.3
Ot VllIC  AIAL AMD PUILSE       15.0 g      14.0      16.6            16.9       13.6        17.4
CElLO (AGES 1-4) nMZTTE             31.0        22.0      19.0             4.8       18.5        11.4
EAL!!
Lin  IEWA-UC  AT 31! (TEALS)    41.0            46.0    4U.0              61.1       49.3        34.7
INFANT NOTALIT  RATE (PU
TWUSA5)                               ..       126.0       ..            46.6       105.4        68.1
ACCISS TO SAF WATE  (?nCUT Of
POFOPULAIN)
TOTAL                               ..         3.0      12.0           21.9        26.3        34.4
us                                  ..        10.0      35.0           46.2       58.5        57.9
RURAL                              ..          1.0       6.0            12.8       15.8        21.2
ACCESS To EKR1IA DISPOSUL (P&CZXT
3! POPULATION)
TOTAL                               ..        12.0      15.0           Zs.4        16.0        40.J
ShAh                                ..       50.0      60.0            65.0       65.1        71.3
=RAL                                ..        4.0        5.0            14.7       3.5        "7.7
POPULATION P2M 2NTSICIAN         4100O.OLL   26830.0   16430.0         3790.3   11396.4       6799..
?OP!ULATON FE& 91SNCG 2EBSON          ..     3010.3    4670.0          1107..     5532..      L522.1
POPVLATION ?1F AOSPI-L 3ED
TOTAL                           1370.0      1670.0    1360.0          613.3      1417.1      726.5
5AM                                 ..     1130.0        ..           Z03.6      197.3       272.7
itURAL                              -       1890.0       ..          L110.3    2445.9       1404.,
ADMISSIONS ?ER SOSPITAL  ED          ..          ..       22.             223.9     24.8        27.j
SOUS7NG
AVE&AGE siZI 9F jOUSEOLO
23R.U                             4..9        4.3         .             S..
12.L                             4.3          .7         ..             ..        n.5.
AVE3G-C STLSER OF ?MSONS PER 90OM
?AN                                            .*
c.z-ss n  _CUR:C y  '711C221
'F '2'L- NG;,.                                   .,        .                        -  
--L3AN                                                                             7 d         5
'7_7RAL.3 



-21-                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5 pages
INDONESLA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA ShEET
REFERENCE GROUPS (ADJRISTED AYEKLACES
EMNESIA              ~~~~- mOST R>EcENT ESTIMATE) ~-
SAME        SAME     NEXT LlCHER
IOST RECENT    GEOGLAPRIC    INCOME       INCOME
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE /b      REGION /c   GROUP /d   GROUP /e
EDUCATION
ADJUSTED ENROLLMZNT RATIOS
PRIMARY:    TOTAL                 67.0        75.0      82.0            97.9       63.3         82.7
MALE                 79.0        80.0      86.0            98.7        79.1        87.3
FEKALE               55.0        70.0      77.0            97.4       48.4         75.8
SECONDARY:  TOTAL                  6.0        15.0      10.0            42.2        16.7        21.4
MALE                 10.0        20.0      25.0            46.7        22.1        33.0
FEMAL                 3.0        11.0      15.0            40.9        10.2        15.5
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (2 oF SECONDARY) 20.0         22.0      21.0            12.5         5.6         9.8
PUPIL-TEACPER RATIO
PRLMARY                           39.0        29.0      30.0            32.5       41.0        34.1
SECONDARY                         14.0        13.0      18.3            25.8       21.7         23.4
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)       39.0        57.0      62.0            84.1       31.2         54.0
CONstIMNTION
PASSSE;GR CAPS PER THOUSAND
POPUJLATION                        1.0         2.0       3.2             6.1        2.8         9.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        7.0          ..       37.0            84.4       27.2        76.9
TV RECEIVERS PR TPOUSASD
POPDLATION                          ..         0.7       2.0            22.4        2.4        13.5
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GESERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                   ..         ..       16.0            24.2        5.3         18.3
CINEMA AmSUAL ATEND&NCE PER CAPITA   ..           ..       0.9             3.6        1.1         2.5
LAABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSAIDS)   34027.0    42209.0  51000.0
FEMALE (PERCENT)                 27.9         31.0      30.5            36.7       24.8        29.2
ACRICL'LTU'RE (PERC2NT)          74.8         66.3      60.1            54.6       69.4        62.7
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                8.4         9.7       12.0            16.3       10.0        11.9
PARTICI?ATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              36.7         35.3      34.6            40.7       36.9        37.1
:MALE                               54.2        49.5      48.6            49.9       52.4        48.8
EMIALE                             20.0         21.6      20.8            31.0       18.0        20.4
ECONOMIC DEPENDENCY RATIO              1.2         1.3       1.1             1.1        1.2         1.4
INCOME DISTRTIUTTeN
PERCENT OF PRIVATZ INCO`E
RECE IVED BY
HIGXiEST 5 PERCENT OF OUFECROLDS    ..        33.7/h     ..             14.9         ..        15.2
BICGEST 20 PERCENrT OP UOUSEHOLDS    ..       52.0/h     ..             46.8         ..        48.2
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF EOUSEEOLDS     ..         6.8/h     ..              6.2         ..         6.3
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS     ..        17.37h      ..            16.8         ..        16.3
fOVERTY TARGET CRoUtPS
_STIMATED ABSCLU POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LRBAN                              ..          ..      221.0           193.1       99.2       241.3
RLRAL                              ..          ..      130.0           12B.7       78.9       136.6
ESTI1MATE  R-ELATIVE POVEPTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..          ..      145.0           136.8       91.9       179.7
RURAL                                                  98.0             96.8       54.8       103.7
ESIUMATED POPUtLATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCO:NE LEVEL (PERCENT)
'.'AN                              ..          ..       59.0            32.0       44.1        :.8
RL'N.AL                            ..          ..       65.0            52.5       53.9        37.5
Not available
Not applictlc.
NOTES
t     The adjusted group averages for each Indicator are population-weighted geometric means, excluding the extreme
values of the indicator and the most populated country in each group.  Coverage of countries among the
indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
A.   Unless othervise noted, data fr 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961;  for 1970, between 1969 and 1971;
and for Most Recent Fstimte. between 1974 and 1980.  Poverty levels are estimated 1980 levels at 1980 prices.
It    East Asia 6 Pacific; /d Low Income ($280 or less per capita 1976); Le Lover Middle Income ($281-550 per capita,
1976);  /f 1961-63; 7  1962;  /h  Income recipients.
Most Recent Estimate of CNP per capita and population is for 1978.
December 31, 1979



ANNEX I
Page 3 of 5 pages
nirne  Or 1001L IRPATOl
te:AtoOthe data ar  dra-n froe som  ge.melly judge  the mat mothoritativ   ad reliable, it shouldI 3.s heated that they as  not be intra--
I'iy  ~,r.l  becaus  of the lack of stWaadadicd definItions and caca-Pt. used by differst  -octries in cUotlecig the data. The data  r,sutees
sawful to descrbe orders of maltuds, indicate tread, sod ebaraterie certain ajar dlfferesoe  between countrie.
headustd  rou  aeraesfor each indicator ar  pops.tioa-weihted egutric mess, eolodlag the estra  e-ues of the indicator nod the most populated
otuatr  ia eah gcon.  bowto lack of date, group avrages of all iodioator  for Capital  upOsill  pcrtsrs sad of indicators of Access ho  ater and Roreta
DIuiposal, Ihosiseg, laom Doistribotiow  and PenAy for other wo-mtsy poue ar  poplation-esghted. gStric me  wsithust ael-sia of the extr-c vaue    d
the most poplated  -cetcy    lc  h   oeaeo   m tr.g pnm  the idctors deasatyiehll  of data sa  i  at -alos. caic  mot he acvised
in  elala  vercesof  s ldictorto   othr. Iee  aveesa  aemdl  et ia  earoimatiaof  wcce'vle   ha   maigtevlr  of 
iwdiwator at a tins  mAs Us ecute  a rndref-nse  gusps.
lAM  AMA (thonsasd sq.ks.)                                                             Access to lkcreta   asl(ecto   osuio      oa,ubn   a   oa
'W~' Itel sotfac  area  sqrtesg led are  sad Inla    heeNMD   of PeolI ttl  rm,  a   ua)sre  byS                                        cet   ipoa 
W 1   8wosDt re=set estimate of saricltoral ara  sd t-prarils'                percetage  of their respective popaatiasn. Hcreta dispos.al sqinlo
or pevassatly for crops, pastures  maket ad hitcha garden  or to                    the collctia sad disposal, with or without tr-tast, of lsaaa_ eseta
lie. fallow                                                                          aNdWae-ae  by water-bone  ystas or the us  of pit priviwe sad esilur
(W  MCAPTA (S$)- GNP per capita estiates At cu-ret macht priwew                  ju tll4jngpim          a    Population diided by sober of practiciag paysioiaa
weelttby sme caverala method as World lash Atlas (1976-78 basis);                                            tb_dld?hY~Ea   col at _civerity leve.
1l60, 19170, sad 1978 data.                                                          juemig,    WLg        fM o  - Ppulatia divided by amber of practicing male
amy cuaizrniu PgPCAPITA - A-so1 consuption of conerealfWO   rMidtele rmhstiausii   practical  sre,sd essistateres
foa  sdlet,petroleu, atoa  gas sad byd-,io -so s ad g-o-                    Pslatio  pe   ospital led-ttl uransd rura  - Pobpeatioa (total, ubn,
the-Ycal eletrlcTP`  io bkilogr     of coa  equivalent per capita; 1960,                sa   oe)  iie   y hi  epetv                  r of hospital beds aviaben
1970, nod 196 data,                                                                    public anod private gmral sad speialined bostpitel nod rhabilitatios ceater-
Hospitals ar  establiehmnate permnetly staffed by at least on  phyeics.-
PMinIATO AND Vff5i iTATISTICS                                                            Ostablisiasts providing piacipelly custodial  -ar  ar at inclded. R- ra
Tpt.1 Fpultios. Md-Yea   sIllimno) - As of July 1; 1960, 1970, wad                     hospitals, heer, ielude health sad adi.l caters not pres-awtly staffed
19?h data.                                                                          by a    eiWciei  (but by a medical eistat. -rs, midwife, etc.) which off-
UfrbsaP.   lto  (percent of total) - Patio of orb  to total poelatioa;                 in-patiwi s-adtios nod proide a limited range of mdical facilitie..
diffr    dfntions of  hew areas sq affet -sqariility of data                        d:,i          Hoe  te *ld - Ttal aster of admieiocs to or discharges from
e.oag coctries; 1960, 1970, sod 1975 data.                                          hoptala'iWAdk6tby ethte  of bed,.
L     ~             ~~ ~~~ Curet popuatiow  projections are based as        HOUSlIN
197'5tdt.Yppo6 tlaon by age nod se  sod their motaity sad fertility              A       Sra   ine of iHo-sehld (persons per houshod  -total.~ rbac  and rurl -
rates. Projection parsst-r  for  -atality rates o.Wise of timee                   A household  -onicte  fagopo c.iu                 h shor  lIig quert-r  nod
levels asuing life espetawey At birth Increas ing with  -ontry s                  their ala  male.  A boarder or lodger sq or sq not ho ioclodcd in thc
per capita imca   I.ve, ad faIr. life espeteecy  tehillaing at                    household for  saitclpurposes.
77.5  ers. The paiters fee fertility rate als  hove three - levls             Aveag o,ais  of pesn"a' ooU             oa.ube.a    ua     Aeaooao
as-L  dcia in fertilty acording to Iwos level sad pat                            of prospor room toalurhe, "ad rura  occpied  -ovetiocl iweilicco,
f-ily P-eal   perforMe. Oach r-try is thaw aseigd one of these                    r-peoticoly,  leeliegs ewlde cn-pe nrt structures nod co-cpied p-rto.
air  waistline of mortality sad fertility trade for projectioc                  Ac-ss to  lcrct.preto   eiis   total, urban sa                      Iurl     Cc-
Prposes                                                                           -eti.a  dwlings withelectfrici1ty is lco    oreaa   eccaeo
Stotim      i~-  inasainr ouaion there is asgrowt                              total, urban, nod rural dooIiWg  repectio-ly.
iir'fClA-ici oul othe deathra.te, sad also the age
str    -r  r-ins contant. This is ahievod only after fertility rates          EitPATIiON
decline to tho replacet level of omit net repro.&...tiw rate, when              Adjusted Xor1inet cation
each goferation of   n  roPI-.e. itself  -otly.  The stationary Pop-              Primary -ohol-ta, male nod f l    Groec total, wae  o   ondo vor11-
lation  ies wa  -stimatd oc the basis of the pojeted ohrIeito                         eafalae   t the primary levl s  poroectgoc of r-pr-ti-  priowy
of th  population in the pea  2000, an  tbe rate of decli-c of fertility             -choo-g   popultions; ocrealy lo-ludro ohild-e  ccvd 6-11 y-o  hot
rateto replacet leve.                                                                adjuntodgfordifferet icngtho of pri-er  edoostio; for  -otri-c dit
yer taimns  poic.tiow Is reached - The your whe stationar  puatioc                    sictco-ni cdo-ti-o ecol-t ma woced lii porcet sc-  com  popilo 
stew ha hesm reached.                                         are be~low or aboe the officialnOol       W ag.
P.pOcltion Denityf                                                                    Sec-d-y ache   - total, -1efo nd femal  - Computed -oaL.o-;ocdr
-  dya   o(ito   ersur   ostr(0   eoae)o                                         du-tio  require  at Ioc  fu  yeoeo   pproowpi., irceo  Ictrotioc;
to  are : -  d--pN ti.p                 -kl t              IWbt-.ofProidee ge-rc  -cctio..al, or te-h-r trainioc i-otrotio-  for popilo
Pe ka.h. aricuatarl lend - Caputod as above for agriclturl land                   usaly of 1  o1   ero  fao  orepoodeoecoocoeg--crlly
POultion Age Stcot,wti(erewt) - Childre  (i-it y-ar), eciohg-age                      Oonicra1 worom-t (p.eren of ocooar) - Po-aiooolli`titvtio-toiA
(15-A  yean)  sn  retred  (5 pere nd ove) us per-tag-a of mid-yea            tchoicl   odtrnia, or other proos   which op-rte todp-d-otly or no
popolatioc; 196,1970, and 1977 data,                                                   dopaimeto of' ceodary icctitotio-s
Pocesltion iroth R.tiv~ (erent      t- tota  - nAsal cr-th r-tec of total aid-        Pupil-teaher ratio. orison, , co  cocodor- Potol niod-oto  -orl'dirt
pear    . pulatioe  for 1950-0  120-7, cod 1970-77.                                    Primary cod  r-cdary 1-1el  dicide  hy    b-or  of tv-her  to. tich or
Pouaio -oth Pat (porco)         b-rk   - Ah.c.d gro0t1 rates of oman               opodiog  -Ivolo
popolatioco  for 1950-bO, 1900-70, cod 1970-75.                                     adult litorwoy rae        -trv) - Lit-cto odolto (cli  to roa  cod orite)c
Crude Edyth Pate   ortond) - dAc-a 11cc birthc per tho-od of aid-o p-r-tigo of total dolt populotioc egod 11 yeor  codorr
you  pepultioc; 1             -17,nd 1977 data.
Rate o]*.hootnod) - dAsal -  datho p-o thooosod of cid-y-n                  Cd5llc5Pf Ip
p.pulatiol20$7bG19170, -1977 dat.                                                 Oncoe-gr Car  (oe thoo-dn popu.int-) - Pacoc-g- cor  c-prioc otr  or
Groos Owaroditica Pate - Ac_raeoub-r of dnoght-r    cm,  ill hou                      ...ntiog 1oo ith  vight Perc..na; -ooldec  -bhl-, h--cv  sod  il tary
is her ae-I reproductive priod if abe  oeieospree...t ag-                            -ehicl-c
specific fertility rates;  -ecaly fin-yea  aerages woiog ic 1960,                 Radio hc-i-.r (per thcoobod po2ocAti) - Ail typca vi recet-or, for rdio
1970, sod 1975.                                                                     broedone.to to gera  puli  ccv thocd of popoitico; co fc              _ooi--dov
Fails  lsesig - Aceptos, tasel (hocacds) - Anosa oah- of                    rei-o-rocco-tri-o  nd ic y-r  chop r-gitroio- of r-di, -otoo-oi
acoeptor  of birt-controldeviocs  nder nopic-o of watio...l famly         offoct; dnt  for rocrt yenr  su, oct bhe. ocpar..ilo  i.c  co-c coocir-
p'iseie  proram                                                                      bhoiahod licec...
ra-io Olsins - isec  (pecet of mrido c  - Peroc..tag  of  -aciod                    TV Reci-or  (Per thocoac  ppulotio-) - TV c-i--or  for brodont to g-t-rl
of. chid-hearing age (5-6 yeas_         hn  birth-control dic-ce                 public Poe thouc-d popotioc; c-cld-  -cli-cod TVrci--rro               - -i
to all maried coaet  enm-  age group.                                               nod io  e-r  oh-  -vgit-srtioc of TV2 ..tc oo ic offert>
O00PEffOFTItU.c                                                                          of  dail   era  ioirt toecap             einedt cc a piodio-i pocli-otl-
~rtr1mrWodootion ocr Caita (196-71-100)   todec of per capita                 devted priwaily to r-c-diog geoc-l   oc   it            -iocod-rd to be "dcili'
ew-l  rdcto   f alfoo -c d?tit`ea   Prod ctic colsdoe sed cod                       if it appear  ti l-t fou  to-  a -k0.
feed sad ic on calecdo  year boots.  Ca-diti. reovr priary goodo                  Clown Aooc.. iAtt-od-o   Per Copito -c fea  - o-d oc tie coale,r of  k0.ti
(eg.eoarno  icated ofogr   hc   r   diblo sod  -otaic otri-teo                   cold doriog tic poor  i-cbdicgcdo1i-oc     to drio          ..-ic  olo dasoc cobti
(e.g. coff.cco  tea  _rc coldod).  Aggregato p-odotico of -eh -ocfy                  oito.
is based an Ontica ... eos-7     producr prc   e~h
Per cpi ta oupply of alia(oret of reqofeets) - Compted Crow                     100  FORCE
eergy equivaet ofc Cr  oplee anilable Ic  -oocry Per capic                      Total labor PFr   (tihosuodo) - Pc-ooi-lly  tic-c pc--o, icoladiog cred
par dey. Ae-ilblo supplies  -op,iso do-ectic prod-ction, inprts Ico               forr  ad  -oployci hot  -ocldiog hcooo-o-, otd-oto, etc. llfito;tio.c
esPerts, nod os.g in otuh.  le  sspplles  -ooldo nois  feed, neds,                to o-i-c contri-c ar  ootoo-p-bi-e
qostiti   use -: ci food pr-oeiug, sad I..... in diotrihotico. Reqcir-                           f--~jycct      vsc  ao   oo  cc P-etcgc of cocci Odor forro.
meote wer  estimated by FAO bi..ed oe pb,siologiod  ocdo foe  tcua)-bIci   for-  it fari,,g, for-tro, hootiog acd
activity and health  -niderig e-ir,-metal te-p-rt-r, body ocighto,                fobing -c pr-otago of total Icbor force
age no  -e  diotribti-a  of pop,ltica, sod o11-iog 10 percet for                Toour  (ocr-et) - int r for"I in 010cc  oocrooit,cof-ot-eo   cod
caste  ti houshold le-d.                                                          elcotirioty, -ntr cId g-c -c oer-c0  of cocc  Octor forco
Pcr caPita supl'r ofeodi es o  s) - Proceio  -ct-t of pe                            aci tptocci  (peroot) _ tct al c1, cod crab    tortoipuiooc c
capit  cot suplyfof 'food pee day,lt coyly 0f food to defi-ed us-ttiprityct ar  -cpoted cc totol, col, ocd f-ci  lolor frr-  c   ycr.-
above. Rcqoir-oto fcr all -otcaioc  -tblished by PiS  proide for a                 -tcig- of total, w.ie cod f-cle poporloti,o   of all -  -tcpecti-riy:
micsc  alioceec  of 60 gram  of total prtoic W,r day nd  22 grao  of              1960, 1972, cod 1971 datc.  Thoo  or  1.'LO  oortOolottocrat-or-flectiog
aimal and pulse p-toii, of which 10 gras  should be edima proteic.                ne-ceo otrociur  of ticch    olclo  cot-c oe  rc. A feor-tiacte
Th-c stjdard  ar  I.oor than those of 75 Srew  of total proaei. cod               ar  Cro  coil_01 cooroc-
.27 dna of anim. Protein asno -vrgr for the  -Ied, proposed by PAO              fooolol lepedeno anti1 -   .tittof popolntooc odor 11 cod 15co  oe  to
toteI hrd World roo  S-ny.te  ao  forc  to  cv gorcoP of 15-64 py-ro
Pee caita ar iet  supyfrmsimal ad oulse - Protiwi  supply of food
derive  fo  anmassa      .u.e in  r-.  per day.                               TWM  DIS'iIHJTfIlN
Child ages -A) Woialic  Pato(cer throusd( - Acc-a deaths per tihonand        Pece tag   f Picni  Iose11 (lcth Ic cs,anicd hood) - Orc-t-d iporici-ct
caggru1-b year, to child-e  Lc this ago grop; fcc wont d-cl-                 5ecn, rihet   Ppreo,prot 20 per-et, cod p-oeo4. percet
opi.g  -tsiro  data derived fro  life table-                                        of hoo-hldo,
HEAlTH                                                                              0PtVERY TORGLrT GROUPS2
lfe Pzceotsry att P1mb h    IoA) - Aorge wicr of pra   of life                       Potsiddococ        -ovty 1cooc  lord  2U$ p-e -opito  - rico coo r.r..  -
reannga irth; V120,M197   nod 1977. ist.                                     ib.lcto   pocoty Iccoac lo-el c tiot icrowo iroel Icloo oiloh o01100
Icfnot Wotrialty Pate (per tbonond( - Accoal drats of infacta coder octriti-clly adeq-ate dicc ploco --tcial co-fod r-qo-c-c   a ct
year of age per itossad lice births.                                                aff-rdable.
safe ester supply (icoiho- treated sofac  eaterocr otr-ted hot                      pes li-co-  of tie octiro. Urb- 1-1ci    dcrlod fro  tie roro. Io-i
,cscoti.iaaat   -ter coo  no that from protected borbol-c, cpriags,                  cbh adjoot-t for high-r  -tc of lictog  -cosic  reo
adanitar7 acIe) an p-retagec of the ir r-pecti-e popolatloos. Cc                E.isimted Popiclotico helpo Aiclote Po.rytcn   co  (ocd     oa   o
a  rbmwae   public f-notain or stadpost located noct mre than                      rura  - Pero...itof populoco o.tio.url.                oeccioepo'
__1 m -teofro  a hoo.e sq be coniderd as being citic reaonble
scce   f th.t h-.ss.  In rural arasraablc cones  -old imply
ththco  h-n.eesif. or  -b-er  ofte       _ahold do cot hare to sped aEl.c.c.  no d So-iat Pan t. Dovoic
dispruportiocto part of tbo dy ic fotching the falype  -tiercedo                                                     P__ occl   coplond Prjc-tooPoat-c
AZout1 199



- 23-                                  ANNEX I
Page 4 of 5 pages
ECONOMIC INDICATORS
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1978 /a                  ANNUAL RATE OF GROWTH (%, constant prices)
US$ Mln    %         1960-65          1965-70          1971-78
GNP at Market Prices          47,461  100.0          1.9               4.9              7.8
Gross Domestic Investment    10,022   21.1           3.3              11.5             14.7
Gross National Saving          9,233   19.5          5.8               5.1             12.0
Current Account Balance       -1,155   -2.4
Exports of Goods, NFS         10,278   21.7          1.5               7.8              8.9
Imports of Goods, NFS          9,144   19.3          0.2              10.9             17.9
OUTPUT, LABOR FORCE AND
PRODUCTIVITY IN 1976
Value Added       Labor Force /b    V.A. Per Worker
US$ Mln    %         Mln     %            US$      %
Agriculture                    11,624   31.1      35.3    62.6          329    49.7
Industry                      12,672   33.9        4.7     8.3        2,696   407.3
Services                      13,043   35.0      13.4    23.8           973   147.0
Unallocated                         -    -         3.0     5.3
Total/Average              37,339  100.0      56.4   100.0           662   100.0
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
CENTRAL GOVERNMENT
(Rp Billion)                            % of GDP
1977/78   1978/79                        1977    1978
Current Receipts                3,535      4,266                        18.9    19.6
Current Expenditure             2,149      2,744                        11.5    12.6
Current Surplus                  1,386     1,522                         7.4     7.0
Capital Expenditures            2,157      2,556                        11.5    11.7
External Assistance (net)          738       987                         3.9     4.5
MONEY, CREDIT and PRICES
1972    1973    1974    1975    1976    1977   1978
(Million Rp outstanding end period)
Money and Quasi Money                  695     987   1,452   1,978   2,631   3,131  3,809
Bank Credit to Public Sector           129     153      209     990   1,051      883  1,442
Bank Credit to Private Sector          524     932   1,186   1,376   1,737   2,017  2,605
(Percentages or Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as Z of GDP   15.2    14.6    13.5    15.6    17.0    16.7   17.5
General Price Index (1971 = 100)       106     139      196     234      280     311    336
Annual percentage changes in:
General Price Index                    6.4    31.1    41.0    19.4    19.7    11.0    8.1
Bank Credit to Public Sector         -14.0    18.6    36.6   373.7       6.2   -16.0   63.3
Bank Credit to Private Sector         65.3    77.9    27.2    16.0    26.2    £6.1   29.2
Note:  All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate prevailing
during the period covered.
/a  Exchange rate of Rp 415 = US$1 up to November 14, 1978, Rp 625 = US$1, thereafter.
/b  Total labor force; unemployed are allocated to sector of their normal occupation.
"Unallocated" consists mainly of unemployed workers seeking their first job.
Not applicable
East Asia & Pacific Programs
January 30, 1980



- 24 -
ANNLX I
Page 5 of 5 pages
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS                                                                    MERCHANDISE EXPORTS
1976      1971       1978              (Average 1976-78)
^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Ms ln   S
1.  Exports:                                   6,573     7,952      7,989
(a)  Oil and LNG (net)                  3,710      4,445      4,010            Oil and LNG (net)              4,055      54.1
(b)  Nonoil                             2,863      3,507      3,979            Timber                           986      13.1
2.  Imports (incl. net NFS)                  -6,657    -7,771    -8,129               Rubber                           653       8.7
(a)  Imports                           -6,167    -7,241    -7,543              Coffee                           488       6.5
(b)  NFS (net)                           -490       -536        586            Palm Oil                         190       2.5
3.  Resource balance                             -84        175      -140             Tin                              253       3.4
4.  Factor services                             -718       -865    -1,015             Kanufactures                     261       3.5
(a)  Interest public debt /a             -314       -436       -499            All others                       619       8.2
(b)  Other (net)                         -404       -429       -516
5.  Balance on current account                  -802      -690    -1,155                   Total                     7.505    100.0
6.  Direct foreign investment                    287        285        271
7.  Capital grants                               100        100        100
8.  Public M & LT loan /a                                                             RATE OF EXCHANGE
(a)  Disburaement                       2,334      1,955      1,627
(b)  Amortization                        -457       -825       -969
(c)  Net disbursements                  1,897      1,130        658               August  1971 throuah November 16. 1978
9.  Other capital (net)                         -481      -174        834                  US$1.00  -  Rp 415
10.  Change in reserves                                                                    Rp 1;000 -  US$2-41
(- increase)                           -1,001       -651       -708                  p
11.  Net official reserves                      1,557     2,208      2,916               Since November 15. 1978
Reserves in months of imports + NFS               2.8        3.4        4.3                 US$1.00  -  Rp 625
Public debt service as Z of exports              11.7       15.9       18.4                 Rp 1,000 -  US$1.60
EXTERNAL DEBT - December 31. 1978
Disbursed  Undiabursed  Total
- -- - US$ million
Total External Public Debt                     12,983      5,794    18,777
IBRD/IDA LENDING (November 30, 1979) (US$ million)
IBRD        IDA
Outstanding & Disbursed                         759.1      514.2
Undisbursed                                   1,815.9      255.6
Outstanding incl. Undisbursed                 2,,75.0      769.8
/a Based on IBRD external debt data.
East Asia S Pacific Programs
January 30, 1980



- 25 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 24 pages
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN INDONESIA
A. STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of November 30, 1979)
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                               (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
One Loan and twenty-two Credits fully disbursed            50.00  300.60         -
259     1971   Tea                                                 15.00        0.42
289     1972   Fourth Irrigation Rehabilitation                    12.50        0.08
300     1972   Population                                          13.20        2.25
318     1972   Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation                    8.50        0.46
319     1972   Fourth Agricultural Estates                         11.00        1.85
355     1973   Beef Cattle Development                              3.60        0.06
358     1973   North Sumatra Smallholder Development                5.00        0.80
387     1973   Third Education                                     13.50        4.25
399     1973   West Java Thermal Power                             46.00        3.14
400     1973   Smallholder and Private Estate Tea                   7.80        5.76
405     1973   Sugar Industry Rehabilitation                       50.00       0.65
428     1974   Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate                       16.50        9.71
451     1974   Fourth Technical Assistance                          5.00        1.41
479     1974   Bali Tourism                                        16.00       9.27
480     1974   Fisheries Credit                                     6.50        1.47
514     1975   Jatiluhur Irrigation Extension                      30.00       19.79
785     1978   Small Enterprise Development Project                40.00       26.73
827     1978   Rural Credit                                        30.00      29.76
869     1979   Polytechnic                                         49.00      48.73
898     1979   Fifth Technical Assistance                          10.00       10.00
919     1979   Transmigration II                                   67.00      67.00
946     1980   Yogyakarta Rural Development                        12.00       12.00
1005     1974   Railway                                    48.00                0.46
1040     1975   Jakarta Urban Development                  25.00                 1.78
1049     1975   Five Cities Water Supply                   14.50                 5.29
1089     1975   Second Fertilizer Expansion               115.00                 0.09
1100     1975   Sixth Irrigation                           65.00               42.06
1127     1975   Fourth Power                               41.00                 2.39
1139     1976   Fertilizer Distribution                    68.00                0.92
1179     1976   Agricultural Research & Extension          21.50                16.37
1197     1976   National Resource Survey & Mapping         13.00                 7.50
1236     1976   Fourth Highway                            130.00               89.59



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                                Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                                (less cancellations)
Number   Year               Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
1237    1976   Fourth Education                           37.00                29.97
1250    1976   Second Shipping                            54.00                39.01
1254    1976   Third Fertilizer Expansion                 70.00                 9.39
1259    1976   Fifth Power                                90.00                46.38
1267    1976   National Food Crops Extension              22.00                12.25
1268    1976   Seventh Irrigation                         33.00                18.78
1318    1977   Transmigration and Rural Develpment    30.00                    20.13
1336    1977   Second Urban Development                   52.50                17.17
1337    1977   Tanjung Priok Port                         32.00                21.41
1363    1977   Second Private Development Finance
Co. of Indonesia (PDFCI-II)             15.00                 6.65
1365    1977   Sixth Power                               116.00                65.31
1373    1977   Nutrition Development                      13.00                11.90
1433    1977   Teacher Training-Fifth Education           19.00                16.68
1434    1977   Eighth Irrigation                          63.00                56.69
1435    1977   Ninth Irrigation                           35.00                28.28
1437    1977   Development Finance Co. (BAPINDO III)  40.00                    16.21
1472    1977   Second Population                          24.50                21.84
1486    1978   Non-Formal Education                       15.00                13.01
1499    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders I         65.00                56.76
1513    1978   Seventh Power                             109.00               107.99
5009    1978   Bukit Asam Coal Mining and
Transport Engineering                   10.00                5.46
1578    1978   Tenth Irrigation                          140.00               135.31
1579    1988   Eleventh Irrigation                        31.00                27.43
1604    1978   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders II    65.00                    64.87
1645    1979   Twelfth Irrigation                         77.00                74.80
1653    1979   Third Urban Development                    54.00                54.00
1691    1979   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control          50.00                50-00
(Thirteenth Irrigation)
1692    1979   Second Agricultural Training               42.00                41.78
1696    1979   Fifth Highway                             130.00               130.00
1703    1979   Fourth BAPINDO                             50.00                50.00
1707    1979   Transmigration II                          90.00                90.00
1708    1979   Eighth Power                              175.00               175.00
1709    1979   Second Water Supply /a                     36.00                36.00
1751    1980   Nucleus Estates and
Smallholders III                        99.00               99.00
/a Not yet effective.



- 27 -
ATNEX II
Page 3 of 24 pages
US$ million
Loan/                                                               Amount
Credit  Fiscal                                              (less cancellations)
Number   Year              Purpose                       Bank      IDA   Undisbursed
Total                                        2,575.00  769.80   2,071.50
of which has been repaid                      28.08    0.10
Total now outstanding                        2,546.92  769.70
Amount sold                    28.20             21.13    0.00
of which has been repaid    7.10
Total now held by bank and IDA /a            2,525.79  769.70
Total undisbursed                            1,815.91  255.59   2,071.50
/a Prior to exchange adjustment.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 24 pages
B. STATEMENT OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of November 30, 1979)
Fiscal                               Type of             Loan    Equity    Total
year          Obligor               business            ---- (US$ million) ----
1971   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement              10.6       2.5      13.1
1971   P.T. Unitex                  Textiles             2.5       0.8       3.3
1971   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0       0.5       2.5
1971   P.T. Kabel Indonesia         Cable                2.8       0.4       3.2
1972   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             4.5       1.5       6.0
1973   P.T. Jakarta Int. Hotel    Tourism               11.0         -      11.0
1973   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.4      0.7        6.1
1974   P.T. Primatexco Indonesia  Textiles               2.0      0.3        2.3
1974   P.T. Monsanto Pan            Electronics          0.9         -       0.9
1974   P.T. PDFCI                   Devel. Fin. Co.        -      0.5        0.5
1974   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             2.4      0.6        3.0
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement               5.0       1.5       6.5
1976   P.T. Semen Cibinong          Cement                 -       1.1       1.1
1977   P.T. Daralon Textile
Manuf. Corp.         Textiles             0.3         -       0.3
1977   P.T. Kamaltex                Textiles             1.4      0.1        1.5
1979   P.T. Daralon                 Textiles             0.9         -       0.9
Total                                               51.7     10.5       62.2
Less:  sold or repaid and cancelled                 32.9      2.1       35.0
Total held by IFC                                   18.8      8.4       27.2
Undisbursed (including participant's portion)          -       -           -



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION /1
These notes are arranged by sectors in the following order:
Page No.
Agriculture
Irrigation (Cr. 514, Ln. 1100, 1268, 1434, 1435, 1578,                      6-7
1579, 1645 and 1691)
Other Agriculture Production (Cr. 259, 319, 355, 358, 400,                  8-10
405, 480,
Ln. 1318, 1499, 1604, 1707                 10-11
and 1751)
Agriculture Support Services (Ln. 1179 and 1267)                           11-12
Rural Development (Cr. 946)                                                 12
Agro-Business and Credit (Cr. 785 and 827)                                     12
Education (Cr. 387, 869, Ln. 1237, 1433, 1486 and 1692)                      13-14
Energy (Cr. 399, 1127, 1259, 1365, 1513 and 1708)                            15-16
Industrial Development and Finance
Fertilizer Production (Ln. 1089 and 1254)                                   16
Industrial Estates (Cr. 428)                                                17
Development Finance Companies (Ln. 1363, 1437 and 1703)                     17
Coal Mining (Ln. S-9)                                                       18
Population and Nutrition
Population (Cr. 300 and Ln. 1472)                                           18
Nutrition (Ln. 1373)                                                        19
Technical Assistance (Cr. 451, 898 and Ln. 1197)                             19-20
Transportation
Fertilizer Distribution (Ln. 1139)                                          20
Highways (Ln. 1236 and 1696)                                               20-21
Marine Transport (Cr. 318 and Ln. 1250)                                     21
Ports (Ln. 1337)                                                            22
Tourism (Cr. 479)                                                             22
Urban Development (Ln. 1040, 1336 and 1653)                                    23
Water Supply (Ln. 1049 and 1709 /2)                                            24
/1  These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action being taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding that
they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and
weaknesses in project execution.
/2 Not yet effective.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 6 of 24 pages
C. PROJECTS IN EXECUTION
AGRICULTURE
Irrigation
Credit No. 514 Jatiluhur Irrigation Fxtension: TTSS30 Million Credit of
October 3, 1974; Effective Date:  Januiary 10, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980.
Initial organizational difficulties and late awarding of the first
construction contract have caused a delay of about 2 years in the project
schedule. The first construction activity started in February 1977 and
contracts for over 70% of the project works have been let. Based on bid
prices for the first contract and revised quantity estimates on the basis of
detailed design, total project cost is now estimated to be about 140% over
the appraisal estimate and the project is currently expected to be completed
by December 1982, about three years behind the original completion date.
Loan No. 1100   Sixth Irrigation:  US$65 Million Loan of April 10, 1975;
Effective Date:  June 20, 1975; Closing Date:  June 30, 1982
Good progress has been made on the rehabilitation works, but con-
struction of new works is behind schedule because of delays in preparing
contract documents. The two largest contracts have still not been let.
Substantial cost overruns are anticipated due to unavoidable najor changes
in the design of the Sampean Baru dan and unit price increases in other
components.  These will be verified as bids are received for the maior
contracts.
Loan No. 1268   Seventh Irrigation:  USS33 Million Loan of June 4, 1976;
Effective Date: September 21, 1976; Closing Date:
Decenber 31, 1981.
The implementing agencies have engaged the consultants. Construc-
tion is underway in the North Sadang and tertiary development areas, and
studies being funded under the project are expected to be completed shortly.
The mapping progam is progressing satisfactorily.  Disbursements are ahead
of schedule.
Loan No. 1434   Eighth Irrigation:  USS63 Million Loan of June 6, 1Q77;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: Mfarch 31, 1083.
The project is being implemented satisfactorily, although disburse-
ments are currently about 80% behind the appraisal estimate largely due to



31 -
ANNEX II
Page 7 of 24 pages
delays in the Madiun rehabilitation and Ciujung drainage components, and
partly due to late payment to contractors. Disbursements are expected to
improve in succeeding semesters because of increased activity in these
components.
Loan No. 1435   Ninth Irrigation:  US$35 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: December 31,
1981.
While delays have arisen due to inadequate mapping in the Sungai
Dareh-Sitiung area, the project is ahead of schedule and progressing
satisfactorily. Disbursements are ahead of schedule.
Loan No. 1578   Tenth Irrigation:  US$140 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984.
Initial delays in hiring consultants and in preparing tender
documents are slipping the start of project construction behind the appraisal
estimate.
Loan No. 1579   Eleventh Irrigation:  US$31 Million Loan of June 6, 1978;
Effective Date: August 16, 1978; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983.
A smooth start has been made on some components but two components
are behind schedule due to unforeseen technical problems and delays in
drawing up tender documents.
Loan No. 1645   Twelfth Irrigation:  US$77 Million Loan of December 29, 1978.
Effective Date: May 10, 1979; Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
Consultant contracts are being finalized and a smooth start to
project implementation is being made.
Loan No. 1691   Lower Cimanuk Basin Flood Control:  US$51 Million Loan of
May 7, 1979; Effective Date: October 16, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1984.
This loan became effective last October and the initial progress is
satisfactory.



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 8 of 24 pages
Other Agriculture Production
Credit No. 259 Tea: US$15 Million Credit of June 24, 1971; Effective
Date: September 17, 1971; Closing Date: August 31, 1980.
Nearly all the targets set at appraisal have been achieved one year
ahead of project completion, but factory capacity still has to be expanded
to take account of the increased production which exceeds appraisal estimates
by about 6,000 tons, or 30%. Financial, technical and managerial performance
has been excellent. Inflation and additional construction and equipment
costs increased project costs by about 17% above appraisal estimate, but the
economic rate of return is good and is expected to be over 20%. The closing
date has been extended to August 31, 1980, in order to make payment for goods
ordered but not delivered by the previous closing date.
Credit No. 319 Fourth Agricultural Estates: US$11 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: January 30, 1973;
Closing Date: June 30, 1981.
The planting program was completed in 1976 at 6,924 ha of rubber
and 5,052 ha of oil palm. By 1981 all areas should be mature and construction
completed at the Bekri Mill, Panjang bulk installation and Way Berulu crumb
rubber factory. Rubber production for 1978 was 10,986 tons (3% above target)
and oil palm was 29,159 tons (35% below target). The drought of 1976/77 and
a severe caterpillar attack in 1977 contributed to this drop. Production
targets for 1979 for both crops are expected to be achieved.
Credit No. 355 Beef Cattle Development: US$3.6 Million Credit of
January 31, 1973; Effective Date: May 30, 1973;
Closing Date: September 30, 1980.
The Bina Mulya Ternak corporation (BMT) is now managed by Indonesian
staff with satisfactory capability. Development of ranch infrastructure and
fencing has practically been completed, but pastures on both Sulawesi ranches
remain understocked. It is expected that accelerated purchases of domestic
stock in 1979 will enable BMT to utilize its surplus grazing capacity and
improve its finances. A three-year pasture and grazing research program with
Australian bilateral assistance has started. Sufficient funds were available
to meet investment and operating expenditures in 1979 and up to Project
completion about mid-1980.



- 33 -
ANNE4X IJ.
Page 9 of 24 pages
Credit No. 358  North Sumatra Smallholder Development:  IJS$5 Million Credit
of February 14, 1973; Effective Date:  August 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981.
The 9,000 ha planting program under the project is now completed.
Rubber and oil palm continue to show very satisfactory growth with the
1974/75 plantings of rubber and oil palm coming into production. Control of
weeding and general maintenance standards will require close supervision tip
to 1982/83 when all plantings reach maturity.
Credit No. 400 Smallholder and Private Estate Tea: USS7.8 Million Credit
of June 22, 1973; Effective Date: November 30, 1973;
Closing Date March 31, 1982
The project provides credit through Bank Rakyat Indonesia and
extension advice through a Project Management IJnit for improvement of
Indonesian smallholder and private estate tea. Of 13,200 ha, 60% was to be
rehabilitated and 40% replanted. Participants have preferred more costly
replanting and the objective has therefore been changed to 10,500 ha, and
the proportions reversed. Production will not be adversely affected since
replanting yields are higher. Costs are now estimated to exceed appraisal
estimates by about 60% since replanting is more expensive and costs have
risen sharply because of inflation. Disburserients are behind appraisal
estimates for the same reasons.  The project has made a significant impact
on the private sector of the Indonesian tea industry. The project training
program is especially noteworthy having now involved more than 9,000
smallholders through practical village training schemes.
Credit No. 405  Sugar Industry Pehabilitation:  UTS$50 Million Credit of
June 26, 1973; Effective Date: April 22, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1q80
The two rehabilitated factories and the one newly constructed are
operating satisfactorily, except for problems with instrumentation and
shortage of spares, which are being tackled. Cane areas have been expanded,
but field development to increase yield and sugar content, particularlv on
factory rented cane land, has not received sufficient attention. Although
cane farmers' yields come close to appraisal forecasts, further improvements
are possible. Largely due to uneven supply and poor cuality of cane, finan-
cial results of PTP KV and PTP XXI/XXII are poor, though the latter is
improving. The solution is to improve cane productivity and quality and total
factory cane supply and to implement a cost reduction progran, including
amalgamation of uneconomic units. The Government is encouraging a switch to
farmers' cane on a much greater scale than foreseen at appraisal, with
consequent dislocation of cane supplv. Sugar is a favorable smallholder crop
in rainfed and less well irrigated land, especially in Fast Java, but inten-
sive research on rainfed cane varieties, intercropping and upland soil



- 34 -
ANNEX II
Page 10 of 24 pages
fertility is needed to encourage farmer in'erest and maintain cane supply.
Tne Pasuruan Sugar Experiment Station has been slow to carrv cut this
research.
Credit No. 480  Fisheries Credit:  USS6.5 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date:  January 8, 1975; Closing Date:  *e 30,
1980
The overall project is about 18 months behind schedule.
Construction of shore facilities at Ambon is completed and operating
satisfactorily. Boat construction is under way and all related equipment is
on site ready for installation. !Thile the quality of fishpond lending has
suffered some deficiencies in the past, remedial action ta-en by Bank Rakyat
Indonesia is gradually improving the situation.
Loan No. 1318   Transmigration and Rural Development:  IIS$30 Million
Loan of July 21, 1976; Effective Date:  March 30, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Settlement and construction are lagging about a year behind
appraisal estimates, partly because of the initial delay in project effec-
tiveness and weak project organization and management. Nonetheless, 1,300
migrant families have been settled at Baturaja and are successfullv growing
food crops. Initial incomes are satisfactory in spite of inadequate
fertilizer supplies and poor seed supply, although one third to one half
originates from construction and rubber planting. These incomes are sub-
stantially above incomes the transmigrants received in Java. As evidence
of the relative attraction of the Baturaja community, 485 spontaneous
settlers have already been attracted to the site. In the existing settled
area at Wav Abung, there has been little improvenent in incomes because
fertilizers are not available on site and delayed road construction limits
marketing of cash crops. Experience to date highlights the need for
improving project management and ensuring that agricultural support services
and input supply systems are in place as settlement proceeds.
Loan No. 1'a99   Nucleus Estates and Snallholder I:  U5S65 Mfillion Loan
of November 18, 1977; Effective Date: January 2, 1978;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project's overall physical progress has been generallv good
but unequal. IWhile in some areas the planting program substantially exceeded
the target, in others it remained behind schedule, but recently, energetic
measures have been taken to make tup for the delays. Pousing, roads and
village development is behind schedule but preparations are under vqav which
should accelerate implementation in the forthconing months.



- 35 -                     ANNEX II
Page 11 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1604   Nucleus Estate and Smallholder II:  US$65 Million Loan of
July 12, 1978; Effective Date: September 13, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The planting program is almost on schedule, but housing, roads and
village development is behind. The appointment of new project manager and
support staff from local authorities have helped speed up implementation.
The management of PTP IV, the local authorities and the Directorate General
of Estates have agreed to the Bank's recommendation that preparations for
the construction of settlers' houses should start immediately and that the
upgrading and staffing of the Sungai Tiga Extension and training Center in
Jambi should be implemented. The preparation of work programs and budgets
for 1980 should be ready on time, in order to avoid delays in budgeting and
releasing of Government funds.
Loan No. 1751   Nucleus Estates and Smallholders III:  US$99 Million
Loan of August 13. 1979; Effective Date: November 12, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
This project became effective in November 1979.
Loan No. 1707   Transmigration II:  US$157 Million Loan and Credit of
(Cr. No. 919)   June 1, 1979; Effective Date:  October 4, 1979;
Closing Date: December 31, 1985
Some project sites previously identified have been found only par-
tially suitable, and are now being resurveyed. However, final design for
all the project sites are expected to be available by mid-1980 and contracts
let before the end of the year.
Agriculture Support Services
Loan No. 1179   Agricultural Research and Extension I:  US$21.5 Million
Loan of December 19, 1975; Effective Date: February 23,
1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Due to prolonged negotiations over selection and terms and
conditions of employment of consultants, including architects and engineers,
the project is about 18 months behind the appraisal implementation esti-
mates. At the present projected pace of implementation all components,
except fellowships, should be completed by the Closing Date.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 12 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1267   National Food Crops Extension; US$22 Million Loan of
June 4, 1976; Effective Date: September 21, 1976;
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
Good progress is being made in the field and, despite organiza-
tional difficulties, an effective extension service is being created.
Appointments of extension staff are ahead of schedule and the project
directorate has been strengthened by the appointment of three additional
Assisant Directors. Civil works have been resumed and the training program
has started. Disbursement is lagging in every category due to prefinancing
difficulties and delays in submission of withdrawal applications with support-
ing documentation for equipment and furniture. The new procedure for pre-
financing outlined by the Finance Ministry last year is expected to help
solve the problem and speed up project implementation and disbursement.
Rural Development
Credit No. 946 Yogyakarta Rural Development: US$12 Million Credit of
August 13, 1979; Effective Date: December 5, 1979;
Closing Date: March 31, 1987
This project became effective in December 1979.
AGRO-BUSINESS AND CREDIT
Credit No. 785 Small Enterprise Development: US$40 Million Credit
of April 7. 1978; Effective Date: August 17, 1978;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Bank Indonesia (BI) is making good progress in revising lending
procedures and establishing new lending approaches to serve the medium-term
credit needs of small entrepreneurs. Training of BI and handling bank staff
is progressing and preparation for studies is on schedule, as is sublending
to small enterprises.
Credit No. 827 Rural Credit: US$30 Million Credit of June 23, 1978;
Effective Date: November 3, 1978; Closing Date: March 31,
1985
This project provides long-term credit to about 40,000 smallholders,
primarily for fisheries, perennial crops and livestock, and technical assis-
tance to Bank Rakyat Indonesia (BRI) for program development, training,
credit procedures and accounting and management information systems. Due
primarily to delays in obtaining project consultancy, the project is about
a year behind schedule.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 13 of 24 pages
EDUCATION
Credit No. 387 Third Education: US$13.5 Million Credit of June 1, 1973;
Effective Date: August 29, 1973; Closing Date:
December 31, 1981
The project finances the production and distribution of 138 million
primary school textbooks in four subjects, and related in-service training
for 350,000 primary school teachers and 2,800 supervisory personnel. About
90 million project books have been printed and 3,800 tutors and administra-
tors and about 400,000 teachers (114% of the project target) have received
training nationwide. Despite the remarkable quantitative achievements,
problems of management, distribution, technology and pedagogy make the project
less effective than it could be. The training program, although on schedule
and making good progress, is out of phase with book production, which is
almost one year behind schedule due to delays in paper procurement. Textbooks
and teacher manuals would benefit from better design, organization and illus-
trations, and their content is limited by the national curricula. In response
to Association proposals, the Government has started a major review of the
project to focus on its relation to other ongoing Government textbook programs
and overall future needs for production of instructional materials.
Credit No. 869 Polytechnic: US$49 Million Credit of December 29, 1978;
Effective Date: May 11, 1979; Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project is designed to help the Government meet the demand for
engineering technicians and trained accountants. It will introduce a new
system (polytechnics) for training technicians at the diploma level by estab-
lishing a Technician Education Development Center and six polytechnics in Java
and Sumatra, and improving the quality of accountancy training by establishing
four Accountancy Development Centers in existing universities. The project
implementation unit has been established and staffed, and implementation of
the technician components (84% of project cost) is proceeding on schedule:
contracts for architectural and technical assistance services have been
signed; sites have been acquired; and sketch plans have been completed.
Implementation of the accountancy components (16% of project cost) of the
project is six months behind schedule primarily due to inadequate coordination
and control among the several agencies involved in implementation.
Loan No. 1237   Fourth Education:  US$37 Million Loan of April 15, 1976;
Effective Date: June 17. 1976; Closing Date: December 31,
1980
Initially, all three subprojects - under the Ministry of Education
(MOE), Ministry of Manpower (MOM), and National Institute of Administration
(LAN) respectively - suffered a ten-month delay due to late signing of the
Funds-in-Trust (FIT) Agreements with the UN Agencies providing technical



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 14 of 24 pages
assistance, as well as contracts with the consultant architects. Further
delays have occurred in the tendering and awarding of civil works contracts
for the Manpower and LAN components. Overall, the project is about 1-1/2
years behind schedule. About 80% of civil works, 50% of furniture, and
100% of technical assistance have been contracted. Implementation of the
technical assistance programs of all subprojects is in line with the FIT
Agreements. Overall, the tIinistry of Education and LAN components are going
well, but the Ifinistry of MSanpower has had difficulty in managing its
diverse program of establishing 17 training centers. Delayed implementation
may require postponement of the Closing Date by about six months.
Loan No. 1433   Teacher Training:  USS19 M1illion Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: July 7, 1977; Closing Date: June 30. 1983
The project finances the development of primary and secondary
teacher training. The implementation of the project closely follows the
appraisal schedule, with minor delays. The 40 key educators have returned
from a five-month overseas fellowship program and the training of a further
110 educators has been completed.  The team has now started training of 7, nno
teachers, the development of learning materials and curricula revisions.
Phase I of a three-phase civil works program is 70% completed and Phase II
will begin shortly. M4inor problems with book and furniture procurement, site
acquisition, and disbursements for civil works are being resolved.
Loan No. 1486   Non-Formal Education:  TJS$15 Million Loan of
September 14, 1977; Effective Date: November 4, 1977;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The project aims at strengthening the nonformal education programs
of the Department of Education in seven provinces. Overall progress in
project implementation is good. All positions in the project unit are filled
and key staff of the provincial centers have been appointed. Total delays in
civil works and equipment procurement is now about 10 months. Staff
training, learning materials development, and evaluation activities are
progressing satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1692   Second Agricultural Training:  IJS$42 Mlillion Loan of Mav 7,
1979; Effective Date: July 31, 1979; Closing Date:
June 30, 1985
The project constitutes the second phase of the Covernment's long-
term strategy to improve the quality and supply of middle level agricultural
manpower through construction, provision of furniture and equipment for
agricultural development schools and in-service training centers, and



- 39 -
AMTEX II
Page 15 of 24 pages
technical assistance for improvement of curricula, educational planning, and
evaluation. Implementation is generally on schedule, and no major problems
have been encountered to date.
ENERGY
Credit No. 399  W-est Java Thermal Power:  US$46 Million Credit of June 22,
1973; Effective Date: August 28, 1973; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Project implementation was initially delayed due to the necessity
of making additional financing arrangements to meet much higher costs of
equipment resulting from rapid inflation in 1974/75. However, implementation
is now progressing smoothly.  Both 100 MV generating units have been
synchronized with the grid and are being loaded slowly.
Loan No. 1127   Fourth Power:  USS41 Mfillion Loan of June 17, 1q75;
Effective Date: October 23. 1975; Closing Date:
June 30, 1980
Construction of the third 100 MW unit at 2fuara Yarang is pro-
gressing satisfactorily. The scheduled commissioning date of February 1980
is about seven months behind the appraisal target, but no further delays are
expected and there is a good possibility that some of the delays may be made
up. Disbursements are proceeding as scheduled in the appraisal report.
Loan No. 1259   Fifth Power:  US$90 Million Loan of May 20, 1976;
Effective Date: September 20, 1976; Closing Date:
March 31. 1981
All equipment required for the project is scheduled to be procured
in three lots. Nearly 75% of the equipment which was covered by Lot 1 (valued
at $13.6 million) has been received; orders for equipment covered by Lot 2,
(amounting to $32.4 million) are now being placed.  The project suffered an
initial setback of about one vear in procurement action but is now progressing
satisfactorily. It is expected that loan disbursements will be completed
prior to the Closing Date.
Loan No. 1365   Sixth Power:  US$116 Million Loan of February 4,  1977;
Effective Date:  June 6, 1977; Closing Date:  December 31,
1982
Implementation of the project, consisting of 2 x 200 ITTT steam
generating units at Muara Karang, is progressing satisfactorily.  So far
progress is on or slightly ahead of schedule. Currently, estimated



- 40 -
ANNEX II
Page 16 of 24 pages
commissioning dates for the units are about four to six months ahead of the
appraisal estimate.
Loan No. 1513   Seventh Power:  US$109 Million Loan of February 3, 1978;
Effective Date: June 30, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1983
Tenders for major electrical and mechanical equipment required for
the 200 MW unit, including turbine generator, steam generator, cycle
equipment, electrical equipment and power transformer, have been awarded.
Loan No. 1708   Eighth Power:  US$175 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: November 5, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan became effective in November 1979 and the bids for major
equipment are being evaluated.
INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT AND FINANCE
Fertilizer Production
Loan No. 1089   Second Fertilizer Expansion:  US$115 Million Loan of
February 28, 1975; Effective Date: April 29, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI III) was commissioned April 9, 1977, one month
ahead of schedule. During the eight months of operation in 1977, the
project operated at 66% capacity utilization, which increased sharply to
about 92% in 1978 with the overcoming of initial technical problems.
The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.
Loan No. 1254   Third Fertilizer Expansion:  US$70 Million Loan of May 20,
1976; Effective Date: August 15, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The project (PUSRI IV) was commissioned on November 26, 1977,
about four months ahead of schedule. During 1978, PUSRI IV produced nearly
470,000 tons of urea, reflecting a capacity utilization of 83% in the first
year of operation. Some auxiliary facilities are planned to be expanded in
1980. The project is not expected to show a cost overrun.



- 41 -
ANNFX II
Page 17 of 24 pages
Industrial Estates
Credit No. 428 Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate: US$16.5 Million Credit of
September 14, 1973; Effective Date: November 13, 1973;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
The Pulo Gadung Industrial Estate is now scheduled for completion
in 1982. Of 400 ha of raw land now earmaked for acquisition, 331 ha had
been purchased as of early 1979. 127 ha of the 270 ha of developed land
reserved for factory use has been sold to 107 firms, with full capacity
employment estimated at around 22,000. Slack sales and difficulties in
land acquisition have reduced the amount of land planned for sale from 337 ha
to 270 ha. Operations are profitable with a cash surplus and bank deposits
of Rp 2,389 million over the past three years to the project owners, the
Municipal Government of Jakarta and the Government of Indonesia. The project
is projected to remain profitable.
Development Finance Companies
Loan No. 1363   Second PDFCI:  US$15 Million Loan of January 28, 1977;
Effective Date: April 21, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1981
The project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Loan No. 1437   Third BAPINDO:  US$40.0 Million Loan of June 6, 1977;
Effective Date: September 23, 1977; Closing Date:
September 30, 1981
At the time of loan appraisal (October 1976), BAPINDO was facing
many problems, including high portfolio arrears and slow loan processing.
Accordingly, the Bank sought and reached an understanding with BAPINDO and
the Government on a comprehensive Program of Action designed to remedy
BAPINDO's weaknesses and achieve further improvements. BAPINDO has effec-
tively implemented the Program and achieved satisfactory progress.
Loan No. 1703   Fourth BAPINDO:  US$50 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: September 25, 1979; Closing Date:
September 30, 1983
This loan became effective last September and progress is satis-
factory.



- 42 -
ANNEX II
Page 18 of 24 pages
Coal Mining
Loan S-9         Bukit Asam Coal Mining and Transport Engineering:
US$10 Million Loan of May 19, 1978; Effective Date:
December 22, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project consists of identifying and engineering much of an
optimum mining and transportation system to mine about 3.0 million tons per
year and ship about 2.5 million tons per year of coal to a power station which
is under construction at Suralaya in West Java. The project has experienced
some initial delays but is now progressing satisfactorily.
POPULATION AND NUTRITION
Population
Credit No. 300 Population: US$13.2 Million Credit of April 20, 1972;
Effective Date: Nbvember 2, 1972; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
The performance of the Indonesian national family planning program
has improved markedly. Project implementation is proceeding satisfactorily,
except for delays in the completion of the three buildings still under
construction. The delays are attributable to contractual problems
associated with increases in the prices of building materials and oil.
Contractors consider the recent Government increases on contract costs to be
unacceptable because the revised costs are insufficient to offset losses on
existing contracts. The buildings, which were scheduled to be completed in
September 1979, will now be completed in April 1980. The Government's
proposals for utilization of savings under the project have already been
agreed upon by both the Association and the United Nations Fund for
Population Activities and implementation of the activities is expected to
start shortly.
Loan No. 1472   Second Population:  US$24.5 Million Loan of July 6, 1977;
Effective Date: August 4, 1977; Closing Date: April 30,
1983
The implementation of the second population project is proceeding
satisfactorily. Despite the slowdown in construction associated with
increases in the prices of building materials and gasoline, project buildings
are expected to be completed on schedule. Population education and training
components are also making steady progress. Procurement of furniture and
equipment is underway. However, the contraceptive raw materials study and



- 43 -
ANNEX II
Page 19 of 24 pages
the community incentive scheme are behind schedule. The combined effect of
delays in construction and in starting the two research studies has been a
slackening of disbursements. By June 30, 1979, the total cumulative dis-
bursement was $1,761,000 compared with the appraisal estimate of $9,824,000.
The rate of disbursement is, however, likely to accelerate as buildings
currently under construction are completed and withdrawal applications made.
Nutrition
Loan No. 1373   Nutrition Development:  US$13.0 Million Loan of March 14,
1977; Effective Date: March 31, 1977; Closing Date:
March 31, 1982
Initial progress under the project is satisfactory. The Nutrition
Intervention Pilot Project, the anemia control and home gardens components,
as well as the fellowships program, are proceeding with minor delays. The
Nutrition Academy has increased its student enrollment from 100 to 160, and
48 graduates are expected this year, compared with 25 prior to project
start. Construction of the Nutrition Academy was completed in February
1979. The Food Technology Development Center is about 50% completed, and
the Center for Research and Development in Nutrition about 63%. While
monitoring and evaluation units for each component have been operational for
six months the central monitoring and evaluation unit of the Project
Secretariat is just starting to be staffed. A mission is currently in the
field preparing the Mid-Term Evaluation Report. The Executive Directors will
soon be informed of the results.
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
Credit No. 451 Fourth Technical Assistance: US$5 Million Credit of
January 2, 1974; Effective Date: February 15, 1974;
Closing Date: December 31, 1980
Progress under the project is satisfactory. The Closing Date has
been postponed by one year.
Credit No. 898 Fifth Technical Assistance: US$10 Million Credit of May 7,
1979; Effective Date: September 5, 1979; Closing Date:
March 31. 1984
This credit became effective in September 1979 and progress is
satisfactory.



- 44 -
ANNEX II
Page 20 of 24 pages
Loan No. 1197   National Resource Survey and Mapping:  US$13 Million Loan
of February 5, 1976; Effective Date: April 2. 1976;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
The BAKOSURTANAL complex at Cibinong is now structurally completed,
and most of the cartographic, photographic processing, and printing equipment
required to produce maps has arrived and is being installed. Resource evalu-
ation activities, including the compilation of data for Southern Sumatra and
a study for the Directorate-General of Estates of coconut lands to be
replanted in Sulawesi and Lombok, are also proceeding in the new complex.
Recruitment and training of new staff, particularly junior operatives, has
accelerated. The new photography financed under the Canadian parallel
project will shortly be available, by which time BAKOSURTANAL hopes to have
installed color photo processing equipment and to have fully trained
specialized teams of operatives in the various map production fields.
TRANSPORTATION
Fertilizer Distribution
Loan No. 1139   Fertilizer Distribution:  US$68 Million Loan of July 10,
1975; Effective Date: August 28, 1975: Closing Date:
December 31. 1980
The project has been substantially completed at a cost 20% below
the appraisal estimate. Work on the five original port depots is completed
and the sixth depot, which was approved by the Bank in 1977 as an extension
financed from project savings, is nearing completion. All four ships,
including the additional ship approved in 1977 and paid for from project
savings, have been delivered and 52 of 58 inland storage depots are
completed. All the ships, port depots and storage depots are operating.
Shipping operations have not been as cost effective as they could be, due
to some extent to existing large stocks of fertilizer requiring ships to be
used for longer distances for exports. Costs have also been lncreased
because of delays in ship turnaround time caused by the need to clear
customs on inter-island voyages and the cumbersome procedures involved.
These matters were taken up with PUSRI and improvements are expected.
Highways
Loan No. 1236   Fourth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of April 15. 1976;
Effective Date: August 13, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
All key activities in the implementation schedule agreed with the
Government are completed but with delays of about one year. Construction of



- 45 -
ANNEX II
Page 21 of 24 pages
1,200 km are under way and a last retendered contract of 45 km should start in
several months. Some problems and delays in executing roads prevailed for
contracts started in 1976; delays were also encountered in awards of contracts
scheduled for 1977. The 1978 devaluation also contributed to a slower
apparent rate of disbursement as cost adjustments to rupiah construction
contracts had to be adjusted. While remedial measures taken in 1978/79 (and
others planned) have improved the rate of physical progress and disburse-
ments, project completion is still forecast at 15-18 months beyond the
loan's present closing date. Project costs in US$ are likely to be within
appraisal estimates but rupiah costs are up significantly due to
devaluation.
Loan No. 1696   Fifth Highway:  US$130 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Effective Date: August 28, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1984
This loan became effective in August; the initial implementation
has been slow.
Marine Transport
Credit No. 318 Inter-Island Fleet Rehabilitation: US$8.5 Million Credit of
June 28, 1972; Effective Date: October 19, 1972;
Closing Date: December 31, 1979
Due to sharply increased costs and lack of creditworthy applicants,
just over half the tonnage of shipping expected at appraisal will have been
rehabilitated. The Credit has been entirely committed, and has been closed.
Loan No. 1250   Second Shipping:  US$54 Million Loan of May 20. 1976;
Effective Date: October 8, 1976; Closing Date:
December 31, 1980
Although the delay in the appointment of a number of consultants had
caused a slow start to the project and slowed project implementation and dis-
bursements, progress has now been made in making effective consultant
contracts for sea transport planning (ISTS Team); for improving maritime
training (IMCO project); and for extending the contract for financial and
technical advisers to P.T. PANN, the project entity. Progress has also been
made by the new management of PANN and of the state shipping company, PELNI,
in their new roles and very encouraging financial results have been achieved
by applying cash control as proposed by consultants financed by the Bank. It
is likely though that only about 40% of the loan will be disbursed by the



-46-                      ANNEX II
Page 22 of 24 pages
December 31, 1980 closing date. Some of the major problems facing PANN in
acquiring and leasing ships are: (a) the effect of the 50% devaluation of the
rupiahin November 1978; (b, continued overtonnage in the fleet; and (c) the
reluctance of the Government in undertaking a ship scrapping program and in
enforcing its safety and ship classification regulations.
Ports
Loan No. 1337   Tanjung Priok Port Project:  US$32 Million Loan of
November 4. 1976; Effective Date: March 3, 1977;
Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Slow progress on the construction of Government-financed works has
delayed construction of the first component, but progress is being made. The
first construction contract for Basin III back up facilities has been awarded
and work is underway. The regional berths component has been delayed by slow
withdrawal of the Army, which was using the site for storage. However, 90%
of the land has now been released, the old buildings are being demolished,
and a contract for the new works has been awarded. These delays will probably
postpone overall completion of the project to mid-1981 but it i.s too early
to estimate the full effect of delays on project cost. The Closing Date has
been extended by two years from December 31, 1979.
TOURISM
Credit No. 479 Bali Tourism: US$16.0 Million Credit of June 14, 1974;
Effective Date: December 4. 1974; Closing Date: June 30,
1982
Construction of major infrastructure and related facilities for
the Nusa Dua tourism estate is under way and scheduled for completion in
mid-1980; construction of the hotel training school has been completed. The
completion of project components outside the estate (i.e. roads) is scheduled
for December 1981. Visitor traffic to Bali has been growing; it rose by 8%
in 1977 to 286,000 visitors and by a further 13% in 1978 to 328,000; the
trend continued in 1979 but the increase in the number of foreign visitors
has been modest due to re-emerging air access difficulties, particularly by
foreign carriers to Bali. Three potential hotel projects for Nusa Dua are
under consideration; however, while no final commitment has yet been made.
Construction of a first hotel at Nusa Dua is, however, expected to start in
1980 for completion by mid-1983.



- 47 -
ANNEX II
Page 23 of 24 pages
URBAN DEVELOPMENT
Loan No. 1040   Jakarta Urban Development:  US$25 Million Loan of
September 27, 1974; Effective Date: January 15, 1975;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The kampung improvement part of the project has been completed.
Some 2,080 ha have been upgraded, compared with the original plan of 1,980 ha.
The Klender sites and services component is about 98% complete. Of the total,
6,872 lots have been allocated to date, about 6,500 lots having been occupied.
The entire 7,250 units are expected to be available by March 1980, at which
time the project would be substantially completed.
Loan No. 1336   Second Urban Development:  US$52.5 Million Loan of
November 4, 1976; Effective Date: March 28, 1977;
Closing Date: March 31, 1980
The project consists of provision of basic sanitary facilities
including footpaths, drainage, water supply and human waste disposal to about
3,000 ha of densely populated areas in Jakarta and 374 ha in Surabaya.
Community health workers are to be trained under a pilot program in both
cities. The project progress is generally according to schedule. Upgrading
costs for the first two-year program have been within the appraisal estimates.
However, the costs for the third-year program was affected to some degree
by the rupiah devaluation on November 15, 1978. About 3,435 ha of kampungs
in Jakarta and 441 ha of kampungs in Surabaya have been covered so far,
benefitting a total population of about 1.4 million. About 180 community
health workers in Jakarta and 45 in Surabaya have been trained and are
working in the kampungs. Land acquisition problems still continue to cause
some delays in completing the requisite number of health facilities.
However, these difficulties are generally being overcome.
Loan No. 1653   Third Urban Development:  US$54 Million Loan of January 31,
1979; Effective Date: September 26, 1979; Closing Date:
December 31, 1983
The project provides basic infrastructural facilities including
roads, footpaths, water supply, and sanitation to impoverished, low-income
kampungs (neighborhoods) in the cities of Jakarta (750 ha), Surabaya (580 ha),
Ujung Pandang (375 ha), Semerang (310 ha) and Surakarta (170 ha), benefitting
a total population of about 2.25 million. A comprehensive solid waste
management program is also included in Jakarta and Surabaya, together with a
drainage program in Surabaya. About 775 community health workers are to be
trained in the above two cities to work in the improved kampungs.



- 48 -
ANNEX II
Page 24 of 24 pages
WATER SUPPLY
Loan No. 1049   Five Cities Wlater Supply:  US$14.5 Million Loan
of October 31, 1974; Effective Date: May 21, 1975;
Closing Date:  June 30, 1Q80
Due to administrative and managerial problems the project is now
running 24 months behind schedule. All equipment supply and all major civil
works contracts, with the exception of pipe laying contracts (delayed
because of slow procurement of pipe), are under execution. A cost overrun
of about 30%, caused by increases in local costs due to project delays and
devaluation, is expected. The reorganization of the Directorate of Sanitary
Engineering has been completed, and the establishment and development of
local water enterprises is proceeding satisfactorily. Also, disbursements
are expected to accelerate now that contracts are signed and equipment and
supplies are being delivered.
Loan No. 1709   Second Water Supply:  US$36 Million Loan of June 1, 1979;
Not yet effective; Closing Date: December 31, 1984
This loan has not yet been declared effective.



- 49 -
ANNEX III
INDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Section I: Timetable of Key Events
(a) Time taken to prepare the project: 12 months.
(b) Project prepared by: Government of Indonesia/IDA, drawing on
feasibility studies by the FAO/IBRD Cooperative Program and by
Indonesian consulting groups.
(c) Date of first presentation to IDA: April 1977.
Date of first IDA mission to consider project: September 1977.
(d)  Date of departure of appraisal mission:  May 1978.
Date of departure of reappraisal mission: June 1979.
(e)  Date of completion of negotiations:  December 1979
(f)  Planned date of effectiveness:  May 1980
Section II:  Special IDA Implementation Actions
None.
Section III:  Special Conditions
(a)  Assistance to each participating smallholder would be limited
to 2 hectares under the project, the second hectare being
developed three years after the first (except in the case of
mechanical land preparation, where both hectares would be
developed simultaneously) (para. 40);
(b)  A detailed implementation program for the use of funds for pilot
programs and the start-up of future projects (para. 43) would be
a condition of disbursement for that component; and
(c)  A condition of disbursement for the credit component of the
project would be the signing of a Financing Agreement between
BI, on behalf of the Government, and BRI, and a Subfinancing
Agreement between BRI and the DGE (para. 50).






IBRD 14714
109i                                         110w                                         or -   11T   . yR'  :                            -PROVtNCIAL BOUPNDARIES          DEC  BER 1979
South  Cha"  5Se    BRUNE   a E
[ 5 5 U t /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I,                                                                                           r)',D EAS.'    -0.T   C , 
South~~~~~~~ er  en=,- 5AUiE(S                                                                                                                          S)NGAPR          sL&   . ,+ r2 KALIMANTA
Se 57 r/~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ A  L\ SA\>A Y       S I A
s o LI t h                                                                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Argo WES
of        A/t M A A AA
_5w  a  "' <:/  J ~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2 '\ ':' ' g 1°-~~~~~a                                                                                                      ENRA
SUMATRA                           KA1INTA    \ 
Kerimunim~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ND Drda                                                                   0 N    S I NTNAC_z
Sea  ~~~~~~~5'11  Samba  SMA
5S   A,eM    B    A   S                                 1.    A     ' g        I     A                           _ _(       _ _D I S T  RI C   T  
V As g   z      SANGAU7I
MsINOAWAN7                         tum)rD I S T R     C T        J                                                                                                                    B
-agk Saoarn         Bnkye
SINGKAWm             M         0NTIANAK Perig                 2                                               Na         SINTANO
f  -   --,                                                                                           SINTANR
RongkaIlr                                D,IDISTRICT
Se, Dun  MenicIn                     2 d5)DIS                             RIC
MEMPAWA                7h a                                 ,
PO N T I_ A N A KINDONESIA
SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
SINTANGDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Ws                                                                                                                                                                    ANJUNGAN PROJECT AREA DS
PO,TIANAK                                                                                                                   West Kalimantan  Province
NEhedetv )rlationsvried;rtrdthe  \   -/<   .'   L)lb | K[CT              ,/  Or             2jS               50                     _    _   DISTPROJECT AREAS
bb,;eschorzonoXfhismap   E   '      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Tma
TXrsntswt^*salsearuerif                                                                                                  P FMU HEADQMARTERS
Ricoh             A      ~~~~~PMU SUJB-UNIT OFFICES
/                                                                                              ®      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCIAL CARITALS
"'5 Ib                                                                                                                                      Q      DISTT  D TCAPITALS
MAIN  ROADS
TWhis ii5ph bahssprepared by thmtLfttAN.                                                                                                                                ___        OTHER ROADS
th sivim*i f th* miLer *f                                                  KEAPN
t    ofrpnet  (hi. iti ttstda                 N'0                                                                          MILES                                              RIVERS
h= -jreese- -s -IE ma                                                            DITIC                                            I55                                               DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
dstishmi  P5th parr the
Wsddteei -td Its ethiatee, oc                                                                                           0         25        SD                                      NTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
LiseBmet s the, Legw w-KILOMETERS
109'                                         UPD                                           II                                           11 2'                                           1






IBRD 14715
l-<                           -                             ! -                  -4 9 .,., a 104°  IX )  105°  <  t DECEMBER 1979
-   MUSI BANYUASIN  DISTRICT
NORTi,                                                                             SEKAYU
)SUMATR'    MA          L A  Y  S IA                 tAY
RIv;\PAU;   O INGAPORE
FA       LLLDE               UBE
WESTk +, t KA  ANTAN  -D                                                                                               OP ET  3P-
JXAMBI,  -                                            .X/--,                                                            / J 1
tsLvGK<5,MmUA TN   o       N <S!A                                                                      umba_  ''/g
Area of Mapt -9~_.    .   I N DONESIiA        MUSIR  A  /MS                                                                                                      POE        AREA
AMUGJLa5d                              ITIC            Z/                     / r\       J                                           KOMERINGILIR
lo  13\Teb,ng Ting                     <1                   ',b
2  ;_ /    /                           >M~~~~~~~~~~UARAENIM         t                         g/XINDNE  
i  t                      \\\   ~~~~~~~~~~LAHAT >0 IDISTRICT    /                   I        -           /            SMALLHOLDER RUBBER
-,  lAHAT , g ~LA-i d                                                                                                         DEVELOPMENT  PROJECT
S   vC T            <          /  5   S                     X           ,            ) ~~~~~~~~~PABUMULI5H PROJC  AREA
South Sumatra Province
_4-                                                                                                                                                       C        PROJECT AREA
.       //*PMU HEADQUARTERS
®  PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
0      DISTRICT CAPITALS
MAIN ROADS
OTHER ROADS
OGAN    K  IN  LU                                    ~~~~     ~~~~~~~~-F---~   RAILROADS
< ,           )                                            \      /   /\   %\                         C~~~~~~~~~~~DSTIC  R IV ER S
.DT T   -   - DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
_p t7  i   <   oPo   <                                           9         1u    \k10                         _   _ PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
Z__ >/+           .                                    Mrodoa          :                                     -   INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
/ -~ e , A                              \   '6                          >                       1                   IAMPUNG
of the reodoro of th' report to o'h,oh it io atched  o               PROVINCE                                  0 60)  80  100 K7,nete,s
Thi. map has boee prepared by the World Brmk's stvff acfu cefy tht c ct ,                                            )h                              0         25   50     0        75 MK1ees
boptWdehes showc on this ts3p do not Irpfy. on rht pert of 4he Worfd Brnk eof fts  . \
rrffi.*tos, cty judgmrenrt otn the legal stattun of eny territory or any eendounretnt or     :;     
acceptance ofSuch boundaries.        103'          I::      :52   : _040                                                                                     105o






IBRD 14716
100                          ior                                  IO3~~~                            DECEMBER 197902
INDONESIA
ACEN      S.      ~~~Sou,fh Chi,,a $eTJ                                                                                    SMALLHOLDER  RUBBER
O~~~~r~~~~o ~~DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
SUMATRA  A                                                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TALUK  KUANTAN  PROJECT AREA
*L AYSIARiov, Province
~  INGAPORE                                                                                                               POETAE
AIA    a AQMapRJCTAE
KLIMANTAN                                                                                          A    PMU HEADQUARTERS
I7~~~ S MATRA   -                             5hKJ~~~~~F3  ](;KA[ [IS                                              ®    PROVINCIAL CAPITALS
o    DISTRICT CAPITALS
GROWS S,MATR                              L) ~~~~~~~~IUsRICT                                              -       MAIN POADS
____OTHER RtOADS
Z4MPUNO                                                                            -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~--~~~~~~sz~~~~~~ ~RIVERS
0 N E  t A    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~- -DISTRICT BOU4NDARIES
lhdio,, Oceon'                             7                                                                1-  -PROVINCIAL BOUNDARIES
--INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
160.~AV
K A MP A IP         PAKANBARU                                                           .
I C T~~~KPPC,~§
w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
LPatka .0/  .                        
s (i m                                                                          rl ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N D R A GI R I
DISTRICT           ~~~~KILOMETERS
D I S T R I CoT25                SD
r cl i a r,                                                                                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MILES
00~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~l4



