Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  11/08/2010 
Report No.:  AC5766
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Kyrgyz Republic 
Project ID:  P118423 
Project Name:  Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Grant Fund -2 
Task Team Leader:  Aisuluu Bedelbayeva 
Estimated Appraisal Date: November 22, 
2010 
Estimated Board Date: December 10, 2010 
Managing Unit:  ECSHD 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  Pre-primary education (100%) 
Theme:  Education for all (100%) 
SPF Amount (US$m): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative 
6.00
6.00 
Environmental Category: C - Not Required 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [X] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
or OP 8.00 (Rapid Response to Crises and Emergencies) 
Yes [ ] 
No [ ] 
2. Project Objectives 
The Project's objective is to support the Government's introduction of the national school 
preparation program aimed at ensuring smooth transition to school for 5-6 year olds.   
 
3. Project Description 
The proposed project includes three components: (1) Quality enhancement of the 
mandatory preparation program; (2) Improving the learning environment; and (3) Policy 
and implementation support.  
 
The proposed Project will support the Government#s recent introduction of the national 
school preparation program aimed at ensuring smooth transition to school for 5-6 year 
olds by financing teacher training and mentoring, and purchasing and distribution of 
teaching and learning materials for the national pre-schooling program.  The Project 
would also support the furnishing of primary classrooms offering school preparation 
program for 5-6 year olds in 1365 schools located in 4 targeted oblasts (Osh, Jalal-Abad, 
Talas, Issyk-Kul).  
 
Page  2
Component 1 # Quality enhancement of the mandatory preparation program (US$0.7 
million)  
 
The objective of this component is to increase the knowledge and skills of primary 
school teachers responsible for the delivery of the school preparation program (3,200 
teachers countrywide) through training and facilitate the application of the acquired 
knowledge and skills in the classroom through provision of a mentoring program.  
 
Sub-component 1.1: Teacher Training  
 
This sub-component aims to impart knowledge and skills through training of primary-
school teachers in preschool pedagogies.  
 
Sub-component 1.2: Mentoring  
 
This sub-component aims to facilitate the application of the acquired knowledge and 
skills in the classroom through training of regional education department methodologists 
in mentoring and providing mentoring to trained teachers.  
 
Component 2 # Improving the learning environment (US$4.6 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to improve the learning environment for preparatory 
program in targeted oblasts and to ensure adequate teaching and learning materials 
provision for 240-hours program in all schools.  
 
Sub-component 2.1: Equip classrooms with learning aids  
 
This sub component will provide all schools, offering the school preparatory program, a 
standard package of learning and teaching materials, including developmental games, 
reading books, visual aids and methodological materials sufficient to support the 240 
hours.  
 
Sub-component 2.2: Provision of furniture to schools  
 
This sub component will provide all schools, offering school preparation program, in 4 
targeted oblasts with children#s and teachers# tables and chairs, blackboards and storage 
shelves or cupboards for the resources.  
 
Component 3 # Policy and implementation support (US$0.5 million)  
 
Component 3 will assist the Government to promote the program and to identify issues 
of policy and practice to improve it and will provide support for the effective fiduciary 
management, reporting and monitoring of the Project activities.  
 
Sub-component 3.1: Policy study and dissemination  
 
This component will fund activities to inform and facilitate policy development for the 
national school-preparatory course, public awareness and advocacy initiatives to inform 
and orientate parents to the importance of sending their children to the preparatory 
program, and knowledge sharing activities.  
 
Page  3
Sub-component 3.2: Project management and monitoring  
 
This sub-component aims to ensure that Grant activities are implemented on time and in 
a
satisfactory manner.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
In terms of geographical coverage, the Project interventions are nationwide with the 
exception of provision of furniture which is limited to 4 targeted oblasts (Osh, Jalal-
Abad, Talas, Issyk-Kul). The Project covers learning materials, furniture, teacher training 
&
mentoring and equipment to regional education departments. No civil works are 
envisaged.  
 
The project is rated Category C, and no environmental management plan is necessary.   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
 X 
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X 
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X 
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X 
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X 
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
N/A   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
N/A   
 
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
N/A   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
N/A   
Page  4
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
N/A   
 
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Resettlement Action Plan/Framework/Policy Process: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
Pest Management Plan: 
Was the document disclosed 
prior to appraisal?
 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management and/or Physical Cultural Resources, 
the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of the Environmental 
Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
The project is rated Category C, and no environmental management plan is necessary.   
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
N/A 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
N/A 
Page  5
groups and local NGOs? 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
N/A 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
N/A 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
N/A 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
N/A 
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Aisuluu Bedelbayeva 
11/02/2010 
Environmental Specialist: 
 
 
Social Development Specialist 
 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Sector Manager: 
Mr Alberto Rodriguez 
11/02/2010 
Comments:   
