Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATA SHEET 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AC4958 
 
Date ISDS Prepared/Updated: 01/04/2010 
 
I.  BASIC INFORMATION 
 
A.  Basic Project Data 
 
Country: Kyrgyz Republic 
Project ID: P118423 
Project Name: Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Grant Fund -2 
Task Team Leader: Aisuluu Bedelbayeva 
Estimated Appraisal Date: April 20, 2010 
Estimated Board Date: May 28, 2010 
Managing Unit: ECSHD 
Lending Instrument: Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector: Pre-primary education (100%) 
Theme: Education for all (100%) 
SPF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 Borrower 
0.00 
 
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative 
6.00
6.00 
B.  Project Objectives [from section 2 of PCN] 
The objective of the project is to increase the access to quality preschool services in rural 
communities, and thereby improve children#s readiness for learning.  The key indicators for 
measuring this objective are:  (a) expanded enrolment in preschool programs in rural 
communities and country-wide; (b) improved quality of pre-school programs measured by the 
availability of trained teachers and relevant learning materials.   
 
C.  Project Description [from section 3 of PCN] 
The project consists of three components: (a) expanding countrywide access to alternative 
preschool institutions; (b) improving quality of preschool human resources; and (c) enhancing 
capacity for policy development.  
 
Component 1 - Expanding access to preschool services  
 
The Project would support efforts to increase preschool access to 3-6 year olds, including 
school readiness for 7 year olds through the Government#s 100 hours school preparation 
program. Project#s interventions would focus on the poorest and most vulnerable communities. 
Page  2
Two sub-components would cover: (a) an ECD advocacy program and (b) the financial/technical 
assistance for expanding access.  
 
Component 2 - Improving Quality of Services  
 
This component would support efforts to raise the quality of preschool education by upgrading 
human resources among preschool professionals. Two sub-components would (a) support the 
design and set in motion a mentoring system; and (b) foster professional development of ECD 
educators.  
 
Component 3 - Enhancing Capacity for Policy and Service Delivery  
 
Under this component the Project would support efforts to strengthen the Government#s 
capacity to formulate and establish ECD policies and mechanisms to assure adequate and timely 
regional and local ECD service delivery.  Two sub-components would help set up the national 
policy framework and monitoring/evaluation system, and support the implementation process.   
 
D.  Project location (if known) 
N/A   
 
E.  Borrower’s Institutional Capacity for Safeguard Policies [from PCN] 
Under the first year allocation of FTI-CF Grant -1 rehabilitation of schools was satisfactory 
completed. Capacity of the Project Implementation Unit and the Ministry of Education and 
Science has been strengthened in supervision of works and compliance with the Bank safeguards 
policies. PIU relevant staff participated in Bank's safeguards training.   
 
F.  Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Mr Jeyhun Sahavat Sultanov (ECSHD) 
 
II.  SAFEGUARD POLICIES THAT MIGHT APPLY 
Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No TBD 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
EA will be done in January.   
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
 X  
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
 X  
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
 X  
Physical Cultural Resources (OP/BP 4.11) 
 X  
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
 X  
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X  
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X  
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X  
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X  
Environmental Category:
 
B
-
Partial Assessment 
Page  3
III.  SAFEGUARD PREPARATION PLAN 
 
A.  Target date for the Quality Enhancement Review (QER), at which time the PAD-stage ISDS 
would be prepared:  N/A 
 
B.  For simple projects that will not require a QER, the target date for preparing the PAD-stage 
ISDS:  01/25/2010 
 
C.  Time frame for launching and completing the safeguard-related studies that may be needed.  
The specific studies and their timing
1
should be specified in the PAD-stage ISDS. 
EMP Checklist to be completed and disclosed prior to appraisal   
 
IV.  APPROVALS 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Aisuluu Bedelbayeva 
12/10/2009 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Ms Agnes I. Kiss 
12/10/2009 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Ms Mamta Murthi 
12/10/2009 
Comments:   
1
Reminder: The Bank's Disclosure Policy requires that safeguard-related documents be disclosed before appraisal (i) at the 
InfoShop and (ii) in-country, at publicly accessible locations and in a form and language that are accessible to potentially affected 
persons.
 
Page  4
