Page  1
PROJECT INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
Report No.:  AB6063 
Project Name 
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Grant Fund -2 
Region 
EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA 
Sector 
Pre-primary education (100%) 
Project ID 
P118423 
Borrower(s) 
KYRGYZ REPUBLIC 
Implementing Agency 
Rural Education Project Implementation Unit 
Ministry of Education and Science of the Kyrgyz Republic 
257, Tynystanova street, room 410 
Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic 
Environment Category 
[
]
A
[] B   [ x] C   [ ] FI   [ ] TBD (to be determined) 
Date PID Prepared 
December 1, 2010 
Date of Appraisal 
Authorization 
November 18, 2010 
Date of Board Approval 
December 30, 2010 
1. 
Country and Sector Background 
 
1. 
The Kyrgyz Republic is a small landlocked country with a population of about 5.2 million people. 
Young people under 18 years of age make up 37 percent
 of the country’s population which puts a very 
heavy pressure on the educational budget. 
2.  Since independence in 1991, the Kyrgyz Republic has made an enormous advance towards the 
creation of a liberal market economy with the aim of promoting sustained economic growth and fighting 
poverty, and has sought international integration through trade and investment. Prior to the political 
disturbances in Bishkek in April 2010 and the outburst of ethnic conflict in southern Kyrgyzstan in June 
2010, the Kyrgyz economy was on a recovery path from the global economic crisis, with GDP projected 
to rise by 4.5 percent in 2010. However, these events resulted in significant shocks to the economy which 
are expected to lead to a significant contraction in the economy compared to the pre-crisis growth 
estimate, and to a significant loss in income per head.  
3. 
Despite some difficult economic circumstances and volatile political experiences since independence 
in 1991, the Kyrgyz Government has sought to re-shape the inherited Soviet model of education along 
new lines reflecting a new value system and changing socio-economic circumstances.  
4.  Expenditure as a percentage of GDP was low by international standards at the beginning of the 
decade, but educational expenditure has been increasing steadily in the Kyrgyz Republic since then, 
reflecting a strategic priority assigned to education by the Government. While access to schooling 
provision is good overall, the most significant issue of the reform agenda is improving the quality of the 
education provided, at all levels. 
5.  Despite the increase in the number of preschools, the Kyrgyz Republic has one of the lowest and 
inequitable access rates to preschool programs in the Central Asian region: in 2009 enrolment among 3-6 
year olds stood at about 12% (National Statistical Committee) with striking coverage disparities between 
urban (27.7 percent) and rural areas (5.4 percent).  
2. Objectives 
Page  2
6. 
The Project’s objective is to support the Government’s introduction of the national school preparation 
program aimed at ensuring smooth transition to school for 5-6 year olds. 
 
3. 
Rationale for Bank Involvement 
 
7.  Kyrgyzstan was successful in fully utilizing the first year allocation of FTI grant (FTI-1) which 
focused on improving the learning environment in pre-schools and primary schools, and raising 
awareness of communities and parents on the importance of early childhood education (ECE). FTI-1 
grant closed on May 31, 2010. 
8.  The FTI CF allocation will to ensure smooth transition to school for 5-6 year olds by providing 
teaching and learning materials, furniture, teacher training and mentoring support, as well as support for 
research and evaluation activities.  The FTI CF Grant provides support to fill a gap where other donors 
are not able to respond and focuses on the areas of the program deemed critical for the child’s chances of 
success in the early primary grades.  
4. Description 
 
9.  The proposed project includes three components: (1) Quality enhancement of the mandatory 
preparation program; (2) Improving the learning environment; and (3) Policy and implementation 
support.  
Component 1 
–
Quality enhancement of the mandatory preparation program (US$0.7 million)
 
10. The objective of this component is to increase the knowledge and skills of primary school teachers 
responsible for the delivery of the school preparation program (3,200 teachers countrywide) through 
training and facilitate the application of the acquired knowledge and skills in the classroom through 
provision of a mentoring program.   
Sub-component 1.1: Teacher Training
 
11. This sub-component aims to impart knowledge and skills through training of primary-school teachers 
in preschool pedagogies. 
Sub-component 1.2: Mentoring  
12. This sub-component aims to facilitate the application of the acquired knowledge and skills in the 
classroom through training of regional education department methodologists in mentoring and providing 
mentoring to trained teachers.  
Component 2 – Improving the learning environment (US$4.6 million) 
 
13. The objective of this component is to improve the learning environment for preparatory program in 
targeted oblasts and to ensure adequate teaching and learning materials provision for 240-hours program 
in all schools. 
Sub-component 2.1: Equip classrooms with learning aids 
 
14. This sub component will provide all schools, offering the school preparatory program, a standard 
package of learning and teaching materials, including developmental games, reading books, visual aids 
and methodological materials sufficient to support the 240 hours.  
Page  3
Sub-component 2.2: Provision of furniture to schools
 
15. This sub component will provide all schools, offering school preparation program, in 4 targeted 
oblasts (Osh, Jalal-Abad, Talas, Issyk-Kul) with 
children’s and teachers’ tables and chairs, blackboards 
and storage shelves or cupboards for the resources. 
Component 3 
–
Policy and implementation support (US$0.5 million) 
 
16. This component will assist the Government to promote the program and to identify issues of policy 
and practice to improve it and will provide support for the effective fiduciary management, reporting and 
monitoring of the Project activities.   
Sub-component 3.1: Policy study and dissemination 
 
17. This component will fund activities to inform and facilitate policy development for the national 
school-preparatory course, public awareness and advocacy initiatives to inform and orientate parents to 
the importance of sending their children to the preparatory program, and knowledge sharing activities.    
Sub-component 3.2: Project management and monitoring
 
18. This sub-component aims to ensure that Grant activities are implemented on time and in a satisfactory 
manner. 
5. Financing 
Source: ($m.) 
Borrower 0 
Education for All - Fast Track Initiative 
6 
 Total 
6 
 
6. Implementation 
 
19. The MoES is the implementing agency for FTI-2 grant.  Overall project coordination will be the 
responsibility of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) established in 2004 under the MoES.  The PIU is 
adequately staffed and equipped, and has almost six years of experience in managing IDA-financed Rural 
Education Project (REP) and FTI-1 grant, including financial management and procurement.   
20. Other key institutions involved in implementing the project are: the Regional Education Departments 
(RED) at the rayon and city level, the Methodological Centers at the oblast level; the Kyrgyz Academy of 
Education (KAE), as well as regional Teacher Training Institutes (TTI). 
7. Sustainability 
 
21. 
Sustainability of a Project’s activities depends upon government ownership at national and local 
levels.  In terms of national strategy and policy, the Project is fully in line with agreed plan to introduce a 
240 hours preparatory program that is school–based and utilizes existing primary level teachers.   
22. The program design and implementation plan reflect discussion about financial and managerial 
sustainability: it will use existing teachers and offer them a way to make up teaching hours lost by the 
rationalization of school program.  The program will also use existing rooms in the school network that 
are available because of rationalization and demographic shifts.  This simplifies the organizational and 
institutional responsibilities. The decision to provide a 240 hour program is based on calculations of 
financial viability and sustainability.   
Page  4
23. To contribute to the sustainability of in-service training, the Project has a close partnership with the 
national institution responsible for in-service teacher training, the Kyrgyz Academy of Education (KAE).  
This will not only build the capacities of the KAE to develop and deliver such trainings in the future, but 
it is also expected that the KAE will formally integrate the course into its program of in-service trainings 
thus institutionalizing school-readiness within the education system. 
8. 
Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector 
 
24. Experience and lessons learned from the first phase of the EFA-CF program and from the 
currently active IDA-supported operation are reflected in the project design and include the 
following:   
·
Avoid the creation of practices and institutions for which there are no budgets, posts or 
legal recognition; 
·
Given the short duration of the Grant, make full use of the implementation arrangements 
that are already in place; 
·
Given the short duration of the Grant, simple and measurable outcome and output 
indicators have to be adapted; 
·
Due to the short implementation period of the Grant it is necessary to emphasize 
implementation readiness during the preparation phase to avoid delays
.
A.  Alternatives considered and reasons for rejection.  
 
25. Various alternatives were considered during project design, including the use of low-cost pre-school 
alternatives to be provided in non-formal settings, such as private homes or other premises, as is currently 
done in other donor funded projects promoting community-based kindergartens (CbK). However, due to 
concerns about the physical conditions, particularly pertaining to safety, water and sanitation, child-
protection and systemic capacity to monitor and maintain standards this alternative was rejected.  
26. 
Another project design considered for FTI-2 included the community driven development (CDD) 
mechanism to channel grants to local communities in response to successful micro-project proposals for 
creating new pre-school capacity. However, reliable provision of teacher salaries from the State budget 
was of concern to stakeholders as was the fact that the existing legislative framework does not provide a 
clear basis for the legal operation of these alternative models.  
 
27. Activities on improving the physical infrastructure of schools were considered for support. In 
particular, rehabilitation of 24 schools was considered, but rejected. The MoES has opted for a provision 
of furniture to 1,365 schools instead given the acute shortages of furniture that would affect the successful 
introduction and delivery of the school preparatory course for 5-6 year olds and given that first allocation 
of FTI grant has already financed rehabilitation of schools. Provision of furniture is limited to four 
targeted oblasts given that under the first allocation of FTI grant schools in three other oblasts of country 
have been provided with furniture. Further, several development partners, including the UN agencies, the 
Asian Development Bank, the Eurasia Foundation of Central Asia, the International Committee of the red 
Cross (ICRC), ACTED and several others have been providing immediate humanitarian and social 
assistance, including rehabilitation of damaged schools in the south, to meet the urgent needs of the 
affected areas following the April and June events. 
Page  5
Safeguard Policies (including public consultation) 
No civil works are required. The project is rated Category C, and no environmental management plan is 
necessary.  
 
Safeguard Policies Triggered by the Project 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment
(
OP
/
BP
4.01) [ 
] 
[X] 
Natural Habitats (
OP
/
BP
4.04) [ 
] 
[X] 
Pest Management (
OP 4.09
)
[
]
[X] 
Indigenous Peoples (
OP
/
BP
4.10) [ 
] 
[X] 
Physical Cultural Resources (
OP/BP 4.11
)
[
]
[X ] 
Involuntary Resettlement (
OP
/
BP
4.12) [ 
] 
[X] 
Forests (
OP
/
BP
4.36) [ 
] 
[X] 
Safety of Dams (
OP
/
BP
4.37) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects on International Waterways (
OP
/
BP
7.50) [ 
] 
[X] 
Projects in Disputed Areas (
OP
/
BP
7.60)
*
[
]
[X] 
9. 
List of Factual Technical Documents 
 
-
Proposal 
–
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Grant Fund 1  
-
Asian Development Bank – Community-Based Early Childhood Development Project 
(September 2003) 
-
Asian Development Bank – Second Community-Based Early Childhood Development Project 
(July 2007) 
-
Aga Khan Foundation  (John Evans Report) – Evaluation of Early Childhood Development 
Programme (September 2008)  
-
Aga Khan Foundation , Public Foundation MSDSP KG (Annual Report 2008) 
-
Draft Education Development Strategy of the Kyrgyz Republic 2011-2020 
-
Education Development Strategy of the Kyrgyz Republic (2007-2010) 
-
Population and Housing Census of the Kyrgyz Republic of 2009 
-
Technical Proposal – FTI Second Year Grant Allocation (February 2009) 
-
Appraisal of the Primary Education Component of an Education Sector Plan (October 2006) 
-
UNICEF - No Wolves along the way 
 
10. Contact 
point 
Contact: Aisuluu Bedelbayeva 
Title: Education Specialist 
Tel: 5763+252 
Email: abedelbayeva@worldbank.org 
Location: Bishkek, Kyrgyz Republic (IBRD) 
 
11. 
For more information contact: 
The InfoShop 
The World Bank 
1818 H Street, NW 
*
By supporting the proposed project, the Bank does not intend to prejudice the final determination of the parties' claims on the 
disputed areas
 
Page  6
Washington, D.C. 20433 
Telephone:  (202) 458-4500 
Email: pic@worldbank.org 
Web: http://www.worldbank.org/infoshop
 
