Page  1
The World Bank 
1818 H Street N.W. 
(202) 477-1234 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
 
Washington, D.C.  20433 
Cable Address:  INTBAFRAD 
I
NTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
U.S.A. 
Cable Address:  INDEVAS 
 
CONFORMED COPY 
February 21, 2011 
 
H.E. Mr. M. Mambetjanov  
Minister of Finance 
Ministry of Finance 
58 Erkindik Blvd. 
Bishkek City, 720040 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Re: Kyrgyz Republic:  Second Year Allocation of the Education For  
All Fast Track Initiative (EFA-FTI) Catalytic Trust Fund Project 
(FTI-2 Grant No. TF098844) 
 
Excellency: 
 
In response to the request for financial assistance made on behalf of the Kyrgyz Republic 
(“Recipient”), I am pleased to inform you that the International Development Association 
(“World Bank”), acting as administrator of grant funds provided under the EFA-FTI Catalytic 
Trust Fund (FTI-2), proposes to extend to the Recipient, a grant in an amount not to exceed 
 
Six 
Million United States Dollars (US$6,000,000) (“Grant”) on the terms and conditions set forth or 
referred to in this letter agreement (“Agreement”), which includes the attached Annex, to assist in 
the financing of the project described in the Annex (“Project”).  This Grant is funded out of the 
abovementioned trust fund for which the World Bank receives periodic contributions.  In 
accordance with Section 3.02 of the Standard Conditions (as defined in the Annex to this 
Agreement), the Recipient may withdraw the Grant proceeds subject to the availability of such 
funds. 
 
The Recipient represents, by confirming its agreement below, that it is authorized to enter 
into this Agreement and to carry out the Project in accordance with the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement.  
 
Please confirm the Recipient’s agreement to the foregoing by having an authorized 
official of the Recipient sign and date the enclosed copy of this Agreement, and returning it to 
the World Bank.  Upon receipt by the World Bank of this countersigned copy, this Agreement 
shall become effective as specified in Section 4.01 of the Annex to this Agreement; provided, 
however, that
 
the offer of this Agreement shall be deemed withdrawn if the World Bank has not 
received the countersigned copy of this Agreement within ninety (90) days after the date of  
Page  2
2
signature of this Agreement by the World Bank, unless the World Bank shall have established a 
later date for such purpose. 
 
Very truly yours, 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Motoo Konishi 
Regional Director, Central Asia 
Authorized Representative 
 
AGREED: 
 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
By:  
M. Mambetjanov 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Title: 
Minister of Finance 
 
Date: March 
23, 
2011 
 
Enclosures:   
 
(1) 
Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank Out of Various Funds, 
dated July 31, 2010 
(2) 
Disbursement Letter dated February 21, 2011, together with World Bank 
Disbursement Guidelines for Projects, dated May 1, 2006 
 
Page  3
3
Fast Track Initiative Catalytic Trust Fund-2 Grant No. TF098844 
ANNEX 
 
Article I 
Standard Conditions; Definitions 
 
1.01. 
Standard Conditions.
 
The Standard Conditions for Grants Made by the World Bank out 
of Various Funds dated July 31, 2010 
(“Standard Conditions”) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement. 
 
1.02. 
Definitions.  
Unless the context requires otherwise, the capitalized terms used in this 
Agreement have the meanings ascribed to them in the Standard Conditions or in this Agreement 
and the following additional terms shall have the meaning assigned to them below: 
 
a. “
Additional Condition of Effectiveness
”
means any condition of effectiveness specified 
in Section 4.01 of this Agreement. 
 
b. “
Implementation Steering Committee
”
means the Implementation Steering Committee 
for this Project established pursuant to Ministerial Order No. 653/1 of November 27, 
2007 and chaired by the Recipient’s Deputy Minister of Education and Science, having as 
its members, representatives of the donor community, heads of departments of the  
Ministry of Education and Science and the Director and specialists from the Project 
Implementation Unit, or any successor body or person to said committee. 
 
c. “
International Advisory Council on Education
”
means the Recipient’s International 
Advisory Council on Education established within the Ministry of Education and Science  
and chaired by the Recipient’s Vice Prime Minister of Social Affairs, having as its 
members, representatives of the donor community and representatives from the 
Recipient’s Government, or any successor body or person to said council. 
 
d. 
“Ministry of Education and Science”
 means the Recipient’s Ministry of Education and 
Science, or any successor thereto.  
 
e. “
Project Implementation Unit
”
means the Project Implementation Unit for this Project 
established under the World Bank’s Rural Education Project (IDA Grant No. H137-KG) 
in 2004 within the Ministry of Education and Science, or any successor thereto.  
 
f.  
“
Project Operational Manual
”
means the project operational manual of the Recipient, 
in form and substance satisfactory to the World Bank, for the Project setting out the 
procedures to be followed by the Recipient and the Project Implementation Unit in 
relation to the implementation of the Project.   
 
Article II 
Project Execution 
 
Page  4
4
2.01. 
Project Objectives and Description.
 
The objective of the Project is to support the 
Recipient’s introduction of the national school preparation program for a smooth transition to school 
for children between the ages of five (5) and six (6) years. The Project consists of the following three 
(3) Parts: 
 
Part1: Quality Enhancement of the School Preparation Program.
 
(a) Provision of training, knowledge and skills to primary school teachers in preschool 
pedagogies. 
(b) Facilitating the application of acquired knowledge and skills in the classroom through 
training of regional education department methodologists in mentoring as well as the 
provision of mentoring to trained teachers. 
 
Part 2: Improving the Learning Environment. 
 
(a) Provision to all schools nationwide of a standard package of learning and teaching 
materials, including developmental games, reading books, visual aids and methodological 
materials to support the school preparation program.  
(b) Provision to all schools in the four (4) identified oblasts, namely, Osh, Jalal-Abad, Talas 
and Issyk-Kul, of tables and chairs for teachers and students, blackboards and storage 
shelves or cupboards. 
 
Part 3: Policy and Implementation Support. 
 
(a) Contributing to policy development for the national school preparatory course, including 
public awareness and advocacy initiatives to inform and orientate parents to the importance 
of sending their children to preparatory programs.  
(b) Carrying out knowledge sharing activities in relation to the Project.  
(c) Provision of support for overall management and coordination of the Project, carrying 
out of fiduciary responsibilities as well as the carrying out of procurement, financial 
reporting and accounting activities including Project audit, and other reporting for the 
Project.  
 
2.02. 
Project Execution Generally.
 
The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives 
of the Project.  To this end, the Recipient shall carry out the Project through the Project 
Implementation Unit in accordance with the provisions of: (a) Article II of the Standard 
Conditions; (b) the “Guidelines on Preventing and Combating Fraud and Corruption in Projects 
Financed by IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and Grants”, dated October 15, 2006 and revised in 
January 2011 (“Anti-Corruption Guidelines”); (c) the Project Operational Manual and (d) this 
Article II. 
 
2.03. 
Institutional and Other Arrangements.
 
(a) The Recipient shall: (i) carry out the Project 
through the Project Implementation Unit, with due diligence and efficiency; (ii) promptly provide 
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for that purpose to the Project 
Implementation Unit; (iii) furnish, or cause the Project Implementation Unit to furnish, all 
information regarding the Project and the use of the proceeds of the Grant as the World Bank 
shall reasonably request; and (iv) from time to time exchange information and discuss, or cause 
the Project Implementation Unit to exchange information and discuss, with the World Bank’s 
representatives the progress and results of the Project.   
(b) The Implementation Steering Committee will provide strategic guidance and oversight to the 
Project Implementation Unit and shall also assist the Project Implementation Unit as required 
with planning, implementation and provision of timely inputs on the Project. The Implementation 
Page  5
5
Steering Committee will report to the International Advisory Council on Education, at its request, 
on the progress of the Project. 
 
(c) The Recipient shall maintain, until the completion of the Project, the Project Implementation 
Unit with personnel, resources and terms of reference as shall be required for the Project 
Implementation Unit to perform its duties in respect to the day-to-day implementation of the 
Project. The Project Implementation Unit shall carry out the Project in close co-operation with the 
United Nations Children’s Fund and local entities, including the Kyrgyz Academy of Education, 
the Regional Education Department, regional teacher training institutes, and oblast-level staff of 
methodological centers.   
 
(d) The Project Operational Manual shall contain detailed procedures for the carrying out project 
implementation and shall be in a form and content satisfactory to the Bank. The Project 
Operational Manual shall not be amended, waived or abrogated without the approval of the 
World Bank. 
 
2.04.  
Donor Visit
.
For the purposes of Section 2.09 of the Standard Conditions, the Recipient 
shall, upon the World Bank’s request, enable the representatives of the donors
 
to FTI-2 to visit 
any part of the Recipient’s territory for purposes related to the Project. 
 
2.05.
 
Project Monitoring, Reporting and Evaluation.  
(a) 
The Recipient shall monitor and 
evaluate the progress of the Project and prepare Project Reports in accordance with the provisions 
of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions and on the basis of the indicators acceptable to the 
World Bank.  Each Project Report shall cover the period of six (6) calendar months, and shall be 
furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of the period covered 
by such report.
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall prepare the Completion Report in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.06 of the Standard Conditions.  The Completion Report shall be furnished 
to the World Bank not later than three (3) months after the Closing Date.   
 
2.06. 
Financial Management.
 
(a) 
The Recipient shall ensure that a financial management 
system is maintained in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.07 of the Standard 
Conditions. 
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall ensure that interim unaudited financial reports for the Project 
are prepared and furnished to the World Bank not later than forty five (45) days after the end of 
each calendar semester, covering six (6) months, in form and substance satisfactory to the World 
Bank. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient shall have its Financial Statements audited in accordance with the 
provisions of Section 2.07 (b) of the Standard Conditions.  The first such audit of the Financial 
Statements shall cover the period of one (1) fiscal year of the Recipient and the last such audit 
shall be upon the completion of the Project.  The audited Financial Statements for each period 
shall be furnished to the World Bank not later than six (6) months after the end of such period. 
 
2.07. 
Procurement 
 
Page  6
6
(a) General
.
All goods, and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Grant shall be procured in accordance with the requirements set forth or 
referred to in: 
 
(i) 
Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA 
Credits” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised in October 2006 and May 2010 
(“Procurement Guidelines”), in the case of goods;  
 
(ii) 
Sections I and IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the World Bank in May 2004 and revised 
in October 2006 and May 2010 (“Consultant Guidelines”) in the case of consultants’ services; 
and 
 
(iii) 
the provisions of this Section, as the same shall be elaborated in the 
procurement plan prepared and updated from time to time by the Recipient for the Project in 
accordance with paragraph 1.16 of the Procurement Guidelines and paragraph 1.24 of the 
Consultant Guidelines (“Procurement Plan”). 
 
(b) Definitions
.
The capitalized terms used in the following paragraphs of this 
Section to describe particular procurement methods or methods of review by the World Bank of 
particular contracts, refer to the corresponding method described in the Procurement Guidelines, 
or the Consultant Guidelines, as the case may be. 
 
(c) 
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in sub-paragraph (ii) below, goods and 
services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding. The provisions of Paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, providing 
for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods manufactured in the 
territory of the Recipient. 
 
(ii) 
The following methods, other than International Competitive Bidding, 
may be used for procurement of goods and services for those contracts specified in the 
Procurement Plan:  
 
(A) Shopping; and  
(B) Direct Contracting. 
 
(d)  
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
(i) 
Except as otherwise provided in item (ii) below, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.
 
(ii) 
The following methods may be used for the procurement of consultants’ 
services for those assignments which the Bank agrees meet the requirements set forth in the 
Consultant Guidelines for their use:  (A) Quality-based Selection; (B) Selection under a Fixed 
Budget; (C) Least Cost Selection; (D) Selection based on Consultants’ Qualifications; and (E) 
Single-source Selection and (F) Selection of Individual Consultants, including Sole Source 
Selection. 
Page  7
7
(e) 
Review by the World Bank of Procurement Decisions
.
The Procurement Plan 
shall s
et forth those contracts which shall be subject to the World Bank’s Prior Review.  All other 
contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the World Bank.
 
Page  8
8
Article III 
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds 
 
3.01. 
Eligible Expenditures.
 
The Recipient may withdraw the proceeds of the Grant in 
accordance with the provisions of: (a) the Standard Conditions; (b) this Section; and (c) such 
additional instructions as the World Bank may specify by notice to the Recipient (including the 
“World Bank Disbursement Guidelines for Projects” dated May 2006, as revised from time to 
time by the World Bank and as made applicable to this Agreement pursuant to such instructions), 
to finance Eligible Expenditures as set forth in the following table.  The table specifies the 
categories of Eligible Expenditures that may be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant 
(“Category”), the allocations of the amounts of the Grant to each Category, and the percentage of 
expenditures to be financed for Eligible Expenditures in each Category: 
 
Category
 
Amount of the Grant Allocated 
(expressed in USD, and inclusive 
of price and cost contingencies)
 
Percentage of 
Expenditures to be 
Financed 
 
(1)  Goods,    Training,  
Operating Costs 
 
5,028,158 100% 
(2) Consultants’ services, 
including audits 
 
971,842 
100% of Local Expenditures; 
and 90% of Foreign 
Expenditures 
 
Total 6,000,000
For purposes of this Section 3.01, the following terms shall have the meanings assigned to them 
below:  
(a) “
Operating Costs
”
shall mean the expenses incurred by the Recipient and/or the 
Project Implementation Unit for the incremental expenses on account of Project 
implementation, management, monitoring, including, inter alia, office space rental, 
utilities, supplies, communications, maintenance costs, advertising expenses, bank 
charges, travel and per diems for employees of the Project Implementation Unit, salaries 
of contractual and temporary staff , but excluding any statutory contributions by 
employers to any social fund as well as salaries of officials and/or employees of the 
Recipient’s civil service.  
(b) “
Training
”
shall mean the expenses incurred by the Recipient and/or the Project 
Implementation Unit in connection with study tours, training courses, seminars, 
workshops and other training-related activities under the Project including, inter alia, 
travel costs and per diem for participants, trainers and trainees, trainers’ fees, rental of 
training facilities, preparation and reproduction of training materials and other activities 
incidental to the preparation and implementation of training activities. 
(c) “
Foreign Expenditure
”
means expenditure in the currency of any country other 
than that of the Recipient for consultants' services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Recipient. 
Page  9
9
(d) 
“
Local Expenditure
”
means expenditure in the currency of the Recipient for 
consultants' services supplied from the territory of the Recipient provided, however, that 
if the currency of the Recipient is also that of another country from the territory of which 
consultants’ services are supplied, an expenditure in such currency for such consultants’ 
services shall be deemed to be a Foreign Expenditure. 
 
3.02. 
Withdrawal Conditions.
 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, no withdrawal shall be made for payments made prior to the date of countersignature 
of this Agreement by the Recipient except that withdrawals up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed One Million Two Hundred Thousand United States Dollars (US$1,200,000) equivalent 
may be made for payments made prior to this date but on or after December 1, 2010, for Eligible 
Expenditures. 
3.03. 
Withdrawal Period.
 
The Closing Date referred to in Section 3.06 (c) of the Standard 
Conditions is August 31, 2012. 
Article IV 
Effectiveness; Termination
 
4.01.
 Effectiveness.
 The Additional Condition of Effectiveness consists of the following, 
namely, the Project Operational Manual in form and substance acceptable to the World Bank, has 
been furnished by the Recipient to the World Bank. 
 
4.02. 
Termination for Failure to Become Effective.
 
This Agreement and all obligations of the 
Parties under it shall terminate if it has not entered into effect within ninety (90) days after the 
date of signature of this Agreement by the World Bank, unless the World Bank, after 
consideration of the reasons for the delay, establishes a later date for the purpose of this Section. 
The World Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
 
Article V 
Recipient’s Representative; Addresses 
 
5.01. 
Recipient’s Representative
.
The Reci
pient’s Representative referred to in Section 7.02 
of the Standard Conditions is the Minister of Finance. 
5.02. 
Recipient’s Address
.
The Recipient’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the Standard 
Conditions is: 
Ministry of Finance 
58 Erkindik Blvd. 
Bishkek City, 720040 
Kyrgyz Republic 
 
Telex: 
    Facsimile: 
 
245-156 NUR KH 
(996-312) 661645 
Page  10
10 
 
5.03. 
World Bank’s Address
.
The World Bank’s Address referred to in Section 7.01 of the 
Standard Conditions is: 
 International 
Development 
Association 
 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable: 
  Telex: 
  Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS  
248423 
(MCI) 
or 
1-202-477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
64145 (MCI) 
 
