Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 22276
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT,
(COFN-04040; CPL-36710; SCL-3671A; SCPM-3671S; CPL-36720; CPL-36730; CPL-36740;
SCL-3674A; CPL-36750; CPL-36760; CPL-36770; CPL-36780; CPL-36790; CPL-36800; SCL-3673A)
ON
LOANS
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$201 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF TUNISIA
FOR A PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
June 26, 2001
Financial Sector, Private Sector, and Infrastructure
Middle East and North Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the perfornance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective 04/16/2001)
Currency Unit = Tunisian Dinar (TND)
TND 1.00 = US$ 0.6960
US$ 1.00 = 1.4369 TND
TND 1.000 = millimes 1,000
FISCAL YEAR
January 1  to December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AB                            Amen Bank
AL                            Amen Lease
ANPE                          Agence Nationale pour le Protection de l'Environnement
ATB                           Arab Tunisian Bank
ATL                           Arab Tunisian Lease
BCT                           Banque Centrale de Tunisie (Central Bank of Tunisia)
BDET                          Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie
BIAT                          Banque Internationale Arabe de Tunisie
BNA                           Banque Nationale Agricole
BNDT                          Banque Nationale de Developpement Touristique
BT                            Banque de Tunisie
BTEI                          Banque de Tunisie et des Emirate d'Investissement
BTKD                          Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement
CIL                           Compagnie Internationale de Leasing
ECAL                          Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
ECAL II                       Second Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan
EFRSL                         Economic and Financial Reforms Support Loan
Fl(s)                         Financial Institution(s)
GOT                           Govermment of Tunisia
IBRD                          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICR                           Implementation Completion Report
JBIC                          Japan Bank for International Cooperation
JEXIM                         Japan Export-Import Bank (merged into JBIC in 1999)
PFI(s)                        Participating Financial Intermediary(ies)
PICP                          Private Investment Credit Project
QAG                           Quality Assurance Group
SAR                           Staff Appraisal Report
STB                           Societe Tunisienne de Banque
STUSID                        Societe Tuniso-Seoudienne d'Investissement et de Developpement
TL                            Tunisie Leasing
UIB                           Union Internationale de Banques
UBCI                          Union Bancaire pour le Commerce et l'Industrie
UTL                           Union Tunisienne de Leasing
Vice President:    Jean-Louis Sarbib
Country Director:    Christian Delvoie
Sector Director:    Emmanuel Forestier
Task Team Leader:    Stephanie Gober



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
TUNISIA
PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                           1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                          1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                   5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     9
6. Sustainability                                                                        10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                         11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                       13
9. Partner Comments                                                                      14
10. Additional Information                                                              15
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                     16
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                     17
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                     18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                     19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                    21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                       22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                   23
Annex 8. Amen Lease Completion Report                                                   28
Annex 9. STB (ex-BDET) Completion Report                                                 29
Annex 10. BIAT Completion Report                                                        33
Annex 11. BTEI Completion Report                                                        37
Annex 12. BTKD Completion Report                                                        41
Annex 13. CIL Completion Report                                                         44
Annex 14. UBCI Completion Report                                                        47
Annex 15. Amen Bank Completion Report                                                   48
Annex 16. BNA Completion Report                                                         52
Annex 17. ATB Completion Report                                                         61
Annex 18. STUSID Completion Report                                                       63
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






Project ID: P005748                                       Project Name: Tunisia Private Investment Credit
Project
Team Leader: Stephanie Gober                              TL Unit: MNSIF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                        Report Date: June 27, 2001
1. Project Data
Name: Tunisia Private Investment Credit Project      L/C/TF Number: COFN-04040;
CPL-36710;
SCL-3671A;
SCPM-3671 S;
CPL-36720;
CPL-36730;
CPL-36740;
SCL-3674A;
CPL-36750;
CPL-36760;
CPL-36770;
CPL-36780;
CPL-36790;
CPL-36800;
SCL-3673A
CountryIDepartment: TUNISIA                                              Region: Middle East and North
Africa Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original            Revised/Actual
PCD:  03/04/1992                              Effective: 06/14/1994          06/14/1994
Appraisal:  03/14/1993                                MTR: 10/06/1995            10/06/1995
Approval:  12/09/1993                              Closing:  12/31/1999          12/31/2000
Borrower/lImplementing Agency:  GOT and 9 Tunisian PFIs/BCT and 15 Tunisian PFIs
Other Partners:  JBIC
STAFF                Current                                    At Appraisal
Vice President:      Jean-Louis Sarbib                          Caio Koch-Weser
Country Manager:     Christian Delvoie                          Harinder Kohli
Sector Manager:      Emmanuel Forestier                         Fran.ois Ettori
Team Leader at ICR:   Stephanie Gober                           Laurie Effron
ICR Primary Author:   Charles Sterling
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S



Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)     ICR
Quality at Entry: S                   HS
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
3.11   As stated in the Staff Appraisal Report: "The project [would] provide financially sound banks and
financial leasing companies access to term resources at market rates, to finance private firms, for the
current transitional period during which the long term capital markets will progressively emerge, for
financing private firms. By including a wide range of Fls using project funds according to Bank standards,
the project [would] encourage medium and long term lending on a sound basis, as well as greater
competition within the financial system."
3.12   The objectives and design of the Private Investment Credit Project (PICP) are assessed in light of
improvement in the financial viability of the Tunisian banking system. At the conceptual stage, the project
was to have been an industry finance operation, but focus was shifted to financial sector development. It
was decided that the PICP would concentrate on the strict application of stronger, recently enacted
prudential regulations, while providing termn resources to commercially viable financial institutions
operating in a liberalized sector but lacking sufficient instruments to mobilize and intermediate such
resources. Focusing on the financial soundness of participating institutions would support the development
objectives because high levels of non-perforning loans tie up resources that could be employed elsewhere.
The project design complemented an ongoing adjustment operation and planned IBRD intervention in
Tunisia's reform of the financial and industrial sectors, consisting primarily of: (a) the ongoing Economic
and Financial Reforms Support Loan (EFRSL), which aimed, inter alia, to develop financial markets
further and strengthen the new prudential regulations issued by the Central Bank of Tunisia (BCT); (b) the
Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL) under preparation; and (c) the subsequent Industry
Support Institutions Upgrading Project, which supported the Government's industrial competitive
upgrading initiative, known as Mise a Niveau, to help bring viable private sector industrial firms up to
intemational technological standards.
3.13    In compliance with agreements reached under the EFRSL, the BCT issued Circular 91-24 in
December 1991, which decreed new rules for capital adequacy, loan concentration limits, classification of
loans in arrears, and accrual of interest on non-performning loans. These rules would be applied to all
Tunisian banks. Also as agreed under the EFRSL, the Governrment of Tunisia (GOT) enacted a new
investment code that eliminated subsidies to the banking system that in the past, with below-market rates,
had tended to crowd out the demand for IBRD funds. Within this enabling environment, the PICP would
ensure (a) the protracted financial viability of the participating financial intermediaries (PFIs), with
emphasis on solvency, and (b) their operational efficiency, with emphasis on organizational structure and
the application of sound appraisal standards.
3.14     A key ancillary issue identified at the design stage concerned the future role of Tunisia's eight
development banks. Two of the development banks were owned by the GOT, while the other six were joint
ventures between the GOT and other Arab states. Although the development banks were very
well-capitalized, nearly all of them had a high ratio of non-performing loans, shortfalls in provisions, a low
recovery rate, an eroding equity base, as well as high operating costs and unreported losses. Losses were
- 2 -



compensated for by favorable interest spreads, mainly due to subsidies. It was evident to both the GOT
and IBRD that the development banks no longer enjoyed a protected niche but rather faced a threat to their
profitability posed by increasing competition, first from the depository institutions, i.e., commercial banks,
and later from the emerging leasing companies. The absence of a capital market in Tunisia and the virtual
dependence of many development banks on multi- and bilateral donor funding would render the
development banks, which were a source of long-term funds for investment in the Tunisian economy,
unsustainable unless they were dramatically transformed into viable, competitive financial establishments.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Not applicable.
3.3 Original Components:
3.31    The project would mitigate the vulnerability of targeted lending to changing economic conditions
and demand for credit by financing a broad range of activities across virtually all sectors of the economy.
Sectors which were excluded were farming, housing construction, and land development for housing,
because these sectors were already covered by ongoing IBRD-financed operations. One PFI comnmented
that the flexibility of financing most sectors, without restrictions on the country of origins, made the PICP
financing appealing. The project was implemented by providing lines of credit in three overlapping phases:
nine direct lines of credit to PFIs, an apex line of credit, and a line of credit provided by parallel financing
from the Export-Import Bank of Japan (JEXIM, which merged with another bank in 1999 to become the
Japan Bank for International Cooperation or JBIC). PFI and subproject eligibility criteria were applied
uniformly for all lines of credit. In total, 15 different PFIs received funding through the PICP.
3.32    Direct Lines of Credit (Loan Nos. 3672-3680; USD 70 million; highly satisfactory rating). Direct
loans were granted to four private commercial banks, two private financial leasing companies, and three
public development banks:
Loan No. PFI Name                                                  PFI Type                  Loan Amount
3672    Arab Tunisian Bank (ATB)                                   private commercial bank   USD 6,000,000
3673    Banque de Dveloppement Economique de Tunisie (BDET)        public development bank   USD 12,000,000
3674    Banque Intern ationale Arabe de Tunisie (BIAT)             private commercial bank   USD 8,000,000
3675    Ban que de Tunisie et des Emirats dInvestissement (BTEI)   public development bank   USD 10,000,000
3676    Amen Bank (AB)                                             private commercial bank   USD 7,000,000
3677    Soci&t6 Tuniso-Seoudienne dInvestissement et de Dev.(STUSID)  public development bank  USD 10,000,000
3678    Tunisie Leasing (TL)                                       private leasing company   USD 6,000,000
3679    Union Bancaire pour le Commerce et lIndustrie (UBCI)       private commercial bank   USD 7,000,000
3680    Union Tunisienne de Leasing (UTL)                          private leasing company   USD 4,000,000
Subloan commitments and disbursements began in 1994, as each of the PFIs satisfied the effectiveness
conditions of their respective loans: a policy statement, including limits on sector exposure of medium- and
long-term portfolios; medium-term strategy; risk-weighted capital ratio of at least 2.5 percent; and legal
opinion.
3.33 Apex Loan (Loan No. 3671; USD 49.3 million; satisfactory rating). An apex loan was granted to
the GOT as a line of credit to be used by eligible PPIs. It became effective on June 9, 1995 following five
extensions of the deadline. According to the GOT, the delay in effectiveness was due to the large number
of conditions. Conditions of effectiveness were: (a) signature of an execution agreement (convention d'
execution) between the GOT and BCT; (b) signature of a subsidiary financing agreement between GOT
and an eligible Fl; and (c) a satisfactory legal opinion on these two documents appurtenant to the Loan
Agreement signed between the Bank and the Government. A total of nine FIs participated in the apex line,
- 3 -



including six which also received direct lines of credit, plus three additional institutions:
PFI Name                                             PFI Tvpe                  Orizinal Share of Apex Loan
Arab Tunisian Bank (ATB)                             private commercial bank   USD 6,000,000
Arab Tunisian Leasing (ATL)                          private leasing company   USD 2,000,000
Banque Internationale Arabe de Tunisie (BIAT)        pfivate commercial bank   USD 3,300,000
Banque Nationale Agricole (BNA)                      public commercial bank    USD 6,000,000
Banque de Tunisie (BT)                               private commercial bank    USD 12,000,000
Banque de Tunisie et des Emirats d'lnvestissement (BTEI)  public development bank  USD 6,000,000
Soci&t6 Tuniso-Seoudienne d'lnvestissement et de Dev.(STUSID) public development bank  USD 6,000,000
Tunisie Leasing (TL)                                 private leasing company   USD 6,000,000
Union Tunisienne de Leasing (UTL)                    private leasing company   USD 2,000,000
3.34    Technical Assistance (Loan 3671; USD 0.7 million).  Funds were made available to refinance two
Project Preparation Facilities put in place on behalf of the Societe Tunisienne de Banque (STB), a large
public commercial bank, to install a new accounting system. STB withdrew from planned participation in
the project.
3.35    JBIC Loan (Loan No. EXIM  04040; JPY 10 billion). JBIC granted parallel financing for an apex
line of credit to the GOT in the amount of JPY 10 billion (currently USD 81 million equivalent). The
JBIC loan became effective on April 20, 1998, much later than anticipated, following lengthy negotiations
between BCT and the former JEXIM. This line of credit was administered by IBRD, which was
responsible for determnining the eligibility of PFIs and subloan commitments and disbursements before
submitting applications to JBIC for final approval. Nine FIs participated in the JBIC line of credit,
including six which had participated in the IBRD direct and/or apex lines of credit, plus three additional
institutions:
PFI Name                                                      PFI Type                  Share of JBIC Loan
Amen Bank (AB)                                                private commercial bank    JPY  250,000,000
Amen Lease (AL)                                               private leasing company   JPY  650,000,000
ATab Tunisian Leasing (ATL)                                   private leasing company   JPY  825,000,000
Banque Nationale Agricole (BNA)                               public comrnercial bank   JPY 1,850,000,000
Banque de Tunisie et des Emirats dInvestissement (BTEI)       public development bank   JPY 1,850,000,000
Banque Tuniso-Koweitienne de Developpement (BTKD)             public development bank   JPY 1,650,000,000
Compagnie Internationale de Leasing (CIL)                     private leasing company   JPY  800,000,000
Tunisie Leasing (TL)                                          private leasing company   JPY 1,400,000,000
Union Tunisienne de Leasing (UTL)                            private leasing company    JPY  725,000,000
3.4 Revised Components:
Not applicable.
3.5 Quality at Entry:
3.51    The preparation and appraisal processes were distinguished by the painstaking organization needed
to manage and control multiple lines of credit effectively. Procedures and parameters for subloan
approval, administration, and disbursement, including the consent of the national environmental agency
(ANPE), were clearly defined. Eligibility criteria for PFIs required compliance with prudential regulations
on an incremental basis. For example, the criterion applied to the risk-weighted capital ratio was set
initially at 2.5 percent but would be gradually raised to the 5 percent minimum required by BCT. Whereas
adherence to prudential rules would greatly improve the transparency of the banks' accounts, applying
them, as measured by internationally accepted auditing principles, would show a number of banks to be
insolvent and others to have serious financial difficulties. Certain commercial banks also had difficulty
complying with loan concentration limits, due to concentrations of loans to single borrowers or groups, to
- 4 -



affiliates, and/or to insiders. Both IBRD and the GOT were sensitive to these issues and included the
prospective PFIs as full partners in the discussions that took place during project preparation. At first,
some of the PFIs were reluctant to submit to the criteria imposed by the terms and conditions of the IBRD
loan, especially an audit by one of the big intemational accounting firms. By the time of appraisal, there
was consensus among all parties concerned and full ownership of the project, with action plans for the PFIs
to come into compliance with prudential regulations. One counterpart commented that some of the PFIs
regarded participation in the PICP lines of credit as an important signal to the market conceming their
financial soundness, making eligibility itself--in addition to access to term resources--an incentive to meet
prudential regulations.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
4.11    The PICP addressed the priority task of improving the competitiveness of the financial sector to
help the private sector adjust to the liberalized trade regime and play an increasing role in an
outward-oriented economy. First, the enforcement of strict adherence to prudential regulations under the
project culminated in a degree of PFI solvency judged acceptable in accordance with international
standards. During the life of the project, all the PFIs attained a risk-weighted capital ratio of 8 percent or
greater, as required by the BCT beginning in 1999. (See Annex 1.) Second, from 1994 to 1999 medium-
and long-term loans to the private sector in Tunisia increased by 60 percent from TND 10 billion to TND
16 billion. By 1999 the aggregate volume of lending by 15 PFIs reached TND 2.1 billion (USD 1.46
billion), representing 29 percent of aggregate medium- and long-term loans granted by all Tunisian
financial institutions. The degree to which the lines of credit actually provided incremental funding is
unknown, but IBRD funds clearly helped meet the rising demand for credit by the burgeoning leasing
industry, enabling newly formed leasing companies to gain a foothold in Tunisian financial markets.
Leasing companies had difficulties in mobilizing term resources, and the PICP likely allowed them to grow
faster than they otherwise would have. At the time of appraisal, leasing companies represented a far less
significant part of the market compared with the present time, and at least anecdotally, it seems that leasing
companies may be improving the access of small and medium enterprises to financial services. It also
appears that the participating commercial banks reached out beyond their established client bases in the
business and industrial sectors and lent more for tourism than they otherwise might have. All the PFIs
mentioned that competition for good clients is now quite strong, and that financial institutions are
decreasing their interest margins to keep customers. Average bank lending spreads dropped from about
3.7% in 1998 to about 2.9% in 2000. Therefore, the objective of encouraging medium and long term
lending on a sound basis as well as greater competition within the financial system appears to have been
met.
4.2 Outputs by components:
4.21   The combined output resulting from IBRD and JBIC loans was substantial. The IBRD and JBIC
loans supported, in the aggregate, 27 direct or apex subsidiary loans, which financed 355 separate subloans
for 293 private investments. The subprojects financed by the PICP also helped create jobs: three PFIs (the
only ones which provided such information) reported a total of over 7,500 jobs created by their subprojects.
Several enterprises benefited under the PICP from more than one subloan within imposed limits of USD 3
million equivalent per subproject for an individual PFI and a total of USD 10 million equivalent per
subproject for all PFIs. PFI and subloan eligibility criteria were the same for, and evenly applied to, all
lines of credit. Direct loans were granted to the country's two then-existing leasing companies. Later, as
new leasing companies were formed, three additional ones benefited from the IBRD apex loan and/or the
- 5 -



cofinancing from JBIC. IBRD lent a total of USD 19.4 million to three leasing companies, and JBIC lent
JPY 4.2 billion (USD 33.6 million equivalent) to five leasing companies. This represented 47 percent of
the total JBIC funds disbursed.
USE OF PICP LINES OF CREDIT (amounts in USD million)
Loans         Original       Amount    % Committed         Amount       % Disbursed
Amount       Committed                      Disbursed
IBRD Apex             50.00          50.00        100.00%           49.98        99.96%
(3671)
IBRD Direct            70.00          70.00       100.00%           69.77        99.67%
(3672-3680)
Subtotal IBRD          120.00         120.00       100.00%          119.75        99.79%
JBIC (EXIM             81.00          80.99        99.99%           71.32         88.05%
04040)
TOTAL               201.00         200.99       100.00%          191.07        95.06%
4.22   For the IBRD loans, an aggregate amount of USD 119.75 million equivalent was eventually
disbursed from the nine direct lines of credit and the nine subsidiary loans; the undisbursed amount of USD
0.25 million equivalent was cancelled. Subprojects financed by the 18 IBRD lines of credit (nine direct
plus nine indirect under the apex loan) supported a diverse subloan portfolio broken down by sector as
follows: agro-industry USD 12.0 million (10 percent of the aggregate amount disbursed); industry USD
41.6 million (35 percent); services USD 12.7 million (11 percent); and tourism, consisting mainly of
subloans for hotel construction, USD 52.8 million (43 percent). Maturities, including grace periods (two to
three years in most cases), ranged from a low of two years for some leases to 15 years for some hotel
projects. Maturities on subloans for industrial projects averaged 10 years. The average pricing of
subloans was in the range of 300 to 350 basis points above the standard Tunisian money market interest
rate.
4.23   Direct lines of credit (Loans 3672-3680). Direct loans ranging from USD 4 million to USD 12
million were granted on the basis of demand forecasts and subloan pipeline readiness. Each loan agreement
specified separate disbursement categories for viable investments (i.e, onlending) carried out by
creditworthy private enterprises, PFI equity investments, and technical assistance to enable the PFIs to set
up or strengthen appraisal procedures, as well as portfolio monitoring and work-out capabilities. Funds
were also made available for PFI equity investments as well as to assist private enterprises in developing or
improving their corporate strategies.
4.24   As FIs' subloan commitments grew in volume, all nine institutions eventually requested that funds
earmarked for technical assistance and equity investments be reallocated to finance subloans. At the
request of several PFIs, equity investments had been included uniformly as a disbursement category in all
the commercial and development bank loan agreements. However, as one PFI noted during the ICR
mission, this type of line of credit with regular, defined reimbursement terms was not well-suited for
financing equity investments, which are "reimbursed" through variable dividends. The PFIs therefore
eventually requested that the funds designated for equity investments be reallocated for subloans.
Experience with sub-project approval, in particular, assuaged earlier concerns over the PFIs' application of
sound appraisal standards and practices. For example, only occasionally were PFI analysts unable to
calculate economic and financial rates of return competently.
4.25    Although all the PFIs reallocated their technical assistance funds to subloans, several of the
-6 -



institutions did upgrade their computer systems or otherwise invest in institutional development using their
own resources during the life of the project, apparently preferring to devote the longer-term IBRD funds to
on-lending. However, one area, in particular, where technical assistance funds could have been used
effectively concemed the need to help the participating development banks diversify their portfolios,
improve credit management policies and procedures, and transform themselves into viable, competitive
institutions. IBRD carried out a diagnostic study, which it shared with the Government. Based on the
study's recommendations, supervision missions repeatedly raised the issue and discussed alternative
strategies in meetings with the various ministries concemed and the three participating development banks.
One possible strategy included joint ventures involving more than one development bank through the
creation of a holding company that could develop a workout unit for industrial restructuring of enterprises
whose loans were in default. Another strategy would be an evolution toward diversification into areas such
as investment banking, capital market services, leasing, and factoring. The Tunisian officials insisted that
the development banks would need to play their classic role as intermediaries of long-termn funds and could
offer other products and services that complement this role. As a covenant of the Guarantee Agreements
for the development banks' direct lines of credit (Loans 3673, 3675, and 3677), the GOT was to propose a
coherent strategy for the development banks by June 1995. Instead, they submitted a short paper which
critiqued the earlier IBRD diagnosis but did not provide a strategy. The GOT also requested that IBRD
provide support to the development banks in the form of training. IBRD reminded them that the
development banks could organize their own training activities and fund them with the amount allocated to
technical assistance under their individual loans. The GOT never complied with the requirement to submit
long-term strategies for the development banks to IBRD. However, some concrete actions related to the
development banks have been taken recently. First, in conjunction with a condition of IBRD's Second
Economic Competitiveness Adjustment Loan (ECAL II), BTEI entered into protracted negotiations to
merge with Union Internationale de Banques (UIB), but the merger never took place due to the reticence
of BTEI's foreign shareholder. BDET signed an agreement for a merger with STB and Banque Nationale
de Developpement Touristique (BNDT), which took place in December 2000. Finally, a new draft
Banking Law which would eliminate the distinction between commercial and development banks was
recently presented to Parliament, and the GOT is now reflecting on the future of the development banks and
has held meetings with these banks' management to discuss possible strategies.
4.26 Apex loan (Loan 3671). Six of the PFIs with direct loans chose to participate in the apex loan and
became eligible to withdraw funds once their direct loans had been fully committed (ATB, BIAT, BTEI,
STUSID, TL, and UTL). AB, UBCI, and BDET received direct loans but did not participate in the apex
loan. Additional PFIs that joined the PICP under the apex loan were ATL, BNA, and BT, bringing the
total number of FIs participating in the IBRD lines of credit to 12 (six commercial banks, three leasing
companies, and three development banks) and the total number of lines of credit to 18. ATL was a new
leasing company established after the inception of the project. BNA was the recipient of another active
IBRD loan in support of rural credit (Loan 3892-TUN, the National Rural Finance Project). BNA's
inclusion in the PICP was an effort to help it diversify its portfolio with lending to other sectors. BT had
been interested in participating at an earlier stage.
4.27   Although the apex loan, in the arnount of USD 50 million, made a specific allocation for lease
financing (USD 5 million), this amount was reallocated to the general apex financing of subloans, without
the earlier limitations imposed on subsidiary loans to leasing companies. ATL and UTL each used USD 2
million, and TL used USD 7.4 million. The aggregate amount of IBRD funds from the two direct loans to
leasing companies and the share of the apex loan consumed by leasing companies reached USD 21.2
million and was onlent for subloan amounts ranging from USD 47,000 to USD 1.4 million. The apex
loan closing date, originally set for December 31, 1999, was extended to December 31, 2000, to allow PFIs
additional time to consume the funds. One development bank, STUSID, eventually cancelled USD 5
- 7 -



million of its original USD 6 million allocation, and the USD 5 million was then reallocated to BLAT, BT,
and TL.
4.28   JBIC Loan. Because this loan did not become effective for almost a year after the signing of the
loan agreement, it was necessary to extend the conimitment deadline and loan closing dates by one year to
December 31, 2000 and March 31, 2001, respectively. A total amount of JPY 8.8 billion (USD 71.3
million equivalent) was disbursed from nine subsidiary loans. The unused balance of JPY 1.2 billion (USD
9.7 million equivalent), though fully committed to approved subloans, was cancelled, as JBIC's policies
and procedures precluded firther extension of the closing date.
4.29   Six PFIs which had participated in the IBRD lines of credit (AB, ATL, BNA, BTEI, TL, and
UTL) also participated in the JBIC loan. In addition, two new leasing companies (AL and CIL) and one
development bank (BTKD) joined the project under this line of credit, bringing the total number of PFIs in
all three phases of the PICP to 15. The JBIC line supported a diverse subloan portfolio, complementing the
IBRD loans in terms of sector coverage with less emphasis on financing tourism and more on industry and
services. The subloan portfolio was broken down by sector as follows: agro-industry JPY 0.7 billion (8
percent of the aggregate amount); industry JPY 3.6 billion (40 percent); services JPY 2.1 billion (24
percent); and tourism JPY 52.8 billion (27 percent).
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
4.31    Subloan eligibility criteria specified that a subproject must yield a projected economic rate of
return of at least 10 percent. Compliance with this criterion was reviewed for all non-lease subloan
applications which exceeded the US$I mnillion free limit. Due to the small size and nature of lease
financing, it was decided that the calculation of an economic rate of return was not useful for leasing
projects.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
4.41    Subloan eligibility criteria specified that a subproject must yield a projected financial rate of
return of at least 12 percent. Compliance with this criterion was reviewed for all subloan applications,
including leases, which exceeded the US$1 million free limit.
4.5 Institutional development impact:
4.51   Over the course of the PICP, most of the PFIs became more financially sound. The application of
new prudential regulations to the PFIs resulted in an acceptable measure of solvency in accordance with
international standards. These regulations called for stricter classification of loans, stricter provisioning of
loans in arrears, and the cessation of accruing interest overdue by more than 90 days. By 1995 all but one
of the PFIs were in full compliance with the BCT's prudential regulations in respect to capital adequacy,
loan classification, and non-accrual of interest on non-performing loans; at the end of the project, all the
PFIs had met the BCT's increased risk-weighted capital ratio of 8 percent. In addition, under this line of
credit, the World Bank had access to a great deal of financial information on all the PFIs, giving it a better
understanding of the Tunisian financial system as a whole. This information helped the Bank to identify
development issues which have been addressed in subsequent adjustment operations (ECAL and ECAL II
and the proposed ECAL III).
-8 -



4.52   The PICP contributed to the growth in Tunisia's leasing industry by providing the newly formed
leasing companies not only with needed medium-term credit but also with advice in organizational aspects.
For that purpose, international experts in financial leasing joined several IBRD supervision missions.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
5.11     Foreign exchange fluctuations had a negative impact on the availability of funds for private
investment financing resulting both in shortages of projected financial resources and in higher debt-service
requirements borne by the PFIs. The exchange risk was lessened to some degree as a result of sound
liability management practices. In 1998 GOT took advantage of the one-time opportunity to convert the
undisbursed balance of the apex loan from the IBRJ's currency pool terms to single-currency terms in
German marks. This was more in line with Tunisia's revenue from foreign trade and provided a more
balanced debt composition.
5.12     Two of the three development banks participating in IBRD lines of credit are joint ventures
involving GOT and foreign govermments. The QAG review noted the GOT's concern that "sensitivity to
development banks bilaterally owned with [foreign goverunents] has blocked action on reforming those
banks."
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control.
5.21     Because of the loan commitment fee levied by IBRD, the BCT was unwilling to allow the
proceeds of the apex loan to be used on a first come, first served basis per eligible subproject. Instead, the
BCT's allocated proceeds up-front through subsidiary loans to the PFIs. Consequently, funds that could
have been available to PFIs with more active pipelines were ultimately blocked by other PFIs'
slower-moving subloan pipelines.
5.21   GOT could have acted sooner to free up undisbursed funds in slow or inactive subsidiary loans.
5.22   GOT bore the responsibility for formulating a coherent strategy for the development banks.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
5.31   The development banks had sufficient managerial autonomy which they could have exercised more
actively to explore and pursue alternative strategies. Several of them did, however, contact southern
European investment banks, notably in Portugal, to leam about the European banks' successful evolution
toward more diverse financial products and services.
5.32   Once JBIC had made clear that there would be no extensions of their loan closing date beyond
March 31, 2001, some PFIs could have been more proactive in detemnining which subloans would not
disburse before that date, in order to reallocate the funds either to different subprojects or to other PFIs.
5.4 Costs and financing:
5.41   Some of the PFIs were accustomed to receiving subsidized lines of credit from extemal financiers
and were reluctant to consider borrowing from the World Bank at near-market terms (the World Bank's
cost of qualified borrowings plus one-half percent). However, the fact that 99.79% of the World Bank
direct and apex lines of credit disbursed over the life of this project shows that the Tunisian financial
-9-



system can absorb term resources at international market rates. In general, the development banks and
leasing companies found the IBRD and JBIC lines of credit to be more attractive than did the commercial
banks, which have lower overall cost of funds due to their deposit base.
5.42   Initially, the direct loans to nine PFIs crowded out the demand for funds under the apex loan.
Because IBRD began to levy a commitment fee of 25 basis points (75 b.p. less 50 b.p. waiver) against the
undisbursed balance 60 days after loan signing, the one and one-half year delay in effectiveness and in
drawing down proceeds from the apex line raised the effective cost of apex financing. Also contributing to
the increase in effective cost was the up-front allocation of subsidiary loan amounts to PFIs. This resulted
in some PFIs blocking funds that could have been disbursed faster by other PFIs. One PFI noted that the
cost of the exchange Tate coverage mechanism, paid by the PFIs to the GOT, was in some cases higher than
expected, increasing the cost of the PICP funds and making it difficult for the PFIs to price their subloans
correctly.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationalefor sustainability rating:
6.11   Project supervision underscored the importance of strict adherence to prudential regulations,
international accounting norms, and good portfolio management practices. By carefully monitoring
compliance with PFI eligibility criteria, the PICP reinforced PFI financial solvency and sound financial
management, including the application of new accounting, reporting, and auditing rules, as well as better
disclosure. In so doing, it strengthened BCT's supervisory functions. Lack of compliance and poor
portfolio quality disqualified some prospective PFIs from the apex line. With respect to the latter, from
1996 to 1999 the proportionate number of subloans in arrears dropped from 44 percent to 19 percent. This
includes subloans in all categories of non-performance (BCT classification levels 2, 3, and 4, with Class 2
= loans overdue 90-180 days, Class 3 = 180-365 days, and Class 4 = over 365 days). The high proportion
of past-due subloans earlier in the project may have been due to start-up problems or insufficient grace
periods more than to problems inherent in the subprojects. The development banks had the highest
proportion of non-performing subloans (i.e., the lowest subloan portfolio quality), and the commercial
banks had the lowest. Improvements in the quality of bank audits, together with the PFIs' use of
accounting practices that more closely followed internationally accepted principles, over time provided a
clearer picture of each PFI' s financial situation.
6.12   As the PFIs' overall financial soundness improved during the life of the project, many of them have
better access to other sources of medium and long term financing. Most of the leasing companies have
issued bonds, and one bank has issued paper on the intemational market. Although the temis of the World
Bank and JBIC lines are still very attractive, especially for the leasing companies and development banks,
longer term resources seem to be more accessible to Tunisian financial institutions now than at project
inception.
6.13   The cornerstone of IBRD's supervision strategy lay in the enforcement of financial solvency
criteria and good management standards. IBRD's position in this respect had the BCT's firm endorsement.
The sustainability of these project benefits rests largely in BCT's persistent enforcement of its own
Circular 91-24, as well as additional improvements that were made to BCT regulations and Tunisian
accounting standards in recent years, some as conditions for the ECAL II. Effective bank supervision is
likely to continue in view of the BCT's high level of professionalism, together with the ongoing dialogue
between GOT and IBRD at the macroeconomic level.
- 10-



6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
6.21   BCT will exercise due diligence in its enforcement of Circular No. 91-24, as modified by the
circular to banks No. 2001-04 of February 16, 2001. PFIs and other Tunisian financial institutions will be
held to a risk-weighted capital ratio of at least 8 percent as well as the other prudential regulations. In the
future, the supervisory role of the BCT should stress good portfolio quality through the application of
sound investment appraisal standards and improved loan collection procedures.
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
7.11   IBRD's performance during loan preparation was highly satisfactory. From the outset, IBRD
management and staff were careful to (a) generate a project whose goals were focused and complemented,
rather than overlapped with, ongoing and planned operations, and (b) apply lessons learned from earlier
financial sector operations.
7.2 Supervision:
7.21   IBRD supervision was satisfactory. IBRD staff processed subloan applications, notified the PFIs
of actions (e.g., subloan approval, need for further analysis or information, subloan rejection), and
submitted subprojects satisfying eligibility criteria to the IBRD Loan Department for disbursement (or in
the case of the JBIC loan, preliminary approval for disbursement by JBIC). The same organization
demonstrated during preparation and appraisal was evidenced during project launch. This took the form of
orientation sessions at each PFI. Standard formns for subproject appraisal prepared by IBRD were
distributed, and procedures for subloan approval and disbursement were explained. By the end of the first
supervision mission, PFI officers and analysts had a clear understanding of subproject eligibility
requirements.
7.22   IBRD supervision was highly satisfactory in respect of the financial viability of most PFIs. The
supervision effort concentrated on compliance with prudential regulations, capital adequacy in particular,
the adequacy of financial audits and audit reporting, portfolio health, and PFI action plans, with special
emphasis on development bank strategies. Given the high number of stakeholders and the multiplicity of
lines of credit, supervision missions had to be carried out systematically and in stages. Mission members
visited the PFIs one by one and made site visits on a selective basis. It is noteworthy that the early
supervision missions were staffed with highly experienced and seasoned international banking specialists,
including a bank auditor. Discussions were also held with officials at the BCT and the line ministries
concerned.
7.23   Contrary to the contention of the QAG review that supervision lacked continuity, the transition
from the original task team leader to a new one, due to staff transfer within IBRD, was smooth and
inconsequential to client service. Responsibility was handed over to two team members with considerable
previous involvement in the Tunisian financial sector and in the project itself. During the ICR mission, a
representative of the GOT noted that this project was very well executed, despite its complexity and the
changes in personnel working on it.
7.24 The QAG review rightfully pointed out that "supervision should focus on the role of public banks."
The IBRD supervision effort was ineffective in tackling the issue of development bank competitiveness and
- 11 -



transformation. Although supervision missions persisted in discussions with the central authorities
concerned and the three participating development banks, IBRD was unable to enforce the guarantee
covenant requiring submission of a satisfactory long-term strategy. Theoretically, instead of conducting
business as usual with the development banks, it could have imposed sanctions such as barring them from
participation in the apex and JBIC lines until the Guarantor complied with this covenant. In reality, it
might have been difficult to impose sanctions on the development banks as Borrowers in response to the
deficiency of the GOT as Guarantor.
7.25   The performance of disbursement officers and analysts was satisfactory. The multiplicity of credit
lines financing relatively small amounts overstretched the capacity of Loan Department tracking systems,
thus requiring close collaboration with IBRD operational staff and with Borrowers. The project was
complicated since PFIs normally made disbursements in TND, while the IBRD systems denominated loan
funds in USD, DEM, and JPY, routinely resulting in partial cancellations and reallocations of subloan
amounts due to exchange rate fluctuations.
7.3 Overall Bankperformance:
7.31   IBRD's overall performance was satisfactory in view of the reasons stated above.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
7.41   GOT's performance during the preparation phase was highly satisfactory. The ministries of
Economy, Finance, Planning, and International Cooperation and Foreign Investment, along with BCT, were
full partners and demonstrated complete ownership of the project.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
7.51   GOT's implementation performance was unsatisfactory in two areas. First, an important
implementation issue within its purview to resolve was the need to transform the development banks into
financially viable, competitive institutions. Because most of the development banks are joint ventures with
foreign governments, decisions regarding their future could not be made solely by the GOT. However, the
GOT's inaction in building a strategy for the development banks partially impaired the achievement of
project objectives and was in contravention of Guarantee covenants. The GOT could have developed
strategies for the development banks, although the final implementation of those strategies would have
depended on the co-owners for the six banks which are joint ventures. Second, the GOT as Borrower for
the apex and JBIC loans was responsible for the efficient allocation of the lines of credit to the PFIs.
Inaction in reallocating the JBIC funds prevented that loan from being fully disbursed before the closing
date.
7.6 Implementing Agency:
7.61   The PFIs' and BCT's performance was satisfactory. Despite the initial reticence of some PFIs,
they appreciated the opportunity to improve their financial viability and became enthusiastic partners. The
BCT provided the necessary leadership.
7.62   The quality of the subloan portfolios was better than overall PFI portfolios of medium- and
long-term loans (Annex 1), as measured on the basis of loan classification.
- 12 -



7.63   The vast majority of audit reports for the PICP were received on time or with only minor delays.
Private auditors were employed for all audits, even the public banks, and overall audit quality was
satisfactory. IBRD procurement guidelines were not applicable to this project because no subloan
exceeded the specified limit.
7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
7.71   Given the GOT's highly satisfactory performance during loan preparation and the PFIs' and BCT's
satisfactory implementation performance, overall Borrower performance is rated satisfactory. This is
notwithstanding GOT's unsatisfactory performance in two areas of implementation.
8. Lessons Learned
8.1     Financial intermediation lending is an important instrument for following up structural adjustment
operations. The PICP demonstrates that a well-designed and monitored financial intermediation loan can
play a role in reinforcing the introduction of financial sector reforms, monitoring their application, and
providing a frarnework for discussing further modifications in financial sector reforms, especially by
improving access to in-depth information on financial institutions. These instruments can also provide
long-term financing as an interim measure as capital markets continue to develop and thus enable financial
institutions, particularly leasing companies, to have access to sources of at least medium-term funds.
8.2     Some of the development banks in Tunisia were so well-capitalized that the minimum
risk-weighted capital ratio was surpassed many times over. However, the quality of their portfolios was so
poor that their capital was slowly being eroded, making them poor risks. Although the project did not
include portfolio quality as an explicit eligibility criterion, IBRD excluded two development banks from the
apex line of credit on that basis and emphasized portfolio health throughout the implementation phase.
Beyond the minimum capital standards established by prudential regulations, some reasonable measure of
portfolio quality ought to be used as a criterion for access to an IBRD line of credit.
8.3    The need to develop a long-term strategy for the future of the development banks was expressed as
a covenant in the Guarantee Agreements for the three direct lines of credit to development banks, thus
placing the responsibility for these strategies on the GOT, in its role as Guarantor. In reality, this covenant
proved difficult to enforce because the GOT was not the sole owner of two of the development banks and
therefore did not have sole responsibility for deciding their future.
8.4    The effort to set up, administer, and control 18 separate lines of credit (9 direct plus 9 indirect on
the apex line) to 12 institutions entailed, inter alia: (a) the drafting and review of volumninous legal
docunentation; (b) initial and ongoing review of PFI financial and organizational viability to ensure that
eligibility criteria are satisfied; (c) approval of numerous subprojects; and (d) the almost daily recording of
subloan commitments, disbursements, and cancellations. It was initially thought that the nine direct loans,
rather than a single apex loan, would better serve the dialogue between IBRD and each of the PFIs
concerned. There was a closer working relationship with the four commercial banks participating in the
direct loans, but it is uncertain whether this was attributable to the direct loans or whether the same degree
of collaboration would have taken place with those institutions under a subsidiary financing arrangement
within the apex scheme. Experience with PFIs that came later into the fold suggests the latter. In addition,
one PFI mentioned that the direct invention of the BCT in the apex line was helpful.
- 13 -



8.5    A single apex loan that would finance eligible subprojects of PFIs on a first come, first served
basis would have been a more efficient, as well as equitable, instrument for channeling IBRD funds to
finance private investments. From the standpoint of loan negotiations and legal documentation, a single
apex loan would have facilitated loan processing, making it far less time-consuming and cumbersome.
From the standpoint of demand for credit, the original nine PFIs could have been free of uncommitted direct
loans and therefore would not have suppressed demand for funds under the apex loan that led to the five
postponements of the effectiveness date and concomitant negative impact on the effective cost of financing.
Also from the standpoint of efficient use of funds, the pace of disbursements under an up-front allocation of
subsidiary loan amounts would have been faster and even greater on a strictlyfirst come, first served basis
per subproject, and such an arrangement most likely would have allowed PFIs to use the full amount of the
JBIC loan (instead of only 88%) before the closing date.
8.6    The PICP financing structuring based on direct lines plus an apex cost more in finance charges
than a single apex line with up-front allocations would have been. Afirst come, first served per subproject
approach would have cost less. An appropriate mechanism for charging the commitment fee to PFIs
would have been more complex for GOT and BCT to manage under the current project; however, for
future financial intermediation operations, an innovative charge-back scheme should however be explored.
The cost of the foreign exchange rate coverage mechanism provided by the government should also be
examined, to ensure that it does not unreasonably inflate the cost of funds for PFIs.
8.7    The complexity of this project, with multiple borrowers and large number of subloans, made it
quite difficult to administer on behalf of a co-financier (JBIC). The problems inherent in using IBRD
systems to enforce the disbursement and approval policies of another institution placed a significant burden
on IBRD operations and loan department staff and resulted in processes that were cumbersome and slow
for the Borrowers. In addition, under IBRD's budget process, the management fee paid by JBIC was
allocated at the institutional level without a corresponding increase to the project budget, leading to a
burdensome mandate that was not fully funded at the department level. In the future, agreements to
administer loans on behalf of co-financers should more carefully consider staff time required, taking into
account the complexity of a project, to ensure that adequate personnel and budgetary resources are
available.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The above text has been revised to reflect many of the comments received during the ICR mission
and/or in writing. In addition, all written comments received from the Borrowers related to this ICR are
included below, translated from their original French. The completion reports received from Borrowers
have also been attached, unedited and in French, as Annexes to this report.
Amen Lease (AL) Loan EXIM 04040
COMMENTS ON THE ICR
The Government's implementation perfonnance (7.51) seems to us to be incorrectly rated.
In fact, the two development banks (BDET and BNDT) with majority direct and indirect public
ownership were acquired by STB in December 2000.
FoT the other development banks with individual statutes created by bilateral agreements with
friendly Arab countries, the procedure for their transformation would not be as easy as it was for BDET
- 14-



and BNDT.
Also, you are requested to reformulate paragraph 7.51 of your report rating the Government's
performance "unsatisfactory" and to rectify the evaluation on page 20 (Annex 5).
Banque de Developpement Economique de Tunisie (BDET, now STB) Loan
3673
TUNIS, May 21, 2001
COMMENTS ON THE DRAFT WORLD BANK ICR OF APRIL 20, 2001,
ON THE PRIVATE INVESTMENT CREDIT PROJECT FOR US$201 MILLION
The review of the draft World Bank ICR of April 20, 2001, on the Private Investment Credit
Project, raises the following questions on our part:
I.     The problem of cancellations and reallocations (paee 13- point 7.25)
Cancellations and partial reallocations of subloan amounts due essentially to fluctuations in the
exchange rate could be avoided if commitments and disbursements were denominated in dinars. It remains
understood that the indebtedness would still be denominated in the currency of the loan.
2      Financine equity participations
Although planned for in the context of the PICP, the financing of equity participations was not
possible because the return on these participations is in the medium-term and depends on the profitability
of the companies, while the cost of borrowing accrues as soon as the funds are disbursed. This explains
why no equity participations were financed by the PICP.
Finally, for STB (ex-BDET), line 3673-TUN, which was borrowed directly, was used fourteen
months before the disbursement deadline, in spite:
- of the exclusion of financing seaside tourism subprojects even though they composed the largest part of
STB's (ex-BDET's) portfolio at that time.
- of the delays, as explained above, related to the conversion of this loan to single currency.
(7) Cofinanciers:
In a letter dated May 31, 2001, JBIC stated that they did not have any particular comments on the draft
ICR.
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.
10. Additional Information
Not applicable.
- 15-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome / Impact Indicators:
IndloatorlMatrlx           PrpJcte~ in kaW PSR                    AcetuaAlLabst iistlmat
(a) compliance with prudential regulations
c. capital adequacy: rsk-weighted capital   i. compliance by all 15 PFIs     i. compliance by all 15 PFIs
adequacy rabo of at least 5%;
ii. adequate provisioning per category of    ii. compliance by 12 out of 15 PFIs  ii. compliance by 12 out of 15 PFIs
arrears;
(b) quality of subloan portfolio based on the  As of 12/31/99, 19.0% of IBRD subprojects  12/31/2000 data is not yet available
classification of arrears; and         were classified in categories 2,3, and 4
representing 18.7% in terms of volume,
compared with 26.0% of the volume of all
PFI loans
(c) demand for the lines of credit as  Direct lines 99.7% committed           Direct lines: 99.68% disbursed*
measured by actual level of commitments    Apex line: 99.2 % committed        Apex line: 99.95% disbursed*
and disbursements                     JBIC line: 100 % committed              JBIC line: 88.05% disbursed
as compared with appraisal estimates
Output Indicators:
IndkcatorIMaftrl                    Projcte In llasjlt'PRAta/aetEtmt
End of project
*Disbursements exceeded commitments due to exchange rate fluctuations.
- 16 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Not applicable to financial internediation loans.
- 17 -



Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
(a) Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Subloan eligibility criteria specified that a subproject must yield a projected economic rate of
return of at least 10 percent. Compliance with this criterion was reviewed for all non-lease
subloan applications which exceeded the US$1 million free limit. Due to the small size and nature
of lease financing, it was decided that the calculation of an economic rate of return was not useful
for leasing projects.
(b) Financial rate of return:
Subloan eligibility criteria specified that a subproject must yield a projected financial rate of return
of at least 12 percent. Compliance with this criterion was reviewed for all subloan applications,
including leases, which exceeded the US$1 million free limit.
- 18-



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                   No. of Persons and Specialty              Performan  Rati
(c.g. 2 Economists. I FMS, etc.)     Implemenlation  Development
Month/Year    Count             Specialty                       Progress       Objective
Identification/Preparation
1/90                          4    1 PSD Specialist, 2 Financial
Economists, I Financial Sector
Specialist
10/90                         5    1 Financial Economist, 2
Financial Sector Specialists, 2
Banking Specialists
10/91                         5    1 PSD Specialist, I Financial
Economist, 2 Banking
Specialists, I Operations Analyst
5/92                          7   3 Financial Specialists, 2
Banking Specialists, I Audit
Specialist, I Environmental
Specialist
Appraisal/Negotiation
3/93                          7   3 Financial Sector
Specialists, I Financial
Economist, 3 Banking
Specialists
7/93                          6   2 Financial Sector Specialists, I
Banking Specialist, I Lawyer, I
Disbursement Officer, I
Operations Analyst
Supervision
6/94                          6   2 Financial Sector                   HS             HS
Specialists, I Disbursement
Officer, 2 Bankers, I
Operations Analyst
10/94                         7   2 Financial Sector Specialists, I    HS             HS
Lawyer, 4 Bankers
10/95                         5   2 Financial Specialists, I           HS             HS
Financial Analyst, 2 Bankers
11/96                         5   1 Financial Sector Specialist, I      S             S
PSD Specialist, I Financial
Analyst, I Bankers, I Auditor
12/97                         5   1 Financial Sector Specialist, I      S             S
PSD Specialist, I Financial
Analyst, I Banker, I Auditor
3/98                          3   1 PSD Specialist, I Financial         S              S
Sector Specialist, 1 Financial
Analyst
11/98                         1   Financial Sector Specialist           S             S
4/99                          3   1 PSD Specialist, I Financial         S              S
Sector Specialist, I Program
Assistant
- 19 -



9/99                           1   Financial Sector Specialist           S              S
6/00                           1   Financial Sector Specialist           S              S
10/00                          I   Financial Sector Specialist           S              S
ICR
5/01                          1    Financial Sector Specialist           S              S
(b) Staff
Stage of Project Cycle                      Actual/Latest Estimate
No. Staff weeks                US$ (1000)
Identification/Preparation    no longer available                         172
(n.a.)
Appraisal/Negotiation                        n.a                          493
Supervision                                  n.a                          646
ICR                                          n.a                            10
Total                                        n.a                         1,320
- 20 -



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
DMacro policies                           OH  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Sector Policies                         * H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
OPhysical                                 OH OSUOM O N * NA
D Financial                               O H  * SU O M  O N  O NA
b Institutional Development               O H  * SU O M  O N  0 NA
LI Environmental                          O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
Social
FII Poverty Reduction               O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
& Gender                            O H OSUOM O N * NA
CI Other (Please specify)           O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
L Private sector development              0 H  * SU 0 M  0 N  0 NA
L Public sector management                0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
C Other (Please specify)                  O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
- 21 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU-=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
O Lending                                           *HSOS OU OHU
El Supervision                                      OHS OS   OU  OHU
a Overall                                           OHS OS OU O HU
6.2 Borrowerperformance                             Rating
O Preparation                                        O HS O S  O  U  O HU
OI Government implementation performance             0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
El Implementation agency performance                 0 HS 0 S  0  U  0 HU
El Overall                                          OIHS*s   O u   O HU
- 22 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Table 1. IBRD Loan.
Chart 1. IBRD Loan Sector Coverage.
Table 2. JBIC Loan.
Chart 2. JBIC Loan Sector Coverage.
Table 3. Consolidated IBRD and JBIC Loans.
- 23 -



Table 1. IBRD Loans
(USD million equivalent)
ATB                         6.0              6.0              8
ATL                         2.0              2.0              9
BIAT                        3.3              5.8              7
BNA                         6.0              5.8              2
BT                          12.0            13.3              9
BTEI                        6.0              6.0              5
STUSID                      6.0              1.0              2
TL                          6.0              7.4              30
UTL                         2.0              2.0              4
PPF/TA for STB              0.7              0.7             n.a.
Subtotal - Apex Loan        50.0            49.9              76
(Loan 3671)
AB                          7.0              7.0              7
ATB                         6.0              6.0              6
BDET                        12.0            12.0              13
BIAT                        8.0              8.0              12
BTEI                        10.0            10.0              11
STUSID                      10.0            10.0              9
TL                          6.0              5.8              14
UBCI                        7.0              7.0              4
UTL                         4.0              4.0              13
Subtotal - Direct Loans     70.0            69.8              89
(Loans 3672-3680)
TOTAL                      120.0            119.7            165
* Number of sub-projects per subloan, bearing in mind that multiple subloans-
may finance a single project.
- 24 -



Chart 1. IBRD Loans: Sector Coverage
1%   10%                EAgro-Industry
* Industry
43%                   _                O Service
35%
O Tourism
* Technical
Assistance
11%
Table 2. JBIC Loan
(JPY billion)
Name of ,PI        --AR.4.<t- ow,
AB                         250.0           185.0             2
A-L                        650.0           653.1             13
ATL                        825.0           684.6             28
BNA                       1,850.0         1,006.8            21
BTEI                      1,850.0         1,815.6            16
BTKD                      1,650.0         1,643.6            23
CIL                        800.0           800.0             24
TL                        1,400.0         1,290.9            35
UTL                        725.0           725.0             28
TOTAL                     10,000.0        8,804.5           190
* Number of sub-projects per subloan, bearing in mind that multiple subloans
may finance a single sub-project.
- 25 -



Chart 2. JBIC Loan: Sector Coverage
8%
24%
M Agro-Industry
* Industry
41%        O Service
0 Tourism
27%
- 26 -



Table 3: Consolidated IBRD and JBIC Loans
(USD million equivalent)
AB                             D, J              12.0              11.5               13
AL                              J                5.3               5.3                13
ATB                           A, D               13.0              13.0               15
ATL                           A, J               8.7               7.5                37
BDET                           D                 6.0               6.0                6
BIAT                          A, D               15.3              17.8               20
BNA                            A, J              21.0              14.0               23
BT                              A                12.0              13.3               9
BTEI                         A, D, J             29.0              28.7               33
BTKD                            J                13.4              13.3               23
CIL                             J                6.5               6.5                24
STUSID                        A, D               16.0              10.9               11
TL                           A, D, J             23.3              23.7               79
UBCI                            D                7.0               7.0                4
UTL                          A, D, J             11.9              11.9              45.0
Subtotal - Credit Lines                         200.3             190.4              355
PPF/TA for STB                                   0.7               0.7               n.a.
ITOTAL                                           201.0             191.0              355
A = Apex Loan; D= Direct Loan; J = JBIC Loan
* Number of sub-projects per subloan, bearing in mind that multiple subloans may finance a single sub-project.
- 27 -



Additional Annex 8. Amen Lease Completion Report (Loan EXIM 04040)
COMMENTAIRES SUR LA LIGNE (dJBIC>
L'affectation du montant de la ligne *<JBICO' nous semble etre la principal cause de la non
utilisation globale du pret.
D'ailleurs, certaines IF, comme <AMEN LEASE)), auraient pu utiliser facilement un
montant supplementaire a celui qui leur a ete affecte initialement, et ainsi utiliser integralement le
pret.
I1 serait souhaitable de reflechir A une autre procedure d'affectation des prets futurs.
Nous proposons la procedure suivante:
*     Affectation initiale du pret entre les IF sur la base de leurs decaissements relatifs A l'ann6e
precedant la mise en ceuvre du pret.
*     Des qu'une IF utilise totalement sa part, proceder A la reaffectation du reliquat non utilise
avec conmne cles de repartition les pourcentages    d'utilisation du pret des IF a la date de
reaffectation,
*     Repeter l'operation chaque fois qu'une IF utilise sa part jusqu'A equisement du pret.
- 28 -



Additional Annex 9. STB (ex-BDET) Completion Report (Loan 3673)
SOCIETE TUNISIENNE DE BANOUE
TUNIS, le 21 Mai 2001
RAPPORT D'EVALUATION DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT DIRECTE
No 3673 TUN CONSENTIE LE 14 FEVRIER 1994 A LA SOCIETE
TUNISIENNE DE BANQUE (EX B.D.E.T.)
A. GENERALITES
L'accord de pret relatif A la ligne de credit 3673 TUN a et signe entre la Banque
Intemationale pour la Reconstruction et le Developpement et la Societe Tunisienne de Banque
(ex-BDET) le 14 fevrier 1994.
Entr6e en vigueur le 14 juin 1994, cette ligne porte sur un montant nominal equivalent A
12 millions de dollars americains utilisables en monnaies diverses comportant une tranche (0) dun
montant de 2.646.215 $US regie par le systeme de pool de monnaies cible et une autre tranche
(A) d'un montant de 9.353.78S $US en monnaie unique le $.US A taux variable bas6 sur le libor.
Les tirages, sur cette ligne, ont e  acheves le 21 octobre 1998 soit 14 mois environ avant
la date limite de decaissement fixee au 31 decembre 1999.
Les remboursements de l'emprunt se font normalement aux echeances contractuelles de
chaque annee soit le 15 juin et le 15 Decembre.
B.- RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS DE LA LIGNE 3673 TUN
Cette ligne de credit directe, tel que precise dans le contrat de pret, devait servir A l'octroi
de prets subsidiaires A des beneficiaires finaux et de prises de participations dans des entreprises et
vise les objectifs suivants:
1.-    Le fmancement des installations productives et des activites contribuant au
developpement du secteur prive et au renforcement de la capacite des entreprises privees a un
investissement plus competitif;
2.-   L'octroi de prets pour la creation, I'elargissement, la modernisation et l'amelioration des
entreprises privees en vue de la restructuration et du renforcement, de leur organisation de la
gestion et du fonctionnement.
3.-   La promotion du secteur financier.
C.- REALISATIONS
- 29 -



1.-    La ligne de credit 3673 TUN a servi au fmancement utile de 11 sous-projets constitues de
9 sous-projets industriels, 1 sous-projet touristique Saharien a Matmata (au sud tunisien) et 1
sous-projet paratouristique (location de voitures a Sousse). Cette ligne a permis, en definitive, la
r6alisation de 6 sous-projets de creation et 5 d'extension.
2.-    Le couit total de ces 11 sous-projets a atteint S9,3 millions de dinars.
3.-    Les concours de cette ligne ont permis la creation de 742 emplois et la realisation d'une
valeur ajoutee globale avoisinant les 19,7 millions de dinars.
4.-    Le montant des impayes des 11 sous-projets indiques en annexe s'eleve au 31 decembre
2000 a environ 2,3 millions de dinars dont 1,2 millions de dinars de principal representant 31 %
du montant total du principal echu comme indique dans la situation ci-annexee.
5.-    Sur ces 11 sous-projets, il convient de preciser que
deux ont e  transmis au contentieux pour des poursuites judiciaires;
Un a rembours6 par anticipation la totalite de son credit en recourant a un
credit-relais de l'exterieur cofitant moins cher;
Un rembourse ses echeances dans les delais
Quatre remboursent, nonrnalement, leurs echeances avec un suivi particulier
Trois ont des arrieres de plus d'un an.
Malgre le passage de deux sous-projets au contentieux (ayant beneficie d'au moins 15% de
1 'enveloppe affectee a cette ligne), il faut reconnaitre que cette ligne a concouru, tout de meme,
au developpement et au renforcement du tissu industriel, h6telier et touristique de la Tunisie.
Nous pouvons, par consequent, considerer que cette ligne a atteint les
objectifs initialement escomptes. Nous constatons, toutefois, que le fmancement de
tous les sous-projets a e  realise au moyen de prets subsidiaires et qu'aucune prise de
participation n'a eu lieu.
En effet, il n'etait pas possible a la S.T.B. (ex B.D.E.T.) de financer des prises de
participations a l'aide de cet emprunt du fait que le rendement de ces participations est a moyen
terme et aleatoire en fonction des resultats positifs des entreprises alors que les charges fmancieres
de la ligne courent depuis l'utilisation des fonds. Et a ce titre, la ligne 3673 TUN n'etait pas
adaptee au financement des participations.
D. PROPOSITIONS
- 30 -



Pour les; prochaines lignes de cr6dit, nous proposons de:
1.-   reduire au maximum les documents administratifs A produire par l'intermediaire financier
en le dechargeant de certaines autorisations administratives qui sont censees etre remplies.
2.-    Pour eviter les annulations d'imputation et de tirage dues aux fluctuations de change entre
le Dinar et la devise de 1 'emprunt, il convient d'autoriser les affectations et les decaissements en se
basant sur le dinar sachant que 1'endettement reste libelle, dans la devise de l'emprunt.
3.-    Calculer le montant de la commission d'engagement sur le montant impute et non encore
utilise (A l'instar d'autres bailleurs de fonds) au lieu de la pratique actuelle consistant A la calculer
sur le reste A utiliser global de la ligne meme s'il n'a pas encore fait l'objet d'imputation.
4.-   financer, le cas echeant, les prises de participations par des ressources appropriees tels que
les capitaux A risque. En effet, les lignes de cr&dit classiques de la B.I.R.D. ne sont pas adaptees
au financement de ce genre d'operations comme precedemment explicitees.
5.-    Autoriser le refinancement retroactif A concurrence d'un certain quota pour les depenses
realis6es avant la signature du contrat d'emprunt.
6.-   Allonger l'anteriorite du refinancement des depenses realisees, actuellement de 90 jours A
180 jours de la date d'envoi de la demande duimputation.
7.- Verser une premiere avance pour le financement immediat des prets subsidiaires librement
accordes des 1'entree en vigueur de la ligne de credit.
8.- Enfin, il est souhaitable que les concours a venir de la B.I.RD. soient orientes vers les besoins
de financement actuels; de l'economie tunisienne A savoir:
- la privatisation;
- la mise A niveau
- ainsi que la restructuration industrielle et financiere.
(*) Document-joint en annexe:
- Situation au 31 decembre 2000 des sous-projets fmances sur la ligne de credit directe no 3673
TUN de 12 millions de dollars US conclue le 14 fevrier 1994 par la S.T.B. ex-BDET.
- 31 -



SOETISEDDEUE
Ttsm  Le 9 msi 2001
SIUA77ONAU31/12/2000DESOUSPROJEhFEiVANCESS RR L'EMPRUNT
BIRD
3673 TUNDE 12 MlIZlONS$USCONCLULE 14/11994PARL'EXBDR T
_                _        _ -                                                          M-   d3 ttd tt                                       .               tWdPAYEt3 (R9 t71]  t_    _    _        _T
Ri.q.           Qi 8n         1 tr d. - p                                    (40 Ct)             Vk4(   p,,, (3t1           (il t)        Pt 09            6ft        TOTlAL          t}h(Un 1)      VA (-DI)
a0*
O10    M        01    141a 01    B5            440beC                             23;              261963,36       33341000            t,G00    11434,371       72731,7"      2541615                        It89i4 t        10
MLO             p4   I5tl            t           9T ed;W   Ti4                      53t9 66          41)00                              t            0 514 717tttt DAMtt 25                     t           t 696910j7       4 6,D
=8,60/0. _3TOTAL 5t44 660,5tt                     781761,24      25500(3t       5tt9     164        434,M2     50631,399      393116$M7     5              I
00o  MQ         a      4t4141.   t32           691ki,tfd                          I w  1          1580012,32       S39 0 R=       71070Z 7      8430000 t3591t953,7            42 1 4  913tg77  3bWC         2355700ttt       30
6490
07 A2           R. 03D1    Ii *               9 ACR D                            2727466023      2 54311296             Om01       Z                 1           10 7g1210      10731,275   15 35 tt tDC D    509600DPt      160
102   A     Z          1521.01    8i13         ,tsh    6 ttu                       661 13S,69      813 76Z,34                       863 IS t            3Z       49514=23 ZZ 54M             734300O16       1463890DO3       35
_  _ _   T51AL:IWRN 1XSE       5 13854446       4933 83,14       343 0        4291            8430 S 3  4OOD   46214346     1469 214,4    26 3b 004=0    9116931           225
M               It.    i A        3            44986s 3 6tEaAl&                   64369436        75915%s 02        4069            950S 1S     3 o93J,xo       7640 S 536      5          S6500bW0         1 268o000        22
10   AM         P.    1533.       812                        E                     3907I 6 t3 17 56D5O5 37100                     U37s3si7       37030,CCO 3710D  983759236     136 759820    9 60700MA0    2 17D0n0oDA       50
7__TALSTE3rn         ixE        123I 793,317     i 3934,6         231 n94 O   -101474446       2w36 0          1469239.696    399238,326   l1 sOnn         34390sno          72
IZ                    95207      B9            S lOM50  R               _          0   133870,l 1  16413441      11037A211            000           00              063             00 om   60W90o0o0       26180000          3
TOTAL.SBi33RT81W3E              1 U33714211      1641 30461      I36D375211          053            000             VW00           000      6030100W       261300             I
jg  E    46502      811         069310554. ~~REANQILE3931863446                      372431,45       1320000        261 I SW00                         00             000      57336OOD                        5
M         b           46O         Bil f 4 SIE TIVEL                                                                                      37l  9i n5,51-ZnWb 63 6 6 3 ,i Db  2 n,n  6
_ _ _TOAL s3E8 LR 41xwm           393163596       372 43sA4       132 3o0PO0    261 163,66          000             500            000b     I 72s onono                     16D
103 AZ          ft R   12406.0    81           S.-    A0i                        T7192S700        1516391,49       3311  390         297PO3          47,847          0,26o          4,10g    3 315 naMc      1663003         n 1
569           iO        03903     R9           46531X*38P                         I1 W3N0 37 02K                   2840A 13       3062109334         000         75159$77 ssnoo5c              o             1O6m-Om-- 0 -   20o
TT0AL ~13Rn1           E           3 311599W37     290667591        615  100    2 " 90037            47,47       75320RZ        75 33683     4315 onnon      3 2931009O 0    210
_TOTALCENaAL                      1269640393    121 O3OD 0         3946419.211    3 3362Z536   15244439,713    2336779,310    2336779,10   79311              59747 36100  -742
CX: Caeux Rec: R
(x) Le Oie  SO       bR(RC: 9521Th ar a s :e pp an          dpi3s       la lo hit de smu 00lsjou
1)   La   node ai6 36a 3 asa,vi au nc no    uiled  11 pjes (2 li es et 9 pjsm3  ibokmies)6) do                      cdta
avnme 59,3 nriDx dedisar ayvartpis dereIdi= une va1396aj10,6e otsk de 19,7 nimuis k diurs avec la
a636  doe 742 po81  d'e9pld
2)   Le al diap rl38d u6e b a  ye  au 31/12,2020 s'&iw bcsl 244 482, 718 Dirss, ceoi repr6dae 31,53%/o du tow edu
(3 946 419,211 Drim)
3)   Sur [es          s psied svisd   deuLx  ort eteau6 cris auxm m,fus3te  a m nb d par    npac4a           alite de  smpRt ,
m m ious e ses eddia360  dams ]es d&is, quare so  tn0se           3 r 1aoet IoLn ksh6z          VC m mia  o ptaoio et
13s 93is 3       omdesami6is desao de plus d'unaL
4)   L'aw   ioL   ede  1'w       s  BIRD 3673 s'6e            15au /l201100I51051 a l .145.000.O0 SJS soitpoxlauice
,sOo2 237154,24 SUS etpoci,r    6tad8 ,A. 7 9y7 845,76 $JS, ce qi expliqu1 e q9036s les6d a                s6d kises onrtel
rgly6c l'ex BD.ET A bane dat
- 32 -



Additional Annex 10. BIAT Completion Report (Loans 3671 and 3674)
DIRECTION GENERALE DES RISQUES
DIRECTION GESTION DES CREDITS
Division R6glementation et Financements Speciaux
Tunis, le 22 mai 2001
LIGNE DE CREDIT BANQUE MONDIALE
Objet: RAPPORT D'EVALUATION DU PROJET DE CREDIT A
L'INVESTISSEMENT PRIVE
En vertu des accords de prets conclus avec la Banque Mondiale, trois lignes de credit ont e
mises A la disposition de la BIAT pour le financement des projets d'investissement prives des
secteurs economiques a l'exception de ceux de l'agriculture et du logement.
Ces lignes de credit se presentent comme suit:
une ligne de credit directe n 3674 TUN de 8.000.000 USD
une ligne de credit APEX n3671 TUN de 3.300.000 USD
une ligne de credit APEX complementaire n3671 TUN de 4.425.000 DEM.
I Evaluation de 1'execution du projet de credit a l'investissement prive
La BIAT a dispos6 initialement de deux lignes de credit, la ligne directe n3674 TUN et APEX
n3671 et a beneficie ensuite d'une troisieme ligne complementaire provenant d'un reliquat non
utilise du credit APEX accorde A la STUSID.
Ces trois lignes ont et utilisees en totalite A la date du 31/12/2000 et ont permis A notre institution
de financer:
-      10 projets touristiques representant 77% du montant total finance
-     2 projets industriels representant 18% du montant total finance
-      1 projet dans le secteur des services representant 5% du montant total finance
Ainsi ce credit de la Banque Mondiale a permis d'accroitre notre capacite de fmancement et de
soutenir l'economie tunisienne par la realisation de nouveaux projets de developpement.
Certes ce pret n'a pas permis de fmancer des projets diversifies en beneficiant essentiellement au
secteur du tourisme, mais il a permis A notre institution de participer au developpement d'une
nouvelle zone touristique  (Hammamet Sud) et d'avoir un impact significatif sur 1'emploi,
preoccupation majeure de notre pays.
- 33 -



En effet, le credit de la Banque Mondiale a ete pn'se essentiellement par les promoteurs des projets
touristiques du fait que les conditions de retrocession de cette ligne se sont averees
particulierement adaptees aux besoins des unites h6telieres.
II Evaluation de la procedure d'instruction des dossiers et des delais d'imputation
L'Wvaluation des operations d'imputation menee par les services de notre banque a montre que les
demandes d'imputation introduites aupres de la Banque Mondiale ont ete approuvees dans leur
integralite.
Les services de notre banque ont gere les dossiers de financement sans rencontrer de difficultes
particulieres tout en se conformant aux modalit6s exigees par la Banque Mondiale.
En ce qui concerne les delais, il est important de souligner que les imputations sollicitees ont dans
1'ensemble e approuvees rapidement et sans prejudice sur les bWneficiaires.
Toutefois, it est vrai que notre banque n'a pas e  en mesure de solliciter avec celerite les
decaissements des montants autorises et a meme ete dans l'obligation de proceder a des
prorogations, des annulations et des reaffectations partielles de certains montants.
Cette situation caracterisee par un decalage entre imputation et decaissement s'explique par les
difficultes rencontrees par les promoteurs  dans le demarrage de leurs programmes d'
investissement, notamment pour les projets touristiques de la zone de Hammamet Sud.
III Evaluation du cofit du pret
Le couzt du pret de la Banque Mondiale comprend:
-     les interets en faveur de la Banque Mondiale calcules sur la base du taux de reference de
celle-ci majore de 0.5%
-     une commission d'engagement de 0.25% l'an calculee sur le montant du pret non utilise
-     tune prime versee a la Societe Tunisienne de Reassurance en couverture du risque de
change et dont le taux est calcule selon le schema suivant:
(TMM +0.5%) - (Taux de rdference de la Banque Mondiale +0.5%) avec un minimum de-
I point.
Sur la base de ces elments, le cofit du pret est demeure competitif jusqu'en 1996-1997 pour 1'
ensemble du systeme bancaire tunisien. Depuis cette date le Taux du Marche Monetaire Moyen
Tunisien a accuse une forte baisse en passant de 9% a 5.875% et est devenu inferieur au taux de
reference de la Banque Mondiale ce qui a amene 1'ensemble des banques et la BIAT en 1'
occurrence a supporter un surcofit provenant de la difference entre ces deux taux et a r6duire leur
marge de benefice.
Aussi, par comparaison avec d'autres credits provenant d'autres sources de financement, ces
- 34 -



lignes de credit n'ont pas ete suffisamment competitives du point de vue couit pour les
etablissements financiers.
IV Evaluation de la performance de la BIAT en matiere de couverture des risques
Le projet de credit A l'investissement prive de la Banque Mondiale visait A contribuer au
developpement du secteur financier en Tunisie tout en accordant aux banques des ressources A
terme au taux du march6 pour fmancer des entreprises privees.
En effet la Banque Mondiale a exige en contrepartie de ce pret, I'application de regles
prudentielles strictes.
A ce titre les services de la BIAT ont veille a une bonne promotion des lignes de credit mises en
euvre et une bonne evaluation des risques dans l'octroi des credits.
En effet a ce jour, parmi les 13 projets finances A partir de ce pret, un seul credit connait des
difficultes de remboursement.
Par ailleurs d'une maniere gen6rale, la BIAT a mis en aeuvre depuis 1992, une strategie de credit
fondee sur la maitrise des risques qui a favorise la consolidation de ses fonds propres nets et s'est
traduite par amelioration du niveau de couverture des risques qui est passe de 5.48% en 1994 A
9.61% en 2000.
Compte tenu de ce qui precede, il y a lieu de souligner que le projet de credit A l'investissement
prive de la Banque Mondiale a permis A la BIAT de participer au developpement economique du
pays par le renforcement de l'investissement et d'ameliorer ses performances en matiere de gestion
des credits et de couverture des risques.
Par consequent, nous estimons que d'une maniere generale ce programme a atteint ses objectifs
aussi bien au niveau de notre institution qu'a 1'echelle de l'economie nationale.
PROJETS FINANCES PAR LA BIAT AU 31/12/2000 DANS LE CADRE DU
PROJET DE CREDIT A L'INVESTISSEMENT PRIVE DE LA BANQUE
MONDIALE
1) Projets finances par la ligne de credit directe n 3674 TUN
- 35 -



Projets              Secteur d'activite      Montant autorise   Montant autorise
en $ US              en $ US
RANADA                          Tourisme                    1.149.212,00        1.149.212,00
6tel OCEANA                     Tourisme                   2.591.426,00         2.591.426,00
s Imprimeries Reunies            Industrie                   624.740,00          624.740,00
)lyclinique l'Espoir             Services                    622.000,00          622.000,00
,uristique Narjess              Tourisme                     648.492,00          648.492,00
.ehari Hammamet                 Tourisme                     859.073,16          859.073,16
ehari Beach Tabarka             Tourisme                     174.581,01          174.581,01
omotel                          Tourisme                     123.276,41          123.276,41
hich Khan                       Tourisme                     860.807,44          860.807,44
.ehari Hammamet                 Tourisme                     346.392,86          346.392,86
1                                                        8.000.000,00         8.000.000,00
2) Projets finances par la ligne de credit APEX n3671 TUN
Projets              Secteur d'activite    Montant autorise    Montant utilise
Ste Narjess                 Tourisme             239.897,75            239.897,75
Ste GIPA                   Industrie            1.776.514,48         1.776.514,48
Ste Int & Tour & Loisirs      Tourisme              900.000,00           900.000,00
St6 PROMOTEL               Tourisme             389.894,68            389.894,68
Ste MEHARI                Tourisme             109.497,11            109.497,11
HAMMAMET
TOTAL                                          3.300.000,00         3.300.000,00
3) Projets fmances par la ligne de credit APEX complementaire n13671 TUN
Projets               Secteur d'   Montant autoris6 (           Montant utilise
activite           en DEM)                 (en DEM)
Ste Int & Tour & Loisirs      Tourisme          1.526.839,21             1.526.839,21
Ste Mehari Hamnmamet         Tourisme          2.897.937,00             2.897.937,00
Total                                  4.424.776,21             4.424.776,21
- 36 -



Additional Annex 11. BTEI Completion Report (Loans 3671, 3675, and EXIM 04040)
BANQUE DE TUNISIE ET DES                                   Tunis, le 07 Mai 01
EMIRATES D'INVESTISSEMENT
Direction Financiere
RAPPORT RELATIF AU PROJET DE CREDIT
A L'INVESTISSEMENT PRIVE (PRETS BIRD NO 3671 et 3675 et EXIM NO 04040)
Les deux prets BIRD et le pret EXIM BANK du JAPON octroyes A la BTEI, lui ont
donne acces A des ressources d'un montant global de 36.077.427 Dinars Tunisiens. Ces
ressources ont permis le fmancement de 24 projets dans les secteurs de l'industrie, du tourisme,
des services et de l'agro-industrie (voir tableau 1 et 2 en annexe). Comme les 3 lignes de credit
precitees sont indexees sur le taux du marche monetaire en Tunisie majore de 0,50% et que
celui-ci a connu une baisse sensible au cours des annees ecoulees, la BTEI a pu offrir aux
promoteurs des credits A des taux d'interets favorables, ameliorant ainsi le service de leur dette.
A titre indicatif, le cofit des 3 lignes de credit est d'environ 6,43% tandis que le taux de sortie des
credits accordes aux promoteurs par la BTEI a avoisine 9,50% hors commissions.
IL est A signaler que les delais de remboursement sur la ligne JEXIM sont d'environ I mois
contre trois semaines sur les lignes BIRD. Enfn une demande de remboursement d'un montant
de 31.604.978 Yens Japonais en date du 14 Mars 2001 n'a pas ete honoree par la JEXIM BANK,
bien que parvenue avant la date de cl6ture du pret fixee au 31 Mars 2001.
Par ailleurs il est A noter que les lignes precitees ont concouru A la realisation d'un volume
d'investissements de l'ordre de 376.241.000 DT generant des emplois au nombre de 2956 pour
les projets en exploitation en 1999 contribuant ainsi A l'essor de l'economie tunisienne (voir
tableau 3 en annexe).
Enfm la BTEI a toujours trouve, durant la gestion de ces 3 lignes, toute I'assistance
necessaire aupres de la Banque Mondiale avec laquelle elle a entretenu des relations fructueuses et
benefiques.
DIRECTION FINANCIERE                                             TABLEAU 1
Sce. Mob. Ressources
LIGNES DE CREDIT PAR SECTEUR
JEXIM - BIRD2 - BIRD3
TOURISME
- 37 -



PROJECTS            MONTANT
DT
H.MEHARI                2 475 838,996
LE GRAND HOTEL          2 530 559,414
FIESTA CLUB             1 642 472,460
MINA HOUSE              1 511 887,518
T.B.S.                 1 331 788,472
TROPICAL GARDEN           829 329,02
SUN CLUB                1 080 172,032
JERBA HOLIDAY           1 672 790,008
HOTEL HELIOS             885 889,096
PALM AZUR               2 763 077,786
KSAR JERBA               252 083,836
TOTAL                  16 955 888,685
INDUSTRIE
PROJECTS            MONTANT
DT
T.M.M.                 3 011 757,911
SOMOCER                  853 028,809
BMG                     848 327, 010
FUBA                     629 763,000
IDEAL SANITAIRE        2 959 496,683
ALMES                    922 743,330
M.B.G.                 1 831 917,138
TOTAL                  11 057 033,881
AGRO INDUSTRIE
PROJECTS              MONTANT
DT
- 38 -



Les Grands Moulins du Golf 2 092 332,190
SMID CHEMSA               864 124,316
SOPAT                   2 253 812,519
CENT, LAIT. MAHDIA      1 426 115,580
AIN SOUKRA               8 78 690,530
TOTAL                   7 515 075,137
SERVICE
PROJECTS           MONTANT
DT
E.T.A.                549 428,625
TOTAL                 549 428,625
DIRECTION FINANCIERE
Sce. Mob. Ressources                                 TABLEAU2
REPARTITION SECTORIELLE DES FINANCEMENTS
SUR LES 3 LIGNES
MONTANT                POURCENTAGE
MDT )__
INDUSTRIE                               11 057 034          30,65
AGRO-INDUSTRIE                           7 515 075          20,83
TOURISME                                16 955 888          47,00
SERVICES                                   549 429           1,52
36 077 426           100
TOTAL
- 39 -



1999
T(umm       I el vhu                             21000            200    1 8)2     643 5niscPexiiWk
Mel_Mxh_Gdf                           8540             80    1613      920
_   Le ge-lHMI                       25 000                          _     ea1M9e99ri      w
F___    Chb                          15000                                  w19merzI
HMri1h                               23000                          e__ e1999r&k
Tlf                                  24500                            ___
Twidania                             14855            16)    3 06    1 (
SunCkQ                               1705)            235    4274 1_7_ 9
EibaHdiday                           21735            340    5947    2073
H_ ios                               23000                            2522
_PnAar                               22315            220    8465    3390
Kareba                                7387             85    2447      900
kkMh        SiidC1                               13400            104    5446    -259
sixt                                 10500
______           1' Chr[aiieIlh&                 9200            150   11482    1441
t      _  1AinSauaa                               3600
_                  =IM               18623
sanxc                                 8872            242   16249    48
v13                                 17354             70    1682    -321
______ ,aF                                        16154           371)  12329    2798
_   kiaSanit_                        19350
A_ _                                  12826            470   52135    8039
______   IM3G                                    21580            230    4057      796 en r don
Savim       ErLA                                   1400                  1(91      187
- 40 -



Additional Annex 12. BTKD Completion Report (Loan EXIM 04040)
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT DE LA BTKD
PRET EXIMB NO 04040
Montant :                        1 650 000 000 JPY
Taux d'interet  :                Taux du Marche Monetaire majore de 1/2 points
Montant decaisse :               1 643 572 690 JPY
Entree en vigueur               20 Avril 1998
Date limite d'imputation   :    31 Decembre 2000
Date limite de decaissement  :  31 Mars 2001
Gestionnaire de la ligne  :     La Banque Mondiale
I)    DESCRIPTION DE L'OBJECTIF DE LA LIGNE:
La ligne de credit EXIM Bank, accordee a l'Etat tunisien par l'Export - Import Bank of
Japan s'inscrit dans le cadre de la nouvelle politique du gouvernement, marquee par 1'
ouverture de l'Economie tunisienne sur l'economie mondiale. Elle s'inscrit dans le cadre
du renforcement du secteur prive pour l'aider un jouer un role croissant dans une
economie tournee vers l'exterieur et a s'adapter a un environnement plus competitif.
Le projet Exim Bank comprend 2 parties:
*     Le financement des sous-projets operant dans le secteur prive, realisant des
investissements de creation ou d'extension dans les divers secteurs de l'economie Tunisienne,
(tourisme, industrie, agriculture, services, etc..).
*     Le renforcement des capacites de suivi et de gestion de la BTKD
II.    REALISATION ET EXECUTION
A)    REALISATION
En collaboration avec la Banque Centrale de Tunisie, la BTKD s'est conformee a
toutes les conditions requises par le projet dont particulierement le respect des criteres
d'eligibilite conformement a l'accord de pret, et des procedures d'evaluation, en s'
assurant de la viabilite des sous-projets et en respectant les iegles environnementales.
En effet, I'Avis de l'Agence Nationale Pour la protection de l'Environnement (ANPE),
represente une des conditions fondamentales d'eligibilite des sous-projets, que la
BTKD a tenu a respecter. Par ailleurs, toutes les conditions de s6curite, de sante et d'
environnement comme stipulees dans I'accord de fmancement subsidiaire ont ete bien
observees et rigoureusement suivies par la BTKD.
B)    EXECUTION
- 41 -



La ligne de cr6dit Exim Bank a servi au financement de 23 sous projets constitues
par 16 unites touristiques et 7 unites industrielles. Le cofut total d'investissement
des sous projets de la BTKD finances sur la ligne de credit Exim Bank s'eleve
295.2 Millions DT alors que le nombre d'emplois crees a atteint 3853.
La liste des sous-projets de la BTKD financ6s sur la ligne de credit Exim
Bank se presente comme suit:
LIGNE DE CREDIT EXIM BANK - JAPAN
Appd3b1   Mxit uVent CNai                                 N
pfuk             Num        SeDar       (         l   m              DIP                         a
l-a& & MJa              JBBHJD1  Jisfie         150,2)    10,50 )90  1,442,633387          8,200,0000        80
SETor. MARIIJA          JBBIKD2   Tan nr          9,496,459     9,496,459    104,664274    15,0,000.000      188
HCte1ME ST              JEBIK3 3   Tauimt         54,196,187    54,196,187    519,286185    6,50),()00.W      67
SKIUOR1P                JEBIKI)4  hlixiie         29,460,776    29,46D,776    324,f98997    5,290Xx00.O:     3D
AIIRIJIE                JEBH<,IK5   Taiir         67,658,752    67,658,752    745,694.169  18,5(X),(.000     200
WMIeGIHKffAN            JBBJEKD6  Tadsm           92,777,727    93f38,843    907,04620     135000.000        14)
HJIFLELKSDR             JFMIKD7  T aimm          151,7455286    151,74526   1,714916.460   22M X)O().00      300
A3Rav.                  JEBTD8  Iiisutie         122,f9       l268"    1,351,322821        15,500,00.000     16)
NENVFS                  JBBIXD9  Taxi0            2W,77I       2W           352,0512        4_0fl00.000      10)
SILL                   .JEID10 To-Ji              93,761       90ffl3,761  1,100,199.646   19PXX)P.()        250
TUNSELAIT               JEBBKDI1  hiIutie         95,739A6     95=739,966  1,162,311909    17,014,00.000     555
P-aiuel-H laK%ih       T JBIKD-12  T aism         8554C62    85,54,062  1,386295              0,000.000       10l
1US                     JBBIKD.13  Tauia          87,481,076   87,076  1,074,648.698                         258
Pdy duaci               JBBTKD14  Sdvize          SZA4K        82,482,0)  1,012,512241     8,100,000.000     78
[ M  IHP"    T''v L     JEBIKD.15  Tcuisxe        17,745,620   17,745,62)   222,006579     19,50m,)OX.OO     3 200
SA T                    JBIK16  hdushie          19,38784    180,078927  2,252,877.416     14,400,(00)  000 79
Tha|iim                 JFBIID-17 Tuiqre          5657543  _567543    721510.775           1950),(OQX0       265
Mxiam                   JBBIKD18  Tame     32,413,957    2W,594    344264012                2,9000.000        30
PiCAHIi                 JBBIKD.19  Tamrr          645,27914    58,253299   742,881.021     21;5nPOX)0.000     248
URIIA                   JBBIKDI20 Tais   -   34,646075         18,613f371    214939.628     6X0DX000I         67
MNIAFLX(< A       [    JEBIKD21  Tcaimi           71,584923    77,664326    897,31&090     21P(X1),000.000   201)
ECELHJEL                JEB1KD22  Taiise          23,446,3     23558,194    272,186.662     7,00000.()00      70
AM Kayid                JEBTKD.23  hkAstie        35,169,544    33Al1f6&9    391,461.912    1,l00o.000        18
1 1,682,152,64   1643,572$)    1891Q83)     ,5214PX)0.000I    3,853
Par ailleurs, il y a lieu de signaler que les demandes d'imputations de sous-projets et les demandes
de remboursement de fonds ont et formulees par la BTKD conformement A la procedure mise en place par
la Banque Mondiale. Dans ce cadre, la BTKD souligne que les delais de reponses de la Banque Mondiale
etaient rapides alors que ceux de l'Exim Bank etaient relativement longs, notamment au niveau des
decaissements de fonds. De meme, I'acceptation par la Banque Mondiale du fmancement retroactif jusqu'a
une duree fixee A 90 jours A partir de la date de reception des demandes d'imputations a ete appreciee par la
BTKD, bien qu'une duree plus longue aurait evite a la Banque des annulations sur des montants deja
approuves, et de ce fait accelerer la consommation de la ligne de credit.
- 42 -



III. EVALUATION
1/     Le Cofit de la ligne de credit Exim Bank
La ligne de credit Exim Bank est accordee A la BTKD A un taux d'interet variable, egal au taux du
Marche Monetaire majore de /2 point sur une duree de 12 ans dont une annee de delai de grace. De meme
et compte tenu de la retrocession de ligne de credit en dinars sans le paiement d'une prime de couverture
contre le risque de change, les conditions financieres de la ligne de credit Exim Bank sont considerees
comme acceptables, notamment en terme de duree, qui s'adosse parfaitement a la duree des emplois de la
BTKD.
2/     Assistance
Le r6le de leadership assume par de la Banque Centrale de Tunisie dans le cadre de cette ligne de
credit est juge satisfaisant. En effet, outre sa disponibilite, la Banque Centrale de Tunisie a organise une
serie de reunions avec les banques concemres par la ligne de credit Exim Bank, en presence des
responsables de la Banque Mondiale, afin d'introduire des eclaircissements au sujet de la procedure a
suivre pour une consommation rapide de la ligne de credit.
La qualite de I'assistance fournie, aussi bien du cote BCT que BIRD pour accelerer la mise en
place et l'utilisation de la ligne de credit a e  appreciable, bien qu'un retard d'environ une annee a ete
enregistre au titre de l'entree en vigueur de la dite ligne de credit.
3)     Audit du compte du projet
Conformenment aux dispositions de l'accord du Pret, le Commissaire aux comptes de la BTKD a
etabli un rapport special au titre de l'utilisation de la ligne de credit et n'a relevb aucune anomalie quant A
la procedure suivie et sa conformite avec les directives de la Banque Mondiale.
4)     Conclusion
La BTKD ne souleve pas de difficultes particulieres au titre de l'utilisation de la ligne de credit
Exim Bank, et considere que les objectifs qui lui sont assignes ont ete atteints.
-43 -



Additional Annex 13. CIL Completion Report (Loan EXIM 04040)
Objet: Rapport d'Achevement du Projet de Credit a l'investissement Prive.
A l'instar des autres pays en voix de d6veloppement, les institutions
financieres tunisiennes ont ben6ficie du projet de credit a l'investissement prive <
PCIP >> impute sur la ligne de credit << BIRD >>.
En effet, ce projet a ete execute avec l'octroi de lignes de cr6dit en
trois phases:
-    Neuf lignes directes du credit aux institutions financieres privees;
-    Une ligne de credit apex;
-     Une ligne de credit assuree par un financement parallele de la banque export
- import du Japon devenant en 1999 la banque du Japon pour la Cooperation
Internationale >>.
D'ailleurs, c'est dans le cadre de cette derniere que s'inscrit la participation
de notre etablissement < C.I.L. >>.
Tout en repondant aux criteres d'e1igibilite, la CIL a effectivement beneficie dans
le cadre du projet de credit a l'investissement prive, d'un pret de 800000000
YENS qui a permis le financement des projets d'investissement prives de tous
les secteurs 6conomiques a 1'exception des secteurs de I'agriculture et du
logement.
1- Utilisation de la ligne:
Cette ligne de credit a e  affecte en totalite dans un delai performant
du 26/05/1999 au 13/03/2001 (moins d'un an).
- 44 -



Les projets imputes sur la dite ligne sont les suivants:
CLIENT                 SOUS-PROJET                   MONTANT EN JPY  %
SMTT                   JE-CIL1 ; JE-CIL19            121 400 000          15,175
Atlantis Voyages     JE-CIL8 ; JE-CIL9              40 960 000          5,120
E. Bouguila          JE-19 JE-CIL22; JE-CIL24       50 464 000          6,308
Briquerie mostakbal   JE-CIL12; JE-CIL21            95 200 000          11,900
Sicofrip             JE-CIL2                        45 824 000          5,728
Chaabane et cie      JE-CIL3                        88 088 000          11,0111
SPTM                 JE-CIL4                        35 144 000          4,393
Carri6res du sud     JE-CIL5                        43 928 000          5,491
Zarrouk Mokhtar      JE-CIL6                         59 640 000         7,455
Plasteka             JE-CIL7                         11 232 000         1,404
Socabs               JE-CIL10                       47 176 000          5,897
Tunisie Ouate        JE-CIL1 1                       19 088 000         2,386
Ets Zouari           JE-CIL14                       34 432 000           4,304
Cobrex               JE-CIL15                        10 544 000         1,318
Ent Mahmoud Ameur  JE-CIL16                         27 696 000          3,462
Synex                JE-CIL17                       32 320 000          4,040
Ent Missaoui freres    JE-CIL18                     23 200 000          2,900
Batimod              JE-CIL20                         5 696 000         0,712
Tricar                 JE-CIL23                        7 968 000          0,996
800 000 000    100 %
Cette ligne a permis ainsi de financer:
-(11) projets relevant du secteur batiment:
-(2) projets relevant du secteur du tourisme;
-(4) projets relevant du secteur du transport des marchandises;
-(1) projets relevant du secteur du textile;
-(5) projets relevant du secteur de l'industrie;
-(1) projets relevant du secteur du commerce.
2-Evaluation de la procedure d'instruction des dossiers et des de1ais d'imputation:
Tout en repondant aux criteres d'e1igibilite ; toutes les demandes d'imputation presentees
par notre institution sont approuvees et que les decaissements relatifs a ces projets ont et
realises dans un delai tres performant (moins d'un an).
- 45 -



Cependant, les problemes de communication et de suivi de procedures necessaires
entre la Banque Mondiale et ( JBIC >>sont relativement lents. Ces defaillances ont cesse
d'exister des reception du premier decaissement.
En plus, nous avons e  en mesure d'absorber une partie non encore decaissee par
les autres institution. A cet effet, nous vous proposons une solution intermediaire entre le
principe de << premier arrive, premier servi >>et le respect d'un degre de bureaucratisation
necessaire pour la bonne execution du credit. Elle consiste a incorporer dans le contrat
des clauses de pointage en arretant des dates limites intermediaires d'utilisations par
tranches (exemple: a utiliser 50% du montant dans un delai de six mois, a defaut, on
retire 10% du montant total accorde initialement et on le reaffecte aux institutions
financieres performantes selon leurs besoins et leurs demandes, etc...)
3- Evaluation du Couit du pret:
Le couit de cette ligne a ete benefique a plus d'un titre. En effet, outre un taux
relativement maitrise de l'ordre de TMM + 0,5 point, la duree de remboursement permet
une re affectation de la ligne a d'autres financements.
Enfin, nous pensons que cette nouvelle experience pour notre institution nous a
permis, outre 1'acces a cette ligne, une reorganisation inteme ameliorant ainsi la qualite
de nos services. Une nouvelle ligne est souhaitable.
-46 -



Additional Annex 14. UBCI Completion Report (Loan 3679)
Tunis, le 12 MAI 1999
L'enveloppe de SEPT MILLIONS DE DOLLARS (7.000.000 US$) affectee A notre
Etablissement a e  entierement utilisee par 4 societes clientes durant la periode du 28 Juillet 1995
au 24 Avril 1997.
Les beneficiaires sont indiques comme suit:
References BIRD           Raison Sociale          Montant du Pret en $
H2                     MISFAT                             2.067.531
H3                     HOTEL PALM'AZUR                    3.131.239
H4                     HOTEL MEHARI                       1.451.230
HI                     POLYCLINQUE DE LA                   350.000
MARSA
TOTAL                                                    7.000.000$
Les projets ayant beneficie du pret BIRD sont en activite et present dans 1'ensemble un niveau de
risque normal pour la banque.
Leur structure fmanciere est saine et la gestion actuelle devrait assurer la perennite de ces 4
affaires.
Nous n' avons enregistre aucun retard de paiement (Principal + Interet).
La commercialisation de cette ressource ext6rieure a necessite, des la signature du Pret, une
action de vulgarisation et de sensibilisation aupres d'une tranche de clientele bien ciblee.
Pendant la duree du projet les services concemrs de la BIRD ont apporte A notre Institution toute
I'assistance requise et en particulier au niveau des op6rations de deboursement des credits
accordes.
In Fine, nous nous permettons de signaler au Departement / Region Moyen-Orient et Afrique du-
Nord que les projets de credit BIRD a mettre en place en Tunisie doivent tenir compte a l'avenir
de la baisse du TMM fixee actuellement A 5,8750%*.
En vous remerciant de I'aide que vous nous avez apportee, veuillez agreer nos salutations
distinguees.
UNION BANCAIRE POUR LE COMMERCE ET 1'INDUSTRIE
* Taux de base BIRD / Avril 99: 6,320
- 47 -



Additional Annex 15. Amen Bank Completion Report (Loans 3676 and EXIM 04040)
RapDort d'evaluation sur les deux lignes:
Ligne directe BIRD 3676
Ligne APEX JEXIM.BIC
I.     L'objectif des projets lignes directes de la BIRD et de la JBIC (ex JEXIM):
Les principaux objectifs de la ligne BIRD sont les suivants:
1.    de doter les banques Tunisiennes de ressources longues, ne comportant pas de risques
compromettant leur rentabilite, afm d'ameliorer leur capacite A fmancer A Long Terme les
installations productives et les projets relevant du secteur priv6
2.     de renforcer la capacite d'adaptation des entreprises privees A un environnement plus
competitif
3.    de promouvoir la concurrence au sein du systeme financier
Par ailleurs les autres objectifs peuvent etre resumes comme suit
4.     aider les banques Tunisiennes au renforcement de l'organisation, de la gestion et du
fonctionnement
5.    renforcer les capacites de suivi arnliorer la solidite financiere des banques commerciales
et de developpement Tunisiennes
6.    aider les banques A mettre au point un systeme d'infonnation approprie pour suivre les
actifs A risques
7.    etablir des criteres et un systeme d'alerte pour identifier les prets A problemes
8.    ameliorer la capacites des banques Tunisiennes A preparer un diagnostic d'entreprise
Le resultat observe a l'achevement des dits projets, ainsi que l'etat de l'evolution de la
reglementation Tunisienne en matiere de regles prudentielles, de suivi et partage des risques et la
rapide adhesion des banques aux nouvelles normes, nous incitent A dire que les objectifs des deux
projets ont e  atteints.
II.    Performances des parties:
L'impression generale que donne l'execution des deux projets qui concement AMEN
BANK, A savoir la ligne directe de la BIRD 3676, ainsi que celle de la JBIC, nous amene A
conclure que les performances des bailleurs de fonds et celles de l'emprunteur sont dans
leur globalite satisfaisantes.
III.   Problemes rencontres lors de 1'execution des deux projets:
A.    Pour la ligne Directe de la BIRD 3676:
Les problemes majeurs qui ont et rencontres se situent:
- 48 -



1)    A la phase de decaissement:
Le passage par un cours historique, en l'occurrence celui de la date d'engagement de la
depense, pour determiner le montant du decaissement en USD, d'une part, et 1'
application du cours du jour du decaissement lors de la conversion en TND du montant
requ de la BIRD, d'autre part, ont entraime des differences importantes dans les
montants decaisses.
I1 aurait e  souhaitable que le cours choisi lors de la determination du montant de 1'
appel des fonds en USD soit celui du jour de l'etablissement de cette meme demande,
cela aurait reduit notablement 1'effet de l'6volution du cours du USD.
2)    A la phase de retrocession de la ligne directe aux beneficiaires finals:
*     La convention ne parle pas des conditions des prets secondaires applicables aux
beneficiaires finals ni de l'obligation d'adossement en termes de taux d'interets, de la ressource
ligne directe BIRD.
*     Les autorites monetaires Tunisiennes ont garanti un taux de sortie aux banques sur la ligne
equivalent au TMM + 0.5%, le TMM etant variable et d6termin& mensuellement a chaque
echeance.
*     La formule de calcul de la commission de couverture contre le risque de change est la
suivante: (TMM +0.5%) - (Taux Preteur VariableBIRD - Reduction Partielle) avec un niveau
minimum pour la dite commission de 1%.
Dans cette situation, les banques restent exposees a un risque de taux des que le
niveau de la commission calculee tombe au dessous du niveau minimum de 1%.
Cette ligne aurait dui etre assortie:
D'un taux d'interet fixe
-     D'une commission de couverture contre le risque de change fixe
3)    A la phase de remboursement:
Le systeme de comptabilisation en pool de monnaies de la BIRD utilise le USDequivalent
comme monnaie de compte, le USDequivalent etant compose d'un panier de devises.
La couverture contre le risque de change se fait sur la base d'une comptabilisation en
USD.
Cette couverture ne s'est pas revelee efficace, car l'6vclution du cours du USDequivalent
par rapport au USD a expose les banques beneficiaires a des risques supplementaires,- non
couverts.
B.    Pour la ligne Directe de la J.BIC:
1)    La ligne directe de la J.BIC presentait des complexites administratives au niveau des
procedures de decaissement:
En effet, pour chaque decaissement il fallait lister les pieces justificatives des depenses
relatives au projet refinance et convertir leur montant en JPY au cours du jour oui la
depense a e  engagee.
Cela aurait e  beaucoup plus simple de convertir le montant total des documents
justifiant les depenses sur les projets au cours de change du jour de la presentation de
- 49 -



la demande.
Ce n'etait pas le cas pour les proc6dures d'approbation, celles-ci n'etant autres que
celles de la BIRD.
En effet les cadres charges d'etudier et de presenter les dossiers se sont trouves
familiarises avec les dites procedures apres une experience et plusieurs utilisations sur
la ligne directe de la BIRD.
2)    AMEN BANK n'ayant pas ete informee des la phase de negociation de la ligne JBIC, elle
n'a beneficie que d'un petit montant sur cette ligne representant le reliquat non utilise par les
autres banques beneficiaires alors que certaines banques ont beneficie de montants importants et
ont paye une commission d'engagement sur le montant total accorde et n'en ont utilise qu'une
partie seulement.
Le principe de ligne globale au secteur financier Tunisien avec imputation des
demandes de financement selon l'ordre chronologique de leur presentation par les
banques ainsi qu'une formule de repartition equitable de la commission d'engagement
entre les banques beneficiaires, aurait e  plus adapte pour une meilleure utilisation de
la dite ligne.
3)    Le decaissement de la demiere tranche en faveur de AMEN BANK, dont la date lniite a
e  arretee au 31/03/01 par la J.BIC, n'a pu avoir lieu et ce pour la raison suivante:
La J.BIC a avance la date limite de decaissement et en a avise tardivement les
differentes parties.
D'autre part la demande de AMEN BANK aurait ete recue dans les delais impartis s'il
n'y avait pas eu un retard dans la distribution du courrier au sein meme de la BIRD.
IV.   Conclusions:
Les deux lignes dont a beneficie AMEN BANK ont ete d'un apport tres positif aussi bien
pour la banque, qui a renforce sa tresorerie par la disponibilite de ressources longues, que
pour les beneficiaires finals qui ont pu beneficie de fmancements plus longs que les
fmancements classiques accordes par la banque sur ses ressources ordinaires, et par
consequent mieux adaptes A leurs besoins de financement et ce A des coudts qui restent
competitifs.
Cependant la prise en compte de plusieurs variables (taux d'interets variable de la BIRD, le
Taux Moyen du March6 Monetaire pour le Dinar, le USD et -le USDequivalent,) rend
impossible une gestion << assets/liabilities management '> parfait et efficace.
Sommaire des utilisations par AMEN BANK:
11) Projet:            BIRD 3676
Montant total de la USD                  7 000 000
ligne:
Montant total   USD                   6 999 999,99
decaisse
- 50 -



CN du montant   TND                   6 518 583,88
decaisse:
Sous projets:    Classe          Montant du       Restant du au    Restant du au
financement     31/12/00         31/03/01
CLC                            0         1 375 000         937 500          750 000
FLEXO PRINT                    0          500 000           41 900           41 900
STIP                           0           140 000          15 000           15 000
STM                            0          350 000                0                0
CL IBN ENNAFIS                 0          700 000          192 500          157 500
STIAL                          0          527 850                0                0
GENERAL                        1         3 000 000        1 800 000        1 800 000
DRINKS
TOTAL:                                   6 592 850        2 986 900        2 764 400
III) Projet      J.BIC (ex JEXIM.Pic)              __
Montant total de la JPY                250 000 000
ligne:
Montant total   JPY                     184 982,94
decaisse:
CN du montant   TND                  2 264 363,218
d6caisse:
Sous projets:    Classe          Montant du       Restant du au    Restant du au
financement     31/12/00         31/03/01
SMID                           0     1 086 854,773        1 008 540         960 514
AGROMED                         0        1 177 508        1 123 985        1 070 462
Total:                                   2 264 363        2 132 525        2 030 976
- 51 -



Additional Annex 16. BNA Completion Report (Loans 3671 and EXIM 04040)
LIGNE DE CREDIT APEX BIRD No. 3671-TUN
I - DONNEES PRINCIPALES:
1.   Numero du pret de la BIRD:         BIRD No 3671 TUN
2.   Montant du pret Subsidiaire:       $US 6.000.000
3.   Date de signature de l'accord de pret   25 Juin 1995
subsidiaire
4.   Methode de decaissement            Retrait du compte de pret
I                                   (remboursement)
5.   Date du ler appel de fonds         12.12.1996
6.   Date du ler decaissement           03.01.1997
7.   Date limite d'utilisation          30.06.1999
8.   Taux d'interets                    TMM + 0,5
9.   Commission d'engagement            0,25%
10.  Echeances                          15/01 et 15/07
II - EXECUTION DU PRET:
La ligne de credit APEX est une ligne octroyee a la Republique Tunisienne pour un
montant equivalent a 50 millions de $US et dont la gestion est confiee a la B.C.T.
Ses ressources sont destinees au financement de l'investissement dans le secteur prive
La part octroyee a la BNA en vertu d'un accord de fmancement subsidiaire conclu entre 1'
Etat Tunisien represente par le Ministere des Finances et la BNA en date du 29 juin 1995 est d'un
montant en Dinars Tunisiens equivalent a 6 millions de $US.
1 ADprobations et utilisations : (voir annexe I)
L'enveloppe a e  destinee  a fmancer la creation de deux unit6s h6telieres, pour un
montant de credit de DT 3.000.000 chacune.
Les deux projets etant approuves par la BIRD ont fait l'objet d'un financement pour l'-
equivalent de USD 5.813.038,61 soit DT 5.976.300
2 . Amendement de l'accord de Drit subsidiaire:
Considerant les fluctuations du taux de change qui s'est caracterise par une hausse du
Dollar US courant l'annee 1997, un reliquat de 186.961,36 a ete degage apres la realisation des
deux credits concemes que la BNA a annul avec l'accord du Ministere des Finances.
- 52 -



3. Remboursement - Re2lement:
Au 15/01/2001 quatre echeances en principal ont e  remboursees totalisant un montant
de DT 996.050 et huit 6cheances en int6rets de DT 1.508.853,438 soit un total en principal et
interet de 2.504.903,438 DT.
Le restant dui du pret s'elve a ce jour a 4.980.250 DT.
III - ANALYSE DU COUT DU PRET:
1 - Cofit du pret:
Conformement A l'article 4 de l'accord de fmancement subsidiaire, la BNA verse des
interets sur le principal du financement subsidiaire retire et non rembourse A un taux egal au taux
d'interet du marche monetaire majore de 50 points de base.
Depuis le ler appel de fonds en date du 03 janvier 1997 jusqu'a la date du dernier
remboursement effectue, soit le 15 janvier 2001, le TMM a e  revise sept fois A la baisse variant
entre 7,8125% et 5,875%.
Actuellement le TMM s'etablit A 6,25%. Il presente une tendance A la hausse.
D'autre part le montant de la commission d'engagement payee par la BNA sur la base d'
un taux de 0,25% l'an s' eleve a DT 25.492,697.
2 - Contribution du Dret:
Le pret a permis de renforcer les ressources de la BNA pour financer des projets prives
conformement aux reglementations de la Banque.
IV - EVALUATION DES PERFORMANCES:
1 - Performance de la BNA
La Direction Gestion des Ressources d'Emprunt est compose de deux Divisions:
La Division Mobilisation des Ressources et la Division Gestion et Suivi qui est charg6e
entre autre de gerer la ligne de credit APEX (faire des demandes d' approbations, suivre et
contr6ler les decaissements, appeler les fonds, suivre les remboursements de 1'emnprunt, le
reglement des commissions et des interets etc...)
L'execution du pret APEX s'est deroulee d'une maniere satisfaisante. La consommation
de la part BNA a ete tres rapide s'6talant sur une periode de 6 mois.
- 53 -



Toutefois la BNA a meme souhaite avoir I'acces A une enveloppe supplementaire mais elle
a e  informee apres contact des instances concemres (BCT et Ministere des Finances) qu'il n'
etait pas possible.
La BNA a maintenu un ratio de solvabilite superieur au ratio reglementaire de 5% (puis
devenu 8%)stipule dans I'accord de financement subsidiaire. Au titre de l'exercice 2000 ce ratio s'
etablit A 11,32%.
Compte tenu de 1'evolution du produit net bancaire et des charges de fonctionnement et
autres charges, le resultat d'exploitation degage par la BNA   s'est etabli A 30,5 MD au
31/12/2000 contre 27,8 MD une annee auparavant.
Le resultat net de F'annee 2000 s'est eleve A 23,4 MD, enregistrant ainsi une progression
de 9,7% contre 6,3% au cours de l'exercice 1999 (voir annexe II).
2 - Performance de la BCT
Conform6ment A I'article 5 de l'accord de financement subsidiaire, un calendrier d'
amortissement devrait etre etabli par la BCT et adresse A la Banque. Ce calendrier n'est pas
encore parvenu A la BNA.
Par ailleurs, il est A constater que les interets sont effectivement decomptes sur la base de
TMM majore de plus de 100 points de base quelques fois et non pas 50 points de base selon les
dispositions de l'article 4 de I'accord subsidiaire Etat/BNA.
3 - Performance de la BANOUE MONDIALE:
Les reponses de la Banque mondiale aux demandes d'approbations envoyees par la BNA
ont necessite en moyenne un delai de 80 jours.
Quant aux demandes de retrait de fonds, un delai moyen de 20 jours a ete necessaire pour
1'encaissement des fonds.
La mission de supervision organisee par la Banque Mondiale en date du 3 au 12 decembre
1996 a permis de discuter sur les perspectives d'execution de l'operation de pret, la conformite
stricte aux regles prudentielles et aux normes comptables intemationales.
V - SUIVI ET EVALUATION DES PROJETS:
Conformement A la circulaire BCT 91-24, la classe 0 (z&ro) a ete attribuee aux deux
projets fmances.
- 54 -



La BNA a procede A 1'evaluation des deux projets finances apres leur realisation en se
basant sur certains parametres et indicateurs tels qu'indiques dans 1' annexe III.
Suivi - Evaluation Ligne de Credit
Donnees Oen6rales
Identification du client                    Nom et prenom ou numero d'identificati,
Genre                                    Homme ou Femme
Secteur                                  Industrie, agroalimentaire, tourisme
Activite                                  Textile, huilerie, h6tellerie
Localisation                             Gouvernorat/Imada
Capital
Montant de l'investissement
Montant du credit
Taux de Rentabilite Inteme
Categorisation environnementale           Le projet fait- il partie de la liste de l'annex
1 ou I'annexe 2 au decret 91-362
Etude environnementale le cas echeant    Oui, Non ou non applicable
Avis de I'ANPE le cas echeant            Oui, Non ou non applicable
Indicateurs d'ivolution
Annees Annees 0   Annee 1   ..       Annee n    Moyenne
Indicateurs                                                  _____
Production (ou nombre
de nuitees pour
l'h6tellerie)
Benefice
Part du march6
Emplois crees
Etat de remboursement au (date):
- 55 -



Remboursements
Utilise          Echus         A echoir
Montant          Taux
Constat sur le proiet:  (realisation par rapport a la prevision)
1.    Execution du projet
2.    Respect du schema de financement
3.    Objectif ( Developpement, part de marche, chiffre d'affaires,...)
4.    Performance du projet
( TS: Tres Satisfaisant, S: Satisfaisant, I: Insatisfaisant, TI: Tres Insatisfaisant, M
Modeste).
Suivi Evaluation Li2ne de CrOOit APEX/JBIC
Donnees O6n6rales
Identification du client                        Nom et prenom ou numero d'identificati,
Genre                                        Homme ou Femme
Secteur                                      Industrie, agroalimentaire, tourisme
Activite                                     Textile, huilerie, h6tellerie
Localisation                                  Gouvernorat/Imada
Capital
Montant de l'investissement
Montant du credit        _
Categorisation environnementale              Le projet fait- il partie de la liste de l'anne,
1 ou l'annexe 2 au d6cret 91-362
Etude environnementale le cas echeant         Oui, Non ou non applicable
Avis de l'ANPE le cas echeant                 Oui, Non ou non applicable
Indicateurs d'evolution
Annees Annees 0   Annee 1    ...       Annee n    Moyenne
Indicateurs
Production (ou nombre
de nuitees pour
Ilh6tellerie)
Benefice                                                     .
Part du marche
Emplois crees
- 56 -



Etat de remboursement au (date):_
Remboursements
Utilise          Echus         A echoir
Montant          Taux
Constat sur le proiet:  (realisation par rapport a la prevision)
I.    Execution du projet
2.    Respect du schema de fmancement
3.    Objectif
4
RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT SUR L' UTILISATION DE LA LIGNE DE CREDIT JBIC
- NO 04040 TUN
I - Donnees principales:
-     Numero du pret de la JBIC ......................... : EXIM N 04040 TUN
-     Montant du prkt subsidiaire JBIC . .......... : JPY 1.850.000.000
-     Date de signature du pret.subsidiaire ...... : 04/12/1998
-     Date limite d'imputation ....................... 31/12/2000
-     Date limite d'utilisation ....................: 31/03/2001
-     Methode de decaissement .............. ...... : (Methode de remboursement)
-     Date du ler appel de fonds aupres la JBIC: 02/08/1999
-     Date du ler decaissement ................... : 12/10/1999
-     Taux d'interets ...................    : TMM + 0,5
-     Commission d'engagement ................. : 0,25%
-     Echeances ...................       .: 01/02 et 01/08
11 - Execution du projet:
La ligne JBIC est une ligne octroyee a la Republique Tunisienne pour un montant de 10
millions de YENS et dont la gestion est confiee a la BCT.
Ses ressources sont destinees au fmancement de l'investissement dans le secteur prive.
La part octroyee a la BNA en vertu de l'accord de fmancement subsidiaire conclu entre I'
Etat Tunisien represente par le Ministere des Finances et la BNA en date du 04 decembre 1998
est d'un montant de JPY 1.850.000.000.
- 57 -



1) ApDrobations et utilisations ( Annexe let 2 ) :
Toute la part BNA sur la ligne JBIC a e  engagee en faveur de 21 projets dans divers
secteurs.
A la date butoire fixee au 31/03/2001 seulement 11 projets ont e  finances pour une
somme de JPY 1.006.756,652 representant ainsi 54,5% de l'allocation BNA globale du pret soit
entierement (10 projets) soit partiellement (1 projet) A savoir:
-     9 projets industriels pour un montant de DT 8.520.000 soit 1'equivalent de JPY
774.087.892.
-     2 projets de Tourisme pour un montant de DT 2.800.000 soit 1' equivalent de JPY
232.668.760.
En fait les 10 autres projets seront reimputes sur d'autres ressources de financement.
2) Deboursement JBIC:
Au cours de la periode allant du 12/10/1999 jusqu'au 30/03/2001, 15 demandes d'appel
de fonds ont ete adressees A la JBIC et qui ont e  decaissees sous 9 dates de valeur.
Jusqu'A la date limite d'utilisation de ia ligne, le dernier decaissement de fonds a ete
effectu6 le 30/03/2001 d'un montant de DT 2.033.630,068 soit I'equivalent de JPY
176.013.958.
3) Amendement de I'accord de prit
L'accord de financement subsidiaire a e amende suite aux evenements suivants:
-     Prorogation de la date linite d'imputation au 31/12/2000
-     Prorogation de la date lirne d'utilisation au 31/03/2001
-     Annulation du reliquat du pr& qui s'elve A JPY 840.116.963.
Le financement subsidiaire consenti A la BNA est diminu -de I'equivalent de JPY
3.126.385 lequel montant a ete cede de la BNA a Amen-Lease comme convenu avec la Banque
Mondiale vu que la societe Amen-Lease a realise un depassement dans sa quote-part qui lui a ete
reserv6e. A cet effet un avenant a ete conclu entre l'Etat Tunisien et la BNA en date du
2/05/2001.
4) Remboursement - Reilement
Au 01/02/2001, la BNA a rembourse un montant total de DT 1.543.683,630 en principal,
- 58 -



inter&s et commissions d'engagement soit trois echeances en principal de DT 953.315,428, cinq
echeances en interets et des commissions de DT 590.368,202.
III - Analyse du cofit du pret
1 - Cofit du pret:
Conformrment A l'article 4 des conditions du financement subsidiaire, la BNA verse des
int6rets sur le principal du financement subsidiaire retire et non rembourse a un taux egal au TMM
majore de 0,5 point.
Depuis le 12/10/1999, date du Ier decaissement par la JBIC, jusqu'A la demiere echeance
du 01/02/2001, le taux du Marche Monetaire (TMM) s'est e1eve a 5,875%.
D'autre part, le montant de la commission d'engagement payee par la BNA sur la base d'
un taux de 0,25% l'an s'eleve a DT 95.901.
2 - Contribution du pret:
Le projet a permis a la B.N.A. d'acceder A des ressources A termes au taux du marche
monetaire majore de 50 points de base pour fmancer des projets industriels et de tourisme.
lV - Evaluation des Performances
1)    Performance de la BNA:
La Direction Gestion des Ressources d'Emprunt est compos&e de deux Division: la
Division Mobilisation des Ressources et la Division Gestion et Suivi qui est chargee entre autres
de gerer la ligne de credit JBIC (faire des demandes d'approbations, suivre et controler les
decaissements, appeler les fonds aupres de la JBIC, suivre les remboursements de l'emprunt, le
reglement des commissions et des interets etc...)
L'annulation partielle du pret d'un montant de 840.116.963 alloue initialement a 10
projets approuves est lide essentiellement a la lourde phase de constitution de
garanties de ces projets.
La BNA a maintenu un ratio de solvabilite superieur au ratio reglementaire de 5%
(devenu 8%) stipule dans l'accord de financement subsidiaire. Au titre de l'exercice 2000 ce ratio
s'etablit A 11,32%.
Compte tenu de l'evolution du produit net bancaire et des charges de fonctionnement et
autres charges, le resultat d'exploitation degage par la BNA s'est etabli A 30,5 MD au
- 59 -



31/12/2000 contre 27,8 MD une annee auparavant.
Le resultat net de l'annee 2000 s'est e1eve a 23,4 MD, enregistrant ainsi une progression
de 9,7% contre 6,3% au cours de 1'exercice 1999.
2)    Performance de la B.C.T. :
Confonrmment a l'article 5 de t'accord de financement subsidiaire conclu entre l'Etat
Tunisien et la BNA, la Banque Centrale devait remettre un calendrier d'amortissement a chaque
utilisation.
Ces calendriers ne sont pas encore parvenus a la BNA.
3)    Performance de la Banque Mondiale:
Courant la periode de decaissement du pret, allant du 12/10/1999 au 30/03/2001, il n'y a
pas eu de problemes majeurs de retrait de fonds aupres de la JBIC. Toutefois l'appel de fonds d'
une somme totale de JPY 130.766.463 qui a e  adresse a la Banque Mondiale par E-mail en date
du 30/03/2001 n'a pas ete retenu pour decaissement compte tenu de la date limite d'utilisation
fixee au 31/03/2001.
Au cours de la periode de decaissement allant du 12/10/1999 au 30/03/2001, les
differences entre la date des demandes de retrait de fonds et les dates de valeur de decaissements
ont necessite un delai moyen de 40 jours.
V - Suivi et Evaluation des Proiets:
La BNA a procede a l'evaluation des projets imputes sur la ligne de credit JBIC apres leur
r6alisation en se basant sur certains parametres et indicateurs tels qu'indiques dans les annexes
ci-jointes.
Toutefois, et conformement a la circulaire BCT N 91/24, les classes 0 et 1 ont e
attribuees aux projets fmances sur la ligne JBIC.
- 60 -



Additional Annex 17. ATB Completion Report (Loans 3671 and 3672)
ATB - Evaluation des Li2nes de Cr?dit directe 3672 et ADex 3671
Dans le cadre du projet de cr?dit ? l'investissement priv?qui visait ? foumir des ressources ?
tertne aux institutions financi?res tunisiennes afin de leur permettre de financer des entreprises priv.s qui
sollicitaient des pr?ts ? moyene et long terme, l'ATB a bVhfici? de la part de la BIRD de 2 lignes de cr?Uit.
1/ Une ligne de cr?dit directe (Pr?t No. 3672) pour un montant de l'quivalent de 6 millions
de dollars en date du 14/02/94.
Cette ligne de cr?dit a servi ? financer 5 projets priv?s dans diffAents secteurs: Transport (7,1
%), Sant?(I 7 %), Httellerie (65 %) et construction navale (5,9 %).
Par ailleurs, et en accord avec la banque mondiale, des d1aissements relatifs ? un sous projet
imput?sur la ligne APEX 3671 ont eu lieu sur cette ligne afm de solder le compte.
La 1.?re approbation a eu lieu le 18/04/94 et la derni?re a eu lieu le 12/03/96, tandis que le ler
d'taissement a eu lieu le 08/08/95 et le dernier a eu lieu 06/03/97.
Cette ligne de cr?dit a permis ? la banque de procurer ? ses relations des financements ? long
terme.
S'agissant d'une premi?re expAience de la banque dans la gestion d'une ligne de cr?dit directe, le
personnel de la banque en a tir?une ma?trise et une exp?ience appr?iable et ce avec l'assistance des
op3fatuers de la banque mondiale.
2/ Une ligne de cr?dit APEX 3671 pour un montant de l'?quivalent de 6 millions de $ en
date du 21/11/95:
Cette ligne de crMUit a servi ? financer 4 projets priv?s dans principalement l'industrie
agro-alimentaire 46,7 %, le tourisme 44,8 % et industrie du plastique 8,5 %.
La 1.?re approbation a eu lieu le 12/03/96 et la derni?re le 24/12/99 ; tandis que le ler
d1aissement a eu lieu le 19/07/96 et le demier le 14/01/2000.
Toutefois, quelques remarques sont ? soulever quant ? la gestion de ces 2 lignes.
a- D?caissement:
L'ATB faisant les d1aissements en dinars, alors que la BIRD libellait les fonds des pr?ts en
$EU, Marks allemands et Yen japonais, cette situation s'est traduite par des r?ffectations partielles de
montants de pr?ts secondaires ? cause des fluctuations des taux de change.
Par ailleurs, suite au dta1age entre la date des demandes de tirage et la date de versement des
fonds par la BIRD, la banque a 1? obligle d'utiliser ses ressources propres afin de satisfaire la client?le.
b- Le contrtle de I'affectation des fonds:
- 61 -



La BIRD exigeait la constitution d'un dossier complet des justificatifs lors des d?caissements d'un
pr?t secondaire, la client?le peu habitu?e ? foumir des justificatifs surtout pour les petites d?penses, a 2?
assez r2icente ? le faire.
c- Le co?t de la ressource:
Le co?t de la ressource BIRD est relativement cher par rapport ? celui d'autres ressources mises
? la disposition des institutions dans le cadre d'accords bilat?aux entre gouvemements (Italie, France,
Espagne...) d'o? quelques difficult'? ont ??rencontr?es pour placer ces lignes aupr?s de la client?le.
LA DIRECTION GENERAL DU FINANCEMENT
- 62 -



Additional Annex 18. STUSID Completion Report (Loans 3671 and 3677)
BREF RAPPORT D'ACHEVEMENT
DU PRET BIRD NO 3677 ET PRET APEX NO 3671
LIGNE DIRECTE NO 3677
Date de signature:                    14/02/1994
Montant de la ligne:                  I'equivalent de 10 000 000 USD
Montant decaisse:                     9 957 796.47 USD
Montant annule:                       42 203.53 USD
Date limite d'imputation:             30/06/1999
Date limite de decaissement:          31/12/1999
Taux d'interet:                       TMM + 0,50 % avec plancher
Taux Variable BIRD + 1%
Commission d'engagement:              0,25 %
Periode de remboursement:             12 ans
De1ai de grace:                       5 ans 6 mois
Periodicite de remboursement:         Semestrielle (fevrier et aout)
Date de debut de remboursement:       01/08/1999
Date de fmi de remboursement:         01/02/2011
LIGNE APEX NO 3671- TUN
Date de convention:                   29/06/1995
Montant de la ligne:                  1'equivalent de 6 000 000 USD
Montant decaiss6:                     990 795,93 USD
Montant annule:                       5 009 204,07 USD
Date limite d'engagement:             31/12/2000
Date limite de decaissement:          31/12/1999
Taux d'interet:                       TMM + 0,50%
Commission d'engagement:              0,25%
Periode de remboursement:             12 ans
Delai de grace:                       5 ans 6 mois
Periodicite de remboursement:         Semestrielle (fevrier et aofit)
Date de debut de remboursement:       01/08/1999
Date de fin de remboursement:         01/02/2011
- 63 -



I -    DESCRIPTION DE L'OBJECTIF DES LIGNES:
En vue de permettre aux institutions financieres de disposer des ressources a moyen terme a un
taux de marche. La Banque Mondiale a accorde A l'Etat Tunisien deux lignes de credits : une ligne
directe et une ligne Apex. Ces deux lignes s'inscrivent dans le cadre de renforcement des
investissements des entreprises du secteur prive pour l'aider A assurer un r6le de croissance dans 1'
economie tunisienne tournee vers l'exterieur et s'adapter A un environnement plus competitif.
Les lignes de credits directes et Apex comprennent deux cat6gories:
*     Le financement des sous- projets operants dans le secteur prive, realisant des
investissements de creation, d'elargissement et amelioration des installations productives afin de
les aider a la renforcement de l'organisation, de la gestion et du fonctionnement.
*     LLe renforcement des capacites de suivi et de gestion des banques notamment en matiere
du systeme d'information.
II.    REALISATION DES LIGNES DE CREDIT
Les deux lignes de credit ont et realisees conformement aux conditions decrites dans 1'
accord du pret notamment en ce qui concerne les criteres d'eligibilites, les procedures d'
evaluation et les modalites d'utilisation en se conformant A l'avis de l'Agence Nationale Pour la
Protection de l'Environnement.
III.   EXECUTION DES LIGNES DE CREDIT:
Les deux lignes de credit Directes et Apex de credit ont servi A financer 8 projets pour un
montant total de USD: 10 948 592 repartis par secteur comme suit:
*     3 projets relevant du secteur de l'industrie pour un montant de
USD : 3 753 678 soit 34 % du montant decaisse
*     5 projets relevant du secteur du tourisme pour un montant de
USD 7 194 914 soit 66 % du montant decaisse
Le cout total d'investissement des sous-projets finances par la STUSID dans le cadre de
ces deux lignes de cr&dit s'el&ve A 100 millions de dinars (ci-joint liste des sous-projets).
Les decaissements sur la ligne directe no 3677 ont atteint 99,58 % de leur montant initial.
Le dai du decaissement de cette est juge raisonnable. L'acceptation par la Banque Mondiale du
financement des depenses retroactives (90 jours A compter de la date de reception des demandes
d'imputation) a permis d'accelerer l'utilisation de cette ligne de credit qui se presente comme suit
UTILISATION    UTILISATION
ANNEE    En USD              CUMULEE    POURCENTAG
E
- 64 -



1994         2 747 910.83      2 747 910.83       27 %
1995           7 009 112.73    9 757 023 56       98 %
1996            200 772.91     9 957 796.47       100 %
9 957 796.47
Le taux d'utilisation de la ligne Apex a atteint 16, 5 % de son montant initial. Bien que les
conditions de cette ligne soient competitives, la STUSID a demande I'annulation du reliquat
engage et non utilise qui s'el&ve A 5 millions de dollars US et ce en raison d'un excedent de
tresorerie cumule important.
IV.   EVALUATION DU COUT DE LA LIGNE NO 3677 ET DU SYSTEME DE
COUVERTURE CONTRE LE RISQUE DE CHANGE
La ligne de credit directe no 3677 est octroyee A la STUSID dans le cadre du systeme de
pool de monnaies, A un taux d'interet variable, egal au taux de marche monetaire majore de 0,50
% avec un niveau plancher egal au taux d'interet de la Banque Mondiale majore de I %. Ainsi, la
commission de couverture contre le risque de change est egal au differentiel entre le taux du
marche monetaire en vigueur majore de 0,50 % et le taux de la BIRD. Toutefois, si le taux ainsi
obtenu est inferieur A 1% l'an, la commission A percevoir par la BCT est egal au niveau plancher
su-indique.
Nous estimons que les conditions financieres de la ligne directe sont jugees raisonnables.
Cependant, le mecanisme de couverture contre le risque de change tel que adopte par la BCT n'
est pas conforme au principe de la couverture du risque de change prevu dans la lettre no 5
annexee en position de change resultante du Systeme de pool de monnaies qui pourrait entramer
une charge financiere supplementaire.
Bien que la Banque Mondiale ait donne la possibilite A la STUSID de convertir son prdt
constitue en pool de devises A un pret A devise designee, la Banque Centrale de Tunisie a pris la
decision de maintenir ce pret sous le regime de pool de devises.
CONCLUSION:
Hormis notre remarque relative A l'insuffisance constate au niveau systeme de couverture contre
le risque de change, la STUSID ne souleve pas de difflcult6s particulieres au titre de l'utilisation-
des deux lignes BIRD.
- 65 -



- 66 -



