Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 15838
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3048-MOR)
JUNE 26, 1996
Country Operations Division
Maghreb and Iran Department
Middle East and North Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. [ts contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currencv UJnit = Dirham (DH)
Equivalencv of US$ 1.0 in Dirham (DH)
(Annual Average)
1988:   8.21 DH        1992: 8.54 DH
1989:   8.49 DH        1993: 9.30 DH
1990:   8.24 DH        1994: 9.20 DH
1991:   8.71 DH        1995: 8.52DH
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CDIF              - Informatics and Training Coordination Committee
CED               - Committee for Public Expenditures Commitment
CIPP              - Inter-ministerial Project Prequalification Committee
CNSS              - Social Security Office
COCOES            - Committee for the Coordination of Economic and Statistical
Studies
DB                - Budget Directorate, Ministry of Finance (Direction du Budget)
DI                - Tax Directorate. Ministrv of Finance (Direction des Impo'ts)
DP                - Planning Directorate. Ministrv of Planning
DS                - Statistics Directorate, Ministrv of Planning
GIPE              - Interministerial Group for Personnel and Training
GOM               - Government of Morocco
ICB               - International Competitive Bidding
IGF               - General Inspectorate, Ministry of Finance (Inspection Generale
des Finances)
LCB               - Local Competitive Bidding
MCI               - Ministry of Commerce and Industrv
MDF/MDFIE         - Ministrv of Finance and External Investments
MAE               - Ministrv of Economic Affairs
MCE               - Ministry of External Commerce
MDI               - Ministrv of Intenror
MDP               - Ministry of Planning
PAAP              - Public Administration Support Project
PAL               - Public Administration Loan
PCC               - Project Coordination Committee
SAL               - Structural Adjustment Loan
SAP               - Structural Adjustment Program
TGR               - Treasurv General of the Kingdom, Ministry of Finance
TR                - Treasurv Directorate (Direction du Tre'sor)
TVA               - Value Added Tax
* Several acronyms and organizations' names are the French ones. as used in Morocco.



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
-i1-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3048-MOR)
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE ........................................................                                                   ii
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ........................                            .................................        iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ....................
A. Background ....................................................1
B.  Statement and Evaluation of Objectives ..........................................                    I
C. Achievement of Objectives ...................................................                         3
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project .................................................                 7
E.  Project Sustainability ...................................................                           8
F.  Bank Performance ...................................................                                 9
G. Borrower Performance .                   ...................................................          0
H. Assessment of Outcome ....................................................                           1
I.   Future Operation .............1......................................                              1
J.  Key Lessons Learned ...................................................                            12
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1: Summary of Assessment .15
Table 2: Related Bank Loans .17
Table 3: Project Timetable .18
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual                                           19
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation .20
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation .31
Table 7: Studies Included in Project .32
Table 8A: Project Costs ................                   ..................................          34
Table 8B:  Project Financing ........................                ..........................        34
Table 9:    Economic Costs and Benefits ..............................................                 35
Table 10:  Status of Legal Covenants ..................................................                36
Table 11:  Compliance with Operational Manual Statements ......... .....                               38
Table 12:  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ..............................................                 38
Table 13:  Bank Resources: Missions ................................... ..............                 39
Appendices:
A. Missions' Aide-Memoires of Bank Final Supervision/
Completion Missions ...................................................                41
B. Borrower Contribution to the ICR ...................................................                51
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed wiLhout World Bank authorization.






-ii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3048-MOR)
PREFACE
This Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is for the Public Administration Support
Project (PAL) in Morocco, for which Loan 3048-MOR in the amount of US$23 million
was approved on May 2, 1989, and made effective on December 28, 1989.
The Loan was closed on December 31, 1995, compared with the original date of June 30,
1993. Final Loan disbursements amounted to US$22.4 million or about 98%.
Counterpart funds for the project's local costs totaling about US$17 million equivalent
were provided by the Government of Morocco.
This ICR was prepared by Antoun Moussa, Senior Informatics Specialist, of the
Telecommunications and Informatics Division (IENTI), Project Manager, and Marcel
Scoffier, consultant. It was reviewed by Christian Delvoie, Chief, Country Operations
Division (MN I CO), Luc de Wulf, Country Economist (MN 1 CO), and Rene Costa,
Project Adviser (MN1DR).
Preparation of the ICR was begun during the Banrk's final supervision/completion
missions to Rabat (Morocco) in March and November 1995. It is based on material in the
project file. The borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing views
reflected in the final missions' aide-memoires, preparing a full report on project
implementation, which incorporated extensiv; information and data as well as its own
presentation and evaluation of project execution, and providing comments on the draft
ICR. The missions' aide-memoires and a summary of the borrower's report are included
as Appendices A and B, respectively, to the ICR.






-iii-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3048-MOR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Background
1.      Following a severe financial and economic crisis in the early 1980s, the
Government of Morocco (GOM) engaged in an extensive Structural Adjustment Program
(SAP). The GOM initiated a set of stabilization and adjustment policies in 1984. These
efforts were supported by a series of IMF standby arrangements and through a Structural
Adjustment Loan (SAL) from the World Bank approved in 1988. Discussions with the
government when preparing the SAL had brought to light a series of institutional
shortcomings in the management and executive capabilities of the core Ministries
responsible for executing the SAP and of organizational weaknesses in several
government agencies steering the expected results and benefits from the SAL. This
related in particular to procedural complexities, staffing deficiencies and general lack of
appropriate information systems leading to weaknesses in tax administration, budgetary
processes, trade and industrial promotion activities, among others. To address these
weaknesses, the government of Morocco (GOM), in 1988, requested institutional and
operational assistance in the form of a loan for a Public Administration Support (PAS)
project. The loan was the first PAL project in Morocco to assist in carrying out specific
reforms and actions under the country's SAP. It was appraised in 1988 and approved and
made effective in Dec. 1989.
Project Objectives and Description
2.       Project Objectives. The PAL project aimed simultaneously at facilitating the
implementation of the SAL reform measures, and at initiating efforts to prepare the
ground for related administrative reforms. The project, providing focused support to five
Government ministries, was not an administrative reform project and should not be
considered as such. Instead, it focused from the outset on providing technical assistance
to the GOM to improve administrative performance in targeted areas supported by the
SAL, including internal resource mobilization, the monitoring of GOM's public
expenditures, budgetary procedures, external debt management and external trade.
3.       Project Description. The PAL project consisted of assistance to GOM
through financing technical assistance, training, and large scale use of information
technology in the areas of:



-Iv-
a) inter- and intraministerial coordination, by facilitating the flow of information and
establishing the coordination committees working with improved methodologies
across administrative boundaries;
b) resource mobilization, by assisting the Tax Directorate (DI) and the Treasury
General of the Kingdom (TGR) of the Ministry of Finance (MDF) in improving
tax administration, collection, and audit;
c) resource allocation and expenditures management, by assisting the MDF and the
Ministry of Planning (MDP) in: (i) improving budgetary planning cycle and
procedures; (ii) implementing a harmonized budget nomenclature; (iii)
strengthening of investment projects appraisal, selection, and supervision
methodology; and (iv) computerizing the management of public debt;
d) trade facilitalin, by assisting the Ministry of Commerce and Industry (MCI) in:
(i) training staff in computer modeling for import/export forecasting, (ii)
performing statistical analysis on exchange rate fluctuations, and (iii) promoting
the industrial sector through enhanced quality control; and
e) macroeconomic management and sectoral planning, by training staff supporting
GOM's efforts to: (i) improve overall macroeconomic management. (ii) undertake
sectorial studies and strengthen statistical analysis capabilities, (iii) introduce
adequate information technology facilities, and (iv) promote wide scale
dissemination of demographic and economic data to the public.
4.       The beneficiary government agencies include the following: the ministries of
finance, planning, economic affairs, commerce and industry and external trade (MDF,
MDP, MAE, MCI, and MCE). The main committees concerned with project
implementation and coordination include the following: the committees for coordination
of economic and statistical studies, Informatics and Training, Projects Prequalification
(COCOES / National Council on Statistical Data, CDIF, and CIPP), and the project's
coordination Committee (PCC). Most Directorates of the concerned Ministries were
directly involved in and benefited from the proicct.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.       The project's objectives were mostly met even though both project start-up
and disbursement were slow. Start-up was delayed owing to: (i) an important
restructuring, in 1990, of the GOM core agencies concerned with the project; (ii) the
relatively large number of beneficiary agencies and the time required for the restructured
directorates of the ministries involved to adjust and harmonize, and the cumbersome
government procurement procedures; and (iii) the fact thdt the PAL was the first technical
assistance project directly aiming at supporting public administration, with the
beneficiary services lacking prior experience in dealing with the Bank's procedures.
Three extensions of the loan closing date were required for effective project completion.



This facilitated satisfactory and full implementation of the project. Compliance with the
legal covenants under the project took place with delays of 10 to 15 months, in line with
the shifts in project start-up and the revised implementation schedule (see Part II, Tables
5 to 8, and 10).
6.       The qualitative and quantitative results of PAL project execution were
satisfactorily met through the effective coordination between the agencies benefiting from
the project. Improvements in economic management include the development of
"economic" budgets and the implementation of various sectoral measures. These
measures include improving access to information on international trade, establishing of
industry promotion mechanism, producing of various sectorial studies and publications,
and introducing improved methodologies and facilities for information flow and access.
Additional accomplishments were achieved in the management of public finance with
regard to tax collection and audit, budget preparation, execution and follow-up, and
treasury management.
7.       Additional efforts remain to be made, however, to achieve the long-term
objectives of public administration modernization in Morocco. They relate in particular
to: (i) integrated public financial management and fiscal forecasting,; (ii) implementation
of a comprehensive human resources development program; and (iii) extension,
nationwide, of the new methodologies, and information systems introduced under the
project. Although concrete programs were introduced for interministerial coordination,
such coordination needs to be strengthened further as does the flow of information in the
relevant services. Action plans seeking to further improve such coordination and enlarge
project results and benefits were tentatively developed for future operations. (see Part II,
Tables 5, 6, and Appendix A).
8.       The key findings and lessons learned are as follows:
Proper implementation and satisfactory results have been facilitated by:
(i) The close liaison and coordination among the borrower and Bank teams
associated with the SAL and the PAL, that were observed at all levels of its
preparation and execution;
(ii) The flexibility in project design that allowed the development of annual work
programs; and
(iii) The continuity of staff assigned to it from the concerned government agencies
and from the Bank during the entire project cycle.
The important restructuring and organizational changes, required by the SAL,
resulted in some adjustments and delays in project implementation. However, this was
beneficial to the project because:



-vi.
(i) Implementation occurred in tandem, with organizational/structural changes and
therefore assured adequate internal support; and
(ii) The delay enabled the beneficiary agencies to benefit from technological
progress including open, compatible and more efficient information systems in the
various phases of the project; and
(iii) The project demonstrated that informatior technology can be used to
remove and/or reduce inefficiencies in public administration (tax administration, budget
preparation, expenditure management, quality control, etc...), and can be very effective in
reinforcing discipline and accountability in public service.
9.       With regard to future operations, implementation experience reveals that the
project has succeeded in focusing the attention on the major bottlenecks in the Moroccan
public administration. The project initiated a process of change which needs to be
nourished and continued. To assure such continuity, the turnover of staff in the
beneficiary agencies whose skills were upgraded through project supported training needs
to be addressed within a larger scope of administrative reforms. The GOM has indicated
that future operations should be pursued based on the openings produced by the project to
build upon the momentum generated by it. To realize the long-term objectives of
administrative efficiency, actions toward further modernization of the public
administration in Morocco should be pursued by the Bank, within the context of a
comprehensive public administration program focusing on public finance management,
overall civil service reforms, and the development of a strategy for deploying a national
information infrastructure.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
Public Administration Support Project
(Loan 3048-MOR)
Part 1: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. Background
1.          Following a severe financial crisis in the early 1980s, Morocco had to
engage in an extensive Structural Adjustment Program (SAP). The crisis was due to the
fact that the high level of expenditures financed by a temporary increase in phosphate
price and large borrowing, which was not sustainable in light of the plunge in the prices
of export (phosphate), compounded by declining productivity of public investment and a
prolonged drought through 1984. The SAP aimed to achieve a stabilization first, then a
sustainable increase in the rate of economic growth. Tnis was intended to ensure
employment opportunities and acceptable living standards for Morocco's growing
population, while shouldering debt service burden and enhancing external
creditworthiness. The Bank supported first phase of Morocco's adjustment efforts
through a Structural Adjustment Loan (SAL) approved in 1988.
2.          During preparation of the SAL, discussions with the Government had
brought to light a series of institutional shortcomings in the planning, organizational and
general management capabilities of those core ministries responsible for executing the
SAP. Specific measures were needed to strengthen public administration. These
measures were required to alleviate or remedy the prevailing constraints to their effective
operation. in particular, their effort to implement fiscal, budgetary, and trade policies. To
address these weaknesses, in 1988, the GOM requested institutional assistance in the
form of a loan for a Public Administration Support Project (PAL).
B. Statement and Evaluation of ObjectivEs
3.          Loan 3048-MOR to the (GOM), in an amnount equivalent to US$23.0
million, was the first Public Adminis.ration Loan (PAL) project in this country. It was
intended to support the implementation of specific measures under the country's SAP and
to lay the ground for future administrative reforms. Since 1989, a first phase of SAP had
been underway with the assistance of the SAL (Loan 3001-MOR). The PAL project was
appraised in 1988. The loan was approved on May 2, 1989, and made effective in
December 1989 (see Part II, Table 2).



-2-
4.           Project Objectives. The project aimed simultaneously at facilitating the
implementation of the SAL reform measures, and at initiating efforts to prepare the
ground for related administrative reforms. It focused from the outset on providing
technical assistance to the GOM to improve administrative performance in targeted areas
supported by the SAL, including internal resource mobilization, the monitoring of
GOM's public expenditures, budgetary procedures, external debt management and
external trade. The project, providing targeted support to five Government ministries, was
not an administrative reform operation and should not be considered as such. To reach
the project objectives, the core agencies were to strengthen their administrative capability
as follows: (a) the Ministry of Finance's (MDF) was to increase its capability to mobilize
resources through improvements in tax administration and collection, in planning and
undertaking public expenditure programs, in managing public debt, and in pursuing the
decentralization of its services; (b) the Ministry of Planning's (MDP) was to improve its
capability to coordinate investment programming; (c) the Ministries of Planning (MDP)
and Economic Affairs (MAE) were to strengthen their capacity to analyze
macroeconomics developments and statistics; and (d) the Ministry of Trade and Industry
(MCI) was to improve import-export forecasting and external trade management and to
enhance industrial quality and undertake export promotion activities. These objectives
were set out as priority targets under the SAL on the basis of reports, studies, and reviews
of government officials.
5.          Project Description. This two-tiered project consisted of (a) assistance to
the GOM to introduce improved financial and operational management practices, and (b)
enhanced operational capabilities. The first task was to be accomplished by supporting
enhanced methodologies and procedures that aimed at strengthening and improving
macro-economic management and at facilitating and coordinating the flow of financial
and economic information among the core economic ministries. Operational support was
to be provided to the GOM through financing, consulting and advisory services; training
and workshops, and equipment. Specific project activities include the following
elements: (a) resource mobilization, to assist the Tax Directorate (DI) and Treasury
General of the Kingdom (TGR) of the Ministry of Finance in improving tax
administration, collection, and audit; (b) resource allocation and expenditures
management to assist the Ministry of Finance (budget and treasury directorates, and
Treasury General) and Ministry of Planning (planning and statistics directorates) in: (i)
improving budgetary planning cycle and procedures; (ii) supporting the implementation
of a new harmonized budget nomenclature; (iii) strengthening investment project
appraisal, selection, and monitoring; and (iv) improving the management of public debt;
(c) trade facilitation, to assist MCI in improving external trade management, import-
export forecasting and in promoting the industrial sector; and (d) macro-economic
management and sectoral planning, to support the GOM's efforts to improve overall
macroeconomic management and the statistic and data basis required for specific
economic and sectoral programs and planning.
6.          For each of the above elements, the project provided funds for: (a)
technical assistance and studies to improve management practices and methodology, and



-3-
institutional procedures; (b) training to improve staff skills and prepare them to their
tasks; and (c) information technology software and hardware to improve operational
capabilities in the above areas.
7.          To ensure sustained implementation of SAL reform objectives, the project
also provided for coordination among the large number of beneficiaries through: (a)
establishing a Project Coordination Committe-e (PCC) comprised of representatives from
all the agencies concerned, and appoirnting a prGject administrator; (b) establishing or
revitalizing committees to improve inter- and intra-agency coordination; (c)
simultaneously strengthening all the core agencies involved in implementing policy
reforms under the SAL rather than assisting one or two in isolation; (d) covering at the
same time complementary organizational, procedural, and technical aspects; and (e)
emphasizing staff training. It had been agreed that the w.,rk programs and expected
outputs within the core agencies concerned would serve as indicators for project
implementation. These schemes and the expected results (detailed in Part II, Table 5)
were flexible enough to enable adjustments in project implementation that would result
from organizational changes under the SAP. The above project components were
appropriate for efficient implementation and had been elaborated during project
preparation in 1988, in cooperation with the SAL teams and with external consultation
advice.
C. Achievement of Objectives
8.          As discussed below, most of the project objectives have been substantially
achieved. T he measures taken within the concerned government agencies enabled to
initiate or accomplish the following improvements that were sought by GOM under
major parts of its SAP: (a) introduction of improved practices in budget preparation, tax
and revenue administration, public expenditures, industrial quality control, and export
promotion; (b) improved coordination among and within the concerned core ministries
and their involved agencies, so that new methods and procedures could be introduced,
being addressed through "productive sector type" work approach and practices rather than
the usual administrative environment; (c) introduction of large scale computerized
systems within five ministries responsible for tax administration, budget preparation and
execution, external trade, industrial promotion, sectoral statistics, and civil service
administration; and (d) extensive training in these and related skill areas.
9.          Given the nature of the project, no direct criteria for judging its output
were established at the outset. However, indirect development impact criteria were
established as output indicators (see Part II, Table 5), and these criteria were monitored
and updated during project implementation. Some of these development impact criteria
which were realized by the project, include:
- Preparation of the Treasury performance chart on a daily basis;
- Preparation of a periodic MDF performance chart;



-4-
Establishment of a unique tax identification system, which is now used for TVA
and is being generalized for all taxes;
- Increased volume reliability, and timeliness of tax audits;
- Provision of on-line .nformation on, and for, tax payers at the regional and
local levels;
- Important reduction of time required to pay public expenditures by the TGR.
- Establishment of a central library on public debt and a system to identify
opportunities for rescheduling;
- Routine publication of sectoral statistics and studies;
- Introduction of harmonized budget nomenclature enabling economic analysis of
budgetary options, the preparation of economic budgets, and the reduction in
budget preparation cycle;
- Preparation and publication of industrial standards and export opportunities for
selected products;
- Approximately 1200 management and staff were trained in tax administration,
treasury and debt management and information systems - in addition to
macroeconomic modeling, statistical analysis, external commerce, industrial
promotion as described in the paragraphs below - (see Part II, Table 5); and,
shared and efficient information systems were established with effective
telecommunication capabilities with other government services.
10.         The project was also instrumental in identifying administrative bottlenecks
and required solutions. The government in fact requested a follow-up operation, modeled
after this project, to launch overall administrative reforms. Summary achievements of the
project in its beneficiary core agencies (MDF, MDP, MAE and MCI) are provided below
(paras. 11 to 16) and shown in more details in the attached matrix (see Part II, Table 5).
Each agency and its directly concerned services benefited of a proportional part of the
project's finances and related operations, namely: process coordination, studies and
training, and modernization of work methods through computerization. The latter
included the creation of shared or compatible data bases and systems (hardware, software,
applications) and relevant technical assistance.
11.         Improvement in Inter- and Intraministerial Coordination. A number of
mechanisms were established under the project to enhance inter- and Intraministerial
coordination. The coordination mechanisms focused on: (a) the revitalization/activation
of the intermninisterial bodies responsible for the provision and circulation of statistical
and financial data (COCOES/National Councii on Statistical Data); (b) the development
of a database (GIPE) to enable improved management and remuneration of civil service
employees and the creation of an intermilnsterial working group to address related issues;
(c) preparation of a new budget nomenclature; (d) introduction of a "Performance Chart"
for the Treasury, integrating inputs from different directorates, using compatible
information systems and on-line access to common databases between the directorates of
the Ministry; (e) selection criteria and methodology for projects to be included in the
budget, applied jointly by concerned services of the MDP and MDF, for the first time; it
should be noted that due to the subsequent reorganization and the realignment of services



-5-
within the MDF and MDP, this important activity is not being pursued actively and
require further support; and (f) the establishment of electronic communication (ALL-IN-
1) arnong all public administration agencies in Morocco, and between them and the Bank.
The later enabled interagency sharing of information and electronic messaging, in
addition to access to data bases of the Bank and other international agencies. Although
coordination mechanisms have not resolved all coordination requirements between the
agencies concerned, they have resulted in establishing common methodologies,
information bases, and interlinked information systems. In turn, these systems have
reinforced discipline, introduced efficiency in economic management and monitoring
(budget preparation time greatly reduced), and shed the light on existing deficiencies and
the required remnedies.
12.         Improvement of MDF's Capability in Public Finance Management. MDF
was a major project beneficiary, up to about 88 % of its cost. MDF coordinated the
implementation of its activities through an interministerial Project Committee, supported
by the necessary technical assistance, training, computer hardware and software, and
operational support. On the basis of updated organizational and operational plans for the
Budget, Tax and Treasury Directorates of the MDF, (DB, DI and DT, respectively), the
project achieved the following: (a) new structures were created or merged to deal with
fmancial forecasting, debt management, and investment projects analysis, and new
budget nomenclature was prepared; (b) tax administration was greatly improved and
made efficient through the actual use of computerized taxpayer identification files and
related databases in budget, tax codes and tax collection; and (c) large-scale training was
provided both within the country and overseas, including France, Canada, and the USA.
13.         The effective computerization of the main MDF's activities in public
finance management, and the introduction of compatible information systems and shared
databases, as well as improved procedures, covered the main areas of activities of MDF's
responsibilities. The project's operations covered, among others: (a) DI's Tax
Administration, establishment of a unique Tax Identification system, adoption of tax
simulation techniques, reinforcing tax audit and collection and establishing shared data
bases in the areas of Income Tax, value added tax (TVA) and local taxes (in part), custom
duties and other levies. MDF now uses computerized records for taxpayer identification
and fiscal data, thus expediting tax collection, and providing means to upgrade tax audits
and enhance public use of tax information and awareness. For example, transmission of
information tax dues and of belated payment reminder forms to private and institutional
taxpayers is now completed in three months and two weeks, respectively, compared to
previous six and two months. In addition, the development of computerized and
integrated tax management (TVA-IS) has enabled the launching of follow-up measures
for late filers 15 days after the filing deadline, as compared to three months prior to the
project; (b) DB's budget management and administration, including implementation of
new budget nomenclatures with appropriate liaison and interfacing with concerned
government and treasury account agencies, and budgetary projections activities, also
introducing a "working capital" item for project being financed and mechanisms to
simplify credit carryovers, and preparing a new government chart of accounts. The new



-6-
budget'nomenclatures permit economic and functional classification of government
expenditures as well as special accounts receipts, but needs to be improved further to
include identification at the "project" level which would permit better supervision and
control of agencies' expenditures. The computerized budget management system,
developed under the project, enables instant reference control of public expenditures
when they occur, which previously required several days; and (c) DT's and TGR's public
treasury administration, with regard to all treasury accounting offices and cash
management, domestic and external public financing and debt management, including
introduction of auction procedures for treasury notes and current treasury papers. TGR
now disposes of 240 PC terminals for its 600 professional staff, which compares with
previous 30 units. An integrated database on personnel (GIPE, para. 11) for MDF and for
the ministries of public works and higher edlucation which have extensive civil service
staff, were also established.
14.         Improvement of MDP's and MAE's Capabilities in Macroeconomic
Management and Statistical Analysis. Assistance to the MDP and MAE aimed at
improving and strengthening of the staff capabilities in: (a) macroeconomic analysis and
forecasting; (b) investment planning; and (c) statistical analysis, including establishment
of a computerized database of basic national statistics. This resulted in the production of
economic budgets, which include macroeconomic trend forecasts currently reflected in
the annual Law of Finance. The dissemination of statistical data on the national economy
is now made on a regular basis. Also, the capacity for statistical analysis was greatly
increased and direct access to statistical databases by concerned parties was made
available.
15.         The work program to modernize, expand, and computerize these activities
was designed during project preparation, and was implemented later in coordination with
the actions taken by other core agencies in charge of finance, economy, trade, industry,
and population. The concerned directorates were provided with common training in
macroeconomic management, software modeling packages, computer hardware,
communication networks, and technical and operational support. This was required to
ensure efficient internal and inter-agency operations at all levels. The Statistics
Directorate (DS) of MDP had expanded its internal network from 19 to 140 terminals
sharing access to important national statistical databases. Interagency linkages were also
established, and computer-based communication networks were connected to other
departments and went beyond planned operations to provide telecommunication to
external users through the North African data transmission network MAGHRIPAC,
which also introduced selected access to Internet.
16.         Improvement of MCI's Capability in Management of External Commerce
and Industrial Promotion. The project also enabled and provided for: (a) the
establishment of statistical information on the industrial sector by MCI's Industry
Administration Directorate, in liaison with MDF/MAE's activities in this field, making
this information available to industrial/private sector concerns; (b) training in quality
control of industrial products and in external trade management, and (c) computer



-7-
modeling and related software to assist in import-export forecasting, in the use of
statistical data on external trade and the industrial sector for appropriate follow-up and
analysis, and in assessing export competitiveness, the impact of exchange rate and other
economic fluctuations. Staff in charge of the external commerce were trained through
seminars and courses in specialized institutes, and through on-the-job training on new
procedures and activities.
D. Major Factors Affecting the Project
17.         Factors not generally subject to Government Control. When the project
was appraised in 1988, the GOM was pursuing its SAP with Bank support under the first
SAL. Important reforms and restructuring of the main ministries were envisaged or
underway. Even though the project had adopted a flexible yearly implementation plan,
actual execution of some training and computerization programs were delayed on the
account of the administradJve changes that were affecting these agencies (see para. 19).
Because most of project operations were considered and prepared under a master plan to
modernize and improve inter- and intra-agency procedures, these plans had to be
readapted to consider the changed structures and procedures. The main functions
supported by the project were not materially affected by the reorganizational changes.
The project unallocated funds were used to finance studies and technical assistance which
came to light as a result of these changes. The detailed planning of the components and
actions for the core agencies of the ministries concerned by the project had to be
elaborated on account of and in close coordination with the views, factors and changes
being determined or undertaken under SAP. Though delays have been involved, this
resulted in the improved provision of up-to-date information technology facilities, more
appropriate procedures and staff resource utilization, and in increased internal capacities
for the effective operation of the current operations and their long-term sustainability.
18.         Factors generally subject to Government Control. At project inception in
1989, the GOM promptly established the interministerial PCC, with authority to finalize
project preparation with the agencies and to ensure its implementation and supervision
through completion, in liaison with the Bank. Project start-up was delayed, however,
during the first year of its implementation, as explained below.
19.         The problems encountered in the progress and timely implementation of
the project are detailed on Table 13 of Part II. These were mainly due to: (a)
redistribution of the responsibilities and internal reorganization of several beneficiary
agencies of the MDF, MDP, and MAE. This occurred following restructuring of these
ministries in 1990, when new ministries were created and old ones merged and delayed,
in turn, the finalization of plans for training, technical assistance, and computerization;
(b) slow and difficult start-up of an adequate and coordinated procurement process; and
(c) initial shortages (until 1992) of local funding for project operations in the budget of
the concerned agencies. These difficulties were not foreseeable before the changes at
government organization level had been made under the SAP.



-8-
20.         Most of the implementation difficulties were overcome by end 1992,
through the dedication and experience acquired by PCC and the participating agencies,
and the effective guidance and cooperation from the Bank's project supervision team.
For instance, project contingency funds were used to increase the production and
publication of statistical surveys when the Ministry of Planning was abolished. In 1991
standard bidding documents for equipment and services and uniform selection procedures
for seminars and trainees were introduced. Detailed progress reporting by PCC also
helped in resolving the initial problems. This enabled a level of commitment of 70 % for
the project components by mid-1 993, the remaining 30 % being then defined and
programmed.
21.         Implementation Schedule. According to the original plan, most of the
components to be financed through Loan 3048-MOR should have been completed by the
end of June 1993. Moreover, the related achievements on work procedures, staff training,
and computerization should have been fully operational by end 1993. In the above
context of slow project start-up (paras. 18 to 20), implementation of some operations at
the MDF, then restructured and renamed Ministere des Finances et des Investissements
Exterieurs (Ministry of Finance and External Investments] (MDFIE), was delayed by
about two years. The late start-up and the restructuring and organizational changes made
in 1990-91 in the concerned agencies resulted in adjustments to the projected activities
and their implementation plan. Three extensions of the closing date-from June 30,
1993, through December 31, 1995- were needed to enable full implementation of the
adjusted project.
22.         Project costs, financing, and disbursements are detailed in Part II, Tables
4, 8A, and 8B. Project costs were virtually unchanged from appraisal estimates, later
tendering for the adjusted components having enabled them to benefit from technological
progress and better prices (para. 17). From 1991 on, budget appropriations of the agencies
involved in the project were adjusted, as needed, to meet local costs, which increased by
about 3 %. Some technical assistance on new and improved methods and procedures, in
particular computerization programs of the treasury and budget directorates and the study
on the factors of economic growth in Morocco and cash management, were implemented
with parallel financing from France, Canada, and the USA. Disbursements reflected the
delayed project implementation, with the loan virtually fully disbursed at completion.
E. Project Sustainability
23.         The benefits and impacts of the project are significant and sustainable.
The main objectives of the project were to assist in strengthening the capabilities of the
core economic management administrations of the Borrower (i.e., MDF/MDFIE, MDP,
MAE and MCI). Expected benefits were largely met from improved capacity both in the
mobilization and allocation of domestic resources and in extemal trade. The physical,
technical assistance and training components of the project were fully implemented in the
several directorates and services of the concerned ministries. These components included



-9-
implementing modem and efficient work methods and procedures, assigning qualified
and trained staff in charge, and introducing up-to-date computerized facilities.
24.         Four important aspects of the project concept and implementation that will
support and ensure its sustainability are as follows: (a) the time given to adapt project
design and implement its operations after in-depth restructuring of the beneficiary
ministries and concerned agencies under Morocco's SAP; (b) the participatory approach
to its concept, design, and implementation; (c) the focusing on economic management
functions horizontally - encouraging cross-agency staff to come together and address
functional and administrative weakness; and (d) the thorough coordination exercised in
its preparation and implementation. The ministerial restructuring supported by SAL
under SAP enabled the project applications to be developed in a durable environment,
and the resulting delay in project schedule enabled the use of more up-to-date and robust
information technology solutions. The inter- and intraministerial committees were
adjusting and monitoring the project including the information technology development
and training (CDIF within MDF) and PCC. This ensured: (i) the development of
information systems with common operational and access standards, and of procedures
open to vertical and horizontal activities w:thin and between the beneficiary agencies; and
(ii) more efficient and durable project outcormies, with broader sustainable impacts. This
also prevented the development within the various agencies of duplicate work methods
and smaller less efficient and incompatible computerized systems, with limited term
capabilities.
25.         The project was a first phase to address ascertained weaknesses in GOM's
planning and financial management capability and to improve budget procedures and
external debt and trade management under the SAL reforms. Through the introduction of
modern computerized methods and facilities in the concerned agencies, it started a
dynamic process of modernization by enabling the creation of basic info-structures for
important aspects of economic management. Project implementation revealed a next
stage of future operations, which is required to further modernize and improve the
efficiency of the country's economics and financial administration. These operations have
been discussed and agreed with the GOM and include (a) further reform of public
financial management; (b) the development of strategies for overall computerization of
the public administration and its services; and (c) the establishment of adequate
information infrastructures, access, and dissemination.
26.         Based on the above outcomes, project sustainability is very likely.
Prospects to further improve work methods and procedures, and to enlarge the
modemization process within Morocco's public administration would enhance the project
outcomes and warrant its sustainability.
F. Bank Performance
27.         Preparation and Appraisal. The project was based on the Morocco's
SAP, supported by the Bank's SAL, under which the need to strengthen and improve the



-10-
country's finance and economic administration had been identified. The Bank promptly
reacted to GOM'S request in 1988 for assistance in improving the production and
dissemination of economic and financial infornation within its public administration,
enhancing budget management, modernizing fiscal administration and improving public
debt management. During preparation, the Bank insisted, in coordination with the SAL
implementation team, on the need for tight inter- and intraministerial coordination, and
for adequate technical assistance and staff training. This would ensure effectiveness and
openness and allow future development in operations undertaken. The Bank also insisted
on project coordination and an adequate administration of its implementation.
28.         Supervision. The project was supervised as detailed in Part II, Table 13.
A total of ten missions were performed during the six-year implementation period. Given
the wide scope of the project and the complexity of some of its activities, not enough
resources were provided for its supervision. The restructuring of the core ministries
concerned, during the first and the second year of project implementation, delayed but did
not reduce the need for the coordination requirements emphasized during preparation and
appraisal. Also, close consultation and liaison were maintained with the SAL supervision
team. Together with active cooperation from the PCC and the beneficiary agencies, this
close consultation was greatly beneficial to the project, and to its outcomes and impacts.
At project completion, the Government requested the Bank to assist to identify and defme
a follow-up operation to refor-m public financial management, to expand the
computerization process, and to intensify human resource development in the public
administration.
29.         The project results discussed above show that the overall Bank
performance has been very satisfactory.
G. Borrower Performance
30.         Borrower performance was satisfactory during project preparation and
implementation. In early 1988, the PCC was established, with the mandate and authority
to coordinate project preparation and implementation, and to liaise with the Bank. At the
same time, three commissions, the National Council of Statistical Data, CIPP and CDIF,
were established, or specifically mandated, to cooperate with PCC and adequately liaise,
at project concept and during implementation, with the several government services and
agencies involved in the project. The cooperation of all these units was tentative at times,
but was generally adequate to ensure satisfactory conduct and outcomes of the project. In
particular, in 1991-92, PCC adequately resolved implementation problems. Examples
include international competitive bidding procurement procedures, the lack of budgetary
allocation for local costs, and the selection of candidates for training (paras. 18 to 20).
PCC also steadily and thoroughly reported to the Bank on the progress of the different
operations under the project. A detailed final report on implementation was preliminarily
discussed during the last Bank supervision mission and produced at project completion
(December 1995).



-l l-
31.         The status of compliance with the legal covenants of the Loan Agreement
is detailed in Part II, Table 10. All the covenants were complied with. Compliance took
place after delays of 10 to 15 months, in line with the overall delay in project start-up and
implementation schedule (para. 21).
H. Assessment of Outcome
32.         The outcome of the project is satisfactory. All the physical and
operational outputs of the project were achieved in the several beneficiary agencies and
units of the ministries of finance, planning, economic affairs and commerce and industry.
These outputs included: (a) the study of important institutional and organizational
aspects and the working out of adequate methodologies and procedures to reorganize and
improve the work of these agencies as they relate to economic management; (b) the actual
introduction of these procedures within the agencies, with adequate technical assistance;
(c) professional and on-the-job training for management and staff; and (d) installation of
computerized systems that were operationalized with adequate training. The indicators
for project implementation and its outputs are detailed in Part II, Table 5. In line with the
objectives agreed at appraisal and in the legal documents, the main project outcomes were
an improvement in GOM's capabilities in public resource mobilization, budget
preparation and expenditures management, external trade management, sectoral planning
and macroeconomic management (paras. 8 to 16). Limited objectives were met with
regard to improving public debt management owing to the decision of the Treasury
Directorate not to fully use project funds (and assistance) in this area. Perhaps the major
impact of the project is that of raising internal awareness about administrative bottlenecks
and the importance of both process simplification and information access and sharing.
The changes brought up by the projects in these areas have reduced in large part
resistance to future administrative reforms. The assessments under the various aspects of
project preparation, implementation, and results are summarized in Part II, Table 1.
I. Future Operation
33.         Achievements under the project are sustainable and beneficial to the
agencies involved, which have now enhanced internal skills and operational capacity to
improve their future operations (paras. 23 to 25). The project outcomes enabled the
achievement of its main objectives, derived from the SAL, and will undoubtedly continue
to develop favorably (paras. 8 to 16).
34.         The project also revealed the need for continuing the methodological and
procedural changes, and the introduction of expanded computerized information systems
in public administration. This would be set within the context of appropriate national
policy guidelines and coordination mechanisms. In addition, the pursuit of the
rationalization and efficiency targets of budgetary, fiscal, and public debt management
would require further public expenditure reforms and the continuation of the
modernization efforts initiated by the project. The above could occur nationwide at the



-12-
central, regional, and local levels. It could be undertaken in a subsequent stage of
activities, which has already been considered by GOM and discussed with the Bank.
J. Key Lessons Learned
35.          The key lessons learned are as follows:
a) Project implementation and satisfactory results have been facilitated by: (i)
the close liaison and coordination that were observed in project concept and
design, at its inception, between the staff involved in the SAL and the PAL, at
both Bank and government levels; (ii) the continuity of staff assigned to and
involved in the entire project cycle, on both Bank and GOM sides; and (iii) the
effective coordination in project planning, implementation and supervision
exercised by the Bank and the PCC, and with the sustained contribution and
guidance from the other inter-ministerial commissions involved.
b) The important restructuring and organizational changes that took place in
1990, as part of the government SAP, resulted in adjustments of the project
operations and schedule. This was beneficial to the project in two ways: (a) the
project was implemented within a continuing internal support; and (b) the delay
caused project computerization activities to take advantage of technological
progress, using open compatible technology and common standards, essential for
long-term sustainability.
c) The successive restructuring and reorganizational changes during project
implementation have caused important turnovers in the staff of the administration
involved, whose skills were upgraded under the project. Though additional
training was introduced to compensate for staffing changes, this contributed to
delays in project implementation.
d) Overall public administration in Morocco still suffers from procedural
bottlenecks and less than satisfactory coordination. However, this project has
demonstrated that removing or reducirig these obstacles is possible. Addressing
functional requirements across administrative boundaries and using information
technology to reinforce discipline, to ensure accountability, and to "de-
personalize" the public administration, are catalysts to the administrative reform
process.
36.          This project was a first of its type and nature, that is, involving work
methods and procedures, and the related information systems, in a large administrative
context. The introduction of modernized practices and information technology in the
beneficiary agencies brought to light the dynamic character of the "computerization
process" and the need to pursue and expand it: (a) where the project already provided
improvements in procedures and staff capabilities; and (b) globally within and between



-13-
most of the other government administrations and services. Future actions toward a
feasible stage to further strengthen public administration in Morocco within a global
information infrastructure strategy are being considered by government, and discussed
with the Bank. This would advocate continued Bank involvement to support and
encourage the modernization of Morocco's public administration.



-14-
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3048-MOR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
Table 1:  Summary of Assessments
Table 2:  Related Bank Loans
Table 3:  Project Timetable
Table 4:  Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:  Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:  Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:  Studies Included in Project
Table 8A: Project Costs
Table 8B: Project Financing
Table 9:  Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10: Status of legal Covenants
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Appendices
A.        Missions' Aide-Memoires
B.        Borrower Contribution to the ICR



-15-
Table 1: Summary of Assessments
A. Achievement of objectives         Substantial     l                 Negligible      Not applicable
Macro policies                       E               a                 a:!
Sector policies                                      E                E                 IXE
Financial objectives                 x]              a                 o 
Institutional development           E0              I                  a                 a
Physical objectives                                                   E                  0 
Poverty reduction                    El              E                 al
Gender issues                        E               E                El
Other social objectives              n                                El
Environmental objectives            E                El              0E
Public sector management                            Ix                El aE
Private sector development                                            E a                  ]
Other (specify)                      E               E                El
B. Proiect sustainability               Liy                     Unlikely                  Uncrrtain
(1)                       (1)                        (1)



-16-
HWhJY
satisfal              Satisfactorv                Deficient
C. Bank performanc                                                 ( )                        ( )
Identification                        lx                          ] 
Preparation assistance                [m                         : 
Appraisal                                                       E                           C 
Supervision                                                     l j 
D. Bofrower performance                         satisf          Safacto          Deficient
(')            (V)                )
Preparation                                                    l                El
Implementation                                i                x                a
Covenant compliance                                            lj               E D
Operation (if applicable)                      El F ]
~~~~~~~~~~~~~Highly
E. Assessment of outcome               satisfactoIy    Satisfactory   UnsatiLfact=         isfactory
E()             (l) (V)                             (I)
1:              mx                1: O  



-17-
Table 2: Related Bank Loans
Loan title                   Purpose          Year of approval     Status
1. Loan 3 M001 -          To assist Government in a      1989       Completed in
Structural Adjustment    first phase of Morocco's                 1994
Loan (SAL)              Structural Adjustment
program, aiming at
increased rates of
economic growth and
employment opportunities,
at improved living
standards for the
population and external
worthiness for the country.
2. Current Cgmpleted      To facilitate the carrying     1989       Completed in
Loan 3048-MOR           out of the SAL reform                    December 1995
measures by strengthening
of the capabilities of core
government agencies in
economic, financial and
planning management.



-18-
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project cycle            Date planned         Date actual/
latest estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                   October 1987
Preparation                                                  November 1987
Appraisal                                                    June/July 1988
Negotiations.                                                March 6-10, 1989
Letter of development policy (if applicable)                 November 1988 (under
SAL I)
Board presentation                                           May 2, 1989
Signing                                                      September 28, 1989
Effectiveness                             December 28,       December 28, 1989
1989
First tranche release (if applicable)                                NA
Midterm review (if applicable)                                       NA
Second (and third) tranche release (if applicable)                   NA
Project completion                        June 30, 1993      April 30, 1996 la
Credit closing                            June 30, 1993      December 31, 1995 L
la To enable completion of ongoing operations and related final disbursements after the
loan closing date.
ll Three extensions of the closing date were required for the effective project
completion. The first one on 05/19/93, by one year, was due to an important
restructuring, at project inception, of the concerned government agencies. The two
others were required, to enable completion of the project activities committed under
an adjusted implementation plan. They occuired on 06/14/94 and 05/19/95 by one
year and six months respectively



-19-
Table 4: Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ million)
FY89 FY90 FY91   FY92   FY93 FY94 FY95 FY96
Appraisal estimate      2.50  8.50  14.50  20.00   23.00 23.00 23.00 23.00
Actual                  0.00  0.00   3.07   5.91    8.74  9.65  11.65 22.33/a
Actual (as % of estimate)   0.0   0.0   21.2   29.5   38.0  41.9  50.6  97.1 la
Date of last disbursement: May 14, 1996
Note: IBRD fiscal year end is June 30th.
la An undisbursed amount of US$668.2 millions was canceled on May 14, 1996, the
date of the last disbursement and closing of the loan account.



Page I of 11
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
A. Inter- and Intranministerial Coordination
Govemnment objectives      Measures previously adopted          Planned measures             Implemented measures                   Output indicators            Responsi
(1989)                                                                                                                        bility
Improvement of financial   Agreement to revitalize COCOES   Definition and preparation by  COCOES has been replaced by a    Statistical information have become more  MDP
management by: (a)      (the Committee for Coordinating    COCOES of procedures for      national Statistical council,   widely available to the public. Social,    DS
rationalization and     Statistical Studies).           identifying and using financial and  through a PM decree, with similar   demographic and economic statistics are
standardization of                                      economic data, and determining   mission and attributes. The     produced and published periodically.
financial and economic    Issue of Prime Minister circular on  the responsibilities of the various    council's efforts are modest, but
data; (b) intra- and    strengthening of COCOES' role.    agencies concemed in particular    DS conducted and published a
interministerial                                        the Ministry of Finance (MDF),    large number of statistical studies.
coordination of                                         the Ministry of Planning (MDP),
information flow.                                       the Ministry of Interior (MDI), and
the Ministry of Commerce &
Industry (MCI).
Jan 1989 - Dec. 1989
MDF circular on establishment of   Implementation of coordinating  Several subcommittees were   MDF 'tableau de bord,", or performw ice   MDF
CDIF (Informatics and Training    capability.                   established under the terms of  chart, was first produced a. the end of 95,  CDIF
Coordination Committec)         Jan 1989 - Mar 1989             reference of the CDIF.          integrating input from different
Coordination between different  directorates, to the establishment of
MDF directorates (TGR, Di, DT,    compatible information systems.
DB, & CED) was reinforced
especially in executing training
and computerization programs.
Establishment in MDF of an      Preparation of MDF performance                                  Economic monitoring capability greatly  MDF
economnic projections and studies   chart.                                                      enhanced.                               Treasury
unit                           Jan 1989 - Dec. 1989
Improved coordination in   April 1987 circular for                                                                       Criteria and methodology for pre-selection  CIPP
selection and monitoring   implementation of economic                                                                    of investment projects were established and    MDP
of investment projects.    approval of investment projects.                                                              commonly used by MDP and MDF prior to    (DS)
Meeting of CIPP (Inter-Ministerial                                                              reorganization of the MDP. While not used
Project Prequalification                                                                        actively now, all material exist and can be
Committee).                                                                                     used once restructuring is completed.



Page 2 of II
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
3: Resource Mobilization I) - Tax Administration
Govemnment objectives         Measures previously adopted         Planned measures             Implemented measures            Output Indicators      Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                                          Comments
Preparation of economic     PM circular of April 1987; Law  Preliminary draft of new budget    Eight economic budgets were  Correlation between          MI)FIE
budget.                     No. 39-87.                     outline. Harmonization of budget  produced by MDFIE/MDP(DP)    economic projections and      MDP kDP)
plan with appropriation law.                                   budget execution greatly
Review of budget plan.                                         improved.
July 1989-Dec. 1991
Increased f&s&aI revenue
within the frmwor': of
govanment adjm;rment
progran
Improvemnent of tax         Registration of preliminary files,   Completion of file and analysis of  Computerized general taxpayer    Unique taxpayer     MDF
adminisution through the    90% cornplete.                 records for private and         records were established for   identification for VAT and      MDI
csbblishment of a unified                                  institutional taxpayers.       taxpayer identification/fiscal data  other taxes in use.
ta> payer identification file.                                                             base.
Selection from file of tax data  Fiscal census was made and                                 MDF (Dl)
and computerization of general    unified taxpaycr ID and statas
taxpayers records. Completion  data were used for data bases.
and updating of fiscal/taxpayer  Actual use of data base in tax
identification data base.      administration.
July 1989 - Dec. 1991
Establishment of records and
preparation of taxpayer
identification.
Computerization of general     Computerized unified
taxpayer records.              taxpayer identification file
Jan 1990 - Dec. 1990.          in actual use.
Completion and updating of
fiscal data base.
Jan 91 - Dec. 91



Page 3 of II
TableS: isad ws for Prjct  ipkmeatatieo
Key Project Activities
B: Resoorce Mobiliatio. - Tax Admimistratdoo
Govanment Objectives         Menumrs    ously dopted             Planned measures             Implemented measures           Output indicators      Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                                        Comments
Imrovements in tax         Two computer centers           Study to identify fisal simulation  Recommendations, measures and   Use of Tax data base and  MDF
adminhnrdo redtods and    establisied.                    techniques. Formulation of a   action plan for fiscal simulation    Tax simulation to provide  Dl & TG
P-s tihmdugl                                              group to study simulation      techniques were implemented and  input to budget preparation
development of computerized  Htrmonization of VAT codes   techniques.                    are being used in budget       and related policies.
infonnation/mamageuit      witbin the crntry with VAT     Jan 1989 - Dec. 1990.          preparation.
decision making systems.   codes fbr imports.
Study for identifying          Working group of TGRDB and     Actual progrcss was made    MDF Intra-
requirments for data transfer,  Dl officials, monitors data  in use of data bases,         ministerial
procedural interfaces nd systems  transfer and the use of     computcrization at TG       Comminttee
compatibility among tde Budget,  harmonized data in budget and  enabling direct access to
Treasury Geneal and Tax       tax codes, and tax collection,  unified taxpayer
Directorates.                 (since 1993).                  identification file.                                   to
June 1989-Sept 1989                                                                                                 s
Computerization plan prepared.    Review and/or updating of  Master plan for computerization                           MDF (Dl & TG)
computerization pli if        was updated. Equipment and
necesswry.                    software were procured and
Sept. 1989 - Dec. 1989        installed. Methods and
procedures of fiscal
administralion were adapted and
coordinated, (since 1993).
Preparation of bidding documents                                                        MDF (Dl & TG)
for computerization, based on
computerization master plan.
Sept. 1989 - Dec. 1989
___ ___ __ ___ __ __  ___ __ ___ __ ___ _  _ __ ___ __ _ __  _M DF  (Dl &    TG)



Page 4 of II
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
B: Resource Mobilization - Tax Administration
Govemnment Objectives          Measures previously adopted           Planned measures               Implemented measures             OLutput Indicators       Responsibility
(1989)                                .                                                                              Comments
Initiation of support training   General training program in      Availability of trained        MDF (Dl)
program for the production of    informatics and fiscal simulation    staff at inception of new
software for the                 measures was completed in 1993.   procedures.
application/idcntification of data
required for fiscal simulation.  Staff training centers were
Sept. 1989 - Dec. 1989.          established, in Casablanca and
Marrakech.
50 managers and stalf are trained
each year. on average plus 31
managers participated in overseas
training sessions.
Improvements in tax                                           Design and preparation of        Combined training on tax         Tax collectior performance     MDF (TG)
collection procedures and                                     computerization and training     collection computerized          using cornpirterized
staff skills.                                                 program for improved cfficicncy    procedures took place in       tcniniques improved
and effectiveness of existing tax    Morocco and overseas courses for  including prompt follow-
collection services.             tax collectors, inspectors and   up on tax evadors.
Jan 1989 - March 1989.           managers (1992-93). 300
managers/staff were trained in
total.
Study of required improvements    Study done in 1992 with outside
to extemal TG services.          consultants.
April 1989- July 1989.
Improvemcnts in fiscal       Assistance provided through      Extension of new auditing and    MDF's general auditing group     Efficiency in fiscal control   MDF (DI)
control and auditing         PERL for revising private sector    accounting standards to public  ((GF) was equipped for         and auditing greatly
tcchniques and procedures.   commercial auditing and          auditing and accounting.         computerized processing of       increased and inspectorate
accounts procedures.            April 1989 - Dec. 1989.          audits and countries also using  additional qualificd
data bascs.                      auditors were appointed.



Page 5 of II
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Projcct Activities
B: Resource Mobilization - Tax Administration
Govemmient Objectives          Measures previously adopted           Planned measures               Implemented measures             Output Indicators        Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                                               Commcnts
Improvements in tax auditing                                  Study to identify computerization                                 Fiscal data base now           MDF (Dl)
through development of                                        requirements for tax auditing and                                 improved and txpanded in
computerized management                                       collection.                                                       the areas of tax auditing
systenms.                                                     June 1989 - Dec. 1989.                                            and fiscal control,
including an active use of
statistical tables jor fiscal
control.
Preparation of professional      Studies were done and several                                   MDF (Dl)
monographs.                      monographs were prepared in
Mar 1989 - Mar 1989.             1991-92 using recommendations
of study. a tax fraud control
program was prepared.
Study on use of computerization                                                                  MDF (Dl)
tax fraud control and enterprise
audit.
July 1989 - Dec. 1989.
Provision of assistance related                               Development of systems for       Both systems were implemented    Provision of tax               MDF (Dl)
to fiscal information.                                        providing extemal fax advisory    (effective 1993).               information, and taxpayer
and information services to the                                   use of tax information
public                                                            services greatly improved
June 1991-92                                                      and now available at local
levels.



Page 6 of 11
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
C: Resource Allocation and Expenditures Management
Government Objectives         Measures previously adopted         Planned measures             Implemented measures           Output Indicators       Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                                          Comments
Rationalization and         Preparation of new budget      Continuation of program for     New nomenclature implemented    Budget data standardized     MDF (DB)
improvement of budget cycle   nomenclature now in progress.    rationalizing budget       since Jan. 1990.                accordingly.
mad procedures.                                            nomenclature. June 1989.
Improvements in project     Preparation of project selection    Implementation of monitoring  Related processes and criteria  Transparency in project   MIDF (DB)
selection and monitoring    procedures and criteria.       and evaluation criteria for     were adopted and implemented   selection
criteria.                   April 1988.                    approval of investment projects.   since 1991. Proccss not activelP
Jan 1989 - July 1989.          used since 93 reorganization;
needs to be revitalized.
CIPP MDP (DP)
Launching of discount rate and
shadow price studies for project
appraisal.
July 1989 - June 1990.
If necessary, refining of methods                             Criteria applied to all    CIPP MDP (DP)
and criteria on sectors and                                    projects included in the
financial rates of return for                                 budget (costing or
selection of investment projects.                             exceeding DHIOO million).
Jan 1989 - Dec. 1989
Preparation of new projects    Updating of computer plan;     DP was equipped with micro-     Project information was      MDP (DP)
briefs.                        procurement, if necessary, of  processors funded under PAL in   developed on data base.
microcomputers for immediate   1991
needs.
Jan 1989 - Dec. 1989.
Budget Directorate             Completion of Budget           DB was reorganized in 1991.                                  MDF (DG)
Improvement of investment    reorganization memorandum,    Directorate's reorganization. By
budget management           February 10, 1988.             Dec. 1989.



Page 7 of 11
Table S: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
C: Resource Allocation and Expenditures Managrmcnt
Government Objectives         Measures previously adopted         Planned measures             Implemented measures            Output Indicators      Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                  .                       Comments
Improvement of monitoring   Creation of Coordination       Implementation of circular on   Circular provided and effective  All debt-relating data are  MDF (TGR)
and management of extemal    Committee to assure the       procedures for receiving and    since 1991.                    now central-zed, also
debt.                       implementation of an efficient  monitoring extemal loans with                                 providing on-line access to
census on extemal debt.        govemment guarantees according                                 extemal debt monitoring
to SAL Agreement.                                              data.
Computerized systems were
Preparation of an action plan for   Increase in computing capability   developed and implemented                          MDF (TGR)
the computerization of extema  for improved extemal debt      (1991-92).
debt managemenL                monitoring and management.
Sept. 1988 - April 1990.
Establishment of a contract                                   Contracts file and library,
billing system and library.                                    debt guarantee file and use
Jan 1989 - Dec. 1989.                                          of inventory are now fully
available.
Establishment of an inventory of   Inventory, library, data base and    Ability to negotiate debt  Treasury TG
external debt guarantees.      guarantees granting criteria and    rescheduling and reduction
Reviewiredcfinition of criteria  registering conditions have been   in debt services.
and conditions for granting    established and made operational
guarantees.                    since 1992.
Jan 1989 - Dec. 1989.
Improvements in the intemal                                Establishment of inventory on   Further improvements of public
debt ianagement systent                                    intemal debt guarantee.         debt management required.
June 1989- Dec. 1989
Review/redefinition of criteria  Application of new criteria.
and conditions for granting    Jan 1990 - Dec. 1993.
guarantees.
Jan 1989 - Sept. 1989.



Page 8 of II
Table S: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
C: Resource Allocation and Expenditures Management
Goverment objectives          Measures previously adopted          Planned measures              Implemented measures           Output Indicators       Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                   .                       Comments
lmprovements in the                                         Joint study with the Treasury   Joint study was completed in    TGR and TG have direct          MDF
magement of special                                         Generation and computerization    1991.                         access to shared data bases    Treasury /TGR
Treasury accounts.                                          of special Treasury accounts.                                   on Treasury accounts.
Jan 1989 - June 1989
Improvements in physical and                                Preparation and initial         Training programs organized and   Improvement of staff skills    MDF Treasury
b_mn rsowes for debt mad                                    implementation of the Treasury    completed in 1991, including: 45   in financial management -
financal mananegnct                                         Directorate's training program.  managers for HI. training courses  i.e.: increase inaccuracy
Jan 1989 - Sept. 1989          at ENST-Paris, 57 managers for    and frequency of audit,
fellowships in French Public    ability to prepare timely
Account Office, 150 HL staff for   perfornance charts,
training courses at Int.l. Center    improved cash
for Banking/Treasury Specialists.  management.                                         t
300 more are planned. TGR's                                                            7
Training Service trains 100
inspectors and 120 staff in
informatics usage, each year. 10
DT managers attended
specialized courses and training
sessions in USA, France, Italy
and Sweden.
Development of an improved                                                                 MDF Treasury
infonnatic capacity in financial
management.
Improvements in the         Establishment of economic       Development of economic         Computerized economic           Financial reports and       MDF Treasury
monitoing of national and   monitoring uniL                 projection models and a         projection models, and          management information
international financial                                     management information chart.    management information and     chart are now available,
situations.                                                 Jan 1990 - Dec. 1990            performance charts in use.     simulation capacity is
I_strengthened.



Page 9 of 11
Table S: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Projcct Activitics
C: Resource Mlocation and Expenditures Management (conl'd)
Improvements in information                               Refinement and increase in the                                SROT regularly available.    MDF TGR
on budget execution ad                                    rate of application of SROT-typc
Tresmy opeaions                                           statistics. Sept. 1989
(induding public debt and
actual investment budget
expenditure).
Interim mechanisms to monitor    Implementation of mechanisms to  Computerizzd cash management
real investment expenditures,  monitor real expenditures.    system was seveloped and partily
initiated.                    ]an 1989                       established in 1993.                   _       _



Page 10 of II
Table 5: Indicators for Project Implementation
Key Project Activities
C: Resource Allocation and Expenditures Mlanagement
Government objectives         Measures previously adopted          Planned measures        |     Implemented measures            Output Indicators       Responsibility
(1989)                                                                                                            Comments
Data currently being collected for  Development and implementation  lTraining in economic      Availability of data on        MDP TG
preparation of statistical tables.    of economic projection models.    mnanagement taken place. Simple  execution of budget
Jan 1990 - Dec. 1990.           projection models -re in usc    appropriations law .
Improvement in capacity for    Preparation of training program.   Conditions necessary for  Hlardware equipment and         Dissemination of statistical  MDP (DP)
Mac_ieconomic management                                    macroeconomic analysis.         software were installed (1992).    data on the national         MAE
and statistical analysis.                                   Jan 1989 - Junc 1989.                                           economy; periodic
Implementation of                                               publication of economic
computerization plan (1990-91)                                  budget, however with
limited distribution.
Preparation of training program  Annual training program since  Improvement of capacity       MDP (DP)
on macroeconomic managcment.   1992, including overseas training   for monitoring and           MAE
Annually in Oct.                courses and fellowships for 16  analysis.
tiL stafl ini public managemient,
short tenn and regional modeling,
informnatics and statistics in
several countries: Canada.
France. USA (WB), Japan, Egypt,
Malaysia.
Short-term plan for improving  Preparation of infonnation plan  Statistical data base at national  Direct access to statistical  MDP (DS)
existing computing capacity for    on establishing statistical data  level was established in 1992.  data bases now availablc.
statistical analysis.          base. Oct. 1988 - March 1989.
Preparation and initiation of  Annual programs implemented     Increased capacity for        MDP (DS)
statistics training program.    since end 1992.                 statistical analysis.
Jan 1989 -June 1939. First
program Sept. 1989.



Page 11 of 11
TaMe 5: ldiston for "eet Impleeobadot
Key Project Activities
D: Trade Facilitation: External Trade Ramagement
Govamen  objectivs           Measures previously adopted         Planned memures              Implemented measures           Oatput Indicators      Responsibility
(1939)                                                                                 .                      Comments
Strengtdhning maement of                                  Development of professional    Comnputer and software         Active use of statistical   MCI Extemal
extema trade and powtion                                  training and computer modeling    capabilities increased through  data on cxtcmal trade.  Trade Directorate
of the industrial sector.                                 capability related to extemal  procurement of facilities under
trade.                         PAL (1993).
July 1989 -July 1990
Preparation of professional    Programs implemented in 1992-    Availability of statistical  MCI Industry
uraining and computerization   93:                           information on the          Administration
programs related to industrial                               industrial sector.           Directorate
sector promotion.              200 HL and Support staff were
Sept. 1989 - Sept. 1990        trained in lnfonnatics in
Morocco, and an "analysis and
modeling" training unit was
established in MCI.



-31-
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operation
Given the nature of the project, there is no direct criteria for measuring or
monitoring its outputs in the course of time. The ministries and government agencies that
benefited from the project will continue to operate their services, within the country's
public administration. They will do this by using the improved methods, systems,
procedures, informatics facilities and staff from the project, which strengthened their
capabilities and efficiency. The sustainability of the project warrants its durable results.
Also, the preparation of a next stage is already underway to expand the "computerization
process" within the Government, and toward the public and the institutional users.
Undoubtedly, further progress in this direction would enhance and enlarge the project's
outcomes and its operation.



Page I of 2
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Status
Completion date
Impact of Study
Implementing Agency          Description and Purpose of Study              Planied (PC)          Actual (AC)                   Comments
I. Interministerial Committee   Definition and preparation of procedures  Procedures implemented under the auspices    Further improvement necessary.
related to the flow of financial and economic   of the New Ministry of Economic and Social
information.                              Affairs.
PC: 12/89               AC:
2. Ministry of Finance       Tax and Treasury General Directorates to   Implemented                               Simulation techniques used for financial
identify and to design fiscal simulation  On going                                   planning.
techniques.
PC: 12/89            AC: 12/90
3. Ministry of Finance       Intra-ministerial Committee to define     Committee continues to define and          Information access and exchange
procedural interfaces and computer systems    implement improvements. Adequate       enables the daily production of MOF
compatibility between Budget, Treasury    procedures in place                        performance chart.
General and Tax Directorates.
PC: 6/90             AC: n.a.
4. Ministry of Finance       Treasury General to define external services    Report completed.                    External services strengthened
improvements and define requirements.                                                providing decentralized services to local
_____________11__89__ _taxpayers.
_ _ _ _ _ _ __ _  PC: 7/89     AC: 11/89



Page 2 of 2
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Status
Completion date
5. Ministry of Finance      Tax Directorate to identify computerization    Completed                           Now an integral part of tax
requirement for tax auditing and fraud                                            administration.
control.
PC: 12/89           AC: 12/90
6. Ministry of Finance      Treasury Directorate to prepare training  Underway with initial program completed.  Further improvement in debt
program on debt management.              Additional training planned.             management requires additional
training.
PC: 12/90              AC:
7. Ministry of Finance      Preparation of a training program on     Annually in October. Some in-house training  Common training was provided to staff
macroeconomic management.                completed. Additional seminars planned.  of MOP and MEA.
8. Ministry of Finance      Development of professional training and  Report completed. Computerization        MCI central and external services
computerization program to improve external  underway and training partly implemented.    provide regular training and information
trade management and for industrial                                               on quality control of export products
promotion.                                                                        and widely disseminate information in
these areas.
I________ ________                       I     PC:   12/90             AC:        I



-34-
Table 8A: Project Costs
Appraisal estimate                  Actual/Latest estim.ate
Item                    Local La   Foreign    Total    Local La    Foreign  Total
(USSM)                           tUSSM)
1. Technical assistance                    0.10        2.50       2.60    0.10         2.50      2.60
2. Training and workshops                  0.10        3.00       3.10    0.20         3.00      3.20
3. Equipment and materials                 11.90      14.50      26.40    12.00        14.46     26.46
4. Incremental operating costs             4.00        0.00       4.00    4.30         0.00      4.30
5. Studies and advisory services Lb        0.70        2.80       3.50    0.70         2.80      3.50
6. Refinancing of PPF                      0.00        0.20       0.20    0.00         0.24      0.24
TOTAL                                   16.80      23.00      39.80    17.30        23.00     40.30
La  Include taxes and duties of approximately US$8.1 million.
Lb Funds to improve macroeconomic management and sectoral planning capabilities.
Table 8B: Project Financing
Appraisal estimate            Actual/Latest estimate
Item                    Loc&l ,a    Foreign    Total   Local La  Foreign   Total
(US$t1)                          (US$34)
IBRD                       0.00        23.00      23.00      0.00       23.00    23.00
Government                   16.80         0.00      16.80      17.30       0.00     17.30
TOTAL                      16.80       23.00       39.0       17.30      23.00    40.30



-35-
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
For all projects, this table identifies either the major costs and/or benefits that enter into the
calculation of a re-estimated net present value (or economic rate of return), or, when the net
present value (or economic rate of return) is not estimated, cost-effectiveness in achieving
project objectives.
- Not Applicable -



Page I of 2
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Project Development Objectives Rating: S
Original     Revised
Covenant   fulfillment   fulfillment
Agreement             Section              type         date         date      Status                Description of covenant             Comments
L39480       3.01(a) Execution project      10                                         As set forth in Sched. 2. Borrower shall carry out the
project with due diligence and efficiency.
09/23/94       C                                                       Inefficient procurement.
12/31/95       C                                                       No comment.
3.01(b) Project Execution      10                                         The Borrower shall carry out the project in accordance
with a program satisfactory to the Bank and shall
furmish to the Bank, not later than October 31 of each
calendar year. a proposed action plan.
L304S0       3.02 Procurement               3                    09/23/94        C                                                       No comment.
12/20/95       C                                                       No comment.
Procurement of the goods & consultants' services shall
be govemed by the provisions of Schedule 4 of this
Agreement.
09/23/94       c
12/20/95       C 
L30480       4.01(a) Financial covenants    2                                          The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound
accounting practices the operations, resources, and
expenditures of the project.
09/23/94       C
12/20/95       C
4.01(b)(i) Audit               I                                          The Borrower shall have the project records and
accounts, including those for the special account, for
each FY audited, by independent auditors
09/23/94       C                                                       Intemal auditors hired as agreed
with the Bank.
12/20/95       C                                                       No comment.
4.01(b)(ii) Audits             I                                          The Borrower shall fumish not later than 6 months
after the end of each FY, such audit report to the Bank.
09/23/94       C                                                       No comment.
12/20/95       C                                                       No comment.
4.01(bXiii) Audits             I                                          The Borrower shall fuimish to the Bank such other
information conceming records and accounts, and the
audit report as the Bank shall request from time to
time.
C - covenst complied with
CD - complied with after delay
CP = complied with patially
NC - noc eomplied with



Page 2 of 2
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants (cont)
Project Development Objectives Rating: S
Original    Revised
Covenant  fulfillment  fulfillment
Agreement               Section                type         date        date      Status               Description of covenant            Commcnts
09/23/94      c
12/20/95      C
The Borrower shall maintain records and accounts
4.01 (c)(i) Statement of                                                     reflecting all expenditures of withdrawals made on
Expenditures I                                                               the basis of statements of expenditure.
No comment.
09/23/94      C                                                      No comment.
12/20/95      c
The Borrower shall retain until at least I year after
4.01(c)(ii) Statement of                                                     each audit report, all records evidencing such
Expenditures I                                                               expenditures.
09/23/94      C                                                      No comment.
12/20/95      C                                                     No comment.
4.01(cXiii) Statement of                                                     The Borrower shall enable the Bank's
Expenditures I                                                               representatives to examine such records.
09/23/94      c                                                      No comment.
12120/95      C                                                     No comment.
4.01(iv) Statement of                                                        The Borrower shall ensure that such records and
Expenditures I                                                               accounts are included as a separate opinion, in the
annual audit report.
No comment.
09/23/94      C                                                     No comment.
12n20/95      c
SUM:   C          -   Complied with                                    Covenant Class: I  Accounts/audit
CD       -   Complied with after delay                                       2   Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries
SOON    -   Compliance expected in reasonably shott time                     3   Flow and utilization of pro.,ect funds
CP       -   Complied with partially                                         4   Counterpart funding
NYD      -   Not yet due                                                     5   Management aspects of the project or of its executing agency
6   Environmental covenants
7   Involuntary resettlement
8   Indigenous people
9   Monitoring, review,and rcporting
10  Implementation
II  Secoal or crosssectoral budgetary or otber resource allocation
12  Sectonl or crosssectionl regubloyfumsbka action
13 Other



-38-
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
No significant lack of compliance with applicable Bank Statements Operational Manual
(OD or OP/BP) was observed under the project. Provisional slow practices in the
procurement process were adequately adjusted during supervision.
Staiement number and title       Description and comment on lack of compliance
Not Applicable
M:\TONY/MOROCCO:jp\TABLEI I .DOCM(0214/96)
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Stage of                   Planned                         Actual
project cycle
Weeks          US$ a            Weeks           US$
Through appraisal          30            72,000           36             86,400
Appraisal-Board            1 0           24,000            12            28,800
Board-effectiveness        8             19,200            10            24,000
Supervision                46           110,400           60            144,000
Completion                 10            24,000            12 l          28,800
TOTAL                    104           249,600           130           312,000
la At estimated averge staff week cost of USS 2,400.
Lb Combined with review and discussion of future operations.



-39-
Page I of 2
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance rating/lb
Number                     Specialized     Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of           Date         of        Days in        staff skills      tation        ment        Types of
project cycle                  persons       field       represented I       status     objectives    problems
Thruph appraia
To outline scope
IS(TM) - PSC                                of feasible
Preparation mission      11/87         4           42        OMS-FE                                       project to support
IS(TM) - PSC                                SAL.
Preappraisal mission    04/05/88       5            64       OMS-FE
Boalrdappronvy           05/89
through effectiveness
Project
Supervision I                                                                                             organizational
(project start-up                                             IS(TM) - ECO-                               set-up.
mission)                10/11189       3            30              FE                            I I     Procurement
wftion
Effct1ivcnczs            12189
Supervision
Restrneturing of
government
agencies may
delay project
progress in
procurement and
IS (MA) -ECO                               technical
Supervision 2           05/06/90       4            28          Eng - OMS           I             I       assistance (TA)
Delay in [CB
procedume and in
TA and training
Supervision 3            11/90         2            16         IS(TM)-ECO           2             1       start-up
Organizational
measures still
Supervision 4            12/91         1            10            IS(TM)            2             I       underway
Slow progress in
IS(IM)-ECO                                procurement and
OMS - Eng                                shortage of local
Supervision 5             4/92         4            36            (Tel)             2             I       funding in
Budget
Delay in
procurement
Supervision 6           11/12/92       2            22        IS(TM) - OMS          2             1       trnining and TA
La Abbreviations: Eng.: Engineer; FinA.: Financial Analyst; IS: Informatics Specialist; TM: Task Manager;
PSS: Public Sector Specialist; F.E: Fiscal Expert; OMS: Organization/Management Specialist; ECO:
Economist.
Lb Keys to overall performance rating
(prior to FY 94) = I - problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems.
(subce FY 94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly
unsatisfactory.



-40-
Page 2 of 2
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Pertfonance rating1h
Numbei                      Specialized     Implemen-    Develop-
Stage of          Date          of        Days in        staff skills      tation        ment        Types of
project cycle                  persons       field        represented /a     status     objectives     problems
Supervision
Progress
improving but
overall delay
requires
extension of loan
Supervision 7           05/06/93       2            18        IS(TM)-Fin A          2             l       closing date
Supervision                                                                                               Funds now 95%
committed. Late
implementation
rqire another
extension of
closing daze by I
year (to June
Supervision 8            4/94          1            7             IS(TM)            S            S        30/95)
Supery'sion                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Funds fully
conmimifted.
Requirements for
fiture
susainability.
C3mpletion of
procurement/disb
ursenients
necessitates third
extension of
closing date to
3/95         l            6             IS(TM)            S            S        12/31/95
Supervision 9          _
Supervision 10
(Final/completion
mission)                 11/95         l            G             IS(TM)            S            S
la Abbreviations: Eng.: Engineer; FinA.: Financial Analyst; IS: Informatics Specialist; TM: Task Manager;
PSS: Public Sector Specilist; F.E: Fiscal Expert; OMS: Organization/Management Specialist; ECO:
Economist.
Lb Keys to overall performance rating
(before FY 94) = I - problem free; 2 - moderate; 3 - major problems;
(from FY 94 on) = HS - highly satisfactory; S - satisfactory; U - unsatisfactory; HU - highly
unsatisfactory.



-41-
KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION SUPPORT PROJECT
(LOAN 3048-MOR)
APPENDICES
A.  Missions'Aide-Memoires
B.  Borrower Contribution to the ICR






-42-
APPENDIX A
Missions' Aide-Memoires
(March 27 - 31, 1995 - 4 pages)
(November 15 - 22, 1995 - 4 pages)






-43-
Public Administration Support Project
Supervision Mission
(March 27-31, 1995)
Aide-Memoire
A PAL supervision mission comprising Mr. Antoun Moussa visited Rabat March 27-
31, 1995 to determine the status of project execution and discuss the future action plan in
support of project objectives.
The mission held discussions with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economic
Promotion, the Project Coordination Committee, and the heads of the services benefiting
from the project in the Ministry of Finance and External Investment and the Ministry of
Trade and Industry. The mission wishes to thank the M1oroccan authorities for their
hospitality and assistance in its work.
This aide-memoire reflects the standpoints of the Government and the mission on: (i)
PAL execution; (ii) activities to be undertaken in support of the project; and (iii) the
content of the project's operational plan, including future operations.
Proiect obLectives
The aim of the project was to assist the administrations responsible for economic and
financial management, to implement the economic reforms envisaged by the first SAL.
These objectives have been achieved to a large extent. On the basis of the lessons learned
during the execution of the project, it is now possible to put in place an action plan for
administrative reform that will achieve the project's ultimate objective, i.e., raising
performance standards in public finance management and macroeconomics analysis.
Tmpementationrsuli
The qualitative and quantitative results of project execution are set forth in detail in
the Coordination Committee report (see annex).
Even though concrete programs were introduced (commission on the GIPE, CIPP,
VAT-TGRfDI integrated system, DB[budget directorate]/CED coordination) with respect to
inter-ministerial coordination, such coordination remains insufficient as does the flow of
information in the relevant services. The action plan for future operations should seek to
improve such coordination.



-44-
Page 2 of 4
Macroeconomics management has been improved by the development of economic
budgets and various sectoral measures including the management of external trade, industry
promotion, and the various statistical studies conducted by the current Ministry of
Population.  The Coordination Committee report shows the results obtained in the
management of public finance with regard to taxation, budget management, debt
management, municipal finances, and Treasury management. However, additional efforts
must be made to achieve fully the objectives set forth in the project, specifically with regard
to the introduction of a unified taxpayer identification file, integrated management, and
financial forecasting.
Owing to .a delay in the project start-up, an extension of the completion date of the
loan was required, due to the ctunbersome procedures for the signing of contracts,
budgetary controls, reorganization of the administrations involved in the project, and site
adaptations, as well as delays in installing computer equipment throughout the national
territory.
Financial execution of the project
While the commitment level is satisfactory, loan-related disbursements are lagging.
Given the failure to complete site preparation work before delivery was taken of computer
equipment purchased under the last two DI and TGR contracts, and the delays noted with
respect to contract approval, it would be virtually impossible to take delivery of all the
equipment involved--and to check the invoices, execute the pertinent disbursements, and
make the appropriate loan disbursements--between now and June of this year.
The Moroccan authorities have therefore informed the mission that they wish to send
a last request to the IBRD for a 6-month extension of the loan agreement, with a
commitment to complete all operations so that all the loan resources can be used. The
authorities also stated that they wish to apply the remainder of the Unallocated Fund to
enlist the services, with IBRD support, of specialized technical assistants for discussions
with the Ministry of Finance on a new project as successor to the PAL (cf. Ministry of
Finance memorandum).
Plan for future operations
The lessons learned from this project will be the object of a future operational
program.
The PAL objectives are clearly a necessary stage, but they are no longer sufficient.
The main components of the operational plan, details of which are currently being worked
out, are as follows:
-  Produce, expand, process, and circulate domestic and external economic
information for both government decision makers, and national and international economic
operators.



-45-
Page 3 of 4
- Review public finance audits.
- Re-examine general financial and economic information with a view to organizing
it according to the most efficient international standards and making it available to both
public and private users.
- Continue large-scale computerization efforts,
- Introduce broad-based technology and user training so that computerization is no
longer limited to the purchase of machines.
- In order to define and rationalize the activities of the Ministry of Finance and the
other economic administrations; the Ministry's missions should be context-related; It
should also develop the forecasting function so that its activities take place in a coherent
macroeconomics framework.
Post-PAL
The idea of a new financial administration support project arose during a working
session the mission held with the Minister of Finance. The mission was extremely pleased
to note Mr. Kebbaj's desire for continued implementation financial administration reforms.
The Minister of Finance stressed in particular the need to mobilize all the resources
and energies needed for:
- development of training in the Ministry of Finance through the creation of a
advanced-level financial institute;
- reactivating of forecasting activities and the operational capability of the directorate
set up for the purpose in the Ministry;
- improvement of budget management from both the preparation and execution
standpoints;
- assignment of proper importance to human and material resource management.
The Project Coordination Committee is currently fine-tuning these objectives and
will shortly send the Bank a request for consultant assistance in preparing for the post-PAL
period.
Rabat, March 31, 1995



-46-
Page 4 of 4
For the Moroccan side                     For the World Bank
Mr. Moharned Moumnen                      Antoun Moussa
Director,                                  PASP Task Manager
Chairman of the PASP                      at the IBRD
Coordination Committee
ls/                                             /s/
Director of Budgetary
and Banking Operations
/s/
Signed: Mohamed Moumnen



-47-
Public Administration Support Project
Supervision Mission
(November 15-21, 1995)
Aide-Memoire
In view of the completion date of the loan, December 31, 1995, a PAL supervision
mission comprising Mr. Antoun Moussa visited Rabat November 15-21, 1995 to take stock
of project execution with the Moroccan Authorities.
The mission held discussions with the Ministries of Finance and External Investment,
of Economic Promotion, of Trade and Industry, and with the Project Coordination
Committee. The mission wishes to thank the Moroccan authorities for their hospitality and
assistance during the discussions.
This aide-memoire reflects the points of view of the Government and the mission on
project execution and the plan fcr future support operations after the closing date. It carries
on from the discussions held during the last supervision mission of March 1995.
Real progress has been made in the execution of project operations, which reflects a
growing improvement in working methods and macroeconomics management. By way of
example, the modernization program for the Treasury General of the Kingdom has
produced encouraging results, which are outlined in the appendix.  The other
administrations have made similar progress, especially the Tax Directorate (MDFIE), the
Ministry of Trade and Industry, and the Ministry of Population.
With regard to financial execution, commitments under the loan have reached the rate
of 100%. It is expected that full use of the loan for financing will be made by the
completion date at end-December 1995.
The TGR and the Directorate of Administrative Affairs and Taxes of the MDFIE
have again confirmed to the mission the commitments made during the last supervision
mission to speed up disbursement and ensure the relevant financing from the PAL loan
before end-December 1995. The undisbursed amounts of other departments are much less
substantial and will also be settled before this date.
The mission and the Project Coordination Committee thus focused their efforts
during the visit on preparation of the final report on project execution and the operational
plan for future activities. The mission provided the Coordination Committee with details
on the information to be covered in the final report and reviewed the available data on
project execution. These discussions also identified the operational plan activities for
supporting project achievements after the completion date of the project.



-48-
Page 2 of 4
Plan for future operations
The PAL objectives are a necessary stage but more remains to be done. The project
began the process of modernizing the administrations involved. Continued modernization
has now been ensured by a plan for future operations centered on the following:
(A) Structural modernization
(i) Creation of a modernization committee in the Ministry of Finance and External
Investment (MDFIE) and the hiring of a research firm "Euro Groupe" to continue
modernizing the ministry;
(ii) launching of the program for decentralizing and strengthening the Ministry of
Trade and Industry external services, including the establishment of investor authorization,
data base in the commercial register, and trademark registration; and
(iii)   ongoing  enhancement of inter-ministerial coordination  to  improve
macroeconomics management.
(B) Management of public finance
(i) A research firm (Boussard) has been hired to draft proposals for reforming the
current financial audit system for public enterprises. Studies will also be undertaken shortly
on the improvement and simplification of tax audits and public expenditure channels for
projects being financed;
(ii) Canadian support has already been obtained in the cash management area with a
view to launching an operational system that incorporates the computerization systems
achieved under the project; and
(iii) Efforts are also under way to obtain Canadian financing for the continued
improvement of public debt management.
(C) Macroeconomics management
The MDFIE will oversee reactivating of forecasting activities and the operational
capacity of the directorate set up for this purpose under the project. This is necessary to
provide a coherent macroeconomics framework;
(ii) Likewise budgetary management is to be improved both with respect to budget
preparation and execution; and
(iii) Diffusion and circulation of external and domestic economic information for
users in both the public and private sectors;



-49-
Page 3 of 4
(iv) Setting up of an external investment directorate in the MDFIE to coordinate the
strategy for promoting foreign investment in Morocco.
(D) Training
(i) The setting up of a Directorate of Human Resources in the MDFIE will permit
institutionalization of the training program begun under the project. It will also ensure
ongoing training activities to meet the Ministry's objectives;
(ii) The other administrations will continue to implement spccific activities
depending on their resources.
(E) Computerization and information flow
(i) Budget allocations will be placed at the disposal of the relevant administrations
for the upkeep of computer equipment, the purchase of supplies, and continuation of the
computerization efforts begun under the project;
(ii) Electronic links will be created to connect the data bases installed in the
directorates benefiting from the PASP;
(iii) The Ministry of Trade and Industry will introduce an electronic network
enabling the external services to link with each other and to work in real time;
(iv) A study has been conducted reliating to INTERNET access for the relevant
administrations; use of the INTERNET servicc is scheduled to begin toward end-March
1996;
(v) The Ministry of Population and the Ministry of Trade and Industry will continue
to publish sectoral surveys and studies for both public and private users; and
(vi) The preparation of a strategy for the expansion of information infrastructures at
national level is currently being discussed in earnest with various participants in the public
and private sectors.
Introducing the operational plan will provide essential support for the project
measures and the achievement of its ultimate objectives, i.e., raising administrative
performance standards in public finance management and macroeconomics analysis. Given
the plan's importance, it would be desirable for the PASP supervision committee to visit the
Bank in early 1996 for further discussions on the matter and to present its final report on
project execution.
At any event, the report will be sent to the Bank before end-December 1995; it will
be prepared in accordance with the outline agreed with the Coordination Committee.



-50-
Page 4 of 4
Rabat, November 1995
For the Moroccan side                                 For the World Bank
Mr. Mohamed Moumen                                    Mr. Antoun Moussa
Director,                                             PASP Task Manager
Chairman of the                                       at the IBRD.
PASP Coordination Committee.
/s/                                                   /s/



-51-
APPENDIX B
Borrower Contribution to the ICR
A detailed contribution was prepared by the Borrower. The project coordinator
prepared a summary of this comprehensive project implementation report from the
Borrower. A translation of this summary is attached as Appendix B. (16 pages)



-52-
Ministry of Finance and Investment
Treasury General of the Kingdom
Budgetary and Banking Operations Directorate
Public Administration Support Project
I                                    (PAL)
Evaluation Summary
Of the
PAL Coordination Committee
April 24, 1996



-53-
Contents
Page
1. Project origin and context                                      1
2. Project objectives                                              2
3. Project policy instruments                                      3
4. Qualitative results                                             4
5. Financial results                                               9
6. Project coordination                                           12
7. PAL audit                                                      14
8. Overall evaluation                                             15



-54-
1. Project origin and context
Ultimate aim: to raise performance standards in public finance management and
macroeconomics analysis.
1.1 Achievement of SAL objectives
* Improve internal resources mobilization,
* Rationalize expenditure management,
* Control debt.
1.2 Macroeconomics analysis
- Review planning methods,
* Develop forecasting activities,
C oordinate activities of the administrations involved in macroeconomics
management.
1.3 Reshaping public economic and financial sector policy for economic growth
* The Government as main agent of this policy,
* and the means of achieving structural adjustment policy goals.
 For the first time, the public economic and financial sector, rather than functioning
as an intermediate sector, is the direct beneficiary of an IBRD project.



-55-
Page 2 of 16
2. Project objectives
2.1 General
* Structural modernization of economic and financial administrations
* Enhanced procedural flexibility
* Increased productivity
* Improved efficiency
* Improved internal information flow
* Expansion of inter- and intraministerial coordination.
2.2 Specific
i Develop economic and financial forecasting methods
* improve and simplify budgetary procedures
* Modernize Government mobilization and management of resources (mainly tax
administration)
* Improve internal and external public debt management
* Simultaneous launch the computerization programs for the directorates of the Ministry of
Finance and the economic administrations (Directorate of Taxes, Treasury General,
Treasury Directorate. IGF [financial audit agency], Planning, Statistics, External Trade,
Domestic Trade, Economic Affairs).



-56-
Page 3 of 16
3. Project policy instruments 
3.1 First module - Information Technology
* Computer equipment
* Development of appropriate software application
* Design and Automation of procedures
* Installation of interfaces to facilitate communication among various project
beneficiary systems.
3.2 Second module - Technical assistance
* developmen: of new information systems
 simplification and and standardization of procedures
3.3 Third module - Training
* Abroad: in the various administrations' areas of activity
* Domestically: mainly through development of internal training capabilities
* Encourage various administrations to pool training.



-57-
Page 4 of 16
4. Qualitative results
Interministerial coordination
* Preparation of a draft law creating a national council on statistical data to take over
and reactivate the COCOES [Interministerial Committee for the Coordination of
Economic and Statistical Studies]. Approval of the draft is pending.
* Preparation of a new budget nomenclature.
* Creation of a discussion committee on the GIPE.
* Formation of the CIPEP [standing intermninisterial committee on public enterprises],
and definition and application by this committee of the selection criteria for projects
to be included in the budget.
Intraministerial coordination
* Establishment of operational links between the TGR [Treasury General of the
Kingdom] and the DI [Tax Directorate]. (Liaison committee, computer links with
respect to the VAT)
* Operational and computer-based links between the Budget and the CED
[commitment control office].
* Ongoing coordination between TGR and the Treasury Directorate on government
cash-flow management (monthly statement of costs and resources) and on debt.
* Start up of forecasting activities at Ministry of Finance.
Macroeconomics management
* Production of economic budgets on a regular basis.
* improvement of external trade management (law on external trade, customs
nomenclature, liberalization of external trade).
* Strengthening management capabilities of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.
* Study of current-value conversion rates and reference prices.
* Study of sources of growth for the Moroccan economy.
* Various other sectoral studies carried out particularly by the Statistics Directorate.
* Decentralized treatment of investment files.
* Computerization of the ministries of internal and external Commerce and industry.



-58-
Page 5 of 16
Taation
* Completion of draft collection code.
* Upgrading of tax audits.
* Completion of applications for expediting collection activities.
* Compiling tax data bases and using them to create the simulations needed during
the preparation phase of the budget law. Use of cross-checking procedures.
* Enhancement of public awareness and assistance efforts.
Budget preparation
* Implementation of new budget nomenclatures with a corollary improvement in
fund management.
* Introduction of "working capital" for projects being financed.
* Introduction of mechanisms simplifying credit carryovers.
* Preparation of a new government chart of accounts.
Debt management
* Setting up and organization of a contract data bank.
* Completion of computer applications by the TGR and the Treasury Directorate.
* Introduction of auction procedures for Treasury notes.
Modemizing management of municipal finances
* Preparation of a new nomenclature for municipal expenditure.
* Computerization of municipal revenue.
* Introduction of new management tools.
Cashflow management
* Flow-of-funds tables: monthly, weekly, and daily.
* Cash-flow committee (TGR-Bank Al-Maghrib-Treasury Directorate).
* Oversight committee for the implementation of the Finance Law at ministerial
level.
* Cash management project.
* Pilot electronic Casa-Rabat tax revenue link.
* Implementation of cash-flow procedures: Treasury note auctions, expenditure
schedule, resource tapping of some major public institutions.



-59-
Page 6 of 16
Training
Treasury General of the Kingdom, Ministry of Finance
* Since 1989, 45 executives have been sent to attend the ENST training courses in
Paris. They have been holders of doctorates or equivalent postgraduate degrees.
* Training courses were completed at the French Public Office by three groups of
managers, computer engineers, and accounting heads (a total of 57 individuals).
* Training in banking of prefectural treasurers, tax collectors, executives and
employees of the TGR banking service (a total of 150 individuals), provided by the
Centre International de Formation Bancaire [international center for training in the
banking profession].
* Another program worked out with the Center provided for the training of 10
groups, each comprising 30 individuals.
* Equipping the TGR's training service has expanded its intake capacity. The service
trains 100 inspectors and deputy inspectors and about 120 computer users every
year.
* German assistance in equipping the municipal finance training unit.
Tax Directorate
e Equipping the Casablanca Training Center.
* Computer training for engineers, administrators, and employees (on average 50 a
year).
X Introductory courses for tax specialists who have attended refresher courses on the
VAT, the IGR, business licenses, the TPI, and registration (about 300 individuals).
 Opening of a Training Center in Marrakech.
* Training abroad. Selected management staff have attended sessions on various
topics: tax audits, training of instructors, the VAT, taxpayer identification,
management of cross-checks (about 31 individuals).
Ministry responsible for Population - Directorate of Planning and Directorate of Statistics
* One and 1/2 month seminar on public management for I executive at the ENAP
[school of public administration] of Quebec, 1994.
* One week training course in France for 2 executives on post facto evaluation in
1994.
* Training course in Malaysia for 1 executive on data systems in 1993.
* Two week training course at the University of Alexandria, Egypt, for 3
management staff on the privatization of public enterprises in 1994.
* Training course for 2 executives during 4 separate assignments of one week each at
the INSEE and the Directorate of Forecasting in Paris in 1991, 1992, and 1993 on



-60-
Page 7 of 16
short-term modeling and the quarterly treatment of national accounts.
e Training at the University of Aix-Marseilles III, France, for 2 executives during 4
assignments in the area of regional modeling in 1991, 1992, 1993, and 1994.
* Training for I executive on the RMSM-X model of the World Bank, Washington
for 2 weeks in December 1994.
e Six months computer training in Japan for I executive in 1994/95.
Treasury Directorate
e Training courses in the USA. Italy, Paris. and Stockholm for 8 directorate
management staff.
* Participation of executives in a seminar on the international foreign exchange
market.
* Preparation abroad by 2 executives of a postgraduate diploma.
Ministry of Extemal Commerce
Three staff were sent to Washington for training in modeling tools used by the
IBRD.
* Setting up of the External Trade Analysis and Modeling Unit in the Research and
Programming Division.
Ministry of Commerce and Industry
* Organization of several training sessions for executives, computer technicians, and
secretaries (almost 200 individuals).
* Ten management and staff sent abroad for training in various areas such as project
management, quality promotion, and privatization.
Technical Assistance
Treasury General of the Kingdom
* Assistance from the IMEG Company in analyzing the information system and
outlining the strategic computerization scheme and the master plan.
* Assignment of a French expert in the promotion of banking activity.
* Assistance from French Public Accounting office in implementing the
computerization master plan.
* Diagnostic mission of Mr. Summers of the IBRD on the introduction of a modern
cash management system.
* Mission of Mr. Abderrahmane of the IMF on collection procedures.
* Project under way with Canada for the introduction of a cash management system.



-61-
Page 8 of 16
* Proposed assistance from Canada in setting up an integrated debt management
system.
Tax Directorate
* Assistance from the IMEG Company.
* Assistance from the DIGITAL Company.
* Assistance from French experts on specific assignments relating to tax audits,
computerization of tax services, and professional training.
* IMF missions
Ministry responsible for Population (Directorate of Planning and Directorate of
Statistics):
* Technical assistance for 2 executives on 3 separate assignrments of one week each
at the INSEE, Paris during 1992, 1993, and 1994 in the area of TABLO-type
modeling.
* Technical assistance and 1 0-day training course for 2 executives at the United
Nations (New York) and the University of Pittsburgh, USA, on data systems, and
project evaluation and follow up, in 1994.
* One week technical assistance for 2 executives on promotion of the private sector
in Lille 1992.



-62-
Page 9 of 16
5. Financial results
6.1 Commitmenta
Table 1. Position of commitments on April 24, 1996 1'
(DH
1,000)
Name                  Project             Commitments                Percent
MOF Directorate:
TGR                                 164872                 194536                     118
Taxes                               114800                 114040                      99
Treasury                             11000                   8488                      77
IGF                                   300G                   5432                     181
MCI                                  18828                  19710                     105
Ex. trade                             1500                    844                      56
Economic affairs                      3600                   1694                      47
MDP
Statistics                           12400                  17638                     142
Planning                              4000                   4872                     121
Total                               334000                 367254                     110
The commitment level was satisfactory at 110 %.
Accordingly, the programs of most administrations are well under way.
The over-committed funds (9%) are charged to the operating budget and committed on an
annual basis.
/ On the basis of the exchange rate in March 1989, i.e., the rate used for calculations during the
negotiation and conclusion of the loan agreement.
Z/ The evaluation includes the portion for contingencies and the Unallocated Fund as determnined by the
first evaluation.



-63 -
Page 10 of 16
IGF, Statistics, and Planning commitments exceeded the initial forecast as a result of the
inclusion of program operations that were not covered during the evaluation phase.
6.2 Pavments
Table 2. Position of PASP-related payments on April 24, 1996.
(DH
1,000)
Name              Commitments             Payments               Percent
MOF Directorate:
TGR                               164872                 168891                   102
Taxes                             114800                 106133                    92
Treasury                           11000                  5981                     54
IGF                                 3000                  4388                    146
MCI                                18828                  16581                    88
Ex. trade                           1500                   844                     56
Economic affairs                    3600                   1600                    44
MDP
Statistics                         12400                 17225                    140
Planning                            4000                  4530                    113
Total                             334000                326173                     98
The main reasons for the initial slow payments are as follows:
* The relevant administrations lacked experience with the management of financed
projects and were thus unfamiliar with the procedures involved.
* Project start-up was delayed by a year, the result of the lengthy procedures for
approval of the initial CPSs by the services involved, the IBRD, and then by the CED. This
problem was solved through preparation by the coordination committee of a CPS-type project,
approved by the IBRD and the CED. Also contributing to the delay, for some administrations, were
the insufficient budget allocations for activities eligible for financing under the loan.
* The fact that many scheduled sites were not ready to receive computer equipment
(electricity, cables, air-conditioning, furniture). This caused delays in taking delivery and hence in
the level of payments.



-64-
Page 11 of 16
* The lukewarm support for the project of some participants that felt that it did not
offer additional credits.
* IBRD procedures are constraining for others, who prefer to enter into contracts
outside a PAL.
* The large number of participants (5 ministries, and 5 directorates of the MDF).
* The cumbersome nature of budgetary procedures.
* The numerous control and approval authorities, both on GOM side and on that of
the IBRD.
* Finally, the two largest contracts signed under the project representing 35% of its
total budget did not begin to take effect until late in 1994. The relevant payments have therefore
just begun.
6.3 Disbursement
Table 3. Use of the IBRD loan as April 24, 1996
(DH
1,000)
Name                  Loan                   Drawings               Percent
MOF Directorate:
TGR                                 98923                 116334                    177
Taxes                               68880                  55132                     80
Treasury                             6600                   1704                     26
IGF                                  1800                   1500                     83
MCI                                  7020                   8713                    124
Ex. trade                             900                    440                     49
Economic affairs                     2160                    750                     35
MDP
Statistics                           7440                   9937                    134
Planning                             2400                   1956                     82
Total                              196123                 116466                    100



-65-
Page 12 of 16
6. Project coordination
An essential aspect of project implementation
- The special feature of the PAL: This project is directly intended, for the first time,
for the administrations as a "productive sector."
- The project involves several participants from the various ministries, which entails
problems of hierarchy and duties. The expenditures eligible for project financing are
managed by the directorates or administrative divisions, for computer services and training
and the Directorate of Public Facilities of the Ministry of Public Works (for the construction
and preparation of computer sites).
- By contrast, the supervision of qualitative activities is assigned to other bodies
sometimes lacking data on those aspects involving the financial management of the project.
- rhe PAL Coordination Committee, set up during the preparation phase of the
project and confirmed after negotiation of the loan with the IBRD. The committee includes
representatives of the relevant directorates who participated in the preparation, negotiation
and later in the supervision of the project.
- The Committee was the discussion partner of the IBRD for the approval and
implementation of the programs of all the agencies involved.
'MTe Commnittee also saw to the installation of an electronic link (All-in-one) with
the IBRD. It was designed to facilitate contacts and data and information transfers with
both the Bank and among the relevant government departments. Owing to the limited use
of this link by most of those involved, this goal was not fully achieved.
- Through its regular meetings, annual reports, and frequent communications sent to
the administrationis involved in the PAL, the Coordination Committee emphasized the need
for coherence among the programs in a given Directorate, or within a given ministry, and
among all the ministries involved.
- The coordination among the economic and financial admiiJistrations, a main
objective of the PAL, should continue after the completion date of the project loan
agreement. It would therefore be desirable for an interministerial seminar to be held, with
IBRD participation, for an assessment of the following:
* the impact of the reforms introduced since the project took effect
* the "added value" resulting from computerization of the relevant services



-66-
Page 13 of 16
* future activities for the continued implementation of reformn to consolidate
project's       achievements and to adjust to the rapidly changing modem world.



-67-
Page 14 of 16
7. Project audit
- In accordance with loan agreement No. 3048/MOR in connection with the PAL,
the audit was assigned to the IGF.
- The IGF regularly filed audit reports with the IBRD.
- The audit reports showed that project execution was proceeding in an orderly
manner, but called attention to difficulties hindering the speed of its implementation.



-68-
Page 15 of 16
8. Overall assessment
- Positive results of the project owing to computerization of the departments with
crucial responsibilities for budget financing and management, and for macroeconomics
management.
- Creation of a new modernization process in said administrations.
- Corollary effects of the project: PAL gave rise to parallel activities which among
others, resulted in:
* The mobilization of a Japanese grant for the financing of an "observatoire"
for Moroccan international competitiveness in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry;
* The setting up of an electronic link (All-in-one) with the IBRD and among
the relevant departments. It has been used for electronic messaging and access to economic
and financial information, including loan-related information (LDS). It is planned now that
it would be used for possible connection with global networks such as the INTERNET);
* The launching of a project with Canadian financing to establishment of a
cash management system, and the possible installation, also with Canadian assistance, of an
integrated system for management of the public debt (in the broad sense).
- The difficulties noted with regard to financial execution confirm the need for more
flexible budgetary procedures.
- The deveiopment of coordination in the Ministry of Finance will also require
preparation of a joint training strategy.
- In the meantime, more emphasis on the directorates own programs would seem to
be necessary.
- To sustain the investments in information technology, technical staffing should be
maintained and increased.
In conclusion, the success of the project was due mostly to the support of the
concerned administration and to the financial and technical support of the World Bank..
This permitted achieving most of its objectives in a satisfactory manner. Loan proceeds
were used almost totally by the concerned administrations in accordance with project
objectives. The beneficiary administrations have communicated to the PCC their desire to
pursue the dynamic modernization process initiated by the project. Now, it appears more
evident then ever, that it is necessary to build upon project accomplishment and pursue,



-69-
Page 16 of 16
with the continuos assistance of the World Bank, future operations based on the openings
provided by the project.












