Page  1
                                                   CONFORMED COPY
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3048 MOR
              (Public Administration Support Project)
                              between
                        KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                          AND DEVELOPMENT
                     Dated September 28, 1989
                                              LOAN NUMBER 3048 MOR
                          LOAN AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT,  dated  September  28,  1989,  between  KINGDOM OF
MOROCCO (the Borrower)  and  INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
     WHEREAS the  Borrower,  having  satisfied  itself  as  to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the  Bank to assist in the financing
of the Project;
     WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the
foregoing, to extend the Loan  to  the Borrower upon the terms and
conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
Page  2
    Section 1.01. The "General  Conditions  Applicable to Loan and
Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the
last sentence of  Section  3.02  deleted  (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
    Section  1.02.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General Conditions have the respec-
tive meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms
have the following meanings:
    (a)  "Structural  Adjustment   Program"   means   the  program
designed  to  achieve  structural  adjustment  of  the  Borrower's
economy referred to in  the  preamble  to the Loan Agreement dated
December  2,  1988  between  the  Borrower  and  the  Bank  for  a
Structural Adjustment Loan (Loan No. 3001 MOR);
    (b)  "Special  Account"  means  the  account  referred  to  in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement; and
    (c)  "Project   Preparation   Advance"   means   the   project
preparation advance granted by  the  Bank to the Borrower pursuant
to an exchange of letters dated  December 30, 1988 and January 12,
1989 between the Borrower and the Bank.
                            ARTICLE II
                             The Loan
    Section 2.01. The  Bank  agrees  to  lend  to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions  set  forth  or  referred  to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that  shall  have an aggregate value
equivalent  to  the   amount   of   twenty-three  million  dollars
($23,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of the
Loan, with each withdrawal valued  by  the  Bank as of the date of
such withdrawal.
    Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from
the Loan Account in accordance  with  the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement for expenditures made  (or, if the Bank shall so
agree, to be made) in respect  of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project  described in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
    (b)  The Borrower may, for  the  purposes of the Project, open
and maintain a special account  in  a  currency and in a financial
institution satisfactory  to  the  Bank,  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits  into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
    (c)  Promptly after the  Effective  Date,  the  Bank shall, on
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from  the Loan Account and pay to
itself the amount required  to  repay  the principal amount of the
Project Preparation Advance withdrawn  and  outstanding as of such
date and  to  pay  all  unpaid  charges  thereon.  The unwithdrawn
balance  of  the  authorized  amount  of  the  Project Preparation
Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
    Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall  be June 30, 1993 or such
later date as the  Bank  shall  establish. The Bank shall promptly
notify the Borrower of such later date.
    Section 2.04. The Borrower shall  pay to the Bank a commitment
charge at the rate of  three-fourths  of  one per cent (3/4 of 1%)
per annum on the principal  amount  of the Loan not withdrawn from
time to time.
    Section 2.05.  (a)  The  Borrower  shall  pay  interest on the
principal amount of the  Loan  withdrawn and outstanding from time
to time at a  rate  per  annum  for  each Interest Period equal to
one-half of one  percent  per  annum  above  the Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for the last Semester  ending prior to the commencement
Page  3
of such Interest Period.
    (b)  As soon as practicable  after  the  end of each Semester,
the Bank  shall  notify  the  Borrower  of  the  Cost of Qualified
Borrowings for such Semester.
    (c)  For purposes of this Section:
          (i)  "Interest  Period"   means   the  six-month  period
               commencing on each  date  specified in Section 2.06
               of this Agreement, including the Interest Period in
               which this Agreement is signed.
         (ii)  "Cost of Qualified  Borrowings"  means  the cost of
               the outstanding borrowings  of  the Bank drawn down
               after June 30, 1982,  expressed as a percentage per
               annum, as reasonably determined by the Bank.
        (iii)  "Semester" means the first six months or the second
               six months of a calendar year.
     Section 2.06. Interest  and  other  charges  shall be payable
semiannually on January 15 and July 15 in each year.
     Section 2.07. The Borrower  shall  repay the principal amount
of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule set forth
in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence  and  efficiency  and  in  conformity  with  appropriate
administrative,  financial  and   economic  practices,  and  shall
provide, promptly as needed,  the  funds, facilities, services and
other resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section, the Borrower shall:  (i) carry out the Project in
accordance with a program  satisfactory  to the Bank; (ii) prepare
and furnish  to  the  Bank,  not  later  than  October  31 of each
calendar year  for  the  Bank's  review  and  comments, a proposed
action plan, of such scope  and  in  such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the  carrying  out  of such program during
the following calendar year;  (iii)  thereafter promptly carry out
such action plan during such following calendar year as shall have
been agreed between the  Borrower  and  the Bank; and (iv) consult
with the Bank before introducing  any  changes in such action plan
and introduce only such  changes  therein  as may have been agreed
between the Borrower and the Bank.
     Section 3.02.  Except  as  the  Bank  shall  otherwise agree,
procurement of the  goods  and  consultants' services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
shall  be  governed  by  the  provisions  of  Schedule  4  to this
Agreement.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts  adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices  the  operations,  resources and
expenditures in  respect  of  the  Project  of  the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part thereof.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
Page  4
          (i)  have  the  records  and  accounts  referred  to  in
               paragraph (a) of this  Section, including those for
               the Special Account, for  each fiscal year audited,
               in accordance with  appropriate auditing principles
               consistently  applied,   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)  furnish to the Bank  as  soon  as available, but in
               any case not later than six months after the end of
               each such year, the  report  of  such audit by said
               auditors, of such scope  and  in such detail as the
               Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to  the  Bank  such  other information con-
               cerning said  records  and  accounts  and the audit
               thereof  as  the  Bank  shall  from  time  to  time
               reasonably request.
    (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect  to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account  were  made  on  the  basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least one  year after the Bank has
               received the audit  report  for  the fiscal year in
               which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account was
               made,  all  records  (contracts,  orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Bank's  representatives  to examine such
               records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during  such   fiscal   year,   together  with  the
               procedures and internal  controls involved in their
               preparation, can  be  relied  upon  to  support the
               related withdrawals.
                             ARTICLE V
                            Termination
     Section 5.01. The date  ninety  (90)  days  after the date of
this Agreement is  hereby  specified  for  the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 6.01. The  Minister  of  Finance  of  the Borrower is
designated as representative of  the  Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
     Section  6.02.  The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
    For the Borrower:
         Ministere des Finances
         Rabat
         Kingdom of Morocco
Page  5
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              MINISTERE FINANCES                31936 M
              Rabat
    For the Bank:
         International Bank for
           Reconstruction and Development
         1818 H Street, N.W.
         Washington, D.C. 20433
         United States of America
         Cable address:                      Telex:
              INTBAFRAD                         440098 (ITT),
              Washington, D.C.                  248423 (RCA) or
                                                 64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                   KINGDOM OF MOROCCO
                   By /s/ M. Berrada
                                         Authorized Representative
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                     RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                   By /s/ K. Dervis
                                    Acting Regional Vice President
                              Europe, Middle East and North Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
              Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds  of  the  Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of  the  Loan  to  each  Category  and  the  percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)  Goods                     14,500,000      100% of foreign
                                               expenditures,
                                               100% of local
                                               expenditures
                                               (ex-factory
                                               cost) and 50%
                                               of local ex-
                                               penditures for
                                               other items pro-
                                               cured locally
(2)  Consultants'               2,500,000      90% of local ex-
     services                                  penditures for
Page  6
                                               services of
                                               consultants domi-
                                               ciled within the
                                               territory of the
                                               Borrower and 100%
                                               of foreign expen-
                                               ditures for
                                               services of other
                                               consultants
(3)  Training                   3,000,000      100%
(4)  Refunding of                 240,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                          suant to Section
     tion Advance                              2.02 (c) of this
                                               Agreement
                          Amount of the
                         Loan Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category          Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(5)  Unallocated                2,760,000
      TOTAL                    23,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower; and
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower.
3.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of  paragraph  1  above, no
withdrawals  shall  be  made  in  respect  of  payments  made  for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project  are to assist in strengthening
the  capabilities  of  the   Borrower   in  the  mobilization  and
allocation of domestic  resources  and  to facilitate the carrying
out of the Structural Adjustment Program.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower  and the Bank may agree upon
from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:
     Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the Borrower's
capabilities in  tax  administration,  as  part  of the Structural
Adjustment  Program,   including   the   provision  of  equipment,
materials and training required therefor.
Part B:
     Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the Borrower's
capabilities in planning and management of public expenditures and
management of public debt,  including  the provision of equipment,
materials and training required therefor.
Page  7
Part C:
     Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the Borrower's
capabilities in  macroeconomic  management,  sectoral planning and
statistical  analysis,  including   the  provision  of  equipment,
materials and training required therefor.
Part D:
     Carrying  out  of  a  program  to  strengthen  the Borrower's
capabilities in  external  trade  management  and  to  promote the
development  of  the  industrial  sector,   all  as  part  of  the
Structural  Adjustment   Program,   including   the  provision  of
equipment, materials and training required therefor.
Part E:
     Development and  application  of  policies  and procedures to
facilitate the coordination among  the  ministries of the Borrower
of activities to be carried out under the Project.
                     *     *     *     *     *
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 1992.
                            SCHEDULE 3
                       Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due                          (expressed in dollars)*
January 15, 1995                                     420,000
July 15, 1995                                        440,000
January 15, 1996                                     455,000
July 15, 1996                                        475,000
January 15, 1997                                     490,000
July 15, 1997                                        510,000
January 15, 1998                                     530,000
July 15, 1998                                        550,000
January 15, 1999                                     570,000
July 15, 1999                                        590,000
January 15, 2000                                     615,000
July 15, 2000                                        640,000
January 15, 2001                                     660,000
July 15, 2001                                        690,000
January 15, 2002                                     715,000
July 15, 2002                                        740,000
January 15, 2003                                     770,000
July 15, 2003                                        800,000
January 15, 2004                                     830,000
July 15, 2004                                        860,000
January 15, 2005                                     895,000
July 15, 2005                                        930,000
January 15, 2006                                     965,000
July 15, 2006                                      1,000,000
January 15, 2007                                   1,040,000
July 15, 2007                                      1,080,000
January 15, 2008                                   1,120,000
July 15, 2008                                      1,165,000
January 15, 2009                                   1,210,000
July 15, 2009                                      1,245,000
*    The  figures  in  this  column  represent  dollar equivalents
     determined as  of  the  respective  dates  of withdrawal. See
     General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                      Premiums on Prepayment
     Pursuant to Section 3.04  (b)  of the General Conditions, the
Page  8
premium payable on the  principal  amount  of  any maturity of the
Loan to be  prepaid  shall  be  the  percentage  specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                             Premium
                                         The  interest  rate  (ex-
                                         pressed  as  a percentage
                                         per annum)  applicable to
                                         the Loan  on  the  day of
                                         prepayment,    multiplied
                                         by:
Not more than three years                          0.15
     before maturity
More than three years but                          0.30
     not more than six years
     before maturity
More than six years but                            0.55
     not more than eleven years
     before maturity
More than eleven years but not                     0.80
     more than sixteen years
     before maturity
More than sixteen years but not                    0.90
     more than eighteen years
     before maturity
More than eighteen years before                    1.00
     maturity
                            SCHEDULE 4
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part  C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded  in  accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections  I  and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD  Loans  and  IDA  Credits" published by the
Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   To the  extent  practicable,  contracts  for  goods  shall be
grouped in  bid  packages  estimated  to  cost  the  equivalent of
$300,000 or more each.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A hereof,  goods  manufactured in the Kingdom of
Morocco may be granted a  margin of preference in accordance with,
and subject to, the provisions of  paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
     Items or groups  of  items  estimated  to  cost less than the
equivalent of $300,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount not
to exceed the  equivalent  of  $3,500,000,  may  be procured under
contracts awarded on the  basis  of comparison of price quotations
solicited  from  at  least  three  suppliers  eligible  under  the
Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:   Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
Page  9
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
     (a)  With respect to each contract  to be awarded pursuant to
the procedures  set  forth  or  referred  to  in  Part  A  of this
Schedule, the  procedures  set  forth  in  paragraphs  2  and 4 of
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for such
contract  are  to  be  made  out  of  the  Special  Account,  such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies of  the  contract  required  to  be  furnished  to the Bank
pursuant to said paragraph 2  (d)  shall  be furnished to the Bank
prior to the  making  of  the  first  payment  out  of the Special
Account in respect of such contract.
     (b)  With  respect  to  each  contract  not  governed  by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth in paragraphs 3 and
4 of Appendix 1 to the  Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to  be  made  out  of  the Special Account, said
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract  together  with  the  other  information
required to be furnished to the  Bank pursuant to said paragraph 3
shall be furnished to  the  Bank  as  part  of  the evidence to be
furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Bank has
authorized withdrawals  from  the  Loan  Account  on  the basis of
statements of expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall  be retained in
accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.   The  figure  of  15%  is  hereby  specified  for  purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.  Employment of Consultants
     Consultants'  services  shall  be  procured  under  contracts
awarded to consultants:  (A)  whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of  employment  shall  be satisfactory to the
Bank; and (B) who shall  be selected in accordance with principles
and procedures  satisfactory  to  the  Bank  on  the  basis of the
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and
by the World Bank as  Executing  Agency"  published by the Bank in
August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1), (2)
and (3) set forth in  the  table  in  paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be  financed  out  of  the proceeds of the Loan
allocated  from  time  to  time  to  the  eligible  Categories  in
accordance with the provisions  of  Schedule  1 to this Agreement;
and
     (c)  the  term  "Authorized   Allocation"   means  an  amount
equivalent to $3,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Bank has received  evidence satisfactory to it that
the Special  Account  has  been  duly  opened,  withdrawals of the
Page  10
Authorized Allocation and subsequent  withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Bank  a  request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which  do  not  exceed the aggregate amount of
the  Authorized  Allocation.  On  the  basis  of  such  request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from
the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall  furnish  to  the  Bank requests for
               deposits into the Special Account at such intervals
               as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower shall furnish  to  the  Bank the documents
               and other evidence required pursuant to paragraph 4
               of this Schedule  for  the  payment  or payments in
               respect of which replenishment is requested. On the
               basis of  each  such  request,  the  Bank shall, on
               behalf of  the  Borrower,  withdraw  from  the Loan
               Account and deposit  into  the Special Account such
               amount as the Borrower  shall have requested and as
               shall have been shown  by  said documents and other
               evidence to  have  been  made  out  of  the Special
               Account  for   eligible   expenditures.   All  such
               deposits shall be  withdrawn  by  the Bank from the
               Loan   Account   under   the   respective  eligible
               Categories,  and   in   the  respective  equivalent
               amounts,  as  shall  have  been  justified  by said
               documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the  Borrower  shall,  at  such  time  as  the Bank shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the  Bank such documents and other
evidence  showing  that  such  payment  was  made  exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding  the  provisions  of   paragraph  3  of  this
Schedule, the Bank shall not  be required to make further deposits
into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all
further withdrawals should be  made  by the Borrower directly from
the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of
the General Conditions and paragraph  (a)  of Section 2.02 of this
Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total unwithdrawn  amount of the Loan allocated
to the eligible  Categories,  less  the  amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into  by  the  Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions  with respect to the Project, shall
equal  the  equivalent  of  twice  the  amount  of  the Authorized
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal  from  the  Loan  Account  of the remaining
unwithdrawn  amount  of  the   Loan   allocated  to  the  eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures  as the Bank shall specify
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made
only after  and  to  the  extent  that  the  Bank  shall have been
satisfied that  all  such  amounts  remaining  on  deposit  in the
Special Account as of the date  of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
payment  out  of  the  Special   Account:  (i)  was  made  for  an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this  Schedule;  or  (ii)  was  not  justified  by the evidence
furnished to the Bank,  the  Borrower  shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A)  provide  such  additional evidence as the Bank
Page  11
may request; or (B) deposit  into  the Special Account (or, if the
Bank shall so request, refund to  the Bank) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or  the  portion thereof not so eligible or
justified. Unless  the  Bank  shall  otherwise  agree,  no further
deposit by the Bank into  the  Special Account shall be made until
the Borrower has provided  such  evidence  or made such deposit or
refund, as the case may be.
     (b)  If the Bank shall have  determined  at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special  Account will not be required to
cover further  payments  for  eligible  expenditures, the Borrower
shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such
outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the
Bank all or any portion  of  the  funds  on deposit in the Special
Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Bank  made  pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan Account
for subsequent withdrawal or  for  cancellation in accordance with
the relevant provisions of  this  Agreement, including the General
Conditions.
