                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                        Report No: 31001

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (IDA-32890 PPFI-Q1780)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                              IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10.15 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                        REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                                 FOR A

                    PUBLIC SERV. INFO-SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION PROJECT




                                           December 22, 2004




Knowledge and Learning Unit
Afrca Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                      (Exchange Rate Effective December 22, 2004)

                               Currency Unit = F CFA
                                     1 FCFA = US$ 0.00204
                                      US$ 1 = 491 FCFA

                                     FISCAL YEAR
                                   January   December

                         ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AIE     Agence de l'Informatique de l'Etat (to replace the former DIE)
AJE     Agence Judiciaire de l'Etat
APIX    Agence pour la Promotion des Investissements et des grands travauX
CID     Centre Informatique de la Douane (Customs Department of Informatics)
DAF     Direction de l'Automatisation des Fichiers (Computer Automation Department -
        Ministry of Interior)
DCA     Development Credit Agreement
DIE     Direction Informatique de l'Etat (State Direction of Informatics)
DMC     Direction de la Monnaie et des Crédits
DTAI    Direction du Traitement Automatique de l'Information
FSP     Fondation Secteur Privé
GAINDE  Gestion Automatisé des Informations Douanières et des Echanges (Customs
        Information System Management)
GoS     Government of Senegal
ICR     Implementation Completion Report
IDA     Interntational Development Association
ISP     Internet Service Provider
IP      Intranet Protocol
IT      Information Technology
LAN     Local Area Network
LONASE  Lotterie Nationale Sénégalaise (Senegalese National Lottery)
MoF     Ministry of Finance
MoI     Ministry of Interior
PC      Personal Computer (i.e. workstation)
PMSIA   Projet de Mondernisation des Systèmes d'Information de l'Administration
PMU     Project Management Unit
PPF     Project Preparation Facility
SAED    Société Nationale d 'Aménagement et d'Exploitation des Terres du Delta du Fleuve
        Sénégal (Senegal River Valley Company)
SNCS    Société Nationale des Chemins de Fer Sénégalais (National Company of Railway)
TOR     Terms of References
UPS     Uninterruptible Power System
Y2K     Year 2000




                             Vice President:     Gobind T. Nankani

 Country Director:  Madani Tall
  Sector Manager:   Nicolas Gorjestani
Task Team Leader:   Marc Jean Yves Lixi

                                 REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
            PUBLIC SERV. INFO-SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            7
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            12
6. Sustainability                                                                13
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 14
8. Lessons Learned                                                               15
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information                                                       17
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             18
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             24
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             26
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             27
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             29
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                30
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            31
Annex 8. Government Intranet Schema                                              32
Annex 9. Detailed Description of Components and Sub-Components                   33
Annex 10. Borrower's Report                                                      37

Project ID: P067498                                                  Project Name: PUBLIC SERV. INFO-SYSTEMS
                                                                     MODERNIZATION
Team Leader: Marc Jean Yves Lixi                                     TL Unit: AFTKL
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 23, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: PUBLIC SERV. INFO-SYSTEMS                                L/C/TF Number: IDA-32890; PPFI-Q1780
                            MODERNIZATION
   Country/Department: SENEGAL                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (78%); General industry and
                            trade sector (12%); Health (10%)
                  Theme: Technology diffusion (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 06/01/1999                                     Effective:                           04/13/2000
     Appraisal: 09/02/1999                                         MTR:
      Approval: 11/02/1999                                      Closing:                            06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF SENEGAL/Ministry of Scientific Research and Technology
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Gobind T. Nankani                              Callisto E. Madavo
Country Manager/Director: Madani M. Tall                                       Cadman Atta Mills
Sector Manager:                 Nicolas M. Gorjestani                          John A. Roome
Team Leader at ICR:             Marc Jean Yves Lixi                            Charlie Garrigues
ICR Primary Author:             Marc Jean Yves Lixi


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
ICR Plan and ratings: The subsequent discussions in this report will focus on two rather distinct, yet
closely linked, operations: 1) the original project and its performance based on its own initial Development
Objectives and the corresponding activities; and 2) the re-structured project and its performance based on
the revised Development Objectives and activities. This approach together with the fact that this was a
unique operation, which unfolded under exceptional circumstances, warrants an ICR that is more
comprehensive in coverage and longer than usual. The ratings as stated on page 2 are related to the revised
Development Objectives and design. However, the Quality at Entry assessment and the Lessons Learned
cover both operations.

Background: During late 1998 and early 1999, many Governments and international agencies (including
the World Bank) were seriously concerned about the potential risks posed by the Year 2000 (Y2K)
computer problem to the public and private sector operations. The Y2K problem stemmed from the fact
that many computerized and digital systems could potentially malfunction due to potential hardware and
software failures in properly processing the correct date as the century changed at the end of 1999 (the
two-digit year records would change from 99 to 00). The problem was technically simple. Nevertheless,
due to the resource-intensive nature of the process and the large number of actors and/or institutions
involved, it posed a significant financial and management burden on Governments and private businesses
alike.

In response to the Y2K challenge, the Bank.'s infoDev program initiated a Y2K Grant program that offered
planning and implementation grants to assist developing countries in mitigating the Y2K risks. In early
1999, the Government of Senegal received two infoDev Y2K Grants (for planning and implementation,
respectively) for a total of $600,000.

In March 1999, the Government of Senegal also requested the Bank's assistance in support of a proposed
Y2K Strategic Action Plan in the amount of $43.33 million. This request was prepared based on a needs
assessment carried out with the financial assistance of the infoDev grant. The proposal consisted of Y2K
emergency risk mitigation activities, Y2K remediation, contingency plans, and also an overall
modernization of Government systems. The Bank's Senegal Country Team reacted expeditiously by
calling together a team of World Bank Y2K coordinators from infoDev, the Africa Region, and members of
the Country Team to respond to the client.

During subsequent discussions with the authorities, the Government agreed with the Bank's assessment that
the proposed plan needed to be revised, separating the longer term modernization objectives from the more
immediate needs and that the immediate efforts must mainly focus on the mitigation of Y2K risks in critical
financial and public service delivery operations. In June 1999, following the Identification mission, the
Government submitted a new project proposal to the Bank.




                                                      - 2 -

The Bank responded very pro-actively and worked closely with the Government to prepare a project on a
fast track basis. In this rather particular and difficult context, the Bank Task Team identified and appraised
this high-risk operation within eight months. There was no precedent for such operations and only three
countries benefited from Bank credit support for the Y2K bug issue: Sri Lanka, Malaysia and Senegal.
Other countries received smaller Bank support through the InfoDev funds.

The project was appraised in September, approved on December 17, 1999, and the IDA credit became
effective on April 13, 2000, providing retroactive financing of remediation actions since March 1999. This
operation was in support of a national program to prevent and minimize the impact of the Y2K issue on
critical public sector management information systems and to begin modernizing these systems in the same
time frame and beyond. The project's overall cost was estimated at US$15.15 million to be financed by
IDA (US$10.15), the Government of Senegal (US$2.9 million) and other donors (US$2.1 million).

The project activities were split into four phases: (i) supporting urgent actions already stated before the end
of October 1999; (ii) supporting actions to be implemented prior to January 1, 2000; (iii) continuation of
already identified needs in less critical areas and remediation of actual dysfunctions due to the Y2K bug;
and (iv) consolidation and modernization of computer systems and information infrastructures in several
areas already identified as Government priorities for modernization and network expansion.

Original Development Objectives: The original main objective of the project was to assist the
Government of Senegal (GoS) in its efforts to prevent disruptions in the country's economic and financial
sectors as a result of the Y2K issue. In particular, the project's original focus was to assist the GoS in its
efforts to prevent or minimize Y2K induced failures in its government revenue and expenditure systems,
custom systems, health, and critical infrastructures such as telecommunications, electricity, transport,
water, financial institutions, and postal services.

The key performance indicators to measure the achievement of this objective were:
(a) No major disruptions in critical services (such as water, electricity, telecommunications, transport,
customs, taxes, salaries payment, financial institutions, and postal services) would occur during the first
quarter of 2000 as a result of the Y2K bug.
(b) No significant decrease in activity caused by the Y2K bug would occur in the three large computer
centers (Finance, Interior, Customs) beyond April 1, 2000.

Assessment of the Development Objectives: Given the very high risk assessed during project
identification, the initial Development Objectives of the project were highly relevant at the time of the
project preparation and implementation until early 2000 and responded to an urgent need identified by the
Government. The preventive and remediation actions implemented by the GoS proved successful and no
major dysfunctions due to the Y2K "bug" occurred in the public sector information systems during early
2000. Apart from a minor disruption in the Customs GAINDE system that lasted about three weeks at the
end of March 2000 (during the migration to the new platform), no disruption nor any failure occurred in
2000 as a result of the Y2K bug. The original Development Objectives were fully met. As of March 31,
2000, only 21% of the credit had been disbursed (about $2.15 million). This amount was consistent with
the needs assessment made by the Task Team during the Appraisal.

3.2 Revised Objective:
Reasons for restructuring: It became clear in early January 2000, that the contingency plans that were
built into the original design would not need to be implemented. After January 1, 2000, given the absence
of any disruptions due to the Y2K bug in Senegal, the initial Development Objectives of the project were
not relevant anymore. As of March 31, 2000, only US$2.15 million (21%) was disbursed to cover



                                                        - 3 -

remediation activities. About US$ 8 million of the original allocations earmarked for modernization of
specific institutions, contingencies, and the unallocated funds under the project became available. The
authorities then considered expanding the scope of the modernization component of the project. The credit's
original closing date was June 30, 2001.

The year 2000 was also a year of political change in Senegal. Following the election of the new President,
the Ministry of Scientific Research and Technology which had oversight of the project disappeared and
Computer and Information Technology matters were directly attached to the Presidency. A period of
uncertainty ensued regarding the future of the project and the implementation unit. During this period,
project implantation slowed down considerably. By the end of year 2000, a new Public Service
Modernization Program "Programme de Modernisation des Systèmes d'Information de l'Administration"
(PMSIA) was developed through a participatory process. The Government clarified its policies and put the
emphasis on the construction of a modern Information System infrastructure in order to help Senegal's
public administration be more efficient. Project supervision was placed under the direct responsibility of the
Presidency and the CNI. The IT Technical adviser to the President who, in principle, is in charge of project
oversight, changed during this period and in fact, for many months, no real champion was clearly identified
in the GoS.

In late December 2000, the Ministry of Finance proposed to the Bank to revise the project development
objectives and restructure the project design. In response to the new proposal, the project was restructured
in March 2001. The objective of the restructuring was to expand the scope of the project component for
Modernization of the Information Systems of the Senegalese Administration by re-allocating all
undisbursed credit amounts to support this activity. The new design was based on the PMSIA. The
restructured project was approved by the Board on April 16, 2001. The Development Credit Agreement
was amended on May 29, 2001.

The amendments to the Development Credit Agreement (DCA) provided the following: (i) restructuring of
the project design plan in line with the priorities spelled out with PMSIA including the six components
mentioned below, (ii) extending the closing date of the Credit to June 30, 2002, and (iii) identifying the
Implementing Agency as "the office of the President of the Republic of Senegal".

Revised Development Objectives: The revised objective of the project was to assist the Borrower to
improve the quality of services to the public. To achieve this objective, the project would support the
modernization of the information systems: at the Office of the President and establishing a Government
Intranet network ($1.57 million), at the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministries ($1.865 million), at the
Ministry of Economy and Finance ($2.065 million), at the Ministry of Interior ($0.94 million), at La Poste
($0.69 million), and at the University of St Louis. ($0.70 million).Detailed performance indicators were
identified during a mission in July 2001 (see Annex 1).

Assessment of the revised Development Objectives: Three years after the restructuring, the revised DOs
are still in line with: (i) the latest CAS Pillar no 2 goals including the decentralization process, supporting
the good governance effort and the modernization of the Administration as part of the Government strategy
(CAS, p. 62); (ii) the overall PRSP objectives as summarized on pp.7 and 8, including capacity building
through the use of new information technologies (para. 35 and 36 (f)). It is important to explain the scope
of the revised DOs. Obviously with only $ 8 million, the project was not intended to impact the quality of
the delivery of all public services in Senegal. Nevertheless, it contributed in a significant manner to
improving the quality of services in key ministries and set the standards for all the other future initiatives in
this domain. The modernization of the Ministry of Finance's information system helped the Government
generate more transparent, accurate and reliable documents. The Customs revenue increased as result of


                                                        - 4 -

reduced fraud and improved operations. The modernization of the information system of La Poste increased
the productivity of its agents at windows and positively impact the satisfaction of clients. The set-up of the
Government Intranet is expected to have direct impact on the overall efficiency of the Administration, by
increasing its ability to communicate and share information between departments and ministries, and by
reducing the administrative operating costs: telephone bill, paper, archiving, mailing, etc. The revised
Development Objectives as stated in the Development Credit Agreement were generally met.




3.3 Original Components:
A detailed description of the components and sub-components is included in Annex 9.

Component 1: Project Management Strengthening
Total Budget for this component was estimated at US$750,000, of which US$250,000 were financed under
the PPF.

Component 2: Public Sector Remediation
The remediation and upgrading of public sector information systems was split into four subcomponents:
* Main Administrations' Information Centers (DTAI, DAF, CID)
* Other Ministries and Public Administrations
* State-owned Enterprises
* Health
Budget for the main administration information centers was estimated at $ 6.9 million.

Component 3: Contingency Plans
It was obvious that due to time constraints and the necessity to carry out reliable conceptual studies before
investing in hardware or software, all systems would not be fully ready by December 31, 1999. As a result,
preventive means had to be put in place to address any critical situation which could provoke major
disruptions to the Senegalese economy and social life.

All contingency action plans (national and sector specific), with the exception of the one for customs, were
put under the direct responsibility of the PMU, and a full time team leader of the PMU was appointed by
the Senegalese Government. Budget estimate covering logistics, training, tests and specific investments was
US$1.7 million (25% for the national plan and 75% for sector-specific plans); this amount included the
financing of some urgent remediation actions to correct systems' failures that could be observed in the
beginning of 2000.

3.4 Revised Components:
The Government of Senegal suggested that the project be restructured and be based on the PMSIA. The
project was restructured in May 2001. In mid-2001, the Senegalese Government decided to create a
"Direction Informatique de l'Etat -DIE". This group was attached to the Presidency in order to centralize
all Government policy and decisions regarding Government Information System design and investments.
All IT investments were put on hold until the DIE became operational. The PMSIA program was directly
affected by this decision. The Bank pointed out that the closing date of the restructured project was
December 2002 and that any delay would put the project at risk. However, the DIE wanted to review and
confirm that the PMSIA implementation was in line with its new policy, before giving the green light to
procurement processes.

In September 2001, a new version of the PMSIA was approved by the GoS. This version included some



                                                    - 5 -

new activities such as the creation of the Agence de l'informatique de l'Etat (AIE) and the audit of the
Administration. But the most significant change was the expansion of the Government Intranet
sub-component which had become the biggest element of the revised project.

As a result of these developments, some aspects of the project's design (i.e. the list of activities to be
implemented under each component) were re-defined with the agreement of the DIE to better align them
with the objectives of the PMSIA. The revisions included the following: (i) removal of the socio-economic
database (sub-component of the Component 2) as the Social Fund Project was implementing the same
concept;(ii) removal of the development of a new application for the tax system at the Ministry of Finance;
and (iii) removal of the upgrade of the financial and administrative system for the national Lottery in order
to allocate more funds for the new, more comprehensive design of the Government Intranet sub-component.
With these revisions, the project ultimately consisted of the following components (the figures in
parentheses show the amounts allocated at the latest revision of the design in September 2001; and Annex 9
describes in detail the restructured project design and the specific revisions that were made during
implementation):

Component (1) modernization of the information systems at the Office of the President ($0.4 million);

Component (2) modernization of the information systems at the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministries
and establishing the Government Intranet ($4.2 million);

Component (3) modernization of the information systems at the Ministry of Economy and Finance ($0.49
million);

Component (4) modernization the information systems at the Ministry of Interior ($0.94 million);

Component (5) modernization the information systems of Public Entities ($0.690 million);

Component (6) modernization the Information Systems of the University of St Louis ($0.7million);

The main difference between the project design just after the restructuring and the revised version was the
total amount of resources that were allocated to the Government Intranet. This sub-component rapidly
became the main component of the overall project and the backbone of all other information systems
included in the project.

3.5 Quality at Entry:
The Quality at Entry based on the initial project design is rated Satisfactory for the following reasons:

a) Project Design. The initial project design was realistic and responsive to the government's most critical
needs. The project focused on the priorities of the key government operations to minimize Y2K risks in the
most critical operations. This was based on the risk assessments carried out by technical specialists to
minimize the Y2K risks in the most vital segments of the economy. The scope covered all the key
information systems of the Administration, with enough built-in flexibility to respond to contingencies that
may have occurred after December 31, 1999. Project preparation was carried out effectively under a very
tight schedule, and the triage used by the project team in prioritizing project activities, proved very effective
and realistic.

Anticipating the late start of project implementation (December 1999), the Project Team proposed ­ and
received approval for ­ a $750,000 PPF that in effect covered a large part of the emergency activities to


                                                      - 6 -

ensure the start of the implementation prior to the effectiveness of the credit. The PPF also included
retroactive financing of some actions already initiated by the Government to ensure that all Y2K related
preventive measures were effectively funded and completed. This proactive approach allowed for the quick
completion of the most urgent actions and was critical in helping achieve the initial DOs.

(b) Risk Assessment. The emergency funding necessary for the most critical Y2K remediation activities in
the Governments Administration was estimated by the Project team to be approximately US$2.5 million.
Risk assessments were a key aspect of the project design. Each component of the project had its detailed
contingency plan developed, and adequate funds were set aside for potential contingencies that could arise
immediately after January 1, 2000. This was important since at the time no one really knew the potential
magnitude and consequences of Y2K related failures. This globally shared uncertainty led the team to
build in some flexibility in the scope of each component by allocating more funds for contingencies.

(c) Institutional Arrangements. In order to ensure quick and effective implementation of the credit, the
initial design included the separation of the technical and implementation aspects from the procurement and
financial aspects of the project. The Fondation Secteur Privé agency (FSP) was contracted by the PMU to
carry out the procurement aspects of project implementation as well as the management of the special
account. The choice of placing the PMU within the Ministry of Scientific Research at the beginning and its
subsequent placement under the Presidency after the restructuring, ensured strong ownership of the project
by the Government of Senegal.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
Considering the original project development objective and performance indicators, the main objective was
achieved since there was no disruption or failure of any service after January 1, 2000. And thus, the
outcome of the project as it was designed prior to the restructuring is rated Satisfactory.

The revised development objective supporting the modernization of the public services' information systems
have been achieved. The modernization of the information systems at the Office of the President, the
modernization of the information systems of the Prime Minister's Office and some Ministries, the
modernization of the information systems of the Ministry of Economy and Finance, Ministry of Interior,
Public Entities, and the University of St Louis have been achieved. The technical equipment (computers,
networks, software, etc.) has been installed and is operational. At the time of this ICR (about six months
after the installation of the Intranet) the GoS, by creating the new AIE, has shown its willingness to
continue the modernization of the information systems of the administration. Training Center, Help Desk,
recruitment of qualified technicians and engineers, contribute to the sustainability of the new system.

Therefore, it is very likely that this project has contributed significantly to the quality improvement of some
services offered by the public Administration. In addition, this project helped the Administration to set the
standards in terms of technologies to be used within the public sector and thus enforced a common IT
strategy within the public sector in general and the Administration in particular. However, at the time of
this ICR, it is impossible to measure the overall impact of the new systems because the Government
Intranet is not fully operational. Thus, the achievement of the project Development Objectives is rated
Marginally Satisfactory. The Chart below summarizes the ratings by component (C.1, C.2, etc...) and
Sub-Components (SC.1, SC.2, etc...).




                                                        - 7 -

                                                                        P M S IA
                                                                      M arginally
                                                                      Satisfactory



                    C .1                          C .2                    C .3                    C .4         C .5       C .6
                    S                             M U                         S                   U            S             S


S C . 1    S C . 2    SC.3    S C . 4    S C . 1    SC.2    S C . 3     S C . 1    SC.2    S C . 1     S C . 2     SC.1    S C . 2    S C . 3
  S          S         S        S          S         M S    M U           S         S        U           U          S        S          S




         4.2 Outputs by components:
        Component (1) modernization of Information Systems at the Office of the President, creation of the AIE,
         and upgrade of the APIX informatics equipment:

         Implementation of the first sub-component started with an exhaustive audit of the informatics equipment in
         the Senegalese Administration (32 Ministries, local communities and public entities). The results of this
         audit served as the baseline for the project implementation. The audit counted inter-alia 8766 PCs (of
         which 7192 were operational), 3786 printers, and 3333 Un-interrupted Power Supplies. The audit also
         developed exhaustive lists of the servers, LANs and software used by the Administration in 2001. The
         output of the audit sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

         The second sub-component comprised the upgrade and strengthening of the Presidency information system
         (5 servers, 25 PCs, printers, etc.). The allocation of the new PCs purchased by the project was based on the
         first-subcomponent outputs. All the equipment and applications were installed and are operational as
         planned. The baseline consultation as well as the modernization of the network at the Presidency was
         carried out successfully. The output of this sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

         The third sub-component was the training of the President's Office staff. The training sessions were
         completed and the output of this sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

         A fourth sub-component was the upgrade of the APIX agency information system. The main objective of
         the APIX is to promote the Senegalese private sector and to attract foreign investors to create jobs in the
         country. With its new network architecture, a huge data storage capacity, and a website offering online
         services, the new APIX information system allows consultations from potential clients on a 24x7 basis, and
         has considerably increased the management capacity of the Agency. Tax exemption requests are now
         processed within 24 hours (compared to 6 days before the installation of the new system). The APIX
         network is also linked to the Customs information system, allowing the Agency to receive accurate data on
         the Senegal commercial balance. The APIX performance has increased from handling one project in 2003
         creating 300 jobs, to 21 projects in 2004 creating 2850 jobs. The objective for 2005 is 29 projects creating
         5200 jobs. The output of this sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

         Overall, the output of Component 1 is rated Satisfactory.

        Component (2) modernization of Information Systems at the Prime Minister's Office and the Ministries,
         and establishing a Government Intranet network:

         Under the first sub-component, the installation of computers and servers in the Prime Minister's Office and
         the targeted Ministries is completed. All equipment is fully operational. Thus, the output of this



                                                                   - 8 -

sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

At the time of this ICR, the installation of the LAN in the main Administrative building (Sub-Component
2) was still ongoing. The internal connections within most office buildings have already been completed and
the systems are operational. Given the large number of interconnections between the backbone (fiber optic
loop) and the different Ministries in Dakar, the completion of all the connections within a Wide-Area
Government Network will take a few more weeks. The installation is expected to be completed at the end of
January 2005. Most of the LANs within the Ministries are completed and are operational. The common
services offered on the Intranet work well and have been successfully tested, but the full roll-out remains to
be completed. The output of this sub-component is rated Marginally Satisfactory.

Under the third sub-component, at the end of the project, all the intranet equipment had been delivered and
the installation of the fiber optic (Government Intranet backbone) was ongoing. The studies regarding the
design and installation of the Government Intranet took longer than planned and the equipment purchase
was in early January 2004. Additional delays in procurement postponed the beginning of the installation to
mid-May which left only 6 weeks to complete the implementation of this component. On June 30, 2004, the
network was partly functional. Within the first months following the project closing, the project
coordinators started testing the already installed parts of the Intranet. The first tests were successful and the
installation of basic applications such as email, Voice over IP (VoIP) and electronic filing/ archiving will
increase the day-to-day efficiency of several departments in the central administration. Installation of this
technology backbone is expected to improve the communication among different ministries and departments
of the public services in a very cost-effective way. Although there is no doubt that the effective use of the
Intranet will soon have a considerable impact on the quality of the public services offered to the Senegalese
people, the late implementation of the network, and the lack of time to assess the output of this
sub-component, has led to a rating of Marginally Unsatisfactory.

The Government Intranet sub-component is the largest one in this project in terms of costs and expected
impact. Installation of the Intranet is the main goal of the overall project as the impact of all other
components and sub-components' depends on the Intranet. Therefore, in this ICR we have given more
weight to the third sub-component rating and the overall output of this component is rated Marginally
Unsatisfactory.

Component (3) modernization of the information systems at the Ministry of Economy and Finance (see
Annex 1). This component included:

(i) the modernization of the DTAI (Direction du Traitement Automatique de l'Information): (a) the
information system of the AJE (Agence Judiciaire de l'Etat) has been installed and is functional; (b) the
information system of the DMC (Direction des Monnaies et des Crédits) has been installed and is
functional. The banking & financial monitoring, and the loan-revenues management software applications
are both operational. Also, 104 computers and 5 servers have been installed. These applications allow a
better coordination of the different services within the DTAI. The output of the sub-component is therefore
rated Satisfactory.

(ii) the modernization of the Customs Department (Direction Générale des Douanes):

         (a) implementation of a secured environment for the GAINDE system: with its electronic card
access, and its full data back-up system, GAINDE is now very secure. Within two years, the average
number of major system breakdowns has decreased from 5 to 2 per year and is expected to be reduced to



                                                      - 9 -

nearly zero by the end of 2004.
         (b) installation of new equipment to support the new Economic Rules Management system: before
the project, the average time necessary to process a tax exemption request was 2 business days. It is now
less than 24 hours, with a resulting increase in productivity from 56 requests processed per day to 65 at the
end of the project. Also, the new network wiring allows better security against fraud (e.g., risk ratio
decreased from 10% in 2000 to 5% at the end of the project). It is important to note, however, that the
migration of the application was implemented in partnership with the French Cooperation. During the
migration of the GAINDE system and installation of the new application dealing with the customs
administrative processing which was implemented under the supervision of the French Cooperation, a
computer bug provoked major problems for three weeks. Since then, the performance of the GAINDE
system has improved regularly. The output of this sub-component is rated Satisfactory.

The overall output of this component is rated Satisfactory.

Component (4) modernization the Information Systems at the Ministry of Interior:

Modernization of the DAF (Direction de l'Automatisation des Fichiers):
(i)      the installation of computers and servers on 45 sites in nine out of the ten Regions of Senegal
(completed);
(ii)     development of the URID application (completed ­ however, installation of the application has
been delayed by the replacement of the person in charge at the Ministry and the absence of institutional
memory. Training sessions were delayed for the same reasons and are expected to start soon);
(iii)    Implementation of the new application for aliens' card management (currently operational).
The last sub-component was included in the restructured project design. Hoever, the Ministry does not have
sufficient funds to purchase the 200,000 blank cards ($12 each) to issue the identity cards to identify all the
foreigners living in Senegal. Although the application is operational, the Ministry continues to use standard
cards. Also, due to the late replacement of the person in charge of the Informatics Department, staff
training and follow-up on the performance indicators have not been done so far. As the implementation of
none of the sub-components has been completed and as the Management of the DAF has not been able to
provide the Task Team with a clear implementation schedule, the output of this component is rated
Unsatisfactory.

Component (5) modernization of the Information Systems of La Poste (see Annex 1):

The quality improvement of different services offered by La Poste has been monitored very closely. As
shown in Annex 9, the positive impact of the project on the quality of some services has been significant.
First, the average queue delay at a cashier has decreased by 22% in 2003 and the objective of 50% is
expected to be reached at the end of 2004. Second, due to the higher reliability of the new system, the rate
of claims has decreased by 43% in 2003. Third, the average productivity of La Poste agents has increased
by 22% across all the services offered at a window (calculation based on the number of operations executed
and services offered per agent per day at a window). The objectives as stated in the PSRs have not been
achieved fully. But, it appears in retrospect that they were too ambitious. However, the significant
improvements already observed in La Poste's performance indicate that the modernization of La Poste
information system has already had a positive impact which is still increasing. The output of this
component is therefore rated Satisfactory.

Component (6) modernization the Information Systems of the University of St Louis:




                                                      - 10 -

This component included modernization of the information systems of the University administration, the
Library, and the different R&D Units. The equipment installations including 200 new PCs and the training
of staff was carried out as planned and the new applications are operational. The University administration
now has an integrated management system. A recent survey (May 2004) showed that the satisfaction rate
has reached 90% among the University staff and 70% among the students. The newly equipped Computer
Center also serves as an ISP for the University staff and students. The procurement and installation of new
PCs has allowed the establishment of 7 computer labs. The Library has received new PCs and the Virtual
Library application is operational. The average time necessary to access a book or a document by students
is now less than 10 minutes. In 2000, less than 50% of the research units had PCs. In 2004, more than 75%
are fully equipped. The University Intranet is operational and covers now the entire campus. The output of
this component is rated Satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
There was no Economic Rate of Return study carried out during project preparation.

4.4 Financial rate of return:
With the installation of the Intranet infrastructure and the development of shared applications (in particular,
the telephone over IP and emails), communication within the Administration has become nearly free. The
Government expects to save about 4 billion F CFA from its annual telecom bill. Almost 50% of the savings
will be used to maintain and upgrade the network (the operating cost of the entire network have been
estimated at 2 billion F CFA per annum).

Along with the modernization of GAINDE (increased reliability of the overall information system), the
average monthly revenues of the Customs have increased from 6 billions in 2000 (around 76 billions for the
year 2000) to 10 billion F CFA (estimation 2004). After the beginning of the political crisis in Ivory Coast,
some operations were re-located in Dakar which generated a lot of additional tax revenues. The
modernization of the GAINDE system increased the capacity of the Customs to process operations.

Many other applications and systems related to the management of information now allow Departments of
the Administration to save money on paper, files exchange, mailing, archiving, data storage, etc. It is
difficult to assess the actual saving incurred by the new systems. But it is very likely that each part of the
new information system will increase the cost-efficiency of several services of the Senegal Administration.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
The project had a Substantial institutional development impact. During the project implementation, 650
civil servants were trained to gain adequate skills to utilize the new systems. Moreover, the project
contributed to more effective implementation of the decentralization process started by the Government a
few years ago. For example, the Ministry of Interior, through this project, has developed local capacity in
11 regions and 40 departments in Senegal by installing new equipment in its offices across the country.
Similarly, la Poste has enhanced its decentralization process by installing new information systems in 135
of its regional offices.

One of the more significant achievements of the project has been facilitating the setting-up of the new
Agence de l'Informatique de l'Etat, which includes a Resource Center, a Help Desk and Development &
Security units. Creation of the new AIE is a major element in the overall modernization process. The
replacement of the former DIE by an independent and empowered Agency shows how important the
viability of the new systems is for the Government. The new AIE is empowered to coordinate all the IT
initiatives from any public entity or Ministry. If the AIE succeeds in playing its coordination role
effectively within the public sector, it will be in a position to ensure that: (i) any new IT initiative is



                                                       - 11 -

compatible with the systems already in place, and thus build an integrated and homogeneous system for the
whole Administration; (ii) the training and skills acquired by staff are used across departments and
institutions in a very efficient manner; and (iii) the system is sustainable.

The APIX Agency is the main interface between the Government and the private sector. By increasing the
management capacity of the APIX Agency, the Government of Senegal has shown its willingness to
develop foreign investment and local private sector initiatives. With the modernization of APIX (and its
on-line communications capabilities as part of the Government Intranet) the systems will generate a larger
market for the local IT service providers and will help promote the use of local expertise in the ICT sector.

The new informatics network of the Ministry of Finance (MoF) has also had a positive impact on efficiency
and transparency of MoF functions, especially in the areas of budget and taxation. The PER study
discusses these developments in positive terms. For example, the capability toto develop more 'outputs' in
terms of publicly posted data or data products that can be produced efficiently only by means of a
connected system (e.g. budget execution data).

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Not Applicable

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The implementation and outcomes were affected both positively and negatively by factors subject to
government control. Achievement of the objective would not have been possible without a strong
government commitment. The Government of Senegal has been so far very supportive of the use of
information technologies. The creation of the DIE (Direction Informatique de l'Etat) in June 2001 as part
of the Presidency, shows the government's willingness to promote the integration of information
technologies within the administration. Similarly, the Government has allocated substantial amount of
resources to continue the informatization of the Administration. Nevertheless, during the relatively long
process that led to the establishment of the DIE, all IT investments were put on hold, and the Task Team
warned the new Government several times of the potential consequences of long delays on the
implementation. In the event, these circumstances delayed implementation by about one year.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The financial and accounting aspects of the project were carried out by first the Fondation Secteur Privé
and later the APIX. Although both agencies had the capacity to provide quality services to the project, their
contributions were not as efficient as planned and somewhat affected the implementation schedule. The
Fondation Secteur Privé put too few resources to handle the numerous bids launched by the project during
the Phase 1 implementation. This resulted in a poor quality review of the bids and led on one occasion to a
misprocurement case with SAED. After the project restructuring, the APIX replaced the FSP. The APIX
managed the Special Account and thus was accountable for the financial management of the project.
Although the PMU did all the technical evaluations and selection of the contractors, the APIX hired a
procurement consultant to review systematically the work already done by the PMU. Consequently, the job
was done twice and resulted in delays in implementing the procurement plan.

5.4 Costs and financing:
At the end of the project, several Ministries which benefited from this project complained that the funds
were not sufficient to cover all their needs. The undisbursed funds of the credit after the restructuring had
to be re-allocated in such a way that would not discontinue the implementation of the project
implementation in its initial design. To ensure that all the actions already started under the Y2K phase of



                                                       - 12 -

the project would be completed, the Project Team had to prioritize the targeted services. The funds were
sufficient to cover the modernization of most of the key services of the central Administration. However,
the Government Intranet became the main project component as its design was being defined and the overall
objective of this component exceeded the realm of the project. Therefore, the Government allocated
additional funds to ensure the implementation of the Intranet. But, as the Intranet component was getting
bigger and more complex, its implementation was delayed several times, which in turn increased its costs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
The sustainability is rated Likely. The Senegalese Government has so far shown its willingness to ensure
the sustainability of the Government Intranet by creating through a Presidential Decree a new state agency
(AIE) entirely dedicated to the Intranet and the Ministries' networks support. The Government allocated a
significant budget to cover the operating costs of the Intranet, including the AIE. This empowered entity
will have to enforce its vision and the coordination of IT initiatives among the different ministries to ensure
the viability of the whole system.

The savings realized thanks to the Intranet and the Phone over IP service will be partly reallocated to
maintain and develop the Intranet. The Government hopes to save more than 4 billion F CFA on the
Administration phone bill every year. These savings will be sufficient to cover the maintenance costs of the
network (estimated at about 2 billion F CFA per year).

Each Ministry or Department of the Administration which has benefited from this project has shown a
willingness to pursue the modernization started under the PMSIA. For example, the ministries took
concrete measures such as budget re-allocation to ensure the system's maintenance and adequate staffing to
develop new computerized services and expand the modernization to other services.

The Ministry of Interior has requested to the Government to allocate additional funds to finance the
purchase of 20,000 laser cards. These cards will be sold 30,000 F CFA ($60) each. According to the
DAF's Director, the net benefit of $50 per card will be re-allocated to the DAF's budget to purchase new
cards and maintain this new service.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The Senegalese authorities have clearly told Bank missions that the President of Senegal personally
supports the modernization of the public Administration and will ensure that adequate resources are made
available to continue what was started under the PMSIA. The creation of the AIE shows that the
Government is prepare to allocate the needed budget to develop new applications and expand the existing
network to other Ministries and other regions. At the time of this ICR, the Government has allocated a
budget of 2 billion F CFA to the AIE for the maintenance and development of services via the Government
Intranet.

The AIE is currently drafting the Project Concept Note for a second PMSIA project in order to expand the
modernization of public services in Senegal. The second project would use the output of the first one as a
basis to develop the network and the ineterconnections between the different public entities across the
country and thus help the decentralization process.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:



                                                     - 13 -

Given the very tight preparation schedule and the emergency nature of some tasks, the (initial) project
design was appropriate and responded to the Client's needs at that time. However, it might have been more
efficient to recruit a Procurement Agent and a Financial Management Specialist as part of the Project
Management Unit from the very beginning or, at least, after the restructuring. Following the Government's
request in March 1999, the Bank responded rapidly and carried out the project preparation within a few
months. The Banks' lending performance is rated Satisfactory

7.2 Supervision:
With at least two supervision missions per year, the Task Team was able to follow up on different issues
on time. Between the missions, communications via emails and fax enabled the team to follow up on issues
in a timely manner and ensure a generally good quality supervision of the project. During the four years of
implementation, the Task Team and the Project Coordination Unit developed a good working relationship.
This is mainly due to the fact that the Task Team had been quite stable: same TTL, one change in the
Procurement Specialist and the Financial Management Specialist (both based in Dakar, which contributed
to a close follow-up on and good awareness of the issues in real time). The QAS review in 2001 was rated
satisfactory and unerlined the very close follow-up and pro-activity of the Task Team in the most difficult
times of the project implementation: discussions with the new Government on the project priorities and the
related revisions to the final project design in September 2001. The Bank's supervision performance is rated
Satisfactory.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
The overall performance of the Bank is rated Satisfactory.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The Senegalese authorities had started working on the Y2K issue before the preparation of the project.
Thus, the institutional issues were already identified and addressed at the project Appraisal. Moreover, the
Borrower had already a clear picture of its priorities and the main entities to be included in the project
scope.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
The project was also affected from time to time by political events, inculding several changes in the
Government that delayed some key decisions related to project implementation. For example. after January
1, 2000, it took more than a year for the Government to finalize the scope and design of its modernization
program, consistent with the new Government's vision. The PMU was unable to catch up on these
additional delays, and the installation of the project's main sub-component (the Government Intranet) was
finally completed during the last days prior to the project closing date. However, since 2001, the
Government has shown strong ownership and willingness to make this project a success.

Overall, the project's implementation was characterized by periods of inactivity as well as hyperactivity.
For example, it took more than 12 months to finalize the PMSIA due to weak support from the Senegalese
authorities (DIE, Government). In July 2002, the project was rated unsatisfactory (see Annex 4) and
became at risk. When the new DIE Director was appointed, however, the existence of a new champion was
instrumental in significantly accelerating project implementation. Within a short period of time, the project
made major progress (e.g. purchase and installation of the Intranet equipment was completed in the last 6
months of the project). Although the Government' support has not been consistent during the project, the
Government was proactive especially in the last two years, in making things happen and in ensuring the
funding of the Intranet to realize the cutting-edge technology backbone for the Senegalese Administration.
Therefore, overall, the Government implementation performance is rated Satisfactory.



                                                      - 14 -

7.6 Implementing Agency:
Prior the restructuring: during the project preparation, and in order to gain time, it was decided to
separate the function of technical supervision of the project from the two functions of management of the
Special Account and procurement. The Coordination Unit was put in place by the Government prior to the
project preparation. This Coordination Unit was designated as the PMU and did not have any Procurement
or Financial Management capacity as required by the Bank. It was then agreed that the PMU would
contract the FSP to carry out these specific tasks. Unfortunately, the FSP at that time did not put enough
resources to perform as planned. The PMU had to count on the expertise of its consultant(s) to catch up on
the slow performance of the FSP.

After the restructuring: the project Implementing entity comprised three separate entities: (i) the Project
Management Unit led by the Project Coordinator and in charge of supervising the implementation; (ii) the
APIX replacing the FSP as the project executing Agency in charge of the Financial Management and
Procurement aspects of the project; and (iii) the DIE as the entity in charge of designing and implementing
the Government Intranet. Although the implementation was late and gave very little time to actually
measure the performances of the new applications, all the planned information systems were installed and
operational at the closing date. The closing date was extended three times: (i) at restructuring to December
31, 2002; (ii) to December 31, 2003; and (iii) to June 30, 2004. The Implementing Agency faced several
difficulties (see Lessons Learned) and finally achieved its objectives and the project disbursed more than
99% of the credit proceeds. Therefore, the overall Implementing Agency performance is Satisfactory

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is Satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned

Bank performance: the Bank faced a unique challenge involving a situation of high uncertainty, an
unmovable deadline and a strong demand from the client. Under such special circumstances, the Bank
showed that it can be agile and ready to take risks. The Task Team responded to the challenge by acting
quickly, by thinking out of the box, and by building a large margin of error and flexibility into the design
(e.g., credit amount was raised to $10.15 million whereas the Identification mission's first assessment of the
what it would take to deal with the Y2K problem mentioned only $2.5 million).This suggest that it is
possible forthe Bank to act quickly in response to client needs, provided teams are prepared to take
calculated risks, focus more on solving the problems at hand, and adapt established practices in project
preparation to fit the realities in the ground.

Project Design : the project was well designed in a very short period of time and tried to address all the key
issues related to the Y2K bug. All the crucial services were included in the initial design and contingency
plans were part of the project as a separate component. A large PPF helped the Project to implement the
most urgent sub-components within 3 months. The Government of Senegal took the Y2K bug issue
seriously at an early stage and began the modernization of computerized system in early 1999. The initial
project components included the retro-financing of these tasks provided that the procurement process was
acceptable to the Bank. These decisions were instrumental in ensuring that crucial actions would be
completed prior to January 1, 2000. This suggesed that in emergency situations, appropriate sequencing
and application of PPF and retro-active financing can mitigate short-term risks to a considerable extent.

Project Preparation: The short timeframe for preparation due primarly to the unmovable Y2K deadline,
necessitated a very fast-track process of the recruitment of the experts. The large number of consulting



                                                     - 15 -

firms declaring their expertise in the Y2K bug issue put the Project Coordination in the difficult position of
identifying "real" experts among the numerous offers. The emergency situation gave very little leeway to
negotiate both the staffing and fees. The capacities/skills of the consultants were heterogeneous and they
often produced work that was superficial and with average quality. This suggests the need for more flexible
procurement guidelines allowing the termination of consultant contract in emergency projects.

Project Implementation (and implementation arrangements):

(a) project ownership and incentives: the project coordinator was appointed by the Government and thus
paid by the Government of Senegal. The project team was mainly composed of external consultants paid
out of the credit proceeds and were remunerated at a higher level than the coordinator (e.g., some
consultants were paid five or six times the salary of their manager). The situation was sometimes difficult,
and although the Project Management Unit never faced serious difficulties related to this issue, the
coordinator had little incentive to perform as much as his team members. During a long period of time,
most of the work was done by the consultants, minimizing the ownership of the project.

(b) implementation arrangements: the initial design took into account the very short period of time left
before December 31, 1999. The technical and financial/procurement tasks were separated and done by two
different entities. The Project Coordination undertook the technical aspects of the contracts, and the FSP
followed up on the financial/procurement aspects. This approach was appropriate at the beginning of the
project, given the emergency situation. However, the poor performance of the FSP forced the PMU to step
in to carry out both the technical and financial aspects of the contracts, and this contributed to delays in the
project implementation. After the project restructuring, the APIX agency replaced the FSP to carry out all
the financial aspects of the project. As the APIX was responsible for the Special Account management, the
Agency appointed its own procurement agent to review the work already done by the Project Coordination.
Again, this resulted in additional delays. In the course of the project implementation, the Project
Coordination Unit gained expertise in procurement and financial management. After the restructuring, the
project may have been implemented more rapidly if the PMU had carried out the procurement and the
financial management aspects of the project.

(c) institutional arrangements: the Project Coordination Unit was initially created in 1999 under the
Ministry of Scientific Research and Technology. After the election of the new President and along with
Government changes in 2000, the institutional anchorage of the PMU changed twice to finally fall under
the Presidency. Such a high-visibility "tutelle" can be a very good asset to make things move rapidly in a
difficult environment (e.g. installation of the Intranet and LANs). At the same time, however, such
situations can put additional pressures on the project management unit when political decisions affect the
pace of project implementation (e.g., project implementation was put on hold more than 14 months in
2000-2001 until the Government agreed on the final design of the Intranet and the creation of AIE before
the closing date).

Follow-up and impact assessment: this project has already achieved impressive results. At the same time,
some components are still under implementation. The late implementation of some key elements has left
very little time to measure the actual impact of the project. The set-up of the Intranet and the installation of
transversal applications will be completed soon. But once the installation is completed, it will take at least
another year for the civil servants to effectively use the new services and benefit from the new system. In
order to measure the real impact of this project, an impact assessment will have to be carried out at the end
of 2005 or early 2006. This assessment is key to drawing additional important lessons for future similar
operations.




                                                      - 16 -

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Bank has received comments from the different implementing agencies. The document attached in
Annex 10 to this ICR underlines three aspects of the project:

(i) the project impact: the Borrower rates the project impact as Satisfactory. During the last two Bank
missions, the different implementing agencies expressed (i) their satisfaction with the PMSIA
achievements; and (ii) their willingness to see a second operation pursuing the modernization of the systems
started during the first project by expanding the network and developing new integrated services. The
project allowed the Senegalese Administration to build its private and modern communication network, and
the creation of an empowered Agency to ensure the sustainability of the overall system.

(ii) the institutional arrangements: the PMU has underlined the good performances of the project in the
stressful environment they had to work in: (a) lack of incentives and sometimes motivation compare to
other PMUs; (b) waste of resources and time due to the separation of the PMU tasks and the procurement
and financial management ones (carried out by APIX); (c) absence of trainings in Bank procedures for the
PMU; and (d) the project would have benefitted from a good communication plan to coordinate the
different ICT initiatives within the Public Service.

(iii) the future: the Borrower has shown its willingness to move forward in the modernization of the Public
Service information systems. The new AIE will draft the Government ICT strategy and lead its
implementation. The budget allocated by the Government to the Agency (2 billion F CFA for this year) will
be used to develop new services on the Intranet and expand the network within the country.

(b) Cofinanciers:
Not applicable

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable

10. Additional Information




                                                     - 17 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Reduce the fraud in Custom exoneration, that                                                    fraud rate reduced by 50% at a 5% ratio.
should increase tax collection by around one
billion FCFA per month
Reduce delays in Ministry of Finance critical    (1) less than 3 days; (2) not implemented; (3) (1) less than one day; (2) not implemented;
services "(1) "traitement et avances" , (2)      1 months; (4) 3 days; (5) 15 days)             (3) less than 20 days; (4) less than a week;
"etats de suivi bancaire et financier ", (3)                                                    (5) less than 8 days.
"suivi contentieux de l Agence Judiciaire de
l'Etat", (4) bons et engagements", (5)
"engagements"
Increase the Productivity and the quality of                                                    (1) -19%; (2) -43%; (3) +22%
Postal staff and services : (1) time in queue
for clients; (2) claim ratio ; (3) operation /
staff ( in postal bureau)
Improve Ministry of Interior critical services : data not available as the application is not   application operational but supplies (laser
(1) ID card for foreign resident ; (2)data bas   utilized                                       cards) not purchased
of critical issues ( bar, weapons)


Output Indicators:
                                                                                     1
                 Indicator/Matrix                           Projected in last PSR                          Actual/Latest Estimate
Increase the number of up-to-date                purchase of more than 860 computers for the purchase of more than 1000 computers by
workstations (or individual computers)           Public Service.                                the project
installed in the public office of each Public
service
ratio of staff ( officer and clercks) equipped   every major public department will be able to the Administrative building is entirely
with a computer installed in the administration communicate through the Intragovernemental connected as well as decentralized Ministries
concerned                                        network with other departments to share        (Finance, Education, Foreign Affairs, and
                                                 information and process admininistrative       Interior) and the Presidency
                                                 tasks more efficiently
ratio of workstations or micro computers         To enable any department and at least 50 % around 700 workstations purchased through
connected to the network installed under the     of workstations installed to be interconnected the project are connected to the Intranet
program                                          through the Intergovernmental and intranet     (70% of the total number of purchased
                                                 networks installed.                            workstations).
number of staff trained on IT technology or                                                     at closing, 650 civil servants have been
software application related to the program                                                     trained. Some trainings are still ongoing.

1 End of project




                                                                    - 18 -

               Detailed Performance Indicators for Component 3 (Ministry of Finance)
    Department                             Objectives                              Before the       Date of installation     June 2004     September   December
                                                                                    project                                                   2004       2004

    Direction de la Monnaie et             Advance & Loan                                               Mars 2004

    du Crédit (DMC) :                      Management

    development and installation
    of applications

                                           Process of pending requests

                                             (Nmber of requests pending)
                                                                                      2 069                  1 782                1 581       1 211      1 093

                                           Reduction of delays for the
                                           requests process        (Delay)

                                                                                    15 days                7 days                3 days      2 days     1 day


                                           Financial and Bank                                            Application non     operational
                                           Follow-up

                                           Reduce delays in issuance of                             Staff restructuration
                                           Bank and Financial statements

                                                                                   6 months

    Agence Judiciaire de l'Etat            Follow-up on files : Accidents,        March 2004

    (AJE) : development and                Archives, Overdue

    installation of applications

                                           Process of pending requests

                                             (Number of requests pending)
                                                                                      275                     235                  177         107        98

                                           Reduction of delays for the
                                           requests process        (Delay)

                                                                                   12 months              6 months              1 month     1 month    20 days



    Department                            Objectives                                  Before             July 2003         June 2004      September    December
                                                                                   installation         installation                        2004        2004


    Ministère de l'Economie et            Informatic Equipment : Servers

    des Finances (MEF) :                  (5), PCs (104)

    Purchase of informatic
    equipment

                                          Reduce delays in processing the
                                          invoices (bons d'engagement)

                                                                                    1 month               10 days             3 days      1 week (*)    1 week

                                         Reduce delays in processing the
                                         payments (ordonnancements)

                                                                                    2 month              1 month              15 days      15 days      8 days

                                         Reduce delays in drafting the
                                         budget

                                                                                    4 months             2 months            2 months     2 months     1 month

(*) A new administrative organization has been set up for a few months and delays a little bit the process. The issuance of loans
and certification titles is not done within the same unit anymore. This is the reason why the length of the process has been extended
from 3 days to one week.




                                                                                         - 19 -

  Detailed Performance Indicators for sub-component 2 (Customs) of Component 3:

                                                                                 Indicators
                                         Performance
     Action          Description
                                           indicators      Before the     Jun-03          Dec-03            Dec-04
                                                             project
Consultation        Consulting:Reco Number of errors                               5                2                  0
Services for          mmendations      (central service,
Securization of the back-up, security, users)
GAINDE system           firewalls,     Improvement of                                creation of error systematic error
                      compatibility    M&E dashboard                                 logs and reports  daily logs

                                                         no restricted               Access restricted magnetic card
                                       Premises access   access                                        access

                                       network security                                                back-up site

                                       and reliability                                                 operation +

                                       (back-up system)                                                network security

Purchase of         2PCs, 24 PCs, 2                      2 days         56           (65 processed per
informatic          printers, 1        Reduction of tax                 exemptions/d day (61 approved,
equipment for the scanner, 28          exemption process                ay           4 rejected)
set-up of a new     UPSs, SQL          delay
Economic Rules
Management          Wiring             Reduction of fraud10%                                                          5%
application.                           risks


                                          Users training




                                                                       - 20 -

Detailed Performance Indicators for Component 5 (La Poste)

      The assessment of indicators for the postal traffic lies in the « Statistique 539 », which basically measures the
      workload of each postal office. These statistics are issued during the first quarter of each year and integrates
      all the results of all the indicators used and compiles the overall results in the tables below.
      For the specific purpose of the PMISA project, the performance indicators used are :
      1 Average queuing delays
      2 Claims ratio
      3 Ratio of number of operations done per staff
      To show the impact of the project, the tables below compare the results of 2002 with the one obtained for
      2003.

      Below is a summary of the indicators and objectives stated in the restructured project document.

                              Indicators                                                Objectives


      Average queuing delays                                     Reduce by half the average time of operations

                                                                 processing


      Claims ratio                                               Reduce the claims ratio by 10% every year.


      Ratio of number of operations done per staff               Increase the number of operations done per staff

                                                                 by 50% on a national average.


      ü Averagequeuingdelays

      The calculation of the average queuing time is based on the number of desks open on a business day (150) and
      the theoretical opening time within a normal business day equals to 6 912 000 seconds.


                                        2002                                   2003


                                     Number of    Duration of  Number      Number of      Duration of
        Type          Number of
                       opérations    Operations   Operation      Of        Operations     Operation   Change ratio
                                      per desk    processing  operations    per desk      processing


       Guichet
  affranchissement     12 308 959      82 060        84       15 258 743    101 725           68       - 19,33%

   Financial desk      1 705 490       11 370        608      1 888 665      12 591          549       - 9,70%




                                                               - 21 -

ü Claimsratio

Number in 2002        Number in 2003 Improvement          Remark
4160                  2352             - 43.46%            La mise en place d'un système d'élaboration
                                                           automatisé des procédures a permis d'améliorer les
                                                           performances des bureaux quand au traitement de
                                                           la clientèle

ü Rationumberofoperationsdoneperstaff

This calculation is based on a number of staff working at the clients' desks equals to 480.
                                      2002                        2003

       Operation type        Number of    Ratio per     Number of      Ratio per
                             oeprations     agent       operations       agent        Evolution

            CNE                341 315        711         383 920         800           12%

          Mandats            1 364 175       2 842      1 504 745        3 135          10%

     Lettres ordinaires      11 471 800     23 900      14 430 400       30 063         26%

   Lettres recommandées        837 159       1 744        828 343        1 726          -1%

           Total             14 014 449     29 197      17 147 408       35 724         22%




                                                      - 22 -

      Detailed performance indicators for Component 6 (University Gaston Berger - UGB)
                                                                                                                indicators
    Action        description               Performance indicators                              before project
                                                                                                                                  Dec-04
                                                                                               implementation

               upgrade Cisco                                                                                                 FAI system with 32
                                   Upgrade the Calculation Center into a ISP for Univesity
               router and training                                                               FAI system with 4       simultaneous access and
                                        students and staff. Training of engineers and          simultaneous access        training of Center's staff
                                                   technicians in the Center                                                     completed
               40 PC, 3 laptops, 9                                                         4 computer labs            7 computer labs
                                     - Aménagement et équipement des trois salles de
               printers                formations pour les étudiants dont une salle de
                                    formation multimédia pour les séminaires. - Absence
Increase the                       de revendications estudiantines relatives aux materiels

access to                                     informatiques pour l'année 2003.

informatics    equipment           Creation of a Distance Learning and Multimedia unit at                              Distance Learning and
                                                                                                         -             Multimedia lab operational
equipment at   multimedia                                    UGB
               UPS, 4 PC,                                                                                              1 central UPS of 15 KVA
University                             Improve the power supply security and ensure            4 UPS (2x2300VA +
               network wiring        continuity of the service by the Calculation Center            2x5000VA)

               1 server, 54 PC, 5   Creation of a virutal Library to increase the access of                            Virtual Library operational
                                                                                                         -
               printers                         the document for the students
               reprography unit, 2                                                                                     3 press units are operational
               copiers, 2 printers  Increased capacity of UGB to fulfill press production
                                                                                                         -
                                                             needs


               Library                Set-up of a new Document Management system                         -                Document Management
               Management                                                                                                  system purchased and
                                       Automtization of the Library functions (lending,                                          operational
               software                                                                                  -
                                                    archiving, security, etc.)

  Upgrade of   Student              Set-up of a Pedagogical information System (Central                                Student Management system
                                                                                                         -
 administrativeManagement                       Administration, Hostels, etc.)                                                   operational
                                      Automatization of diverse functions related to the
  application  software
                                        student cursus within UGB (course schedule,                      -
                                                  subscriptions, grades, etc.)

                                      Modernization of the Registrar Unit's information
                                                                                                         -
                                                            system

               116 PC, 25                                                                                              3 computer labs operational
               workstations, 1                                                                                         and more than 75% of the
                                                                                                                       R&D unit fully equipped with
               server 23 printers 4                                                         less than 50% of R&D units computers
Upgrade of     scanners, 4         Installation of computer labs for research in R&D units
                                                                                             equipped with computers

Information    projectors

systems in R&D
units          network equipment                                                                                       The Intranet covers the whole
               and wiring                                                                                              campus except the 3 new

                                      Extension of UGB's Intranet to all the R&D units                   -             buildings under construction




                                                                   - 23 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                              Appraisal          Actual/Latest          Percentage of
                                                                              Estimate             Estimate                Appraisal
                           Component                                         US$ million          US$ million
Component 1: Presidency                                                            0.40                   0.65                     161
Component 2: Government LANs and Intranet                                          4.20                   3.30                      78
Component 3: Ministry of Finance                                                   0.49                   0.50                     101
Component 4: Ministry of Interior                                                  0.90                   1.20                     133
Component 5: La Poste                                                              0.69                   0.86                     124
Component 6: University Gaston Berger                                              0.68                   0.90                     135
Project Coordination Unit                                                          0.37                   0.71                     193
Y2K project                                                                        2.42                   2.50                     103


Total Baseline Cost                                                              10.15                   10.62
  Physical Contingencies                                                                                                           105
                              Total Project Costs                                10.15                   10.62
                      Total Financing Required                                   10.15                   10.62
The total amount of funds disbursed at the end of the project is superior to the initial amount due to the large drop of the dollar
rate.




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                          1
                                                            Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category                   ICB                   NCB                       2            N.B.F.           Total Cost
                                                                                      Other
1. Works                                    0.00                  0.00                  0.00               0.00               0.00
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)
2. Goods                                    9.04                  0.80                  0.16               0.00               10.00
                                           (5.41)                (0.75)               (0.14)              (0.00)             (6.31)
3. Services                                 0.00                  0.00                  2.12               0.00               2.12
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)               (1.85)              (0.00)             (1.85)
4. Miscellaneous                            0.00                  0.00                  0.00               0.00               0.00
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                            0.00                  0.00                  0.00               0.00               0.00
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                            0.00                  0.00                  0.00               0.00               0.00
                                           (0.00)                (0.00)               (0.00)              (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                                   9.04                  0.80                  2.29               0.00               12.12
                                           (5.41)                (0.75)               (1.99)              (0.00)             (8.16)

 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the IDA Credit. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)



                                                             - 24 -

managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




                                                    - 25 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The overall objective of improving the quality of public services by modernizing their respective
information system has been achieved in terms of performances and appreciation of the clients (see
Annexes 8 & 9). It is difficult to assess at the time of the ICR the actual costs and benefits that the project
will incur. However, several aspects can already be considered: (i) the service "phone over IP" developed
on the Intranet will save a large part of the Administration phone bill. Although the international calls will
remain as part of the Sonatel services, internal calls (within the Administration) will be carried out over the
Intranet and thus free of charge for the caller (the cost of this service will be included in the overall cost of
the Intranet maintenance and development). The AIE evaluates the potential annual savings to reach four
billions F CFA; (ii) the email service currently developed will save the enormous costs of regular mailing as
well as time; and (iii) electronic archiving will save the cost of paper. The overall maintenance costs of the
Intranet including its development (applications & services) and expansion (networks in regions and other
public entities) is estimated to be around two (2) billions F CFA per year.

In addition to the direct savings generated by the operations of the Intranet, the reliability of the new
systems (see performances of La Poste, the Customs and the DTAI) generates indirect savings: more
operations and less errors. The PMSIA can be considered as a very cost-effective operation.




                                                      - 26 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                  No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                      (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year  Count           Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               04/27/99                  1     TL
               05/18/99                  1     Sr. Information Specialist

 Appraisal/Negotiation
               08/23/99                  3     TTL (1); FINANCIAL
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1)

 Supervision

               05/04/2000                 1    TL (1)                               S               S
               04/20/2001                 3    TTL (1); FINANCIAL                   S               S
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                               (1)
               07/10/2002                 4    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT                 U               U
                                               SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                               SPECIALIST (1);
                                               CONSULTANT (1)
               10/11/2002                 3    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT (1);            S               S
                                               FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                               (1)
               05/13/2003                 3    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT (1);            S               S
                                               FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
                                               (1)
               11/28/2003                 4    TTL (1); IN CHARGE OF ICR            S               S
                                               (1); PROCUREMENT
                                               SPECIALIST (1); FINANCIAL
                                               SPECIALIST (1)
               06/19/04                   2    TTL (1); PROCUREMENT (1);            S               S

 ICR
               12/05/04                  1     TTL (1)                              S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                   Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    No. Staff weeks                  US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                  16                            85
  Appraisal/Negotiation                        6                            25
  Supervision                                 40                           200
  ICR                                          6                            30
  Total                                       68                           340




                                               - 27 -

- 28 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 29 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 30 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project Appraisal Document
Project de Modernisation des Systèmes d'Information de l'Administration (PMSIA) document (version
September 2001)
Performances Reports from the stakeholders
PSRs, BTORs and Aide-Memoires
Borrower's completion Report




                                                 - 31 -

   Additional Annex 8. Government Intranet Schema




                    SONATEL
INTERNET             ALIZE
                     SENTEL




                              Main
                          Administrative
                             Building               Nat. Assembly       MEN


 DIE « Data Center »




                                                          MEF
              MAE
                                                                        Cour des
                                                                        Comptes

                                                        MINT


                               Lat Dior



      CF Pikine               DPS                                 Health




                                           - 32 -

       Additional Annex 9. Detailed Description of the Components and Sub-components

       Original Components


General Summary                           included PPF     Phase 1   Phase 2  Phase 3 Phase 4  Total
Component 1                                         250 000                                         750 000
                   Project Strengthening                      220 000  150 000 120 000  260 000
Component 2                                                                                       6 700 000
Systems updating and upgrading
                           Main Centers              5 0000 1 300 000  840 000       0  600 000   2 740 000
                         Administrations                               975 000 465 000   60 000   1 500 000
                 State Owned Enterprises            450 000   480 000  430 000 150 000  100 000   1 600 000
                                  Health                               340 000 520 000              860 000
Component 3
Contingency Plans                                                                                 1700 000
                                 national                              200000   150000              350 000
                           sector specific                             600000   750000            1 350 000
Unallocated                                                                                       1 000 000
                                                               100000  400000   400000  100 000
Total                                                                                           10 150 000
                                                    750000   2000000  3935000 2555000 1 120 000




       Component 1: Project Management Strengthening
       The Project Management Unit was initially in charge of the following main tasks:
       (a) overall supervision of the project, reporting weekly to the Y2K Project Steering Committee chaired by
       the Minister of Scientific Research and Technology (MRST); progress reports were sent to World Bank
       project team monthly;
       (b) selection of priorities and validation of actions to be launched by beneficiaries in accordance with the
       project's four phases;
       (c) supervision of budget, procurement and disbursements; in order to accelerate the start of the project,
       related operational tasks were subcontracted to a separate organization, the Fondation Secteur Privé
       (FSP), which had already been in charge of similar tasks for other WB-financed operations;
       (d) supervision and follow-up of remediation actions carried out in public sector areas;
       (e) supervision and follow-up of contingency action plans' development and implementation;
       (f) definition and implementation of a Communication Plan dedicated to Y2K readiness information
       dissemination; and
       (g) training for increasing awareness of stakeholders and the public on Y2K risks and Senegal's strategic
       areas' readiness.
       Total Budget for this component was estimated at US$750,000, of which US$250,000 were financed under
       the PPF.

       Component 2: Public Sector Remediation
       The remediation and upgrading of public sector information systems was split into four subcomponents:
       * Main Administrations' Information Centers (DTAI, DAF, CID)
       * Other Ministries and Public Administrations
       * State-owned Enterprises
       * Health
       Subcomponent 1: Main Administrations' Information Centers
       (a) Direction du Traitement Automatique de l'Information (DTAI-Ministry of Finance) is in charge of
       critical operations such as civil servants' payroll, treasury, tax recovery, debt management, etc.



                                                                     - 33 -

(b) Direction de l'Automatisation des Fichers (DAF-Computer Automation Department - Ministry of
Interior) is in charge of the election system, identity cards, visas and passports, etc. The election system
correction was almost completed at the beginning of the project; however, critical applications (identity
cards, visas and passports, human resources management) remained to be addressed.
(c) Centre lnformatique des Douanes (CID-Customs Department of Informatics). The GAINDE 3 system
is vital for Senegal and represents a major share of government financial resources. A Y2K remediation
contract with ACFO (a French software company) of more than US$1 million was at high risk according to
information provided to the Bank's mission, and the following urgent actions had been agreed on: audit of
ACFO's planning and delivery by an independent consultant; upgrading of CID's technical platform; and
training and assistance to the 200 clients connected to CID's system (these three actions were financed
under PPF funds). A specific Contingency Plan was necessary due to the very high impact of a potential
failure in customs' operations. This plan and related budget were put under direct control of CID in close
coordination with general Contingency Plan development.

Budget Summary for main administration information centers (US$ 6.9)

            Total          GOS              Other donors              Project
Service    Budget          financing        financing                 funds
DTAI        3.1            1.2              0.5*                      1.4
DAF (a) 2.1                0.9              0.6**                     0.6
CID (a) 1.7                                 1.0***                    0.7
Total     6.9              2.1              2.1                       2.7
*infoDev; **Canadian; ***French, (a) including US$50,000 financed under PPF.

Subcomponent 2: Other Ministries and Public Administrations
Requests were collected by the Délégation à 1'Informatique through a comprehensive inventory of all
equipment installed in administrations and public services. It was proposed that the project covered
remediation actions representing about 50% of the needs identified for 14 main Ministries and Services:
* Due to time constraints, it was assumed that only 50% to 60% of this program could be achieved before
the end of 1999 and that further actions would be taken according to real dysfunctions observed in early
2000.
* As most computer applications corresponded to office automation (word processing and spreadsheets),
some light dysfunctions would not be critical for a short period. Prioritization based on risk analysis
according to the importance of each service and application concerned would have to be managed by the
Y2K Public Sector and Administrations' Commission in close connection with the PMU.
* Preparation of implementation and some urgent remediation actions were started in March 1999 and were
to be covered retroactively.

A budget of US$1.5 million was allocated for this subcomponent, including a provision of US$0.4 million
with regard to remediation needs for administrations where the inventory had not yet been completed.

Subcomponent 3: State-owned Enterprises (Poste, SNCS, PETROSEN, SODAGRI, SAED)
The Y2K Coordination Committee collected needs assessments from state-owned enterprises impacted by
the Y2K problem. Each company had produced a detailed inventory and a remediation plan that supported
its request. During project preparation, detailed Terms of reference (TOR) were being prepared for
immediate and urgent actions. A budget of US$1.6 million was allocated for this area, including
US$450,000 financed under the PPF.

Subcomponent 4: Health


                                                      - 34 -

The first results of the national survey showed that the Y2K bug could impact office automation and
medical instruments. A preliminary estimate of US$0.85 million for remediation actions was envisaged at
this stage.

Component 3: Contingency Plans
It was obvious that due to time constraints and the necessity to carry out reliable conceptual studies before
investing in hardware or software, all systems would not be fully ready by December 31, 1999, and that
preventive means and organizations had to be put in place to solve any critical situation that can provoke
domino and systemic impact on the whole Senegalese economy and social life. Contingency Plans have to
address this issue with two different targets:
* A global target to ensure that the population and the economy would not be severely impacted by a
disaster due to Y2K major failures in strategic infrastructures (such as water, electricity,
telecommunications, finance); this was to be addressed by a National Contingency Plan.
* A sector-specific target to ensure that functioning of administrations and large institutions/enterprises
would not be adversely affected by Y2K failures and that critical activities would continue even with a
decrease of quality of service; this was to be addressed by Sector-specific Contingency Plans.
Since much work had yet to be undertaken in this area, a team of international consultants was hired,
financed by PPF funds under Component 1, and supervised by the PMU to:
* assess the overall readiness in critical areas;
* evaluate risks and strategic activities to be guaranteed at national and sector levels; and
* assist Senegalese contingency plan teams in the conception and implementation of adequate contingency
plans (studies, training, seminars) at national and sector-specific levels.

All contingency action plans (national and sector specific), with the exception of the one for customs, were
put under the direct responsibility of the PMU, and a full time team leader of the PMU was appointed by
the Senegalese Government. Budget estimate covering logistics, training, tests and specific investments was
US$1.7 million (25% for the national plan and 75% for sector-specific plans); this amount includes
financing of some urgent remediation actions to correct systems' failures that could be observed in the
beginning of 2000.

Revised Components

This Annex describes the restructured project design and the specific revisions that were made during
implementation (the figures in parentheses show the amounts allocated at the latest revision of the design in
September 2001).

Component (1) modernization of the information systems at the Office of the President ($0.400 million):

This component comprised at the restructuring four sub-components: (i) strengthening the information
system at the Office of the President; (ii) carrying out training in information systems for the staff of the
Presidency; (iii) establishing the Intranet system for the Government; and (iv) support of the APIX's
information system creation.

In September 2001, the Government Intranet sub-component was moved to the Component 2 and replaced
by the audit of the Administration (exhaustive list of the existing IT equipment in the Administration in
2001.

Component (2) modernization of the information systems of the prime Minister's Office and the Ministries
and establishing the Government Intranet ($4.200 million):


                                                     - 35 -

This component initially comprised four sub-components: (i) modernizing and expanding internet server
access; (ii) carrying out training in information systems for the staff of the Prime Minister's Office and
Ministries; (iii) preparing software acquisition and installation plan; (iv) establishing the LAN information
technology network.

After the latest revision of the components' design, the component 2 included: (i) the informatic (computers
and software) system of the Prime Minister's office and the ministries; and (ii) implementation of a Local
Area Networks (LANs) linking the Ministries, and development of a "Electronic Documents Management"
application; and (iii) the Government Intranet.

Component (3) modernization of the information systems of the Ministry of Economy and Finance ($0.490
million):

This component comprised two sub-components: (i) development and expansion of software application for
the Borrower's tax, customs, and debt management systems; and (ii) establishment of a socio-economic
database for the analysis of poverty in the Borrower's territory.

As mentioned above, the second sub-component was abandoned as implemented by another project. The
revised component's design included: increase of the state's revenues by improving the information system
accuracy, security and efficiency at (i) the DTAI, AJE and DCM; and (ii) the Customs.

Component (4) modernizing the information systems of the Ministry of Interior ($0.940 million):

This component comprised two sub-components: (i) establishment of a pilot information system unit in
Dakar; and (ii) implementation of regional information systems to support the decentralization. This
component remained the same after the project restructuring.

Component (5) modernizing the information systems of Public Entities ($0.690 million):

This component comprised: (i) the upgrade of the existing information system of the Borrower's postal
services; and (ii) the upgrade of the existing financial and administrative information system of the
Borrower's national Lottery (LONASE).

Given the very tight implementation schedule, the project decided to focus only on the modernization of the
information system of the para-statal company La Poste. The resources initially allocated to the LONASE
to the Government Intranet sub-component.

Component (6) modernizing the Information Systems of the University of St Louis ($0.700 million):

This component comprised two sub-components: (i) the establishment of the information system network of
the University; and (ii) the establishment of a multimedia and Internet access for the University.

This activities were later broken down into three more specific activities: (i) the modernization of the
informatics equipment; (ii) the development of applications to support the management of the University
administration; and (iii) the modernization of equipment and applications supporting Research and
Development.




                                                     - 36 -

Additional Annex 10. Borrower's Report

                                   REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL

                                     UN PEUPLE - UN BUT ­ UNE FOI


                               PRESIDENCE DE LA REPUBLIQUE

                                    SECRETARIAT GENERAL

                           DIRECTION INFORMATIQUE DE L'ETAT

                            Programme de Modernisation des Systèmes

                                  d'information de l'Administration




                                           Octobre 2004

I - INTRODUCTION

A l'instar de lacommunauté internationale, le Sénégal s'était organisé pour prévenir les risques lié
;s au passage à l'an 2000. Cette volonté politique s' est matérialisée par la mise en oeuvre d'une
stratégie nationale caractérisée par (i) la mise en place d'organes de pilotage et de coordination,
(ii) l'organisation des acteurs en secteurs d'activités et (iii) la mobilisation des ressources
financières.

Sur ce dernier point, le Gouvernement du Sénégal avait d' abord mobilisé sur son budget 1,9
milliards de F.CFA pour permettre un démarrage immédiat des activités prioritaires du programme
national de passage à l'an 2000.

Il s'agit, entre autres, de la prise en charge partielle des coûts de conversion des applications
critiques des grands centres informatiques et l'inventaire des matériels et systèmes impactés au
sein de l'Administration centrale et locale.

Le Gouvernement du Sénégal avait ensuite négocié et obtenu un crédit IDA pour le financement de




                                                 - 37 -

son Projet d' Assistance au Plan d'action national pour le passage à l'an 2000.

Ce Projet a été l'objet de l'accord de crédit N° 3289-SE du 17 décembre 1999 entre le
Gouvernement du Séné gal et l'IDA d'un montant de sept millions cinq cent mille (7 500 000) DTS
soit l'équivalent de 10,150 millions de dollars américains. Il est entré en vigueur le 13 avril 2000 et
a été pré cédé par un PPF de 750 000 DTS.

Grâce à une optimisation des solutions de prévention mises en oeuvre, les dépenses engagées pour
la réalisation des trois premières phases dédiées à la mise en conformité des équipements
informatiques et aux plans d'urgence pour le passage à l'an 2000 sont restées largement en deçà
des montants estimés à l'origine du Projet.

Au 31 mars 2000, le taux de décaissement s'est finalement limité à 19 % environ. Cette
opportunité a é té saisie pour initier un Programme de Modernisation des Systèmes d'Information
de l'Administration (PMSIA) qui a induit un amendement à l'accord de crédit intervenu le 16 mai
2001.

II. RAPPEL DES OBJECTIFS DU PMSIA.

Le Programme de Modernisation des Systèmes d'Information de l' Administration (PMSIA) résulte
de la restructuration du « Projet d'Assistance au Plan d'action National pour le Passage à l'an 2000
». L'accord de crédit a été amendé à cette fin le 16 mai 2001.

Le PMSIA s'articule autour de six composantes poursuivant les objectifs généraux suivants :

II-1 : Composante 1 : La Présidence :
            l   Placer la Présidence de la République au coeur d'un système d'information gouvernemental
                moderne, performant et rigoureux pour mieux répondre aux multiples exigences de la vie
                politique nationale et internationale ;
            l   Positionner l'Etat du Sénégal parmi l'élite des pays en développement en matière d'utilisation des
                NTIC au service du progrès économique et social ;
            l   Faciliter les relations entre la Présidence de la République et les citoyens grâce à des circuits de
                communication é lectronique plus accessibles, permettant de satisfaire le droit à l' ;information et
                les besoins d'expression de la population ;
            l   Optimiser en qualité (fluidité etsécurité des échanges, performances des solutions technologiques
                adoptées, pertinence des outils de requête et d'analyse) comme en quantité, les flux
                d'informations entre la Présidence et l'ensemble des autres structures gouvernementales ;


II-2 : Composante 2 : Primature et autres ministères :
            l   Lancer sans délai les opérations d'installation des nouveaux matériels permettant de mettre à la
                disposition des utilisateurs les applications dont le développement ou la rénovation fonctionnelle
                a déjà été réalisé ;
            l   Optimiser et pérenniser les investissements pour la modernisation des équipements ;
            l   Assurer l'homogénéité et la qualité des parcs de matériels nouvellement constitués en permettant
                en outre une meilleure maîtrise de leur gestion et de leur évolution dans le temps ;
            l   Harmoniser les systèmes d'information des Administrations en les dotant d'applications
                communes pour favoriser la communication entre les services et standardiser les pratiques au



                                                        - 38 -

           niveau des activités administratives courantes ;
        l  Permettre une entrée massive mais maîtrisée des NTIC dans le quotidien des activités de
           l'Administration afin de proposer un cadre de travail plus convivial favorisant l'émergence d'une
           dynamique de collaboration et d'échange entre tous les acteurs ;
        l  Contribuer à l'accélération du développement du pays par l'allègement des procédures,
           l'augmentation de la productivité et de la réactivité des agents de l'Administration et
           l'accroissement de la rapidité de circulation de l'information ;
        l  Offrir aux populations un nouveau visage de l'Administration plus disponible, plus à l'écoute de
           leurs difficultés ou de leur attentes, avec une capacité et une qualité d'accueil accrues.

II-3 : Composante 3 : Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances :
        l  Amélioration des performances et de la fiabilité du systè me douanier GAINDE ;
        l  Compenser la perte des recettes douanières par l'amélioration du rendement des autres sources de
           revenus ;
        l  Moderniser les fonctions de collecte et de gestion des ressources financières de l'Etat ;
        l  Automatiserles procédures de gestion de la DMC (Direction de la Monnaie et du Crédit) ;
        l  Mettre en place au sein du MEF des applications qui permettront la dé centralisation progressive
           d'une partie des fonctions informatiques actuellement concentrées au niveau du centre de calcul ;
        l  Optimiser les conditions de traitement de l'information, notamment dans les fonctions de gestion
           financière et de gestion de ressources ;
        l  Favoriser l'accès à l'information et la communication entre les différents services du MEF et de
           l'Etat ;
        l  Augmenter la réactivité des services administratifs dans l'exercice de leurs activités.


II-4 : Composante 4 : La POSTE :
        l  Doter chaque bureau d'un équipement local permettant d' accéder à toutes les ressources du
           système d' information et de l'alimenter au quotidien ;
        l  Mettre en place de nouveaux services à valeur ajoutée à la clientèle (accès Internet, courrier
           hybride ...) ;
        l  Rationaliser les traitements de l'information relatifs aux fonctions et aux besoins directement liés
           aux activités des bureaux ;
        l  Améliorer les procédures, processus, règles de gestion ...


II-5 : Composante 5 : Ministère de l'Intérieur :
        l  Doter chaque région d'un système d'information permettant un accès direct aux informations
           économiques, sociales et culturelles de chaque département ou localité ;
        l  Favoriser les contacts de proximité entre les usagers et les services administratifs ;
        l  Décentraliser les traitements de l'information relatifs aux fonctions et aux besoins directement
           liés aux activités des régions ;
        l  Améliorer les procédures de diffusion de l'information à usage interne ou externe ;
        l  Renforcer les moyens de gestion de certaines activités dispersées sur le territoire.


II-6 : Composante 6 : Université Gaston Berger :
        l  Créer les conditions d'une approche globale des besoins exprimés par les diverses structures de
           l'UGB ;
        l  Rationaliser l'expression de ces besoins et proposer des solutions communes répondant
           concrètement aux espérances de l'UGB tout en respectant les limites économiques fixées par
           l'Accord de Crédit ;



                                                   - 39 -

            l   Faciliter le déploiement de l'organisation voulue par l'UGB pour la modernisation de ses services
                centraux ;
            l   Développer un processus de partage des ressources informatiques ;
            l   Favoriser la mise en synergie des actions entreprises par chacune des structures concernées pour
                améliorer son propre environnement de travail ;
            l   Impulser une nouvelle dynamique de communication et de concertation entre tous les acteurs de
                la vie universitaire ;
            l   Promouvoir une démarche de type projet pour la conception des solutions à mettre en oeuvre ;
            l   Ouvrir à tous, sans restriction ni contrainte, l'accès aux nouveaux moyens technologiques dont
                seront progressivement équipé es les fonctions communes ;
            l   Contribuer à la réalisation des objectifs de croissance de l'UGB.

III-EVALUATION DE L'ATTEINTE DES OBJECTIFS DU PROJET

III-1 : Composante 1 : Présidence

Cette composante représentait environ 4 % du financement du projet. Le taux d'exécution global a
été 161,25 %. Ce dé passement important par rapport à l'allocation initiale s' explique
essentiellement par une sous-évaluation du budget pré visionnel des acquisitions de l'APIX. La
quasi-totalité des objectifs fixés ont été atteints. Les réalisations et acquisitions faites sont les
suivantes :

III.1.1 ­ Conduite d'une mission d'audit des systèmes d'information existants au sein de
l'Administration :


Cette mission a permis de couvrir un périmètre de 32 ministères, collectivités locales et autres
institutions et dénombrer globalement :
   l    8766 micro-ordinateurs dont 7192 en bon état ;
   l    3786 imprimantes avec une grande prédominance de la marque HP (environ 67 % du parc) ;
   l    3333 onduleurs dont l'essentiel (2608, soit 78,25 %) est doté d'une puissance de 500 VA ;
   l    etc...

III.1.2 ­ Acquisition d'équipements informatiques pour la Direction Informatique de l'Etat :

Ces équipements sont constitués de 5 serveurs, 25 PC, 10 portables et 12 imprimantes.

III.1.3 ­ Acquisition d'équipements pour l'APIX :

Il s'agit essentiellement d'équipements micro-informatiques et de matériels audio et vidéo.

III-2 : Composante 2 : Primature et autres ministères.

L'essentiel des ressources du projet, après restructuration,devait être consacré à cette
composante, soit plus de 41 %. Le taux d'exécution global a été de 78,77 %. Il s' explique par le
fait que le budget initial de l'INTRANET, dernière action a être lancée , a dû être réduiten raison
des dépassements constatés dans les autres composantes et de la baisse du dollar qui a minoré la
disponibilité du compte spécial. Sinon L'essentiel des objectifs fixés ont é té atteints. Les



                                                       - 40 -

réalisations et acquisitions faites sont les suivantes :

III.2.1 ­ Acquisition d'équipements informatiques pour les ministères :

Il s'agit de 270 PC, 12 portables, 80 imprimantes et 46 onduleurs. Ces équipements ont permis de
renforcer considérablement le potentiel des départements ministériels et d'améliorer leur accès à
Internet.

III.2.2 ­ La mise en oeuvre de l'INTRANET Gouvernemental :

Il s'agit essentiellement de la réalisation d'un réseau métropolitain comprenant un réseau primaire
en anneau optique couvrant le centre ville , un réseau secondaire en boucle locale radio couvrant
toute la région de Dakar, la mise en place d'une infrastructure de sécurité et l'intégration de la
téléphonie sur IP. En outre les locaux pilotes de l' INTRANET ont été entièrement câblés.Enfin 3
consultants ont été également recrutés pour aider à l'encadrement et à la coordination des tâches
pour cette action phare du programme.

III-3 : Composante 3 : Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances.

Cette composante représentait environ 5% des ressources du PMSIA. Les tâches exécutées dans
cette composante sont globalement restées dans les limites budgétaires. L'essentiel des objectifs
fixés ont été atteints avec comme principales acquisitions : des équipements informatiques (128 PC
dont 24 pour la Douane, 5 serveurs, 28 onduleurs, etc...) et des développements spécifiques pour
l'Agence Judiciaire de l'Etat et la Direction de la Monnaie et du Crédit.

III-4 : Composante 4 : La POSTE.

Environ 7% des ressources du crédit ont été consacré ;es à cette composante. Cette composante a
consommé à l'arrivée 24% de ressources supplémentaires par rapport aux prévisions initiales. Les
réalisations au titre de cette composante sont, entre autres, l'équipement des 135 bureaux de
poste du pays et l'acquisition de nouvelles applications postales et financières.

III-5 : Composante 5 : Le Ministère de l'Intérieur .

Cette composante a utilisé environ 9 % des ressources du Projet après restructuration du crédit.
Un dépassement de 33 % des allocations budgétaires initiales a été constaté ; à la clôture du
projet. Cette situation s'explique pour l'essentiel par une sous-évaluation des besoins de la
Direction de l'Automatisation des Fichiers et une baisse assez substantielle du taux de change du
dollar.

La mobilisation de ces ressources a permis d'atteindre les objectifs fixés, avec notamment les
réalisations suivantes :
   l    l'acquisition d'équipements dont, entre autres, 150 PC, 150 onduleurs et 50 imprimantes ;
   l    le câblage de l'ensemble des préfectures du pays ;
   l    le développement d'applications spécifiques et ;
   l    la mise en place d'une base de données socio-économiques avec notamment un système



                                                 - 41 -

        d'informations géographiques.

III-6 : Composante 6 : Université Gaston Berger.

Les ressources du Projet prévues pour cette rubrique repré sentaient environ 6,65 % du crédit. A
l'arrivée, ce budget a été dépassé de plus de 35 % avec un taux d' exécution de 135,22 %, malgré
l'annulation d'une action dont le fournisseur a été défaillant. Ce dé passement s'explique, pour
l'essentiel, par une sous-é valuation du budget. On peut considérer que les objectifs ont é té
globalement atteints, avec, entre autres, les réalisations suivantes pour les Unités de Formation et
de Recherche, la Bibliothèque et le Service de la Scolarité :
    l   l'acquisition   de  200    PC,  de  40   imprimantes    et  divers   autres    é   quipements
        microinformatiques ;
    l   l'acquisition d'une unité de reprographie et d'é quipements multimédia ;
    l   des développements spécifiques pour la Bibliothèque et la Scolarité.

III-7 : Administration du PMSIA.

La rubrique coût de fonctionnement a pour objet de supporter, entre autres, les charges liées à
l'exécution du projet y compris les missions d'audit, les salaires du personnel local, les fournitures
de bureau, les frais de communication et l'entretien des véhicules.Ces dépenses ont été exécuté
;es normalement. A cela, il faudrait ajouter la prise en charge du consultant permanent du Projet
et la rémunération des prestations de l' ;agence d'exécution. Le taux d'exécution a é té de 192,78
%, soit un dépassement de 92 % justifié pour l'essentiel par le prolongement imprévu du contrat du
consultant du projet, avec les différents reports de la date de clôture du projet.

IV- Evaluation de l'exécution du projet et des principaux facteurs ayant
affecté sa réalisation.

IV-1 : L'efficacité recherchée par la Banque à travers la sous-traitance des fonctions de gestion
financière et de passation des marchés à une structure par elleagréée n'a pas toujours produit les
effets escomptés.

En effet, pour la première phase du PROJET, il est apparu, à l'épreuve de la pratique, que le
personnel de la Fondation du Secteur Privé (FSP) chargé de mettre en oeuvre les dispositions du
protocole n'avait pas en réalité une parfaite maîtrise des procédures de la Banque. Il a fallu un
temps d'adaptation assez long pour obtenir une amélioration des prestations. Il s'y ajoute qu'aucun
membre de l'équipe FSP n'était affecté à temps plein aux tâches du Projet, ce qui posait de temps
à autre un réel problè me de disponibilitéface à certaines urgences du projet.

Pour la deuxième période marquée par le remplacement de la Fondation Secteur Privé par l'APIX,
onpeut globalement considérer que la situation s'est relativement amé liorée, encore qu'il ait fallu
procéder à un certain nombre de réglages, notamment :
    l   l'implication du staff du Projet, qui, par nécessité, et après avoir acquis une certaine
        expertise dans la connaissance des procédures de la Banque, a fini par comprendre qu'il
        valait mieux mettre en oeuvre une stratégie d'anticipation compte tenu du fait qu'il était



                                                - 42 -

         obligé, après coup, de prendreen charge les erreurs qui n'étaient pas de son fait ;
    l    le recrutement d'un comptable par le PMSIA ;
    l    l'acquisition du logiciel TOMPRO pour la comptabilité du PMSIA.

IV-2 : La qualité de certains dossiers techniques qui n'a pas toujours été des meilleurs a été
souvent une source de ralentissementet de multiples allers retour entre le PMSIA et la Banque
Mondialeavant d'obtenir l'avis de non objection de cette derniè ;re.

IV-3 : Les dépouillements des offres ont été bien souvent anormalement longs notamment pour la
phase analyse technique par les maî tres d'ouvrage, la rédaction des rapports d'évaluation et la
signature desdits rapports par l'APIX.

IV-4 : Après la restructuration, si la préparation des DRFs par le comptable du PMSIA a permis
d'améliorer considérablement le rythme des décaissements, force est cependant de reconnaître
que ces performances ont été plus ou moins amoindries par les délais d'intervention de l'APIX pour
la validation et la transmission des dossiers à la DDI.

IV-5 : Conformément aux exigences de l'accord de crédit, le PMSIA s'est attaché les services d'un
consultant qui faisait office d'assistant au Directeur du Projet. Cette collaboration a d'ailleurs
débuté depuis la première phase du Projet consacrée au passage à l'An 2000. Si au courant de
toute la phase An2000 et le début de la restructuration, la collaboration a été très fructueuse, il
reste que par la suite et jusqu'à la fin du PMSIA le rendement du Consultant a progressivement et
considé rablement baissé, sans doute par lassitude, en raison de la longueur du contrat. Au fil du
temps, il a été de plus en plus difficile de lui faire tenir ses engagements en termes de délai pour
la ré alisation des travaux à lui confiés.

IV-6 : Pendant toute la durée du projet, les agents de l'Etat affectés à la cellule de gestion,
notamment le Coordonnateur et son principal collaborateur Chargé de la passation, n'ont jamais pu
obtenir une indemnité spécifique liée à leur situation de détachement, ni obtenir que leurs rémuné
rations soient alignées sur celles de leurs homologues des autres projets financés par la Banque
Mondiale, malgré les contraintes d'efficacité et de rigueur, malgré la forte sollicitation à laquelle
ils ont dû répondre pour satisfaire aux impératifs du Projet en situation d'urgence. Cette situation
qui a été toujours vécue comme une injustice et une frustration, n'a pas manqué, par moment,
d'affecter leur motivation, surtout qu'a côté, le consultant du projet placé sous leur responsabilité
avait untraitement sans commune mesure.

V-Evaluation des performances de la Banque Mondiale.

V-1 : Durant tout le déroulement du projet, la Banque a traité avec beaucoup de diligence et
d'efficacité les demandes de non objection. A titre d'illustration, le délai conventionnel de 15 jours
retenu d'accord parties pour donner une non objection a rarement été dépassé, même pour les
rapports d' évaluation dont l'examen est souvent plus complexe et requiert normalement davantage
de temps.

V-2 : L'intervention de la Banque Mondiale, notamment par le biais du Task Manager qui a bien



                                                  - 43 -

souvent soulevé des questions de fonds a permis d'améliorer considérablement la qualité technique
des dossiers de spécifications et des termes de référence.

V-3 : Les contacts fréquents et permanents avec le spécialiste en passation de la Banque, à chaque
fois que de besoin, ont é té l'occasion d'une véritable source de transfert de connaissances et
ontpermis à l'équipe de projet de renforcer considérablement ses capacités dans le domaine de la
maîtrise des procédures.

VI-Evaluation des performances de l'Emprunteur.

VI- 1 : Pendant toute la durée du projet, Le Gouvernement du Séné gal n'a ménagé aucun effort
pour faciliter son exé cution. Après la première phase du projet caracté risée par les actions «
Passage An 2000 », la mise en oe uvre de la seconde phase qui est le PMSIA a coïncidé avec l'
avènement du Gouvernement de l'Alternance qui a lancé une réflexion d'envergure sur la mise en
place d'un plan ambitieux et novateur relatif à l'utilisation des technologies de l' information avec à
la clef la mise en place d'une nouvelle Direction Informatique de l'Etat. La mise en oeuvre de ce
processus explique, pour l'essentiel, le gel des activités durant le premier semestre de 2000 et
l'année 2001.

VI-2 : Depuis la reprise des activités au début l'année 2002, après l'approbation par la Banque du
programme remanié , la partie sénégalaise (DIE, PMSIA, APIX, DDI et maîtres d'ouvrage), avec un
esprit d'équipe remarquable, a fait montre d'une réelle motivation et a déployé des efforts
considérables, salués par nos partenaires de la Banque Mondiale, dans la conduite des opérations.

VII- Résultats globaux et impacts du projet.

VII-1 : La mise en oeuvre du PMSIA a permis d'améliorer considé ;rablement le taux de
pénétration des TIC au sein de l' Administration, notamment par :
   l    le déploiement de 1100 nouveaux postes répartis comme suit :
   l    400 à ministères et administration ;
   l    35 à Direction informatique de l'Etat ;
   l    25 à Douane ;
   l    104 à Ministère de l'Economie et des Finances ;
   l    150 à La Poste ;
   l    150 à Ministère de l'Intérieur ;
   l    240 à Université Gaston Berger.
   l    La formation de 650 agents de l'administration dont :
   l    à 280 Système d'information gouvernemental tous types d'usages et fonctions confondus ;


   l    à 20 Direction Informatique de l'Etat ;
   l    à 150 La Poste ;
   l    à 140 Ministère de l'Intérieur ;
   l    à 10 Université Gaston Berger.
   l    L'interconnexion de 72 site de l'Administration dont :
   l    51 au centre de Dakar ;



                                                - 44 -

   l    18 dans l'agglomération de Dakar ;
   l    3 dans la région de Dakar.

VII-2 : Le PMSIA a contribué à la décentralisation au niveau régional, départemental et local et à
l'amé lioration de la qualité des services rendus aux usagers.

La décentralisation des systèmes d'information concerne essentiellement :
   l    La composante IV pour la Poste qui a informatisé ses 135 bureaux ;
   l    La composante V pour le Ministère de l'Intérieur qui a permis la décentralisation de la
        fonction informatique sur 11 ré gions et 40 départements.

S'agissant de la qualité des services aux usagers, on peut citer entre autres :
   l    La diminution des délais de traitement des dossiers pour les bé néficiaires d'exonérations
        et de régimes particuliers.
   l    L'amélioration de la gestion des comptes chèques postaux (CCP) et des comptes d'épargne
        (CNE) avec accès à un système à temps réel ;
   l    L'accès aux solutions de commerce électronique indiquant la gestion et l'acheminement des
        commandes ;
   l    L'accélération de la transmission du courrier par l' ouverture de points Internet et l'accès
        aux solutions de courrier hybride dans tous les bureaux de POSTE ;
   l    La réduction des délais de délivrance des pièces d'identité (carte nationale, passeport,
        carte étranger par les services du Ministère de l'Intérieur.
   l    L'amélioration du fonctionnement de la Bibliothèque centrale pour 3000 étudiants, 110
        enseignants et 120 personnes exté rieures avec un taux de satisfaction qui est passé à 80
        % et un délai moyen d'accès à un ouvrage qui a é té réduit à 10 minutes.
   l    L'amélioration de la gestion de la scolarité des 3000 étudiants de l'UGB dont l'indice de
        satisfaction a atteint 70 % au niveau des étudiants et 90 % auprès du personnel d'
        encadrement.

VII-3 : Le PMSIA a appuyé la mise en place de la politique informatique nationale en :
   l    aidant à la mise en place de la Direction Informatique de l'Etat ;
   l    contribuant à la Création d'un Centre de Ressources ;
   l    diminuant les coûts d'acquisition des équipements informatiques.

VII-4 : Le PMSIA a contribué de façon significative à l' optimisation de la gestion de la Direction
de la monnaie et crédit et à l'accélération des délais de traitement des dossiers au niveau de
l'Agence Judiciaire de l'Etat.

VIII-Conclusions et leçons à tirer du projet.

Globalement le PMSIA peut être considéré comme un projet satisfaisant. Il est le premier projet
en TIC financé par la Banque Mondiale dans la sous région Afrique et a permis d'assurer une
amélioration considérable de son taux de péné tration au sein de l'Administration sénégalaise.

Malgré une pause importante d'un an et demi liée au changement de régime en mars 2000, le taux



                                                 - 45 -

de décaissement final très satisfaisant de 99,61 % a été réalisé ; à la faveur d'une extension de la
durée du crédit pour 1 an et demi, qui, tout compte fait, a permis une nouvelle programmation
compatible avec la durée prévisionnelle initiale d' exécution du programme.Cette performance
illustre l'inté rêt du Gouvernement pour ce projet et la rigueur et le professionnalisme des
différents acteurs du projet qui n'ont ménagé aucun effort pour atteindre les objectifs assignés.
Au fur et à mesure du déroulement du projet, il a été noté une meilleure maîtrise des procédures
de la Banque ce qui a contribué à réduire de façon considérable les délais pour la passation des
marchés.

Pour réussir la mise enoeuvre d'un projet, il importe que les aspects suivants soient pris en compte
:

a) Systématiser la mise en place d'une Cellule de Gestion de Projet complète avec toutes les
compétences techniques, en passation et en gestion financière. Une telle équipe pleinement
responsabilisée semble plus efficace que la formule Agence d' exécution qui peut avoir des
pesanteurs insoupçonnées.

b ) La formationaux procédures de la Banque Mondiale de l'équipe de projet, malgré ses
compétences supposées n'est pas toujours superflue dans un souci de renforcer lescapacités des
acteurs du projet pour une meilleure efficacité ;

c) l'association continue des bénéficiaires à laconception, la mise en oeuvre et le suivi du projet est
également un facteur de réussite pour une réelle appropriation du projet ;

d) la mise en oeuvre d'un plan de communication pour expliquer le projet et ses objectifs est
importante pour emporter l'adhésion des bénéficiaires et des acteurs environnementaux.

IX- Perspectives.

La Banque Mondiale, à travers la phase I du PMSIA, a grandement contribué à la mise en place
d'infrastructures de té lécommunications couvrant la région de Dakar et d'é quipements
informatiques dédiés aux services administratifs. Pour consolider ces acquis dont les effets
positifs sont visibles dans l' Administration,l'Etat du Sénégal se donne les priorité ;s suivantes :
             1. Lancer une réflexion à travers un processus participatif permettant d'aboutir à une
                stratégie informatique globale de l'Etat du Sénégal et sa déclinaison en straté gies
                sectorielles :

Dans cette optique la nouvelle Agence de l'Informatique de l'Etat (ADIE) prendra en charge la
réalisation immédiate :
                        D'un plan directeur informatique de l'Etat ;
                        D'un schéma directeur sectoriel pour chaque ministère ;
             2. Compléter et étendre les infrastructures :
                        Assurer l'interconnexion de l'ensemble des sites administratifs dans la
                        région de Dakar ;
                        Assurer la couverture de l'ensemble des capitales régionales et



                                                  - 46 -

                          départementales ;
              3. En accord avec la politique définie :
                          Renforcer le parc en dotant d'équipements informatiques tous les services
                          centraux et régionaux connectés au réseau et en participant, à hauteur de
                          50 % au moins, à l'effort de son renouvellement ;
                          Renforcer les acquis en termes de contenu, en déployant dans le ré ;seau les
                          applications sectorielles existantes et en développant de nouvelles
                          applications transversales.
                          Renforcer la politique de sécurité du réseau et de l' ;information.

La mise en oeuvre de cet ambitieux programme nécessitera sans aucun doute un accompagnement
financier que la Banque mondiale pourrait apporter dans le cadre d'un second volet du PMSIA
(PMSIA II).

Projet de Modernisation des Systèmes d'Information de l'Administration

3, Rue Béranger Ferraud x Rue des Essarts

Tel. : (221) 823-70-80 - Fax : (221) 822-18-67




                                                    - 47 -

- 48 -

