Report No. PID8130
Project Name                     Senegal-Year 2000 National Action Plan...
Support Project (Y2K)
Region                           Africa
Project ID                       SNPE67498
Sector                           Economic Management
Borrower                         Government of Senegal
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Scientific Research and Technology
Contact: Sada Wane, National Coordinator
E-mail: sadawane@telecomplus.sn
Date of PID preparation          September 15, 1999
Project Appraisal Date           September 3, 1999
Projected Board Date             October 1999
Country and Sector Background
1.      The last four years have witnessed steady progress in the
implementation of economic reforms in Senegal. The Country Assistance
Strategy puts considerable emphasis on macroeconomic stability, improved
private sector environment, and alleviation of infrastructure bottlenecks.
In this context, Senegal intends to implement policies to sustain strong,
durable, diversified and balanced growth. In particular, the country will
accelerate reforms in the water, transport, and energy sectors. The Y2K
project is designed to ensure that the strategic sectors will avoid major
disruption due to the Y2K bug that can (a) slow sustainable improvement of
functioning in the strategic sectors and (b) impact private business sectors.
2.      The Y2K problem stems from the fact that many computerized and digital
systems could malfunction because of failure to properly determine the
correct date as the century changes. Although the problem is technically
simple, it poses a significant financial and management burden due to the
resource-intensive nature of the process and the number of actors involved.
In almost all economic activities (public and private), electronic or
computer-based systems are used for processing and storing information.
Failure or errors in processing that may not be identified immediately can
provoke major malfunctions that may stop or deteriorate the functioning of
major economic activities themselves. This is the case in Senegal where many
activities cannot be maintained without the help of reliable electronic or
computer-based systems.
3.      On January 6, 1999, the Government of Senegal (GoS) established a
National Y2K Steering Committee (Comite de Pilotage du projet "Passage du
Senegal a l'An 2000") by decree of the Prime Minister. This Committee
(CdP), chaired by the Minister of Scientific Research and Technology, was
given the task of defining and implementing the National Y2K Strategic Plan.
CdP is the regulatory, monitoring, and decision-making body on all Y2K
matters. By the same decree, a National Y2K Coordination Committee (Comite
de Coordination du project "Passage du Senegal a l'an 2000") was created to
(a) coordinate the activities of six technical commissions (Public Sector and



Administration, Financial Sector, Small and Medium Enterprises, Industry;
Strategic Activities, Health and Environment); (b) manage the Y2K Resource
Center; and (c) set the agenda for CdP meetings. A commission in charge of
security issues was also created and is chaired by the Ministry of Defense.
4.      In addition to developing a national Y2K strategy and action plan, as
well as national Y2K steering and coordination committees, the GoS has
committed significant resources to identify and address potential problems in
critical public administration systems and to monitor the situation in
critical infrastructure operations.
5.      The GoS has identified its key areas of Y2K risk exposure to be in
government financial operations (revenue and expenditure; customs, and civil
service pension system); public services (water treatment, port authority, or
similar operations); private sector financial and industrial operations,
security, and strategic infrastructure services (power, energy
telecommunications, and transport). Remediation efforts in some of these
areas--particularly in the Ministry of Finance, Customs, and privatized
utilities--began during the past year or earlier. To initiate remediation
programs and heighten the country's awareness of Y2K issues, Senegal received
two World Bank Y2K infoDev grants (US$100,000 for planning and US$500,000 for
implemention). Most departments are projecting Y2K compliance by December
1999. However, the Government requires an initial assessment of efforts to
verify these claims and ongoing coordination to ensure that testing is
properly accomplished. It also needs to ensure that both national and
sector-specific contingency plans are prepared and tested before December 31,
1999.
6.      Financial and human resource shortages in Senegal's Y2K program make
the Bank's assistance necessary. Given the short time before January 2000,
it is unrealistic to design a project that will cover all needs of all
sectors in the economy. Therefore, the efforts are focused on those areas
and priorities that are vital to the economy and are still non-Y2K compliant.
7.      Project Objectives:   The Year 2000 National Action Plan Support Project
will assist the Government of Senegal in its efforts to prevent or minimize
Year 2000 (Y2K) induced failures in its economic and financial revenue and
expenditure systems, in customs, in health, and in critical infrastructures
(such as telecommunications, electricity, transport, water, financial
institutions and postal services). To this end, the project will assist GOS
by (a) strengthening its national Y2K project management; (b) identifying and
assisting in completion of urgent remediations in the most critical
operations in the public sector; and (c) developing and testing national and
strategic-sector contingency plans;;
8.      Project Costs and Financing:   The total project cost would be US$15.15
million, of which Bank financing would amount to US$10.15 million. In
addition to the Government of Senegal's contribution of US$2.90 million,
other donors (the French, Canadian Cooperation and an infoDev grant) and the
GoS would help finance the costs associated with upgrades of public sector
systems in the main administrative information centers (US$2.10 million).
9.      Project Implementation:   Under the direction of the Ministry of
Scientific Research and Technology (the overall implementing agency for the
project), a Project Management Unit (PMU) will be created and responsible for
-2 -



(a) general supervision of the project, including its three components
(Project Management Strengthening, Public Sector Remediation, and National
and Sector-Specific Contingency Plans); (b) managing project activities that
will be implemented by various agencies; (c) supervision of budget,
procurement and disbursements, and work to be carried out by a contract and
accounting management agency; (d) supervision of remediation actions carried
out in public sector areas; (e) supervision and follow-up of contingency
action plan development and implementation; (f) definition and implementation
of a communication plan dedicated to Y2K readiness information; and
(f) training for increasing awareness of stakeholders and the public in Y2K
risks and Senegal's strategic areas readiness.
10.     Project Sustainability:   This project will strengthen key economic
institutions and have a positive and ongoing impact on improvement of
institutional functions, such as project management expertise and upgrading
of information computer systems. Another durable and transferable skill from
this project is the contingency and business continuity planning and
remediation expertise that could be applied in all vital sectors of the
economy as a way to ensure business continuity in case of catastrophe. This
project will enhance the capacity of the government to manage its
modernization process using advanced technology and implementing procedures
and methods for monitoring large and complex projects, both present and
future. In addition, the GoS will be in a better position to prepare and
coordinate further computerization of all administrations through the
information collected during Y2K inventory and assessment. Project
activities will serve to increase the direct participation of beneficiaries,
and a strong and reliable communication campaign to inform the public about
Y2K issues will ensure that public perception is consistent with reality.
11.     Lessons Learned from Past Operations in the Country/Sector:    The Y2K
problem is an issue that affects operations and systems in diverse countries
and sectors. This is the first Y2K project for Senegal. In the context of
World Bank operations, very few other countries have requested financing by
the Bank to deal with Y2K issues, and these cases are very recent.
Contact Point:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street NW.
Washington DC. 20433
Telephone No.: (202)458-5454
Fax No.: (202)522-1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 17, 1999.
- 3 -



