Page  1
CONFORMED COPY  
CREDIT NUMBER 3289-SE 
Development Credit Agreement
(Year 2000 National Action Plan Support Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated December 17, 1999
CREDIT NUMBER 3289-SE 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 17, 1999, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Association to assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, 
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985 (as amended through December 2, 
1997, (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Page  2
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“CFAF” means the currency of the Borrower;
(b)
“MSRT” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Scientific Research and 
Technology; 
(c)
“Performance Indicators” means the indicators referred to in Schedule 6 
to this Agreement;
(d)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit to be established by the Borrower 
pursuant to Section 5.01 (a) of this Agreement;
(e)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
August 12, 1999 and August 27, 1999 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(f)
“PSF” means the “Private Sector Foundation” established and operating 
under the laws of the Borrower;
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement; and
(h)
“Y2K Activities” means all activities required to address and remedy 
problems associated with the year 2000 possible computer-based systems malfunction. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million five hundred thousand Special Drawing 
Rights (SDR 7,500,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for 
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of 
the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Credit.
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in 
CFAF a special deposit account in a commercial bank on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Association including appropriate protection against set-off, 
seizure and attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out of the Special Account shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required 
to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon.  The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2001, or such later date as the 
Association shall establish.  The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date.
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be 
set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of 
one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue:  
Page  3
(i) 
from the date sixty (60) days after the date of this Agreement 
(the accrual 
date) to the respective dates on which amounts shall be 
withdrawn by the 
Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; 
and  
(ii) 
at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the 
accrual date and 
at such other rates as may be set from time to time 
thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above.  The rate set as of 
June 30 in each year shall be applied 
from the next date in that year 
specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid:  
(i) 
at such places as the Association shall reasonably request;  
(ii) 
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory 
of, the 
Borrower; and  
(iii)  in the currency specified in this Agreement for the purposes of 
Section 4.02 
of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as 
may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of 
that Section.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on January 15, and July 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on 
each January 15 and July 15 commencing January 15, 2010 and ending July 15, 2039.  
Each installment to and including the installment payable on July 15, 2019 shall be 
one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be 
two percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b)
Whenever:  
(i) 
the Borrower’s per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the 
Association, shall have exceeded for three (3) 
consecutive years the level 
established annually by the 
Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association’s 
resources; and 
(ii) 
the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank 
lending, the 
Association may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association 
and after due consideration by them of 
the development of the Borrower’s 
economy, modify the repayment of 
installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the Borrower to repay 
twice 
the amount of each such installment not yet due until the principal 
amount of the Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring the Borrower to 
commence repayment of the principal amount of the Credit as of the first 
semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling 
six (6) 
months or more after the date on which the 
Association notifies the Borrower 
that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, 
however, that there shall 
be a grace period of a minimum of five (5) years on 
such repayment of 
principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned 
Page  4
repayment modification.
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower’s economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above.
Section 2.08. The currency of the French Republic is hereby specified for the 
purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry 
out the Project, through MRST, with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity 
with appropriate administrative, financial and computer engineering practices, and 
shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources 
required for the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of 
the proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, a plan designed to ensure the sustainability of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to monitor the progress of the Project and to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures 
in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section 
including those for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing 
principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors 
acceptable to the Association; 
(ii)
furnish to the Association, as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six (6) months after the end of each such year, the 
report of such audit 
by said auditors, of such scope and in such 
detail as the Association shall 
have reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Association such other information concerning said 
Page  5
records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Association shall from 
time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Association has received 
the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from 
the Credit 
Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts 
and other documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Association’s representatives to examine such records; 
and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 
12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:  
(a)
the Borrower has established the PMU referred to in paragraph 1 of 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement;  
(b) 
the Borrower has established the Y2K Tender Committee referred to in 
paragraph 2 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(c)
the Borrower has appointed auditors for the Project, in accordance with 
the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement; and 
(d) 
the PMU has entered into an agreement with PSF, including adopted an 
accounting and administrative manual, in form and substance satisfactory to the 
Association, for carrying out the Project’s financial management and procurement 
tasks.
Section 5.02. The date thirty (30) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of the Borrower responsible for finance is designated 
as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Economy, Finance and Planning
B. P. 4017
Rue René Ndiaye
Page  6
Dakar Senegal
Cable address:
Telex:
MINIFINANCES
3203G
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
By /s/ Mamadou Mansour Seck 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s/ Callisto Madavo
Regional Vice President  
Africa
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category 
and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
     % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent)
to be financed
(1)
Equipment, 
   3,300,000
100% of foreign 
materials
expenditures and
and supplies
90% of local
expenditures
(2)
Consultants’
   2,900,000
100% 
services 
(3)
Refunding of
     600,000
Amount due 
Page  7
Project pursuant 
to 
Preparation
Section 2.02(c) 
Advance
of this Agreement
(4)
Unallocated
     700,000
    ________
TOTAL
   7,500,000
   =========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; 
provided, however, that if the currency of the Borrower is also that of another 
country from the territory of which goods and services are supplied, expenditures in 
such currency for such goods or services shall be deemed to be “foreign expenditures”. 
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
SDR 1,500,000 may be made on account of payments made for expenditures before that 
date but after March 1, 1999.
4.
The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on 
the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures: (a) for goods under contracts 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; and (b) for consultants’ services under 
contracts not exceeding the equivalent of $100,000 in the case of firms, and $50,000 
in the case of individuals, under such terms and conditions as the Association shall 
specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in its efforts to prevent 
business disruption in the country’s economic and financial sectors as a result of the 
Year 2000 possible computer-based systems’ malfunction.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objective: 
1.
Support for the establishment of a Project Management Unit in MRST through the 
acquisition of equipment and the provision of technical advisory services.
2.
Provision of equipment and technical assistance required to: (a) correct 
computer based systems’ breakdown and Y2K induced failures in critical agencies of the 
Borrower, and (b) upgrade non Y2K compliant computer based systems to maintain them in 
a good functioning order. 
3.
(a)
Design and implementation of contingency plans aimed at remediating 
computer based systems’ failures resulting from the Y2K bug impact; and (b) provision 
of assistance required to sustain operations in critical agencies within the 
Borrower’s territory in case of failure of computer based systems due to the Y2K bug 
impact.
*         *         * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2000.
SCHEDULE 3 
Page  8
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999, 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
Procurement Procedures  
1.
Limited International Bidding
Goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more per contract and 
goods, which the Association agrees can only be purchased from a limited number of 
suppliers, regardless of the cost thereof, may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.2 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Competitive Bidding
Goods estimated to cost less than to $200,000 equivalent per contract may be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines 
3.
National or International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $20,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,000,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national or international shopping procedures, respectively, 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods of a proprietary nature and spare parts, up to an aggregate amount not to 
exceed $2,000,000 equivalent, may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its review 
and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines.  Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with 
such procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Association, and with the 
provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract procured under limited international 
bidding, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract procured under international shopping 
procedures estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and all contracts 
procured under direct contracting, the following procedures shall apply: 
(i)
prior to the selection of any supplier/execution of any contract 
under 
international shopping procedures, the Borrower shall 
provide to the 
Association a report on the comparison and 
evaluation of quotations received; 
(ii)
prior to the execution of any contract procured under direct 
Page  9
contracting-procedures, the Borrower shall provide to 
the Association a copy 
of the specifications and the draft contract 
as well as evidence of meeting 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 
3.7 of the Guidelines; and 
(iii)
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2(f), 2(g) and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
1.
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the provisions of 
the following Parts of this Section II.  
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $200,000 
equivalent per contract, may comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants  
1.
Quality-based Selection
Services for software corrections and computer based systems upgrading, 
estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract may, with the 
Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2.
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for urgent studies estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per 
contract may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3.
Least-cost selection
Services for audit estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract 
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines 
4.
Single Source Selection
Services which are estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Association’s prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
5.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Page  10
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Association of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Association for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 and (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of 
$200,000, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second 
subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Association for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be 
awarded only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
SCHEDULE 4 
Implementation Program
1.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
establish and thereafter maintain the PMU within MRST with functions, 
responsibility and staffing in adequate numbers, all satisfactory to the Association; 
and 
(b) 
cause the PMU to submit to the Association monthly reports on the 
progress of the Project. 
2.
The Borrower shall establish, maintain and operate, in a manner satisfactory to 
the Association, a Y2K Tender Committee to review the applications for Y2K-related 
procurement in a speedy manner.
3.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and 
furnish to the Association, by February 15, 2000, a report integrating the results of 
the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
Page  11
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Association, by March 15, 2000, or such later date as the 
Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Association’s views on the matter.
4.
For the purposes of paragraph 2 of Schedule 6 to the Credit Agreement, the 
Borrower shall carry out the Project in accordance with the timetable set forth 
hereafter:
A PORTION OF SCHDULE 3 WAS DONE IN DIFFERENT FORMAT
THAT WOULD NOT FIT INTO DATABASE
Phase 1 will cover urgent actions already started or to be started before project 
credit agreement Board approval and signature, expected at the end of October, 1999.  
A PPF and the principle of retroactive financing up to $US 2 million (20% of the total 
amount of the project) have been agreed in order to cover urgent actions already 
identified. 
Phase 2 will cover actions to be implemented prior December 31st, 1999.  As all 
identified actions cannot be implemented till this date, highly critical activities in 
sectors mentioned above have been selected and corresponding actions be implemented 
till the end of 1999. 
Phase 3 will cover actions to be implemented before March 31st, 2000.  This will 
correspond to the continuation of already identified needs in less critical activities 
and to remediate to actual dysfunctions due to Y2K bug.  During that period 
Contingency plans will have the target to mitigate these eventual dysfunctions in 
critical areas at national or sector specific level. 
Phase 4 will cover, from April to December 2000, with remaining funds, more 
sustainable actions dealing with consolidation of computer systems and infrastructures 
already upgraded for Y2K in a modernization approach.  Several needs have already been 
identified in enlarging network and open systems infrastructures and allowing more 
decentralization of administration operations.  Project Management Unit will have to 
select the best projects according to finance available.  However, all actions will 
have to be implemented before the end of December so that last disbursements will be 
completed in June 2001.
SCHEDULE 5 
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) and (2) set forth in 
the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount of CFAF 800,000,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant 
to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association 
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount of CFAF 
400,000,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association 
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the 
equivalent of SDR 1,600,000.  
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
Page  12
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special 
Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.  On the basis of such request or requests, the Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested. 
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Association requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals, 
as the Association shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Association the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the 
Association shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account 
and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to 
have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible expenditures.  All such 
deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account 
under 
the respective eligible Categories, and in the respective 
equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents 
and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Association shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Association 
shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Association shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Credit Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph 
(a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Association, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said Section in 
respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals 
from the Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General 
Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to 
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized 
Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Credit allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures, as the 
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied 
that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of 
such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
Page  13
6.
(a)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any payment out 
of the Special Account:  
(i) 
was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 
2 of this Schedule; or 
(ii) 
was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, 
the Borrower 
shall, promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) 
provide such additional 
evidence as the Association may request; or 
(B) deposit into the Special 
Account (or, if the Association 
shall so request, refund to the Association) 
an amount equal to the 
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or 
justified.  Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no 
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account shall be made 
until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or 
refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Association shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, 
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the 
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) 
of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, 
including the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 6 
Performance Indicators 
1.
No major malfunctioning of essential services, including utilities such as 
water, electricity, telecom, transports, customs, tax collection, banking, postal 
services, health, has occurred throughout the first quarter of the year 2000. 
2.
No significant decrease has been recorded in the output of the main computation 
centers or in the provision of essential services after March 31, 2000 as a result of 
the Y2K bug impact.
