A      CREDIT NUMBER 1095 GUB
Development Credit Agreement
(Petroleum Exploration Promotion Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1981


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1095 GUB
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                             , 1981, between
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
ARTICLE I
Gene-al Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the
provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated June 30, 1980, with
the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth herein
(said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set
forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a) "Petrominas" means the Borrower's National Corporation
for Petroleum and Mineral Research and Exploration (Empresa
Nacional de Pesquisa e Exploracao Petrolifera e Mineira) or any
successor thereto;
(b) "CERN" means the Borrower's Ministry of Natural
Resources (Comissariado de Estado dos Recursos Naturais); and
(c) "Advance" means the aggregate of the advance in various
currencies equivalent to four hundred thousand dollars ($400,000)
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange
of letters dated March 24, 1980 and May 5, 1980 and the advance
in various currencies equivalent to one hundred fifty thousand
dollars ($150,000) granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated October 28, 1980 and
December 22, 1980.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to five million four hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 5,400,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) As of the Effective Date of this Agreement, the Associa-
tion shall withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself, on
behalf of the Borrower, the amount required to repay the principal
amount withdrawn and outstanding, together with the accrued
service charges and other charges, if any, thereon, of the
Advance.  Any amount of the Advance remaining unwithdrawn shall
automatically be cancelled on the same date.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and seismic work to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1984
or such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on,June 1 and December 1 in each year.


﻿-3-
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 1
and December 1 commencing June 1, 1991, and ending December 1,
2030, each installment to and including the installment payable
on December 1, 2000, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out the Project
through Petrominas with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and petro-
leum exploration practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed,
the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for
the purpose.
(b) Without limitation upon the generality of the foregoing
paragraph (a) of this Section 3.01, the Borrower shall make the
proceeds of the Credit available to Petrominas as and when
required for the efficient execution of the Project.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in super-
vising Part A.1 and in carrying out Parts A.2, A.3, A.4, A.5,
and A.6 (c) of the Project, the Borrower shall employ, or shall
cause Petrominas to employ, petroleum exploration and petroleum
accounting consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
or cause to be made adequate provision for the insurance of, the
imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such
insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely
usable by the Borrower to replace or repair such goods.


﻿-4-
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
all goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be used exclusively for the Project until its completion.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause
to be furnished, to the Association, all plans, specifications and
reports for the Project promptly upon their preparation and all
contract documents promptly upon their signing, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request.
(b) The Borrower: (i) shall maintain, or cause to be main-
tained, records and procedures adequate to record and monitor the
progress of the Project (including its cost and the benefits to be
derived from it), to identify the goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose their use in the
Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited repre-
sentatives, or cause them to be enabled, to visit the facilities
and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; (iii) shall furnish, or shall cause to be
furnished, quarterly progress reports, in a format satisfactory to
the Association, on the execution of the Project; (iv) shall
furnish to the Association at regular intervals all such infor-
mation as the Association shall reasonably request concerning the
Project, its cost and, where appropriate, the benefits to be
derived from it, the expenditure of the proceeds of the Credit
and the goods, works and services financed out of such proceeds;
and (v) shall furnish annually information on the staffing of
Petrominas and on the measures planned for the gradual replacement
of foreign consultants by local staff.
(c) Upon the award by the Borrower of any contract for
goods, works or services to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit, the Association may publish a description thereof, the
name and nationality of the party to whom the contract was awarded
and the contract price.
(d) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall cause Petrominas to
prepare and furnish to the Association a report, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request, on the
execution and initial operation of the Project, the cost and
the benefits derived and to be derived therefrom, the performance


﻿-5-
by the Association and the Borrower, through Petrominas, of their
respective obligations under the Development Credit Agreement and
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall inform the Association
promptly of any condition which interferes or threatens to inter-
fere with the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit, or the performance by Petrominas of
its obligations with respect to the Project.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through Petrominas, shall require
the consultants employed to assist it with carrying out Part A.2
of the Project to furnish it, by July 1, 1981, with a report on
the area surrounding well PGO-3. The purpose of said report shall
be to integrate the results of the analysis of existing data with
respect to such area with the data obtained through seismic
surveying under Part A.1 (b) of the Project, and to recommend
a course of action. Promptly upon its preparation, a copy of
said report shall be furnished to the Association for its review
and comment.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause Petrominas
to keep separate accounts with respect to the Project and to
maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices its opera-
tions and financial condition.
(b) Starting with fiscal year 1981, the Borrower shall cause
Petrominas to: (i) have its accounts, including its separate
project accounts, and financial statements (balance sheets,
statements of income and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, .in accordance with appropriate auditing
principles consistently applied, by auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the end of each
such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for
such year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Association
shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Asso-
ciation such other information concerning its accounts and finan-
cial statements and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.


﻿-6-
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall cause Petrominas to take out
and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
Section 4.03. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree,
Petrominas shall deposit in a separate account all proceeds from
the sale of reports or information financed under the Project and
shall use said proceeds exclusively to finance surveys, studies,
reports, or other development activities in the petroleum sector.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date                      is hereby speci-
fied for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Section
3.04 (b) (v) and Article IV of this Agreement shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date five years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VI
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Comissario de Estado das Finangas of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Comissariado de Estado das Finangas
Bissau
Guinea-Bissau
Cable address:                      Telex:
BANGUINE                           96911 (EBNGBI)
Bissau                             96900 (PTTBBI)


﻿For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
k                           United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the District
of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA-BISSAU
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Western Africa


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated          % of
(Expressed in       Expenditures
Category                   SDR Equivalent)    to be Financed
(1) Seismic survey                1,810,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(2) Consultants' and              1,780,000        100% of foreign
experts services for                          expenditures
Part A.2 through A.5
(3) Prefabricated facilities        410,000        100% of foreign
(including installation)                      expenditures
equipment, vehicles,
supplies
(4) Training and fellowships         80,000        100% of foreign
expenditures
(5) Refunding of the Advance        440,000        100%
(6) Unallocated                     880,000
TOTAL         5,400,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule, the term "foreign expen-
ditures" means expenditures in the currency of any country other
than the Borrower and for goods or services supplied from the
territory of any country other than the Borrower.
3*   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the


﻿-9-
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Associat:'on may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures under Category (2) with respect to:
(i) the basin study under Part A (4) of the Project,
which is to be carried out by consultants pursuant
to the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agree-
ment, until the Association has received evidence
satisfactory to it that the Republic of The Gambia
and the Republic of Senegal have concluded agree-
ments with the same consultants for the carrying
out of the parts of the study concerning their
territory; and
(ii) the monitoring of exploration activities of
companies under Part A (3) (d) of the Project until
the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that at least one exploration contract has
been signed.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in para-
graph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category
will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expendi-
tures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.


﻿- 10 -
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with
the procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no
expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way re-
stricting or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the
Association under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to
the Borrower, cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Associa-
tion's reasonable opinion, represents the amount of such expendi-
tures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 11 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The purpose of the Project is to achieve a resumption of
hydrocarbon exploration within the Borrower's territory, its
territorial waters and exclusive economic zone by (i) strengthen-
ing the capability of Petrominas to carry out and analyze geo-
logical and geophysical surveys, and (ii) the negotiation of
exploration contracts with foreign companies and the monitoring of
their activities.
The Project consists of the following Parts:
A.1. Seismic work
Seismic surveying of approximately 2,500 km off-shore
as follows:
(a) approximately 2,200 km on a reconnaisance grid comple-
menting the existing data; and
(b) approximately 300 km on a detailed grid around PGO-3.
A.2. Data evaluation
(a) Processing of the seismic data obtained under Part A.l.
(b) Reprocessing of approximately 3,000 km of existing
seismic data.
(c) Completion of the review, compilation, interpretation
and integration of existing geophysical data.
A.3. Promotion of exploration contracts
(a) Preparation of a report describing the national
petroleum potential.
(b) Preparation of a draft petroleum law and model agree-
ments, and carrying out of economic analyses therefor.
(c) Promotion of the national petroleum potential to oil
companies and, if possible, negotiation of exploration
contracts.


﻿- 12 -
(d) Monitoring of the exploration activit-es of companies
after exploration contracts have been entered into.
A.4. Basin Study
Participation in a geological and geophysical study of the
sedimentary salt basin shared by the Borrower with the
Republic of Senegal and the Republic of The Gambia.
A.5. Accounting
(a) Improvement of Petrominas' accounting system.
(b) Establishment of an accounting system to enable Petro-
minas to monitor and to audit expenditures by oil
exploration companies.
A.6. Training
Establishment and execution of a training program providing
for:
(a) fellowships for two geologists and two geo-
physicists to take specialized courses and fellow-
ships abroad;
(b) fellowships abroad for staff to follow all explora-
tion activities and to participate in courses and
traineeships in specialized technical areas;
and
(c) on-the-job training for designated staff.
A.7. Provision of necessary facilities
(a) Installation and equipment of two prefabricated
buildings:
(i) to house a basic laboratory, library, offices,
and storage space for well samples; and
(ii) to serve as living quarters for the consultants
employed under the Project.
(b) Provision of vehicles for use under the Project.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31,
1983.


﻿- 13 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   The seismic work to be carried out under Part A.1 of the
Project shall be procured under one or more contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in
the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in. March 1977 (hereinafter called
the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding
as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For the seismic work to be procured on the basis of inter-
national competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements
of paragraph 1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and
forward to the Association as soon as possible, and in any event
not later than 60 days prior to the date of availability to the
public of the first tender documents relating thereto, a general
procurement notice, in such form and detail and containing such
information as the Association shall reasonably request; the
Association will arrange for the publication of such notice in
order to provide timely notification to prospective bidders of the
opportunity to bid for the seismic work in question. The Borrower
shall provide the necessary iqformation to update such notice
annually so long as any seismic work remains to be procured on the
basis of international competitive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the seismic work to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state in
their bid the price and payment terms for the work, the time
schedule for the work, the proposed methodology, and a description
of the equipment to be utilized; and (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation of
equipment, or any other taxes levied in connection with the
performance of the work, shall not be taken into account in the
evaluation of the bids.
B.   Limited International Tendering
Prefabricated facilities, vehicles, equipment and supplies
shall be procured on the basis of limited international tendering
with quotations from at least three foreign suppliers.


﻿- 14 -
C.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to any contract for seismic work under Part A.1
of the Project:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to
the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations to
bid and the specifications and other bidding documents, together
with a description of the advertising procedures to be followed
for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report, by the consul-
tants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement, on the
evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendations for award of the said consultants, and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The
Association shall, if it determines that the intended award would
be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly
inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit


﻿- 15 -
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver of
the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an extension
of the stipulated time for performance of such contracL, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in cases of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 20% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform
the Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto  the    ii  /  day  of  67-
198 L
FOR SECRETARY


