                                                                                               46331
Proposal to Restructure and Amendments to the Credit Agreement and GEF Grant Agreement

                                              DATA SHEET
            Senegal Integrated Coastal and Maritime Resource Management Project
                      -


      Project Name: Integrated Coastal and          Director: Inger Anderson



      Responsible agency: Ministryo f Maritime Economy, Ministry o f Environment




      Current closing date: June 1, 2010

      Indicate ifthe restructuring is:
      Board approved            X
      RVP approved             _c




      Does the restructured pr&t     require any exceptions to Bank         -Yes       x N o
      policies?                                                             -Yes -No
      Have these been approved by Bank management?                          -YesJNo
      I s approval for any policy exception sought from the Board?
      Original ProjectDevelopmentObjective (PDO):
      Theproject' shevelopment objective i s to increase the sustainable management o f marine
      and coastal resources inthree pilot areas by communities and the Government.

      Revised PDO: Not revised

      Original Global EnvironmentObjective (GEO):
      To secure the conservation and management o f Senegal's marine and coastal ecosystems,
      which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods o f coastal
      communities.

      Revised GEO:
      To strengthenthe conservation and management o f Senegal's marine and coastal
      ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods o f
      coastal communities.
      Does the restructuredproject trigger any new safeguard policies? No


      IBRD/IDA
      Others (GEF)


                                      Restructuringof the
        Senegal IntegratedCoastalandMaritimeResourceManagementProject
                  -

                                          ProjectPaper


A.      INTRODUCTORYSTATEMENT

1.      This Project Paper seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to introduce the
following changes in the Senegal Integrated Coastal and Maritime Resource Management
Project (Gestion Zntkgrke des Ressources Marines et C6tidres - GIRMaC) and accompanying
amendments to the project's legal documents: (i)    revision of the Global Environment Objective
(GEO); (ii) reduction of the number of co-management pilot sites to be supported; (iii) revision
of the key performance indicators; (iv) extension of the project closing date; and (v)
reallocation of funds.

2.      The World Bank and the Global Environment Facility (GEF) agreed to co-finance the
GIRMaC project in 2004, to support the Government of Senegal to implement two parallel but
complementary agendas:       (i)to empower coastal communities to take concrete actions to
reduce overfishing; and (ii)  to protect sensitive coastal environments and the biodiversity they
support. These two agendas reflect the poverty-environment nexus found in the coastal areas
of Senegal, where fishing communities are steadily losing their main source of income and
livelihoods due to declining fish stocks, and at the same time living and fishing near coastal
environments of global significance, such as floodplain depressions and salt flats that host
several important migratory bird species, as well as mangrove forests that are home to
threatened species of manatees and dolphins. Project investments aimed to support targeted
coastal communities to develop and implement legally-recognized management measures to
reduce overfishing in three large pilot areas (for example by establishing closed seasons for
overfished stocks, and restricting use of environmentally damaging fishing gear). At the same
time, GEF investments aimed to strengthen the capacity of the Government to protect sensitive
environments inthese three pilot areas, by funding a network of parks and protectedareas.

3.      This proposed restructuring process will refocus the GEO and key performance
indicators to better reflect the relevant outcomes that can be achieved with the uncommitted
funds, to extend the closing date so as to enable sufficient time for implementation, and
reallocate funds across the project activities to accomplish the proposed changes.

B.      BACKGROUNDAND REASONSFORRESTRUCTURING

4.      The projectwas approvedon November 11,2004 andbecameeffectiveon April 15,
2005. The original credit amount was SDR 6.9 million, equivalent to US$10 million, with the
Global Environment Facility (GEF) providing an additional US$5 million equivalent. The
project included both World Bank and GEF financing to address two distinct but
complementary agendas of the Government of Senegal in the coastal areas of the country: (i)
overfishing of valuable coastal fish stocks; and (ii)protection of globally important ecosystems
and biodiversity. The country's coastal fish stocks are extremely valuable resources that are
targeted for export markets and support livelihoods in local fishing communities, supporting a
large part of a sector estimated to provide more than 600,000 jobs (accounting for 17 percent of

                                                  1

the labor force, and 10 percent of the rural population), and some 70 percent of animal protein
consumption inthe country. However, Senegal's coastal fish stocks are heavily overfished, due
to a lack of management of these common property resources that has permitted an
uncontrolled expansion in the number of fishers, boats and gear, as well as land-based fish
processing and preservation facilities. At the same time, the coastal communities affected by
overfishing also live and fish near globally important and highly sensitive ecosystems and
environments, such as the floodplains and salt flats in the deltas of the three major rivers.
These areas support large populations of important migratory bird species, as well as large
expanses of mangrove forests that support threatened populations of West African Manatee, the
Atlantic Humpbacked Dolphin and crocodiles.

5.       To address these two agendas, the GIRMaC's ProjectDevelopmentObjective(PDO)
i s to increase the sustainable management of marine and coastal resources in three pilot areas
by communities and the Government. The project's GlobalEnvironment Objective (GEO)
was originally phrased: to secure the conservation and management of Senegal's marine and
coastal ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods of
coastal communities.

6.       The original GIRMaC project consisted of three components, briefly described
below:

     1. Management of Sustainable Fisheries (US$6 million IDA): The objective of this
         component was to increase the sustainability of the fisheries through the use of co-
         management, whereby the Government would empower targeted fishing communities
         to develop and implement legally-recognized resource management measures. The
         fisheries component was allocated US$6 million to support three sets of activities: (i)
         national level activities to improve fisheries management; (ii)promotion and
         coordination of local co-management initiatives; and (iii)
                                                                  institutional strengthening and
         capacity buildingof the Ministry of Maritime Economy to establish an Operational Unit
         (COMO) within the Directorate of Maritime Fisheries to manage the implementation of
         component 1of the project.

     2. Conservationof Critical Habitatsand Species (US$O.S million IDA, US$S.O million
         GEF): The objective of this component was to improve the long-term management of
         fragile environments in three pilot areas, namely the Senegal River Delta, the Cap-Vert
         Peninsula, and the Saloum Delta River. The conservation component was allocated
         US$5.5 inillion to support two sets of activities: (i) monitoring ecosystems; and (ii)
         strengthening the biodiversity conservation framework, including the preparation of a
         Biodiversity and Protected Areas framework law.

     3. Project Management, M&E and Communication (US$3.5 million IDA): The
         objective of this component was to efficiently manage the project, as well as to
         implement a communication plan to liaise with communities and beneficiaries, promote
         awareness of project activities and challenges more broadly throughout the country, and
         support monitoring and evaluation of the project.

7.       The key outcomes to be achieved by the project in terms of reducing overfishing
included the implementation of community-based fisheries management sub-projects in 12

                                                  2

sites, an increase inthe average fish catch per unit of effort in these sites, and the completion of
two national fisheries management plans to reflect these experiences. Interms of environment
and biodiversity conservation, the key outcomes included an increase by 50 percent in the
effective management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas (according to a park management
tracking tool), establishment of a biosphere reserve on the Cap Vert peninsula, and passageof a
Biodiversity and Protected Area framework law.

8.      Project Performance. Almost from the start, the project did not perform well due to
problems with the institutional arrangements for implementation. The combination of the two
agendas of reducing overfishing of coastal fish stocks (under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of
Maritime Economy) and supporting coastal protected areas (under the jurisdiction of the
Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources) led to a focus on their integration, and
subsequently from an operational perspective to having only one coordination unit responsible
for the project's fiduciary aspects. This project coordination unit was directly and solely
answerable to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. From the outset, the
coordination unit has been an obstacle to project implementation, executing ineligible
expenditures, and has clashed with the Ministry of Maritime Economy on technical issues in
many instances. The need for an adjustment to the institutional arrangements was identified
within six months of project start-up, but was initially opposed by the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources. As a result, discussion of the issue dominated project supervision until
consensus was reached during the mid-term review in January 2008. The outcome has been
that disbursements for the project have been ahead of schedule for component 3 focused on
project management, but behind schedule for the two technical components aimed at reducing
overfishing and strengthening management of protected areas.

9.      Project results thus far have largely tracked disbursements, and while some progress has
been made, overall it has not been satisfactory. The fisheries component (component 1) has
been hindered in implementation over disagreements and difficulties with the project
coordination unit, but nonethelesshas made notable progress ininternalizing and implementing
a model of community-based co-management of coastal fisheries in four pilot sites (but not
twelve as originally envisaged). More specifically, the project has supported international
technical expertise to work in these sites to design and test a replicable model by which the
Government empowers local communities to develop and implement legally-recognized rules
and inanagement measures for the use of the fisheries. The result i s that communities are
working in partnership with the Government and are taking ownership over their new
responsibility to manage the fish stocks they use, to both increase their environmental
sustainability and the size of the fish catch and profits. These experiences are expected to form
the basis of national policy, and will be replicated by the Government to a much larger number
of fishing communities along the coast. Similarly, the environment-conservation component
(component 2) has also disbursed slower than planned, but has succeeded to maintain basic
protected area management operations in targeted sites, in order to protect the key sensitive
environments and biodiversity. Through the project, the parks department has demonstrated
strong capacity to manage the targeted national parks, several of which are considered as the
potential basis of an eco-tourism industry.

10.     Thus, while some progress was achieved, performance was not satisfactory. The
mainconstraining factors were:



                                                 3

        Complex Institutional Arrangements. The original project design was based on the
        principle of integration of different agendas and institutions, embodied by a project
        coordination unit. This institutional arrangement presented significant challenges, due
        to the fact that the responsibility for implementation was perceived to rest with an
        independent project coordinationunit of consultants, resulting in a lack of ownership by
        the Ministry of Maritime Economy for component 1. The mid-term review in January
        2008 concluded that the project coordination unit had become an obstacle to the project
        achieving its objectives, in particular noting the poor administration of the project and
        several instances of non-compliance with World Bank procedures.
        Weak project implementation.         The difficulties in the institutional arrangements
        hampered smooth project management and implementation, particularly through
        conflicts between the Ministry of Maritime Economy and the project coordination unit,
        resultingin significant delays.

As a result of these issues, the project was downgraded after the January 2008 mid-term review
to "marginally unsatisfactory".

11.      Following the recommendations from the project mid-term review conducted in
January 2008, a third-tier restructuring approved on May 19, 2008, by the Country Director
was carried out to modify the implementation arrangements, more specifically (i)      to close the
project coordinationunit under component 3, becauseit was slowing down implementation and
endangered the likelihood of achieving the project's objectives; and (ii)    to transfer activities
and remaining resources and responsibilities from component 3 to two technical Ministries. As
a result, the IDA funds were transferred to the Ministry of Maritime Economy (to implement
component 1) and the GEF funds to the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources (to
implement component 2), after having strengthened the fiduciary capacity to disburse these
funds within Government (details on the revised implementationarrangements are provided in
Annex 3). Therefore, the project i s now positioned to optimally utilize the undisbursed funds
from IDA (US$4.8 million equivalent or 45 percent, as of June 1, 2008) and from GEF (US$2.7
million equivalent, or 56 percent as of June 1,2008).

12.     The project carried out ineligible expenditures when managed by the project
coordination unit. To remedy this situation, the project coordination unit has been closed as
part of the Country Director-level restructuring, and fiduciary responsibility has been
transferred to the respective technical ministries. A financial audit was carried out, reviewed
by the Bank and commented on; subsequently, Government has prepared an action plan in
order to address pending issues.

C.      PROPOSED CHANGES

13.     The proposedfirst-tier restructuring process includes the following changes:

        a) Revision of the GEO: Under the proposed changes, the GEO is more focused
            on what is feasible and realistic given the scale of the operation, the complexity
            of the issues and the timeline for implementation. The proposed changed GEO is
            "to strengthen the conservation and management of Senegal's marine and coastal
            ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods of
            coastal communities" instead o f "to secure conservation and management of

                                                 4

           Senegal's marine and coastal ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to
           the sustainedlivelihoods of coastalcommunities".

       b) The Key PerformanceIndicators are changed to support and measure progress
           towards achieving the PDO and revised GEO. The key performance indicators
           are simpler and resources are focused on more narrowly defined outcomes, so as to
           achieve synergies between activities, facilitate implementation and achievement of
           intended impact (changes are presented in details in the Revised Results Framework
           inAnnex 2).

           The following K P I s have been dropped:
               Catch per fishing effort improved by 10-30 percent from baseline in most
               community-managed fisheries targeted by the Project, by end of Project.
           0   Measures to alleviate the impact of reduction in fishing capacity rated
               satisfactory by at least 75 percent of targeted communities.

           The following KPIs have been added:
           0   Local fisheries management sub-projects are implemented in4 pilot sites by End
               of Project (EOP).
               National management plans for 2 key fisheries are prepared, and approved by
               the National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries.
           0   Participatory assessment of local community involvement in the management of
               biodiversity inthe three pilot areas rated as satisfactory at the end of the Project.

       c) The project closing date is being extended from June 1, 2010, to December 1,
           2011: In order to facilitate the achievement of the PDO, it is proposed that the
           project be extended by 18 months.          The additional time will enable complete
           implementation of the site-based co-management of coastal fisheries activities, as
           well as the strengthening of coastal protected area management.

       d) Funds are reallocated between components and categories to support the
           proposed changes: Annex 1, Project Costs by Component, reflects the proposed
           budget, with the primary changes being the reallocation of undisbursed IDA funds
           for component 3 to the fisheries component (component 1).

14.    On the basis of these proposed changes, the revised allocation for the two components
of the project would be the following (please see Annex 1):

       a) Management of Sustainable Fisheries (US$lO million IDA, from original US$6
           million IDA): The objective of this component was to increase the sustainability of
           the fisheries through the use of area-basedco-management; and
       b) Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species (US$5.0 million GEF): The
           objective of this component was to improve the long-term management of Senegal's
           network of coastal protected areas.




                                                5

D.      ANALYSIS

15.     (a) The economic analysis undertaken inthe original PADremains relevant: With
the removal of the project coordination unit component, which had the weakest performance,
the changes will reduce operating costs and improve efficiency, and will not have a major
effect on the original economic, financial, technical and social aspects as appraised.

        (b) The improved key performance indicatorsprovide a practicalbasis that Government
can use to monitor and evaluate the project.

        (c) This i s a Category B project. The proposed changes do not raise the environmental
category of the project nor trigger new safeguard policies, and the social safeguards provisions
have not changed.

E.      EXPECTEDOUTCOMES

16.     As explained above, the proposed changes will adjust the GEO and KPIs to better
reflect what the project can realistically achieve in the given timeframe and with remaining
available resources. Given the complexity of the issues and the timeline for implementation, the
new key performance indicators by which to measure the expected outcomes are proposed as
the following (see Annex 2 for the Revised Results Framework):

        Local fisheries management sub-projects are implemented in 4 pilot sites by End of
        Project (EOP).

        National management plans for 2 key fisheries are prepared, and approved by the
        National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries.

        Effective management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas increased by at least 50
        percent by EOP.

        Participatory assessment of local community involvement in the management of
        biodiversity inthe three pilot areas rated as satisfactory at the end of the Project.

17.     These key performance indicators reflect the major outcomes expected from each of the
two remaining components, despite the delays to date: (ij the project i s expected to result in a
workable model of community-based management efforts to reduce overfishing in the four
pilot sites and national management plans for two key fisheries prepared as a regulatory
framework to scale up the management efforts piloted by communities through the project; and
(iijthe ability of the Government to protect sensitive environments inthe three pilot areas will
be increased, and a Biodiversity and ProtectedAreas framework law completed.

F.      BENEFITSAND RISKS

18.     The project is expected to benefit poor coastal fishing communities in the targeted
areas. The benefits described in the original PAD relating to the reduction of overfishing
through community-based management efforts are retained, while the ability of the Ministry of


                                                 6

Maritime Economy to implement the project and achieve these benefits will be enhanced. In
addition, the restructuring of the project i s expected to:

    (a) Reduce the cost and time for the two ministries to implement the project, by
        removing the project coordination unit and streamlining management procedures;

    (b) Increase ownership of the project by the Ministry of Maritime Economy by placing
        the responsibility for implementation of the coastal fisheries component solely within
        the ministry's control.

    (c) Enhance the sustainability of project activities, by ensuring that each component is
        mainstreamed into the annual work plan and management structure of the two
        participatingministries.

19.     The overall risk rating remains "substantial." The risks to the expected outcomes of
the project include:

        Targeted communities will not see results fast enough to continue to work with the
        ministries to achieve the outcomes. This risk i s considered "moderate", as there i s a
        possibility that delays due to the restructuring phase, as well as any potential problems
        the ministries may encounter in managing their respective components of the project,
        would slow implementation and visible results in the targeted communities, causing
        unmet expectations and resentment to work with the Government towards achieving the
        project outcomes. This risk will be mitigated by transfer of technical specialists and
        assistance to the two ministries, and by the finalization of project restructuring and
        timely implementation of activities.

        Protected areas will continue to be pursued for other unsustainable uses that
        provide short-term profits. There i s a substantial risk that environmentally sensitive
        areas targeted by the project continue to be subject to conflicting pressures balancing
        their use for longer term sustainable management (for fisheries spawning grounds,
        protection of coastlines from erosion and ecosystems conservation), and short term
        development and exploitation pressures.          This risk can be partially mitigated by
        continuous dialogue and sensitization with nationalauthorities.

20.     The central, underlying risk i s a change in policy by the Government away from
community-based efforts to manage the fish resources and the devolution of natural resource
management responsibility to the users. However, this risk has not yet materialized and the
Government's commitment to support project objectives has remained strong, and co-
management i s now reflected as one of the central strategies in the Ministry of Maritime
Economy's new Letter of Sector Policy.          An ongoing sector dialogue with the Government
will be maintained, inorder to ensure that this risk continues to be mitigated.




                                                  7

ANNEX 1 ProjectCostsby Component
         -

                                           OriginalGIRMaC          Restructured
                                                project          GIRMaC Project

                                           IDA      GEF          IDA        GEF
                                           SDR         US$      SDR         uss
1 Part A: Fisheries
  Works                                    160,000               375,000
  Goods                                   200,000               695,000
  Consultants'services and audits        2,000,000             3,220,000
  Subprojects for PartA.2                1,300,000               998,000
  Training                                400,000               262,000
  OperatingCosts                           302,040             1,000,000
  SubtotalFisheries                      4,362,040             6,550,000
2 Part B: Conservation
  Works                                               210,000               250,000
  Goods                                               590,000               750,000
  Consultants'services and audits         400,000    1,590,000             1,500,000
  Grants underPartB.1                                1,110,000             1,750,000
  Training                                 100,000    170,000               300,000
  OperatingCosts                           181,360    830,000               450,000

  SubtotalConservation                     681,360 4,500,000              5,000,000
3 Part C: ProjectManagementUnit
  Works                                                             NIA         NIA
  Goods                                                             NIA         NIA
  Consultants'services and audits         400,000                   NIA         NIA
  Training                                 100,000                  N/A         NIA
  OperatingCosts                           326,600                  NIA         NIA
  SubtotalProject Management               826,600                  NIA         NIA
4 Refundingof Prqject PreparationAdvance   410,000              350,000
5 Unallocated                             620,000     500,000

  Grand Total                            6,900,000  5,000,000  6,900,000  5,000,000

    ANNEX 2 RevisedResultsFramework
                  -

Driginal Project Development           Revised Project Development           2omments
Dbjective:                             Objective
To increasethe sustainable             Unchanged.                            The PDOhas not beenchanged, and can still
managementof marineand coastal                                               )e achieved given the restructuring.
resourcesin three pilot areas by
communities and the Government.
Original Global Environment            Revised Global Environment            Clomments
Objective:                             Objective
To secure the conservation and         To strengthenthe conservation and     The GlobalEnvironment Objective has been
managementof Senegal's marine          managementof Senegal's marine         Oevisedto be more focused, interms of what
and coastal ecosystems, which are      and coastal ecosystems, which are     s feasible given implementation delays to
globally significant and vital to the  globally significant and vital to the late.
sustainedlivelihoods of coastal        sustained livelihoods of coastal
communities.                           communities.
Original PDO-level Key Performance     Revised Key Performance Indicators
[ndicators:
Catch per fishing effort improved by Dropped                                 Not measurable.
10-30percent from baselinein most
:ommunity-managed fisheries
targetedby the Project, by end of
Project.
Effectiveness of biodiversity-        Effective managementof                 The indicator has beenreformulated to
managementimprovedin the 3 pilot biodiversity inthe three pilot areas        reflect implementation delays to date, and to
veas by 20 percentat mid-term         increasedby at least 50% by EOP.       be more measurable.The indicator measures
review and 50 percent at the end of                                          the effectiveness of protected area
Project, with the active participation                                       management efforts to protect biodiversity
3f localstakeholders.                                                        inthe three areas, according to a Protected
                                                                             Areas Management Tracking Tool.
Measuresto alleviate the impact of     Dropped                               This remainsfeasible but is kept as an
reduction infishing capacity rated                                           intermediate outcome indicator.
satisfactory by at least 75 percent of
targetedcommunities.
                                      Local fisheries management sub. This indicator has been moved from an
                                      projects are implemented in 4 pilo     intermediate outcome indicator to a key
                                      sites by End of Project (EOP).         performance indicator, and revised to reflect
                                                                             what i s feasible given implementation
                                                                             delays to date.
                                      Nationalmanagementplans for 2          This indicator has beenmoved from an
                                      key fisheries are prepared, and        intermediate outcome indicator to a key
                                      ipproved by the National               performance indicator, and slightly revised
                                      Consultative Council for Maritime      to be more specific.
                                      Fishesies,
                                      Participatory assessment of loca This indicator has been moved from an
                                      :ommunity      involvement     in thf  intermediate outcome indicator to a key
                                      nanagement of biodiversity in tht      performance indicator.
                                      hree pilot areas rated as satisfactor:
                                      it the end of the Project.




                                                            9

  IntermediateOutcomes             OriginalIntermediate             RevisedIntermediate                Comments
                                    OutcomeIndicators               OutcomeIndicators
Component 1:                   Local fisheries management       Modified (4 sites instead of 12 This indicator has been
Local communities              sub-projects implemented in4 initially planned) and moved to reformulated and
sustainably managecoastal      pilot sites within 18 months     tey performance indicator for  moved to served as an
and marine fisheries           of Project startup, and          PDO.                           indicator for the
                               implemented in an additional                                     achievement of the
                               8 pilots sites within the                                        PDO.
                               following 18 months.
                               60percentof LocalFisher          Unchanged.                      This indicator remains
                               Committees implementing                                          measurableand
                               sub-projects comply with sub-                                    feasible.
                               projectperformance targets
                               by end of project.
                               National managementplans         Moved to key performance        This indicator has been
                               for at least 2 key fisheries are indicator for PDO.              reformulated and
                               prepared, and approved by the                                    moved to serveas an
                               National Consultative Council                                    indicator for the
                               for Marine Fisheries.                                            achievement of the
                                                                                                PDO.
Component2:                    Participatory assessmentof       Dropped.                        This indicator has been
Local communities participate  local community involvement                                      moved to served as an
inthe conservation of critical nthe managementof                                                indicator for the
coastaland marine habitats     3iodiversity in the three pilot                                  achievement of the
and species                    ueas rated as satisfactory at                                    PDO.
                               h e end of the Project.
                               Managementeffectiveness of       Dropped.                       Not measurable.
                               cey endangeredspecies
                               :marineturtles, manatees, and
                               5 species of water and sea
                               3irds) improved by 50 percent
                               >y the end of the Project.
                               The Cap Vert Peninsula           Dropped.                        This outcome i s no
                               BiosphereReservei s                                              longer feasible.
                               stablished before Project
                               2losing date.
                               Biodiversity and Protected       Biodiversity and Protected      This indicator has been
                               k e a framework law              k e a framework law i s         reformulated, and as
                               xomulgated before end of         ?reparedand submitted to        suchi s measurableand
                               Project, and is in accord with   Sovemment before EOP            feasible.
                               :ommitments assumedunder
                               ntemational conventions.
                               State of biodiversity update     Unchanged.                      This indicator remains
                               .eportsproduced on an annual                                     measurable and
                               >asis.                                                           feasible.
                                                                Coordination sub-committees     Moved from
                                                                established with the Senegal    component three, which
                                                                River Basin Project, the        was cancelled.
                                                                Protection of the Canary       Remains feasible and
                                                                Current Large Marine            measurable.
                                                                Ecosystem (LME) Project,
                                                                and the Projectto enhancethe
                                                                conservation of the critical
                                                                network of sites required by
                                                                migratory waterbirds on the
                                                                AfricanEurasian Flyways.
Component3:                    nformation sharing by
The Project Coordination       'roject Coordination Unit        Dropped.                       Project Coordination
Uniteffectively managesthe     website, newsletter, direct                                     Unit has beenclosed.
Project                        aquests) rated satisfactory by
                               75 percent of users at mid-

                                                               10

Iterm and at the end of the   I                        I
 Project.
The awareness of stakeholders Dropped.                  Not measurable(no
inpilot areas regardingthe                              baseline).
causes and proposedremedies
to coastal and marineresource
crisis i s increasedtwofold
prior to mid-termreview.
85 percentof quarterly and     Dropped.                 ProjectCoordination
six-monthly progressreports                             Unithasbeenclosed.
prepared on time.
Coordinationsub-committees     Moved as intermediate    ProjectCoordination
established with the Senegal   outcomeindicatorfor      Unit andcomponent
River BasinProject, the        componenttwo.            three cancelled.
Protectionof the Canary
CurrentLargeMarine
Ecosystem (LME)Project,
and the Project to enhance the
conservationof the critical
network of sites requiredby
migratory waterbirdson the
AfricanRurasian Flyways.




                              11

5




  3




       3    3  3

ANNEX 3 RevisedImplementationArrangements
        -

  ' Each ministry will have a project implementation unit (ceZZuZe de mise en
    oeuvre -COMO)       with a project manager responsible for implementation of the
  . component.

    The Project M & E Officer, with a strong background in project planning,
    monitoring and evaluation will be accountable for the monitoring and evaluation
    of the project as set forth inthe M & E Plan. The M & E Officer will report to the
    project manager based in the Ministry of Maritime Economy, but will also support
    component 2 inthe Ministry of Environment.

  ' The Procurement and FinancialManagers are accountable for the quality and
    efficient delivery of their respective services including: (i)
                                                                 service delivery to the
    Component Managers; (ii)       fiduciary and quality control; and (iii)performing
    procurement/financial management work. They will report to the Project Manager
    in the COMO for the Ministry of Maritime Economy, but will also support the
    COMO inthe Ministry of Environment. The FinancialManager will be a full-time
    position, while the procurement manager will be a part-timeposition.


                        GEFTRUST FUNDGRANTNUMBERTF054531SE




        Agreement Providingfor
 the Amendment and Restatement
                             of the
    Global EnvironmentFacility
   Trust FundGrantAgreement

     (Integrated Coastaland MaritimeResourceManagementProject)

                               between

                      REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                  and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
   actingas an ImplementingAgency of the Global EnvironmentFacility


                      Dated              ,2008

                               GEFTRUST FUNDGRANTNUMBERTF054531SE

                         AGREEMENTPROVIDINGFOR
                  THE AMENDMENTAND RESTATEMENTOF
                  THE DEVELOPMENTCREDITAGREEMENT


        AGREEMENT, dated                      , between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global
EnvironmentFacility (GEF) in respect of grant funds providedto the GEF Trust Fundby
certain members of the Bank as participantso f the GEF (the Agreement to Amend the
GlobalEnvironmentFacility Trust FundAgreement).

        WHEREAS the Borrower and the Bank have agreed to amend the Global
EnvironmentFacility Trust Fund Agreement between the Borrower and the Bank dated
January 4,2005, inthe manner hereinafterset forth;

        NOW THEREFOREthe partieshereto agree as follows:


                                     ARTICLE I

        Section 1.01. The Global EnvironmentFacility Trust Fund Agreement is hereby
amendedand restatedso as to read as set forth in the Annex hereto.

        Section 1.02. This Agreement shall becomeeffective uponthe signinghereof


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in                     ,asofthedayandyearfirst abovewritten.



                               BY
                                                             Authorized Representative




                                                             Authorized Representative

                                  - 1 -
                              ANNEX

     To Agreement providingfor Amendment and Restatementof the
         GlobalEnvironmentFacility Trust FundAgreement


                       GEF TRUST FUNDGRANTNUMBERTF054531 SE




    Global Environment Facility
   Trust FundGrant Agreement

    (Integrated Coastaland MaritimeResourceManagementProject)

                              between

                     REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                 and

INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
   actingas an ImplementingAgency of the Global EnvironmentFacility




                        Dated January 4,2005

                               GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBERTF054531SE

                       GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
                       TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT

        AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the Recipient) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND
DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing agency of the Global
EnvironmentFacility (GEF) in respect of grant funds providedto the GEF Trust Fundby
certainmemberso f the Bank as participantsof the GEF.

        WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to ResolutionNo. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of
the ExecutiveDirectorsof the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protectionof the
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable
economic development;

place on(B) basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive
                following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in
         the
Directorsof the Bank establishingthe GEF Trust Fundwhich, inter alia, established the
GEF Trust Fund and appointed the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution
NO.94-2);

        (C)     the Recipient, having satisfied itself as the feasibility and priority of the
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested assistance
from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund in the financing of Part B of the Project, and
said request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument
for the Establishmentof the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under
ResolutionNo. 94-2;

        (D)     the Recipient has also requested the International Development
Association (the Association) to provide additional financing for the Project by an
agreement of even date herewith between the Recipient and the Association, the
Association is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate principal amount
equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights (as hereinafter
defined) (SDR 6,900,000) (the Credit); and

        WHEREAS the Bank has agreed on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to
extendthe GEF Trust FundGrantto the Recipientuponthe terms and conditionsset forth
in this Agreement;

        NOW THEREFORE,the partieshereto hereby agree as follows:

                                           - 2 -



                                     ARTICLE I


                          GeneralConditions; Definitions

       Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans of the Bank, dated
May 30, 1995 (as amended through October 6, 1999), with the modifications set forth in
paragraph(b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement:

       (b)    (0       Article I;

              (ii)     Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (51, (61, (7), (a), (W,(W,(W, (18)
                       and (21), 2.02 and 2.03;

                       Section 3.O 1;

                       Sections 4.01 and 4.06;

                       Article V;

                       Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i)and (p), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;

                       Section 8.01 (b);

                       Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04,9.05,9.06,9.07,9.08 and 9.09;

                       Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04;

                       Article XI; and

                       Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.

                       The GeneralConditions shall be modified as follows:

                       (i) the term "Bank",            wherever used in the General
                               Conditions, other than in Sections2.01 (6), 5.01 (a) and
                               6.02 (f) thereof means the Bank acting as an
                               implementing agency of the GEF, except that in
                               Section 6.02, the term "Bank" shall also include the
                               Bank acting in its own capacity;

                       (ii)    the term "Borrower", wherever used in the General
                               Conditions, means the Recipient;

                                 the term "Loan Agreement", wherever used in the
                                 GeneralConditions, meansthis Agreement;

                                 the term "Loan" and "loan", wherever used in the
                                 GeneralConditions, meansthe GEF Trust FundGrant;

                                 the term "Loan Account", wherever used in the General
                                 Conditions, meansthe GEF Trust FundGrantAccount;

                                 a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph(0) in
                                 Section 6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: "an
                                 extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any
                                 further disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant
                                 would exceed the resources available for disbursement
                                 from the GEF."

        Section 1-02.Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions, in the DevelopmentCredit
Agreement of even date herewithbetween the Association and the Recipient, and in the
Recitals to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth, and the
following additionalterms havethe following meanings:

        (a)     "Beneficiary" means a local community, including a CBO, in a Project
implementationarea;

        (b)     "Biosphere Reserve" means a specific area of the Recipient's territory
which has been recognized to constitute a biosphere reserve in accordance with the
UNESCOManand BiosphereProgramof 1970;

        (c)     "CBO"     means a community-based organization established and
operatingpursuant to the lawsofthe Recipient;

July 27,(d)     "Comite` de Pilotage" means the steering committee established on
        2004 by the Recipientto overseethe implementationof the Recipient'sProgram;

        (e)     "COMO" means Cellule Ope`rationnelle de Mise en Oeuvre, an
operationalimplementationcell for the Project,established within DPN;

        (f)     "Development Credit Agreement" means the agreement of even date
herewith between the Recipient and the Association for the Project, as such agreement
may be amended from time to time; and such term includes the "General Conditions
Applicable to Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,
1985 (as amended through May 1,2004), as appliedto such agreement, and all schedules
and agreements supplemental to the DevelopmentCreditAgreement;

                                            - 4 -



         (g)      "DPN" meansDirection des Parcs Nationam, a directorateof MEPN;

         (h)      "EA" meansthe EnvironmentalAssessment of Projectactivitiesprepared
by the Recipientfor purposesof implementingthe Project;

         (i) "Ecosystem Management Committee" means the committee to be
established under the Project through law of the Recipient and to be made responsible
for overseeing the preparation, and monitor the implementation, of an ecosystem
managementplanfor eachof the Recipient'spilot areas selected under the Project;

         (i)      "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the
table in PartA.l of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;

         (k)      "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and
consultants' services referredto in Section2.02 ofthis Agreement;

         (1)      "EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan prepared by the
Recipient for the mitigation of adverse environmental outcomes arising out of Project
implementation;

currency(m)       "FCFA" means Franc de la Communaute` Financiire Afiicaine, the
          ofthe Recipient;

        (n)       "Interim Financial Report" or "IFR" means each report prepared in
accordance with Section 4.02 ofthe DevelopmentCreditAgreement;

         (0)      "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the fiscal year of the Recipient
commencingJanuary 1 and endingDecember 31;

        (p)       "MEPN" means Ministdre de I'Environnement et de la Protection de la
Nature, the Recipient's Ministry of Environmentand Preservationof Nature;

        (9)      ``National Biodiversity Committee" and "NBC" mean the committee
established by Law No 00/325 of the Recipient dated January 26, 2004 and responsible
for matters of biodiversity in the territory of the Recipient under the administrative
authorityof MEPN;

        (r)       "NGO" means a Non Governmental Organization operating under the
laws of the Recipient;

for each(s)Fiscal Year during Project implementation, including budget and procurement
                  "Annual Work Program" means the work program prepared by COMO

plans in respect thereof, to be approved annually by the Comite`de Pilotage;

        (t)       "PIM" means the Project ImplementationManual to be adopted by the
Recipient not later than the Effective Date and setting forth, inter alia, detailed

                                           - 5 -



description of, and institutionalarrangements for Project activities, criteria, terms and
conditions for Subprojects, guidelines and procedures to be used for the purpose of
implementing the Project and specifically Part (B) thereof which implementationis the
purpose of this GEF Agreement, including financial, accounting, procurement,
communication, monitoring and evaluation, and disbursement procedures in respect of
the Project,as may be amended from time to time inconsultationwith the Bank, and such
term includesthe ProjectImplementationPlanand any schedules to the PIM;

        (u)      "Procurement Plan" means the Recipient's procurement plan, dated
July 9, 2004, coveringthe initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation,
as the same shall be updated annually in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02
to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project
implementation;

        (v)      "Report-based Disbursements" means the Recipient's option for
withdrawal of funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account referredto in Part A.6 of
Schedule 1to this Agreement;

        (w)      "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework and the process
frameworkpreparedfor the Project;

        (x)      "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section B.l of
Schedule 1to this Agreement;

        (y)      "Special DrawingRights" and the symbol "SDR' mean special drawing
rights as valued by the InternationalMonetary Fund in accordance with its Articles of
Agreement;

        (z)      "Subproject Agreement" meansthe agreement entered into betweenDPN
and a Beneficiary for the carrying out o f Subprojects under Part B.l (a) of this
Agreement; and

        (aa)     "Subproject" means community-based activities in the context of the
implementationof an ecosystem management plan, determinedto be eligible pursuant to
criteria set forth in the PIM and to be carried out by, or for the benefit of, such
Beneficiary,utilizing the proceeds of a Grant made under Part B.l (a) ofthe Project.

                                            - 6 -



                                      ARTICLE I1


                              The GEF Trust FundGrant

        Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms
and conditionsset forth or referredto in this Agreement, the GEF Trust FundGrant in an
amount of five million United States Dollars(US$ 5,000,000).


        Section 2.02. The amount of the GEF Trust FundGrant may be withdrawn from
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services requiredfor carrying out the Project
andto be financedout ofthe proceedsof the GEF Trust FundGrant.

        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 1, 2011 or such later date as
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptlynotify the Recipient of such later date.


                                     ARTICLE I11


                               Executionof the Project

        Section 3.01. (a) The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectivesof the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out
PartB of the Projectthrough COMO with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriateenvironmental,administrative,and financial practices, and shallprovide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project.

        (b)     Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section
and except as the Recipientand the Bank shall otherwiseagree, the Recipient shall carry
out Part B of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule4 to this Agreement.

        Section 3.02. (a) Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the
goods, works and consultants' services requiredfor the Project and to be financed out of
the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 4 to this Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the
ProcurementPlan.

terms of(b)     The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with
         reference acceptableto the Bank ,and furnish such update to the Bank not later
than 12months after the date of the precedingProcurement Plan,for the Bank's approval.

                                               - 7 -



        Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 o f the General Conditions and
without limitationthereto, the Recipient shall:

the Bank(a)not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
                  prepare, on the basis o f guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to

agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan designed to ensure the
continued achievement o f Project's objectives; and

        (b)       afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the
Recipient on said plan.

       Section 3.04. (a) The Recipient shall open and maintain, for the duration o f the
 Project, an account (the Project Account) in its Treasury books, on terms and conditions
 satisfactory to the Bank;

        (b)       promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into the Project Account, in
an amount equivalent to FCFA 16,000,000, to finance the Recipient's estimated share o f
counterpart funds for the implementation o f Part B o f the Project;

        (c)       thereafter deposit into the Project Account by February 15 in each Fiscal
Year during Project implementation such amount as shall be required to timely replenish
the Project Account back to the amount o f the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b)
above; and

        (d)       ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect o f the
reasonable cost o f goods, works, and services for the implementation o f Part B o f the
Project in addition to those financed from the proceeds o f the Grant.

                                        ARTICLE I V

                                    FinancialConditions

        Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall establish and maintain a financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank,
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.

        (b)       The Recipient shall:

                  (i)     have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) o f this
                          Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the
                          Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing
                          standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors
                          acceptable to the Bank;

                                            - 8 -



                (ii)    furnishto the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later
                        than six months after the end of each such year (or such other
                        period agreed to by the Bank), (A) certified copies of the
                        financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section
                        for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so
                        audited, and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors,
                        in scope and detail satisfactoryto the Bank; and

                (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such
                        records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements,
                        and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time
                        reasonably request.

        (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF
Trust Fund Grant Account were made on the basis of reports referred to in Part A.6 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement        (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis of
statementsof expenditure, the Recipientshall:

                (i)     retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the
                        audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last
                        withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made,
                        all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other
                        documents) evidencingsuch expenditures;

                (ii)    enable the Bank's representativesto examine such records; and

                (iii)   ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are
                        includedin the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed
                        to by the Bank), referred to in paragraph(b) of this Section.

        Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Recipient's progress reporting
obligations set out in paragraph 8 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Recipient shall
prepare and furnish to the Bank an Interim financial report, in form and substance
satisfactoryto the Bank, which:

                (i)     sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
                        cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing
                        separately funds provided under the Grant, and explains
                        variances betweenthe actual and planned uses o f such funds;

                (ii) describes use of fund by activity or components, both
                        cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
                        explains variances between the actual and planned Project
                        implementation.

                                               - 9 -



the end (b)f the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period
                  The first IFR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 30days after
         o
from the incurrence o f the first expenditure under the Project through the end o f such first
calendar quarter; thereafter, each IFR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 30
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar quarter.


                                        ARTICLE V

                                Effectiveness; Termination

        Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the
effectiveness o f the GEF Trust FundGrant within the meaningo f Section 12.01 (c) o f the
General Conditions, namely that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness o f the
Development Credit Agreement o f even date herewith between the Recipient and the
Association shall have been fulfilled, except the effectiveness o f this Agreement.


        Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date o f this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes o f Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.


         Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled their
obligations hereunder.

                                            - 10-


                                    ARTICLE VI


                     Representativesof the Recipient;Addresses

        Section 6.01, The Minister at the time responsible for finance of the Recipient is
designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11-03 of the
General Conditions.

        Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:

For the Recipient:

                Ministry of Economy and Finance
                Rue ReneN'diaye
                B.P.4017
                Dakar
                Senegal

                Cable address:                          Telex:           Fascimile:

                MINIFINANCES                            3203 G           221-821-1630
                Dakar

For the Bank:

                InternationalBank for
                Reconstructionand Development
                1818H Street, N.W.
                Washington, D.C.20433
                UnitedStates of America

                Cable address:          Telex:                    Facsimile:

                INTBAFRAD               248423 (MCI)              (202) 477 6391
                Washington, D.C.        64145 (MCI)

                                          - 11-


       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.



                       REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL




                       BY                              Is/Dr.LamineBA

                                                             Authorized Representative

                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                       RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT
                       as an implementingagency o f the GlobalEnvironmentFacility




                       BY                           Is/MahmoodA. Ayub

                                                             Authorized Representative

                                           -12-



                                      SCHEDULE 1

               Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEFTrust Fund Grant

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories o f items to be financed out o f the
proceeds o f the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation o f the amounts o f the GEF Trust
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be
financed in each Category:

                                         Amount o f the
                                  GEF Trust FundGrant Allocated           Yo o f
                                          (Expressed in              Expenditures
     Category                              USDollars)               to be Financed



(1)   Works for Part B o f the Project        250,000              100% o f foreign
                                                                   expenditures, and
                                                                   90% o f local
                                                                   expenditures

(2)   Goods for Part B o f the Project         750,000             100% o f foreign
                                                                   expenditures, and
                                                                   90% o f local
                                                                   expenditures

(3)   Consultants'                           1,500,000             100YOo f foreign
      services, and augits                                         expenditures, and
      for Part B o f the Project                                   90% o f local
                                                                   expenditures

(4)   Grants                                 1,750,000             100 YOo f amounts
      under Part B.1(a) ofthe Project                              disbursed


(5)   Training for Part B o f the Project      300,000             100%

(6)   Operating costs                          450,000             90%
for Part B o f the Project



                  TOTAL                      5,000,000

                                                - 13 -


2.       For the purposes o f this Schedule:

         (a)       the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of
any country other than that o f the Recipient for goods or services supplied from the
territory o f any country other than that o f the Recipient;

         (b)       the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency o f the
Recipient or for goods or services supplied from the territory o f the Recipient; provided,
however, that, if the currency o f the Recipient is also that o f another country from the
territory o f which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and

account (c)f Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle
                   the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on
          o
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration
costs, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs, and salaries o f locally contracted
employees, but excluding salaries o f officials o f the Recipient's civil service.

3.       Notwithstanding the provisions o f paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made inrespect of:

         (i) payments made for expenditures made prior to the date of this
Agreement, and

         (ii)       category (4), unless a Subproject Agreement has been entered into
between MEPN and a Beneficiary in accordance with the procedures and the terms and
conditions referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in the PIM, including all
environmental mitigation measures and resettlement procedures in respect thereof set
forth in the Project Implementation Manual, the ESMF and the RPF, as shall be
evidenced by the first 3 such Subproject Agreements furnished to the Association for its
prior approval.

4.       The Association may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant
Account to be made on the basis o f statements o f expenditure for expenditures under
contracts for: (a) goods costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works
costing less than $500,000 equivalent per contract; (c) services o f individual consultants
costing less than $50,000 equivalent per contract; (d) services o f consulting firms under
contracts costing less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, (e) services other than
consultant services costing less than $30,000 equivalent per contract, (f) Subprojects
costing less than $50,000 per Subproject Agreement, and (g) training and operating costs,
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.

5.       Ifthe Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the
provisions o f this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank,

                                           - 14-


refundto the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal
to the amount so usedor the portionthereofas specified by the Bank.

6.      The Recipientmay request withdrawals from the GEF Trust FundGrant Account
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance
satisfactoryto the Bank, such reportsto includethe IFR and any other informationas the
Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the case
of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made
from the GEF Trust FundGrant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a
statement with the projectedsources and applicationsof funds for the Projectfor the six-
monthperiodfollowingthe date of such request.

B.      DesignatedAccount

1.      The Recipientmay open and maintain in FCFA a designated deposit account in a
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Bank, includingappropriateprotection against set-off, seizure and attachment.

2.      After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Designated
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of
amounts to be deposited into the DesignatedAccount shall be made as follows:

shall be(a)     ifthe Recipientis not makingReport-basedDisbursements, withdrawals
        made in accordance with the provisions ofAnnex A to this Schedule 1;and

shall be(b)     if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals
        made inaccordance with the provisionsofAnnex B to this Schedule 1.

3.      Payments out of the DesignatedAccount shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each payment made by the Recipientout of the Designated Account,
the Recipientshall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank
such documents and other evidence showingthat such payment was made exclusively for
Eligible Expenditures.

4.      Notwithstandingthe provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not
berequiredto makefurther deposits into the Special Account:

PartA.6(a) this Schedule 1 adequately providethe informationrequiredfor Report-based
                if the Bank, at any time, is not satisfied that the reports referredto in
         of
Disbursements;

payment(b) Eligible Expendituresshouldbe made by the Recipientdirectly from the GEF
                if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for
         of
Trust FundGrantAccount; or

                                            - 15 -


        (c)      ifthe Recipientshall havefailedto furnishto the Bank,within the period
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii)of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
requiredto be furnishedto the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of:
(A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may
be.

5.      The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
Designated Account in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at
any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipientof its intentionto suspend in whole
or in part the right of the Recipientto make withdrawals from the GEF Trust FundGrant
Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the
Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Designated
Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for makingsuch deposits,
and shall notify the Recipientof its determination.

6.      (a)      If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the
DesignatedAccount was made for an expenditurewhich is not an Eligible Expenditure,
or was notjustified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly
upon noticefrom the Bank, providesuch additionalevidence as the Bank may request, or
deposit into the Designated Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the
Bank) an amount equal to the amount o f such payment. Unless the Bank shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Designated Account shall be made until
the Recipienthas providedsuch evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may
be.

        (b)      Ifthe Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the
Special Account will not be requiredto cover payments for Eligible Expendituresduring
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon
noticefrom the Bank, refundto the Bank such outstandingamount.

        (c)      The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or
any portionof the funds on deposit in the SpecialAccount.

        (d)      Refundsto the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph(a), (b) or (c) of this
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent
withdrawalor for cancellationin accordancewith the provisionsof this Agreement.

                                            - 16 -


                                        Annex A
                                            to
                                     SCHEDULE 1

                          Operationof Designated Account
                              When Withdrawals Are Not
                             Report-basedDisbursements


1.      For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the
amount of FCFA 280,000,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF trust Fund Grant Account
and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided,
however, that unless the Associationshall otherwise agree, the AuthorizedAllocation shall
be limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 140,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account plus the total amount of all
outstandingspecial commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the
General Conditionsshall beequal to or exceed the equivalentof $700,000.

2.      Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenishthe Special Account shall be made as follows:

        (a)     For withdrawalsof the Authorized Allocation, the Recipientshall furnish
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the DesignatedAccount of an amount
or amounts which in the aggregate do notexceedthe AuthorizedAllocation. On the basis
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalfof the Recipient,withdraw from the GEF
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the DesignatedAccount such amount as the
Recipientshall haverequested.

        (b)     For replenishment of the Designated Account, the Recipient shall
furnish to the Bank requests for deposit into the SpecialAccount at such intervals as the
Bank shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf
of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the
DesignatedAccount such amount as the Recipientshall have requestedand as shall have
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the
Designated Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Designated
Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under
one or moreof the Eligible Categories.

3.      The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Designated
Account, once the total unwithdrawnamount of the GEF Trust FundGrant minusthe total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to
Section 5.02 ofthe GeneralConditionsshall equalthe equivalentoftwice the amount ofthe

                                           - 17-


AuthorizedAllocation. Thereafter, withdrawalfrom the GEF Trust FundGrant Account of
the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such
proceduresas the Bank shall specify by noticeto the Recipient. Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfiedthat all
such amounts remainingon deposit inthe DesignatedAccount as ofthe date of such notice
will be utilizedinmakingpaymentsfor EligibleExpenditures.

                                           - 18-



                                       Annex B
                                           to
                                    SCHEDULE 1

                          Operation of Designated Account
                              When Withdrawals Are
                           Report-basedDisbursements


1.     Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the
Bank intothe DesignatedAccount in accordancewith the provisionsof Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Designated Account shall be withdrawn by the
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible
Categories.

2.     Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Designated Account an amount equal to the
lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has
determined, based on the reports referred to in Part A.6 of this Schedule 1, applicable to
such withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible
Expendituresduringthe six-monthperiodfollowing the date of such reports.

                                              - 19-


                                       SCHEDULE2

                                Description of the Project

         The objectives o f the Project are to assist the communities within the Recipient's
territory in achieving sustainable management o f the Recipient's coastal and marine
resources, including ensuring responsible exploitation o f resources combined with
protection o f ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment.

         The Project consists o f the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Management o f Sustainable Fisheries

1.       Supporting activities at national level which enable implementation o f local Co-
Management initiatives through:

         (a)     the carrying out of studies to evaluate fisheries sector policy options
available to the Recipient, including the establishment o f user-rights systems and the
establishment o f CLPs, the ensuing preparation, through stakeholder participatory
process and consensus building activities carried out under the aegis o f CNCPM, o f a
strategic framework for the management o f fisheries in the territory o f the Recipient;

         (b)     (i) preparationbyCOMOincooperationwithCRODTandwithprior
                    the
review by CNCPM, and the ensuing implementation o f 2 or more selected target fisheries
management plans, to include, inter alia, the total allowable catch for each target species,
the allocation o f resources between artisanal and industrial fleets, the limitation on
industrial fishing activities, the reduction target in fishing capacity, the local
management, monitoring, and surveillance measures, the action plan for compensating
fishermen negatively affected by the implementation o f such plans; and (ii)the carrying
out o f annual monitoring and evaluation activities with respect to the implementation o f
each plan;

         (c)     the provision of support and technical advisory services to the
institutional strengthening and the operations o f CNCPM with respect to the review o f
each o f the 2 or more key fisheries management plans and the attainment o f a stakeholder
consensus, includingCLPs;

         (d)     the preparation, in cooperation with NGOs, of an IEC plan, and
thereafter, the carrying out o f a related campaign to increase awareness o f fisher
communities, professional organizations, and interested audience over the principles and
benefits to be derived from co-management systems promoted under the Project,
including CM;

                                             - 20 -


research(e)specifically targeted at defining the life cycles of key demersal species,
                 (i)the preparationby COMO of an incrementalprogram of fisheries

includingthe development of an operationalplanningframework for researchdesigned to
support national level management plans and local level co-management, includingCM,
and to evaluate the socioeconomic impact of such plans, and thereafter; and (ii)the
implementationof such programby CRODT; and

         (0      (i)theestablishmentand,thereafter, theimplementationofanationwide
system of small boat (pirogues) registration to evaluate and monitor artisanal fishing
operations, including the preparation of updated legislation in that matter; and (ii)the
building of capacitytherefore in MEM's staff, includingthrough training and acquisition
of goods.

2.       Promotingand coordinatinglocalco-management initiativesthroup;h:

         (a)    the establishment of CLPs, and the provision of support for the
identificationand preparationof CLPs Subprojects;

         (b)    the provision of support to CLPAs to integrate Subprojects in their own
annual management plans for approval by DPM, including the monitoring, control and
surveillancein relationthereto, through:

                (i)      the training of facilitators recruited under the Projectto assist in
                         the establishment of CLPs and the preparation of their
                         Subprojects, including participatory fish stock evaluation
                         activitiesin respect thereof;

                (ii)     the preparation by COMO of baseline social, economic and
                         political studies to support the identification of and reduce the
                         risks associatedwith the implementationof the Subprojects;

                (iii)    the provision of technical advisory services by facilitators for
                         assisting CLPs in the implementation of eligible Subprojects,
                         including the carrying out of civil works and the acquisition of
                         goods in relationthereto;

        (c)     the design and implementation of local level monitoring, control and
surveillancemeasures and systems, including, inter alia, the participatorymonitoring of
fish catches and surveillance;

prepared(d)by DPM, including, inter alia, assessment of local maritime ecosystems,
                the carrying out by CRODT of local fish stock evaluation programs

geographic areas of proposed Subprojects, or impact evaluation of Subprojects on
targeted resources;

                                              - 2 1-


        (e)      (i)the drafting of operating rules for the functioning of CLPs, the
elaboration o f their annual management plans, and (ii)the carrying out o f independent
evaluation regarding the implementation o f such plans;

        ( f )    the development o f a monitoring system for the performance o f the co-
management system, including, inter alia, with respect to measuring annual progress on
meeting objectives of the Subproject Agreements between MEMand CLPs; and

        (g)      (i)the assessment of activities carried out under the co-management
system in selected sites o f the Recipient's territory, and (ii)the ensuing update o f the
legal, institutional and regulatory framework in accordance with the findings o f such
assessment.

3.      Strengthening institutional capacity o f MEMand CRODT through:

Part A o(a)      the establishment o f COMO in DPM to oversee the implementation o f
          f the Project activities in each o f the selected sites o f the Recipient's territory;
and

        (b)      the provision o f technical advisory services for the fiduciary oversight,
monitoring and evaluation o f Part A o f the Project, and for the design o f participatory
research programs for co-management initiatives, including the carrying out o f training
programs in relation thereto for staff o f MEMand CRODT.

4.      Buildingcapacitv o f professional organizations in:

        the design and planningo f co-management systems and in sector development, to
foster a more effective participation o f said organizations in CNCPM, through training
programs organized by COMO.

Part B: Conservation o f Critical Habitats and Species

        Improving the long-term management o f the Recipient's Biosphere Reserves and
network o f coastal protected areas through:

1.      The management o f the ecosystems in selected areas o f the Recipient's territorv
through:

        (a)      the preparation o f management plans using an ecosystem approach and,
thereafter, the implementation o f such plans in the selected areas of: (i)the Saloum Delta
Biosphere Reserve, (ii)the Senegal River Delta Biosphere Reserve, and (iii)the Cap-Vert
Peninsula; and

        (b)      the establishment and operation, in said areas, of ecosystem management
committees to participate in decision-making processes concerning the management o f

                                            - 22 -


the sites' ecosystems and biodiversity and to oversee the preparation and monitoring of
such plans, and the goals and priority investmentscontainedtherein.

2.      The strengtheningo fthe biodiversity conservationframework, through:

        (a)     the modernization of the legal and regulatory framework in respect
thereof;

        (b)     the institutional restructuring of DPN, including: (i)the building of
capacity of selected categories o f staff, in biodiversity management techniques,
participatory planning and communication strategies, (ii)the acquisition o f equipment in
relation thereto; and (iii)the provision of technical advisory services for fiduciary
oversight, monitoring and evaluation system of Part B activities;

        (c)     the provision of support for the establishment and operation of: (i)NBC,
to be established under the revised legal framework for the monitoring, evaluation and
public disclosure of the state of biodiversity in Senegal, and (ii)a biodiversity
information system for the management of data and records from said monitoring and
evaluation.
                                           * * *

                The Project is expected to be completedby June 1,2011.

                                            - 23 -


                                     SCHEDULE3


                                      Procurement


Section I General


A.      All goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) required for the
project and to be financed out of proceeds of the Financing, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section Iof the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and revised on October 2006 (the
ProcurementGuidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.


B.      All consultants' services ) required for the project and to be financed out of
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with Section I,paragraphs
3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV ,and Appendix 2 of the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and revised on
October 2006 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.


Section 11.   -!a  rticular Methods of Procurementof Goods, Works and Services (other
                 than Consultants' Services)

A.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B o f
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the provisions of Section I1 and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the
ProcurementGuidelines, and the following additional procedures:

B.      Other Procurement Procedures

1.      National Competitive Bidding. Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $ 1000,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive
bidding in accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs 3.1,3.3,3.4,3.14 and 3.15 of the
ProcurementGuidelines

2.      Shopping. Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping
procedures in accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs3.1 and 3.5 of the Guidelines.

3.      Direct Contracting. Goods and works which meet the requirements for direct
contracting referred to in paragraphs 3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs.

                                             - 24 -


4.       Procurement from UN Agencies. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract may be procured directly from the Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office o fthe UnitedNations in accordance with the provisionsof paragraphs 3.1
and 3.9 ofthe ProcurementGuidelines.

Section111.       ParticularMethodsof Procurementof Consultants' Services

A.       Qualitv- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of
this Section, consultants' services shall be procuredunder contracts awarded on the basis
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section I1 of the Consultant
Guidelines. For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines, the short list of
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 (could be increased up to
$200,000) equivalentper contractmay comprise entirely nationalconsultants.

B:       Other Procedures

1.       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7, and 3.8 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

2.       Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the
requirementsof paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelinesfor single source selection,
may, with the Bank's prior agreement as agreed in the procurementplan, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

3.      Individual Consultants. Services for assignments that meet the requirements set
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the ConsultantGuidelinesmay be procured
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis in accordancewith the provisionsof said
paragraph5.4, subject to prior approvalofthe Bank.

Section IV.       Reviewby the Bank of Procurement Decisions

A.      Prior Review. Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the
Borrower, taking into account the project performance in the field of procurement, the
following.prior review procedures shall applx

1.      Goods, Works and Services (other than Consultants' Services).

        (a)       The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Procurement Guidelines shall apply to each contract for goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) estimated to cost the equivalent of,

                                            - 25 -


respectively, $300,000, $1000,000, and $50,000 or more, procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, or national competitive bidding.

procured(b) the basis of direct contracting: (i)prior to the execution of the contract, the
                 The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be
          on
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract for
its approval; (ii)the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank's approval shall have
been given; and (iii)the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 (h) and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.

2.      Consultants' Services Provided by Firms.

        (a)      The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants'
services provided by a firm estimatedto cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.

        (b)      The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for
consultants' services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source
selection: (i)the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of
employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and
approval; (ii)the contract shall be awardedonly after the Bank's approval shall have been
given; and (iii)the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply to the contract.

B.       Post Review

1.       With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than
consultants' services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures
set forth in paragraph4 of Appendix 1to the ProcurementGuidelines shall applv.

2.       In respect to each contract for consultants' services not governed by Part A of
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
ConsultantGuidelines shall apply.

                                              - 26 -


                                        SCHEDULE 4

                                ImplementationProgram


I. InstitutionalArrangements


1.      The Recipient shall establish, and thereafter maintain at all times during Project
implementation:


Cellule Ope'rationnellede Mise en CEuvre (COMO)

        (a) under the monitoring and supervision of the ComitB de Pilotage. COMO
shall be responsiblefor implementinpPart B of the Project, including: (i)preparationof
Annual Work Programs for Part B of the Proiect; and (ii)related financial management,
reporting;, procurement, and monitoringand evaluation;

Comite' de pilotage

        (b)      consisting o f various representatives of selected Ministries of the
Recipient, and representatives of: (i)a community-based NGO; (ii)an international
NGO; (iii)artisanal fisheries; and (iv) industrial fisheries, not exceeding 17 members in
total;

        (c)      responsiblefor overseeingProjectimplementationand coordination;

        (d)      co-chairedrespectivelyby MEMand MEPN;

        (e)      with secretariat functionscarriedout by the ProjectCoordinator;

        ( f )    under the administrative authority of MEPN to which it will report
periodically;

The EcosystemManagementCommittee

        (8)      consisting, (i)in its majority, of representatives o f local communities and
stakeholders, and (ii)as well, of representatives of localfisheries and localnationalparks
administrations;

        (h)      chairedby a representative of localcommunitiesand stakeholders;

        (i)      staffed with a Secretary designated from amongst the commissioners of
protectedareas includedinthe 3 Projectareas;

The Technicaland Scientific Committee

                                              - 27 -


        (i)           consisting o f various representatives o f the sector not exceeding 25
in number, all possessing the qualifications and experience pertinent to the provision of
technical advice and guidance in sector research; and

        (k)      chaired by a scientific expert o f national or international repute.

11.     Execution covenants

Subproiects

2.      The Recipient shall maintain during Project implementation: (i)the PIM for the
implementation o f the Project; (ii)take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project
is carried out in conformity with the PIM; and (iii)unless the Association agrees to
otherwise in writing, not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion o f
the Association may materially and adversely affect the implementation o f the Project.

3.      Without limitation to the provisions o f paragraph 2 o f this Schedule, no
Subproject for the carrying out o f Part B.1 (a) o f the Project shall be eligible for financing
out o f the proceeds o f the Grant unless: (a) a Biodiversity committee shall have
determined, on the basis o f an appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set
forth in the Project Implementation Manual, after which approval shall be received from
DPN, that the Subproject concerned satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the
Project Implementation Manual, which shall include the following:

        (a)      the Subproject shall be for, inter alia, the establishment o f allowable
catch for certain species o f fisheries, the development o f monitoring and control systems
for allocating target fisheries among registered fishermen;

        (b)      except as the Association shall otherwise agree, a Beneficiary shall
provide not less than 5% o f the estimated capital costs o f the Subproject in the form o f
materials, labor or other services;

        (c)      each Subproject shall be prepared in accordance with the procedures set
forth in the RPF and the EMP and shall be designed, executed and carried out in full
compliance with the standards set forth in the EMP, the RPF and the laws o f the
Recipient relating to safety and environmental protection; and

        (d)      the acquisition o f land or other assets for the implementation o f any
Subproject and the determination and payment o f compensation therefore, including the
compensation for loss o f income, shall be carried out in accordance with the principles
and procedures set forth inthe RPF.

B.      Submoiect Agreements

4.      (a)      In financing the carrying out o f a Subproject under Part B.1 (a) o f the
Project, MEPN shall enter into a Subproject Agreement with a Beneficiary.

                                          - 28 -


        (b)      The Subproject Agreement, shall set forth the respective obligations of
the parties thereunder which are specified in the Project Implementation Manual, under
terms and conditionswhich shall includethe following:

                         financing for a Subproject shall be on a grant basis, not to
                       exceed $50,000 equivalentper Subproject Agreement;

                       the requirement that the goods, works. and services to be
                       financed out of the proceeds of the Subproject Agreement be
                       procured and paid by MEPN, in conformity with the provisions
                       set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and that such goods,
                       works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
                       by Beneficiaries ofthe relevant Subproject;

                       the requirement that the proceeds of the Subproject Agreement
                       be used for the exclusive benefit of the Beneficiaries concerned
                       and for the purposesspecified in each Subproject;

                       the requirementthat MEPN maintain for Beneficiaries pursuant
                       to Subproject Agreements a separate accounting and financial
                       management system, including records and separate accounts
                       reflecting the operations, resources and expenditures related to
                       the carryingout of each Subproject;

                       the requirement that the implementation progress for each
                       Subproject be furnished to MEPN and the Association, each
                       calendar quarter in each FY;

                       the right of MEPN to inspect by themselves or jointly with the
                       Association the services, goods, works and constructions
                       financed under the relevant Subproject, the operationthereof and
                       any recordor relevantdocument; and

                       the right of MEPN to suspend or terminate the right of a
                       Beneficiaryto use the goods, works, and services financed out of
                       the proceeds of the Grant upon failure by such Beneficiary to
                       performany of its obligationsunder the SubprojectAgreement.

5.      The Recipient shall ensure that Annual Work Programs are submitted annually
and approvedby the SteeringCommitteebeforetheir implementation.

6.      The Recipient shall ensure that the National Biodiversity Committee prepares
and furnishes to MEPN and the Association annual reports, in form and substance
satisfactoryto the Association.

                                            - 29 -


7.      Not later than January 1,2005, the Recipient shall establish a secretariat for NBC
within DPN.

- Pro-iectImdementationReview
111

8.      The Recipient shall:

        (a)      maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to
this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement o f the objectives
thereof;

        (b)      prepare, under terms o f reference satisfactory to the Association, and
furnish to the Association, on or about February 15 and August 15 in each FY a report
integrating the results o f the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to
paragraph (a) o f this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out o f the Project
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out o f the Project and the achievement o f
the objectives thereof duringthe period following such date; and

        (c)      review with the Association, by March 15 and September 15 in each FY
or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
o f this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
completion o f the Project and the achievement o f the objectives thereof, based on the
conclusions and recommendations o f the said report and the Association's views on the
matter.




                                      SCHEDULE5

                                 PerformanceIndicators



        For purposes o f this Agreement, the performance indicators to be used for Part B
   o f Project implementation are as follows:



   0    Local fisheries managementsub-projects are implementedin4 pilot sites
   by EOP.
    0   Management plans for 2 key fisheries are prepared, and approved by the
    National Consultative Council for MaritimeFisheries.

                                 - 3 0 -



0   Managementeffectivesofbiodiversityinthe three pilot areas increasedby
at least 50% by EOP.
0   Biodiversity andProtectedArea framework law is preparedandsubmitted
to Government beforeEOP.


.   1




                                                 CREDIT NUMBER3998 SE




            Agreement Providing for
      the Amendment and Restatement
                                of the
       Development CreditAgreement

         (IntegratedCoastaland Maritime ResourceManagementProject)


                                  between


                         REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL


                                     and

              INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION


                         Dated               ,2008

                                                         CREDITNUMBER3998 SE

                           AGREEMENT PROVIDINGFOR
                    THE AMENDMENT AND RESTATEMENTOF
                    THE DEVELOPMENTCREDITAGREEMENT


         AGREEMENT, dated                    , between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
(the   Borrower)      and     INTERNATIONAL         DEVELOPMENT      ASSOCIATION
(the Association)(the Agreement to Amend the DevelopmentCreditAgreement).


        WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to amend the
Development Credit Agreement between the Borrower and the Association dated
January 4,2005, in the mannerhereinafter set forth;


        NOW THEREFOREthe partieshereto agree as follows:


                                        ARTICLE I

        Section 1.01. The Development Credit Agreement is hereby amended and
restated so as to read as set forth inthe Annex hereto.


        Section 1.02. ThisAgreement shall become effective uponthe signinghereof


        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in                       ,asofthedayandyear first abovewritten.




                                                            Authorized Representative




                                                            AuthorizedRepresentative

                              2


                           ANNEX

 To Agreement providingfor Amendment and Restatementof the
           DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT




                                          CREDIT NUMBER 3998 SE


Development Credit Agreement

 (Integrated Coastaland MaritimeResourceManagementProject)


                           between


                   REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL


                              and

      INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION




                     DatedJanuary 4,2005
                                       . *

                                                             CREDIT NUMBER 3998 SE


                      DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT

         AGREEMENT, dated January 4, 2005, between REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL
 (the   Borrower)     and    INTERNATIONAL          DEVELOPMENT             ASSOCIATION
 (theAssociation).


         WHEREAS (A) the Association has received a letter from the Borrower, dated
August 6, 2004, describing a program designed to focus its management efforts on the
coastal and maritime ecosystems to ensure sustainable livelihoodsof coastalcommunities
and maintainthe fishing sector as a major source of economic growth (the Program) and
declaringthereinthe Borrower's commitmentto the executionof such program;


         (B)      the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Associationto
assist in the financingof the Project;


        (C)       the Borrower has also requested the International Bank for
Reconstructionand Development (the Bank), acting as an implementing agency of the
Global Environment Facility (GEF), to provide additional financing towards the
financing of the Project and, by an agreement of even date herewith between the
Borrower and the Bank, the Bank is agreeing to provide such assistance in an aggregate
principal amount equivalent to five million United States Dollars (US$5,000,000) (the
GEF Trust FundGrant); and


        WHEREAS the Associationhas agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing,
to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this
Agreement;


        NOW THEREFOREthe partieshereto hereby agree as follows:


                                      ARTICLE I

                            GeneralConditions;Definitions

        Section 1.O 1. The "General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1,             1985 (as amended through
May 1, 2004) (the GeneralConditions),constitutean integralpartof this Agreement.

        Section 1.02.Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective

                                           - 2 -


meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:

        (a)     "Biosphere Reserve" means a specific area of the Borrower's territory
which has been recognized to constitute a biosphere reserve in accordance with the
UNESCOManand BiosphereProgramof 1970;


        (b)     "CNCPM' means Conseil National Consultatif des Piches Maritimes,
the NationalCouncil for Maritime Fishing, established by law No 98-32 of the Borrower
dated April 14, 1998, as a consultativebody for all matters relevantto Maritime fishing
in the territory of the Borrower and chaired by the Director of DPM (as hereinafter
defined);


        (c)     "Co-Management" and "CM' mean a system of co-management of
fishing resources, including area-based co-management, established between the
Borrowerand localfisheriescommittees;


July 27,(d)     "Comite` de Pilotage" means the steering committee established on
         2004, by the Borrower to oversee the implementation of the Borrower's
Program;


        (e)     "Comite`Local de PZcheurs" and "CLP" mean a committeeestablished in
accordance with relevant laws of the Borrower and consisting of local fishermen and
stakeholders, which is to enter into a SubprojectAgreement with MEM;

        (f)     "COMO" means Cellule Ope`rationnelle de Mise en Oeuvre, the
implementation cell for Part A of the Project established within DPM (Direction des
PZches Maritimes);


        (g)     "Conseil Local de Piche Artisanale    " and "CLPA" mean a fisheries
council, established at local level by the Borrower for assisting in the operation of Co-
Managedfisheries;


        (h)     "CRODT" means Centre de Recherches Oce`anographiques de Dakar-
Thiaroye,establishedby the Borrower in 1974;


        (i)     "DPM" means Direction des Pgches Maritimes, a directorate of MEM
(as hereinafterdefined);


        (j)      "DPN" means Direction des Parcs Nationaux,a directorate o f MEPN (as
hereinafterdefined);

                                           - 3 -



prepared(k) the Borrower for purposesof implementingthe Project;
                "EA" means the Environmental Assessment of Project activities to be
          by

         (1)    "Ecosystem Management Committee" means the committee to be
established under the Project through law of the Borrower, and to be made responsible
for overseeing the preparation, and monitor the implementation, of an ecosystem
managementplanfor each of the Borrower'spilot areas selectedunder the Project;


         (m)    "Eligible Categories" means Categories (1) through (6) set forth in the
table in PartA.l of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;


         (n)    "Eligible Expenditures" means the expenditures for goods, works and
consultants' services referredto in Section 2.02 o fthis Agreement;


        (0)     "EMP" means the Environmental Management Plan prepared by the
Borrower for the mitigation of adverse environmental outcomes arising out of Project
implementation;


        (p)     "FCFA" means Franc de la Communaute` Financikre Afiicaine, the
currency of the Borrower;


        (4)     "Interim Financial Report" or "FMR' means each report prepared in
accordance with Section 4.02 ofthis Agreement;


        (r)     "Fiscal Year" and "FY" mean the fiscal year of the Borrower
commencingJanuary 1 and endingDecember 31;


        (s)     "IEC" means Information,Educationand Communication;


        (t)     "MEM" means Ministkre de 1'Economie Maritime, the Borrower's
Ministry of MaritimeEconomy;


        (u)     "MEPN" means Ministbe de 1'Environnement et de la Protection de la
Nature, the Borrower's Ministry of Environmentand Preservationof Nature;


        (v)     "National Biodiversity Committee" and "NBC" mean the committee
established by Law No 00/325 of the Borrower, dated January 26, 2004, and responsible
for matters o f biodiversity in the territory of the Borrower under the administrative
authority of MEPN;

                                            - 4 -


         (w)      "NGO" means a Non Governmental Organization operating under the
laws ofthe Borrower;


for each(x)       "Annual Work Program" means the work program prepared by COMO
          Fiscal Year during Project implementation, including budget and procurement
plans inrespect thereof, to be approved annuallyby the Cornite`depilotage;


         (y)      "Procurement Plan" means the Borrower's procurement plan, dated
July 9, 2004, coveringthe initial 18 month period (or longer) of Project implementation,
as the same shall be updated annually in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02
to this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18 month periods (or longer) of Project
implementation;


         (2)      "Project Account" means the Account referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of
this Agreement;


         (aa)    "Project Implementation Manual" and "PIM' mean the manual referred
to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement setting forth, inter alia, (a) the detailed
institutionalarrangements for the Project, includingoperatingrules for the functioningof
relevant institutions, (b) the procurement and accounting methods and procedures to be
used for the Project, (c) detailed criteria, terms and conditions for Subprojects and
Subproject agreements, (d) the communication plans for the Project, (e) the detailed
description of Project activities, (f) the procedures and guidelines for the coordination,
management, monitoring and evaluation of the Project, including detailed performance
indicators, training plans and capacity building programs therefore, and (8) all other
activities and arrangementsto be used for the purposes of implementingthe Project, to be
adopted by the Borrower not later than the Effective Date, as the same may be amended
from time to time with the Association's prior writtenconsent, and such term includesthe
ProjectImplementationPlan(PIP) and any other schedules to the PIM;


         (bb)    "Project Preparation Advance" means the project preparation advance
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed
February 11,2004 on behalfofthe Associationand the Borrower;


         (cc)    "Report-based Disbursements" means the Borrower's option for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account referredto in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement;


         (dd)    "RPF" means the Resettlement Policy Framework and the process
framework preparedfor the Project;

                                           - 5 -


        (ee)    "Designated Account" means the account referred to in Part B of
Schedule 1to this Agreement;


        (ff)    "STC" means the Advisory Scientific and Technical Committee,
established by Law of the Borrower dated July 27, 2004, under the administrative
authority of MEPN;


        (gg)    "Subproject Agreement" means the agreement entered into between
MEM and a Comite` Local de Picheurs for the carrying out of Subprojects identified in
CLPA managementplans; and


        (hh)    "Subproject" means specific activities in C M devised by a CLP and
included ina managementplan submitted by a CLPA for approval by MEM.


                                      ARTICLE I1

                                        The Credit

        Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in
various currencies equivalent to six million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing
Rights (SDR 6,900,000).

        Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for
expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the
reasonable cost o f goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of
the proceedsof the Credit.

        (b)     Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and pay to itself the amount required to
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and
outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project PreparationAdvance shall thereupon be
canceled.

        Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 1, 2011 or such later date as
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of
such later date.

        Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of
one percent(1/2 of 1%) per annum.

                                            - 6 -


the date(b) this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts
                 The commitment charge shall accrue: (i)from the date sixty days after
          of
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the CreditAccount or canceled; and (ii)at the
rate set as of the June 30 immediately precedingthe accrual date and at such other rates
as may be set from time to time thereafterpursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in
Section 2.06 ofthis Agreement.

         (c)     The commitment charge shall be paid: (i)at such places as the
Association shall reasonably request; (ii)without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii)in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section4.02 of the General Conditionsor in such other eligible currency
or currencies as may from time 'to time be designated or selected pursuant to the
provisionsofthat Section.

         Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the
rate of three-fourthsof one percent (3/4 of 1YO)per annum on the principal amount of the
Creditwithdrawn and outstandingfrom time to time.

         Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable
semiannuallyon January 15 and July 15 in eachyear.

         Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each
January 15 and July 15 commencingJanuary 15, 2015, and ending July 15, 2044. Each
installmentto and includingthe installmentpayableon July 15, 2024 shall be one percent
(1%) of such principal amount, and each installmentthereafter shall be two percent (2%)
of such principalamount.

         (b)     Whenever: (i)the Borrower'sper capita gross nationalproduct(GNP), as
determinedby the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutiveyears the level
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the
Association's resources; and (ii)the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequentto the review and approvalthereofby the
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under
paragraph(a) above by:

                 (A)      requiringthe Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
                          installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit
                          shall havebeen repaid; and

                 (B)      requiringthe Borrower to commence repayment o f the principal
                          amount of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date
                          referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six months or more

                                            - 7 -


                          after the date on which the Association notifies the Borrower that
                          the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided,
                          however, that there shall be a grace period o f a minimum o f five
                          years on such repayment o f principal.

         (c)     If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu o f some or all o f the
increase in the amounts o f such installments, the payment o f interest at an annual rate
agreed with the Association on the principal amount o f the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment o f the Association, such
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned
repayment modification.

         (d)     If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b)
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further
modify the terms o f repayment to conform to the schedule o f installments as provided in
paragraph (a) above.

         Section 2.08. The currency o f the French Republic is hereby specified for the
purposes o f Section 4.02 o f the General Conditions.


                                       ARTICLE I11

                                  Execution of the Project

         Section 3.O 1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives o f the
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out Part
A o f the Project through COMO with due diligence and efficiency and inconformity with
appropriate environmental, administrative, and financial practices, and shall provide,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
Project .

         (b)     Without limitation upon the provisions o f paragraph (a) o f this Section
and except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall
carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.

         Section 3 -02.(a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, procurement o f
the goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to be financed out
o f the proceeds o f the Credit shall be governed by the provisions o f Schedule 4 to this
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated inthe Procurement Plan.

         (b)     The Borrower shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with
terms o f reference acceptable to the Association, and furnish such update to the

                                           - 8 -


Association not later than 12 months after the date o f the preceding Procurement Plan, for
the Association's approval.

         Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.06 of the General Conditions and
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall:

        (a)     prepare, on the basis o f guidelines acceptable to the Association, and
furnish to the Association not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose betweenthe Borrower and the Association, a
plan designedto ensure the continued achievement of Project's objectives; and

         (b)    afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with
the Borrower on saidplan.

         Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall open and maintain, for the duration o f the
Project, a Designated Account (the Project Account) in FCFA in its Treasury books on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association;

         (b)    promptly thereafter, make an initial deposit into the Project Account, in
an amount equivalent to FCFA fifty-four million (FCFA 54,000,000) to finance the
Borrower's contribution to the Project;

         (c)    thereafter deposit into the Project Account by February 15 in each Fiscal
Year during Project implementation such amount as shall be required to timely replenish
the Project Account back to the amount of the initial deposit referred to in paragraph (b)
above; and

         (d)    ensure that amounts deposited into the Project Account shall be used
exclusively to make payments to meet expenditures made or to be made in respect of the
reasonablecost of goods, works and services for the Project in addition to those financed
from the proceedsof the Credit.

                                            - 9 -


                                       ARTICLE IV

                                   FinancialCovenants

        Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish and maintain a financial
management system, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Association,
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.

        (b)     The Borrower shall:

                (i)      have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) o f this
                         Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the
                         Association), commencing with the fiscal year in which the first
                         withdrawal under the Project Preparation Advance was made
                         audited,   in accordance with consistently applied auditing
                         standards acceptable to the Association, by independent auditors
                         acceptable to the Association;

                (ii)     furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case
                         not later than six months after the end o f each such year (or such
                         other period agreed to by the Association), (A) certified copies
                         o f the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) o f this
                         Section for such year (or other period agreed to by the
                         Association),   as so audited, and (B) an opinion on such
                         statements by said auditors, in scope and detail satisfactory to the
                         Association; and

                (iii)    furnish to the Association such other information concerning
                         such records and accounts, and the audit o f such financial
                         statements, and concerning said auditors, as the Association may
                         from time to time reasonably request.

        (c)     For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Credit
Account were made on the basis o f reports referred to in Part A.5 o f Schedule 1 to this
Agreement (Report-based Disbursements) or on the basis o f statements o f expenditure,
the Borrower shall:

                (i)      retain, until at least one year after the Association has received
                         the audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last
                         withdrawal from the Credit Account was made, all records
                         (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                         evidencing such expenditures;

                                           - 10-


                (ii) enable the Association's representatives to examine such
                        records; and

                (iii)   ensure that such reports and statements of expenditure are
                        included in the audit for each fiscal year (or other period agreed
                        to by the Association), referred to in paragraph (b) of this
                        Section.

        Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the Borrower's progress reporting
obligations set out in Schedule 4 to this Agreement, the Borrower shall prepare and
furnish to the Association a financial monitoring report, in form and substance
satisfactoryto the Association, which:

                (i)     sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both
                        cumulatively and for the period coveredby said report, showing
                        separately funds provided under the Credit, and explains
                        variances betweenthe actual and plannedusesof such funds;

                (ii) describes use of funds by activityhomponents, both
                        cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and
                        explains variances between the actual and planned Project
                        implementation.

        (b)     The first IFR shall be furnishedto the Association not later than 30 days
after the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the
period from the incurrence of the first expenditureunder the Project through the end o f
such first calendar quarter; thereafter, each IFR shall be furnished to the Association not
later than 30 days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover such calendar
quarter.


                                        ARTICLE V


                               Remediesof the Association

        Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (I) of the General Conditions, the
following additional event is specified, namely, that that a situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that the Program or a significant part thereof will be
carriedout.




                                       ARTICLE V I

                                            - 11 -

                               Effective Date; Termination


          Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the
effectiveness o f the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning o f Section 12.01
(b) o f the General Conditions:

          (a)     the Borrower has: (i) established the accounting and financial
management system for the Project referred to in Section 4.01 o f this Agreement, in a
manner satisfactory to the Association, and (ii)appointed independent auditors for the
Project with experience and qualifications satisfactory to the Association;


          (b)     the Borrower has opened the Project Account pursuant to Section 3.04
(a) o f this Agreement and has deposited therein the initial deposit referred to in Section
3.04 (b) o f this Agreement;


         (c)      the Borrower has adopted the Project Implementation Manual, including
the PIP, in form and substance satisfactory to the Association;


         (d)      the Borrower has completed the work program, including the budget and
the procurement plan for the first year o f Project implementation, satisfactory in form and
substance to the Association;


         (e)      the Borrower has staffed PCU with a Project coordinator and specialists
in: (i)financial management, (ii)procurement, (iii)fisheries, (iv) communication, (v)
community participation, (vi) biodiversity, (vii) administration and human resources, and
(viii) monitoring and evaluation, all having experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Association, and employed in accordance with the provisions o f Section I1 o f
Schedule 3 to this Agreement;

         (0       the Borrower has identified four (4) initial sites for the implementation o f
fisheries co-management activities; and


         (g)      the Borrower has appointed four (4) facilitators for the Project.

          Section 6.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date o f this Agreement is hereby
specified for the purposes o f Section 12.04 o f the General Conditions.

                                         - 12-

                                     ARTICLE VI1


                      Representativeof the Borrower;Addresses

       Section 7.01. The Minister o f the Borrower in charge o f finance i s designated as
representative o f the Borrower for the purposes o f Section 11.03 of the General
Conditions.

       Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes o f
Section 11.01 o f the General Conditions:

       For the Borrower:

                Ministryof Economy and Finance
                RueReneN'diaye
                B.P. 4017
                Dakar
                Senegal

                Cable address:                         Telex:           Fascimile:

                MINIFINANCES                           3203 G           221-821-1630
                Dakar


       For the Association:

                International Development Association
                 1818 HStreet, N.W.
                Washington, D.C. 20433
                UnitedStates ofAmerica

                Cable address:                 Telex:                   Facsimile:

                INDEVAS                        248423 (MCI) or          (202) 477-6391
                Washington, D.C.               64145 (MCI)

       IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective
names in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.




                        REPUBLICOF SENEGAL




                        BY                     Is/Dr.LamineBA
                                                             AuthorizedRepresentative


                        INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION




                        BY                     Is/ MahmoodA. Ayub
                                                             AuthorizedRepresentative

                                           - 14-

                                     SCHEDULE 1

                       Withdrawalof the Proceedsof the Credit

1.      The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each Category and
the percentageof expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:

                                        Amount af the
                                       Credit Allocated                 Yo o f
                                         (Expressed in              Expenditures
       Category                        SDR Eauivalent)             to be Financed

(1)    Works for Part A                        375,000           100% of foreign
                                                                expenditures, and
                                                                90 YOof local
                                                                expenditures

(2)    Goods for Part A                        695,000           100% of foreign
                                                                expenditures, and
                                                                90% of local
                                                                expenditures

       Consultants'                          3,220,000           100% of foreign
       services and audits for Part A                           expenditures, and
                                                                90% of local
                                                                expenditures

(4)    Subprojects for                         998,000           100% of amounts
       Part A.2 of the Project                                  disbursed

(5)    Training for Part A                     262,000           100%


       Operating Costs for Part A            1,000,000          90%

       Refunding of                            350,000          Amount due pursuant
       Project Preparation                                      to Section 2.02 (b) of
       Advance                                                  this Agreement


            TOTAL                            6,900,000

                                              - 15 -

2.       For the purposes of this Schedule:

         (a)      the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency o f
any country other than that o f the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the
territory o f any country other than that o f the Borrower;

         (b)      the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency o f the
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory o f the Borrower ;provided,
however, that, if the currency o f the Borrower is also that o f another country from the
territory o f which goods or services are supplied, expenditures in such currency for such
goods or services shall be deemed to be "foreign expenditures"; and

         (c)      the term "operating costs" means the incremental expenses incurred on
account o f Project implementation, including office equipment and supplies, vehicle
operation and maintenance, communication and insurance costs, office administration
costs, special account banking charges, utilities, travel, per diem and supervision costs,
and salaries o f locally contracted employees, but excluding salaries o f officials o f the
Borrower's civil service.

3.      Notwithstanding the provisions o f paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be
made in respect o f payments made for:

         (a)        expenditures prior to the date o f this Agreement,

         (b)        category (4), unless a Subproject Agreement has been entered into
                    between MEM and a CLP in accordance with the procedures and the
                    terms and conditions referred to in Schedule 4 to this Agreement and in
                    the PIM, including all environmental mitigation measures and
                    resettlement procedures in respect thereof set forth in the Project
                    Implementation Manual, the ESMF and the RPF, as shall be evidenced
                    by the first such Subproject Agreement furnished to the Association for
                    its prior approval;

4.      The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis of statements o f expenditure for expenditures under contracts for: (a) goods
costing less than $150,000 equivalent per contract; (b) works costing less than $500,000
equivalent per contract; (c) services o f individual consultants costing less than $50,000
equivalent per contract; (d) services o f consulting firms under contracts costing less than

than $30,000 equivalent per contract, (0 Subprojects costing less than $50,000 per
$100,000 equivalent per contract, (e) services other than consultant services costing less

Subproject Agreement, and (g) training and operating costs, all under such terms and
conditions as the Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.

5.      The Borrower may request withdrawals from the Credit Account to be made on
the basis o f reports to be submitted to the Association in form and substance satisfactory

                                          - 16-

to the Association, such reports to include the IFR and any other information as the
Associationshall specify by noticeto the Borrower(Report-based Disbursements).In the
case ofthe first such request submittedto the Associationbeforeany withdrawal has been
made from the Credit Account, the Borrower shall submit to the Association only a
statement with the projectedsources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
monthperiodfollowing the date of such request.

B.      DesignatedAccount

1.      The Borrower may open and maintain in FCFA a designated deposit account in a
commercial Bank acceptable to the Association, on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, includingappropriateprotection against set-off, seizure and attachment.

2.      After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Designated
Account has been opened, withdrawals from the Credit Account of amounts to be
deposited into the Designated Account shall bemade as follows:

        (a)      ifthe Borrower is not makingReport-based Disbursements, withdrawals
shallbemade in accordance with the provisionsof Annex A to this Schedule 1;and

bemade(b)        ifthe Borroweris makingReport-basedDisbursements, withdrawalsshall
         inaccordancewith the provisionsofAnnex B to this Schedule 1.

3.      Payments out of the DesignatedAccount shall be made exclusively for Eligible
Expenditures. For each paymentmade by the Borrower out of the DesignatedAccount,
the Borrower shall, at suchtime as the Associationshallreasonably request, furnishto the
Association such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.

4.      Notwithstandingthe provisionsofPartB.2ofthis Schedule, the Associationshall
notbe requiredto makefurther deposits into the SpecialAccount:

        (a)      ifthe Association, at any time, is notsatisfiedthat the reportsreferredto
in Part AS of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-
basedDisbursements;

        (b)      ifthe Associationdeterminesat any time that all further withdrawals for
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Borrower directly from the
CreditAccount; or

        (c)      ifthe Borrowershall havefailedto furnishto the Association,within the
periodo ftime specifiedin Section 4.01 (b) (ii)of this Agreement, any ofthe audit reports
requiredto be furnishedto the Associationpursuant to said Section inrespect of the audit
of: (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based

                                           - 17-

Disbursementsor were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may
be.

5 .      The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
DesignatedAccount in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at
any time, the Association shall have notified the Borrower and the Guarantor of its
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals
from the Credit Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such
notification, the Association shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further
deposits into the Designated Account may be made and what procedures should be
followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the Borrower and the Guarantor of its
determination.

6.       (a)     If the Association determines at any time that any payment out of the
DesignatedAccount was made for an expenditurewhich is not an Eligible Expenditure,
or was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association, provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, ifthe Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.
Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Association into
the DesignatedAccount shall be made untilthe Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.

         (b)     Ifthe Association determinesat any time that any amountoutstanding in
the DesignatedAccount will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association, refund to the Association such outstanding amount.

         (c)    The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund to the
Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit inthe DesignatedAccount.

         (d)     Refunds to the Association made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c)
of this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Credit Account for subsequent withdrawal or
for cancellation in accordancewith the provisions of the Credit Agreement.

                                          - 18 -

                                        Annex A
                                            to
                                    SCHEDULE 1

                           Operation of DesignatedAccount
                             When Withdrawals Are Not
                             Report-basedDisbursements


1.      For the purposes of this Annex, the term "Authorized Allocation" means the
amount of FCFA 550,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
into the Designated Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex, provided, however,
that unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to FCFA 300,000,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special
commitments entered into by the Association pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General
Conditionsshallbe equal to or exceed the equivalentof SDR 1,400,000.

2.      Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenishthe DesignatedAccount shallbe made as follows:

        (a)      For withdrawalsof the AuthorizedAllocation, the Borrowershall furnish
to the Association a request or requests for deposit into the DesignatedAccount of an
amount or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the AuthorizedAllocation. On
the basisof each such request, the Association shall, on behalfof the Borrower, withdraw
from the Credit Account and deposit into the DesignatedAccount such amount as the
Borrower shallhaverequested.

        (b)      For replenishment of the Designated Account, the Borrower shall
furnish to the Association requests for deposit into the Designated Account at such
intervals as the Associationshall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association the documents and other evidence required
pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in
respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the DesignatedAccount such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid
out of the Designated Account for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the
Designated Account shall be withdrawn by the Association from the Credit Account
under one or moreof the Eligible Categories.

3.      The Association shall not be required to make further deposits into the
DesignatedAccount, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit minus the total
amount of all outstandingspecial commitments entered into by the Associationpursuant

                                         - 1 9 -


to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have been satisfied that all
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Designated Account as of the date o f such
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.

                                         - 20 -

                                       Annex B
                                           to
                                    SCHEDULE 1

                          Operationof DesignatedAccount
                               When WithdrawalsAre
                             Rep0rt-basedDisbursements


1.      Withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the Association into
the Designated Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Designated1Account shall be withdrawn by the
Associationfrom the CreditAccount under one or moreofthe Eligible Categories.

2.      Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Credit, the
Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and
deposit into the DesignatedAccount an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so
requested; and (b) the amountwhich the Associationhas determined, based on the reports
referred to in Part AS of this Schedule 1 applicable to such withdrawal application, is
requiredto be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expendituresduring the six-month
periodfollowing the date of such reports.

                                            -21 -


                                      SCHEDULE2

                                Description of the Project

         The objectives of the Project are to assist the communities within the Borrower's
territory in achieving sustainable management of the Borrower's coastal and maritime
resources, including ensuring responsible exploitation of resources combined with
protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment.

         The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof
as the Borrower and the Association may agree upon from time to time to achieve such
objectives:

Part A: Managementof SustainableFisheries

1.       Supporting activities at national level which enable implementation of local Co-
Managementinitiatives through:

         (a)     the carrying out of studies to evaluate fisheries sector policy options
available to the Borrower, including the establishment of user-rights systems and the
establishment of CLPs, the ensuing preparation, through stakeholder participatory
process and consensus building activities carried out under the aegis of CNCPM, o f a
strategic framework for the managementof fisheries inthe territory of the Borrower;

         (b)     (i)thepreparationbyCOMOincooperationwithCRODTandwithprior
review by CNCPM, and the ensuing implementation of 2 or more selectedtarget fisheries
management plans, to include, inter alia, the total allowable catch for each target species,
the allocation of resources between artisanal and industrial fleets, the limitation on
industrial fishing activities, the reduction target in fishing capacity, the local
management, monitoring, and surveillance measures, the action plan for compensating
fishermen negatively affected by the implementation of such plans; and (ii)the carrying
out of annual monitoring and evaluation activities with respect to the implementation of
each plan;

         (c)     the provision of support and technical advisory services to the
institutional strengthening and the operations of CNCPM with respect to the review of
each of the 2 or more key fisheries managementplans and the attainment of a stakeholder
consensus, including CLPs;

         (d)     the preparation, in cooperation with NGOs, of an IEC plan, and
thereafter, the carrying out of a related campaign to increase awareness of fisher
communities, professional organizations, and interested audience over the principles and
benefits to be derived from co-management systems promoted under the Project,
including CM;

                                           - 22 -


research(e)specifically targeted at defining the life cycles of key demersal species,
                 (i)the preparationby COMO of an incrementalprogram of fisheries

includingthe development of an operationalplanningframework for researchdesigned to
support national level management plans and local level co-management, including CM,
and to evaluate the socioeconomic impact of such plans, and thereafter; and (ii)the
implementationof such programby CRODT; and

        (f)      (i)theestablishmentand,thereafter,theimplementationofanationwide
system of small boat (pirogues) registration to evaluate and monitor artisanal fishing
operations, including the preparation of updated legislation in that matter; and (ii)the
building of capacity therefore in MEM's staff, includingthrough training and acquisition
of goods.

2.      Promotingand coordinatinglocalco-management initiativesthrough:

        (a)      the establishment of CLPs, and the provision of support for the
identificationand preparationof CLPs Subprojects;

        (b)      the provision of support to CLPAs to integrate Subprojects in their own
annual management plans for approval by DPM, including the monitoring, control and
surveillance inrelationthereto, through:

                 (i)     the training of facilitators recruitedunder the Project to assist in
                         the establishment of CLPs and the preparation of their
                         Subprojects, including participatory fish stock evaluation
                         activities inrespectthereof;

                 (ii)    the preparation by COMO of baseline social, economic and
                         political studies to support the identification of and reduce the
                         risks associatedwith the implementationof the Subprojects;

                 (iii)   the provision of technical advisory services by facilitators for
                         assisting CLPs in the implementation o f eligible Subprojects,
                         including the carrying out of civil works and the acquisition o f
                         goods in relationthereto;

        (c)      the design and implementation of local level monitoring, control and
surveillance measures and systems, including, inter alia, the participatorymonitoring of
fish catches and surveillance;

prepared(d)by DPM, including, inter alia, assessment o f local maritime ecosystems,
                 the carrying out by CRODT o f local fish stock evaluation programs

geographic areas of proposed Subprojects, or impact evaluation of Subprojects on
targeted resources;

                                          - 23 -


        (e)       (i)the drafting of operating rules for the functioning of CLPs, the
elaboration of their annual management plans, and (ii) the carrying out of independent
evaluation regarding the implementation of such plans;

        (f)       the development of a monitoring system for the performance of the co-
management system, including, inter diu, with respect to measuring annual progress on
meeting objectives of the SubprojectAgreements betweenMEMand CLPs; and

        (g)       (i)the assessment of activities carried out under the co-management
system in selected sites of the Borrower's territory, and (ii)the ensuing update of the
legal, institutional and regulatory framework in accordance with the findings of such
assessment.

3.      Strengtheninginstitutional capacity of MEMthrough:

Part A of(a)the Project activities; and
                  the establishment of COMO in DPM to oversee the implementation of


        (b)       the provision of technical advisory services for the fiduciary oversight,
monitoring and evaluation of Part A of the Project, and for the design of participatory
research programs for co-management initiatives, including the carrying out of training
programs in relation thereto for staff of MEM.

4.      Buildingcapacity of professionalorganizations in:

        the design and planning of co-managementsystems and in sector development, to
foster a more effective participation of said organizations in CNCPM, through training
programs organized by COMO.

Part B: Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species

        Improvingthe long-term management of the Borrower's Biosphere Reservesand
network of coastal protected areas through:

1.      The management o f the ecosystems in selected areas of the Borrower's territory
through:

        (a)       the preparation of management plans using an ecosystem approach and,
thereafter, the implementation o f such plans in the selected areas of: (i) Suloum Delta
                                                                          the
BiosphereReserve, (ii)the SenegalRiver Delta BiosphereReserve, and (iii)the Cup-Vert
Peninsula; and

        (b)       the establishmentand operation, in said areas, of ecosystem management
committees to participate in decision-making processes concerning the management of
the sites' ecosystems and biodiversity and to oversee the preparation and monitoring of
such plans, and the goals and priority investments containedtherein.

                                          - 24 -

2.      The strengthening;of the biodiversity conservation framework, through:

        (a)     the modernization of the legal and regulatory framework in respect
thereof;

        (b)     the institutional restructuring of DPN, including: (i)the building of
capacity of selected categories of staff, in biodiversity management techniques,
participatory planning and communication strategies, (ii)the acquisition of equipment in
relation thereto; and (iii)the provision of technical advisory services for fiduciary
oversight, monitoring and evaluation system of Part B activities;

        (c)     the provision of support for the establishmentand operation o f (i)NBC,
to be established under the revised legal framework for the monitoring, evaluation and
public disclosure of the state of biodiversity in Senegal, and (ii)a biodiversity
information system for the management of data and records from said monitoring and
evaluation.
                                          * * *

                The Project is expectedto be completed by June 1, 2011.

                                          - 25 -

                                     SCHEDULE3


                                      Procurement


Section I General

A.      All goods, works and services (other than consultants' services) required for the
project and to be financed out of proceeds of the Financing, shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of Section Iof the "Guidelines for Procurement under
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" dated May 2004 and revised on October 2006 (the
ProcurementGuidelines), and with the provisions ofthis Schedule.

B.      All consultants' services ) required for the project and to be financed out o f
proceeds of the Financing shall be procured in accordance with Section I,paragraphs
3.15 through 3.20, and Section IV ,and Appendix 2 of the "Guidelines: Selection and
Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" dated May 2004 and revised on
October 2006 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this Schedule.

Section 11.     Particular Methods of Procurementof Goods, Works and Services (other
                than Consultants' Services)

A.      International Competitive Bidding. Except as otherwise provided in Part B of
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of international competitive bidding
in accordance with the provisions of Section I1 and paragraphs 3.14 and 3.15 of the
ProcurementGuidelines, and the following additional procedures:

B.      Other Procurement Procedures

1.      National Competitive Bidding;. Goods estimated to cost less than $300,000
equivalent per contract and works estimated to cost less than $ 1000,000 equivalent per
contract, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of national competitive
bidding in accordancewith the provisions o f paragraphs3.1,3.3,3.4,3.14 and 3.15 ofthe
Procurement Guidelines

2.      Shopping. Goods and works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per
contract, respectively, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of shopping
proceduresin accordancewith the provisions of paragraphs3.1 and 3.5 o fthe Guidelines.

3.      Direct Contracting. Goods and works which meet the requirements for direct
contracting referred to in paragraphs3.1, 3.6 and 3.7 of the Procurement Guidelines may,
with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraphs,

                                           - 26 -

4.      Procurement from UN Agencies. Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000
equivalent per contract may be procured directly from the Inter-Agency Procurement
Services Office ofthe UnitedNations in accordance with the provisionsofparagraphs 3.1
and 3.9 of the Procurement Guidelines.

Section 111.      ParticularMethodsof Procuremento f Consultants' Services

A.      Quality- and Cost-based Selection. Except as otherwise provided in Part B o f
this Section, consultants' services shall be procuredunder contracts awarded on the basis
of quality and cost in accordance with the provisions of Section I1 of the Consultant
Guidelines. For purposes of paragraph2.7 of the ConsultantGuidelines, the short list of
consultants for services estimated to cost less than $100,000 (could be increased up to
$200,000) equivalentper contract may compriseentirely nationalconsultants.

B:      Other Procedures

1.       Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications. Services estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7, and 3.8 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

2.       Single Source Selection. Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the
requirements of paragraph 3-10of the ConsultantGuidelinesfor single source selection,
may, with the Bank'sprior agreement as agreed in the procurementplan, be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.9 through 3.13 of the Consultant
Guidelines.

3.       Individual Consultants, Services for assignments that meet the requirementsset
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the ConsultantGuidelinesmay be procured
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. Under the circumstances
described in paragraph 5.4 of the ConsultantGuidelines, such contracts may be awarded
to individualconsultantson a sole-source basis in accordance with the provisions of said
paragraph 5.4, subject to prior approvalof the Bank.

Section IV.       Review by the Bank of ProcurementDecisions

A.       Prior Review, Except as the Bank shall otherwise determine by notice to the
Borrower, taking into account the project performance in the field of procurement, the
following prior review procedures shall apply:

1.       Goods, Works and Services (otherthan Consultants' Services).

         (a)      The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the ProcurementGuidelines shall apply to each contract for goods, works
and services (other than consultants' services) estimated to cost the equivalent of,

                                          - 27 -

respectively, $300,000, $1000,000, and $50,000 or more, procured on the basis of
international competitive bidding, or national competitive bidding.

        (b)     The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract to be
procured on the basis of direct contracting: (i)prior to the execution of the contract, the
Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of the specifications and the draft contract for
its approval; (ii)the contract shall be awarded only after the Bank's approval shall have
been given; and (iii)the procedures set forth in paragraphs2 (h) and 3 of Appendix 1 to
the Guidelines shall apply.

2.       Consultants' Services Provided by Firms.

         (a)    The prior review procedures set forth in paragraphs 2, 3, and 5 of
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply to each contract for consultants'
services provided by a firm estimatedto cost the equivalent of $200,000 or more.

         (b)    The following prior review procedures shall apply to each contract for
consultants' services provided by a firm to be procured on the basis of single source
selection: (i)the qualifications, experience, terms of reference and conditions of
employment o f the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and
approval; (ii)the contract shall be awardedonly after the Bank's approval shall have been
given; and (iii)the provisions of paragraphs 3 and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant
Guidelines shall apply to the contract.

B.       Post Review

1.       With respect to each contract for goods, works or services (other than
consultants' services) not governed by Part A of this Section, the post review procedures
set forth inparagraph4 of Appendix 1 to the ProcurementGuidelines shall apply.

2.       In respect to each contract for consultants' services not governed by Part A of
this Section, the post review procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Consultant Guidelines shall apply.

                                           - 28 -

                                         SCHEDULE4

                                ImplementationProgram


I. InstitutionalArrangements


1.      The Borrower shall establish, and thereafter maintain at all times during Project
implementation:


Cellule Ope'rationnelle de Mise en O h r e (COMO)

        (a) under the monitoring and supervision of the Comite de Pilotage, COMO
shall be responsiblefor implementingPart A of the Project, including: (i)preparationof
Annual Work Programs for Part A of the Project; and (ii)relatedfinancial management,
reporting,procurement, andmonitoringand evaluation;

Comite' depilotage

        (b) consistingof various representatives of selected Ministries o f the Borrower,
and representatives of: (i)a community-based NGO; (ii)an international NGO; (iii)
artisanalfisheries; and (iv) industrialfisheries, not exceeding 17 members in total;

        (c) responsiblefor overseeingProjectimplementationand coordination

        (d) co-chairedrespectivelyby MEM and MEPN;

        (e) with secretariat functions carriedout by the ProjectCoordinator;

        (f) under the administrative authority of MEPN to which it will report
periodically;

Conseil Local des Piches Artisanales

        (g) consisting of representatives of the Borrower's civil administration,
stakeholdersand representatives ofCLPs;

        (h) under the administrativeauthority of MEM;

Comite'Local de Pgcheurs

        (i)with full legal personality, and with the assistance of facilitatorsrecruited
andtrainedunder the Project;

        (j) consistingmainlyof activeand retiredfishermen;

                                            - 29 -

The Ecosystem Management Committee

         (k) consisting: (i)in its majority, of representatives of local communities and
stakeholders, and (ii)as well, o f representatives o f local fisheries and local national parks
administrations;

         (1) chaired by a representative o f local communities and stakeholders;

         (m) staffed with a Secretary designated from amongst the commissioners o f
protectedareas included inthe three Project areas;

The Technical and Scientific Committee

         (n) consisting o f various representatives of the sector not exceeding 25 in
number, all possessing the qualifications and experience pertinent to the provision of
technical advice and guidance in sector research; and

         (0) chaired by a scientific expert o f national or international repute.

11.      Execution covenants

Subproiects

2.       The Borrower shall maintain during Project implementation: (i)the P I M for the
implementation o f the Project; (ii)take all measures necessary to ensure that the Project
is carried out in conformity with the PIM; and (iii)unless the Association agrees to
otherwise in writing, not amend or waive any provision thereof which in the opinion o f
the Association may materially and adversely affect the implementation o f the Project.

3.       Without limitation to the provisions o f paragraph 3 o f this Schedule, no
Subproject for the carrying out o f Part A.2 o f the Project shall be eligible for financing
out o f the proceeds of the Credit unless a CLPA shall have determined, on the basis o f an
appraisal conducted in accordance with the guidelines set forth in the Project
Implementation Manual, after which approval shall be received from MEM, that the
Subproject concerned satisfies the eligibility criteria specified in the Project
Implementation Manual, which shall include the following:

         (a)     the Subproject shall be for, inter alia: (i)the establishment o f allowable
catch for certain species or fisheries, and (ii)the development o f monitoring and control
systems for allocating target fisheries among registered fishermen;

         (b)     except as the Association shall otherwise agree, a CLP shall provide not
less than 5% o f the estimated capital costs o f the Subproject in the form of materials,
labor or other services;

                                         - 30 -


forth in(c) RPF and the EMP and shall be designed, executed and carried out in full
                each Subproject shall be prepared in accordance with the procedures set
         the
compliance with the standards set forth in the EMP, the RPF and the laws of the
Borrower relatingto safety and environmentalprotection; and

        (d)     the acquisition of land or other assets for the implementation of any
Subproject and the determinationand payment of compensation therefore, includingthe
compensation for loss of income, shall be carried out in accordance with the principles
and proceduresset forth inthe RPF.

Subpro-iectAgreements

4.
Project,(a)     In financing the carrying out of a Subproject under Part A.2 of the
        MEM shall enter into a Subproject Agreementwith an CLP.

        (b)     The Subproject Agreement shall set forth the respective obligations of
the parties thereunder which are specified in the Project ImplementationManual, under
terms and conditionswhich shall includethe following:

                       financingfor a Subprojectshall be on a grantbasis, notto exceed
                       $50,000 equivalentper SubprojectAgreement;

                       the requirement that the goods, works, and services to be
                       financed out of the proceeds of the Subproject Agreement be
                       procured and paid by MEM, in conformity with the provisions
                       set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement and that such goods,
                       works and services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out
                       by CLPs of the relevantSubproject;

                       the requirement that the proceeds of the Subproject Agreement
                       be used exclusively by MEM for the exclusive benefit of the
                       CLP concerned and for the purposes specified in each
                       Subproject;

                       the requirement that MEM maintain for CLPs pursuant to
                       Subproject Grant Agreements a separate accounting and
                       financial management system, including records and separate
                       accounts reflecting the operations, resources and expenditures
                       relatedto the carryingout of each Subproject;

                       the requirement that the implementation progress for each
                       Subproject be furnished to MEM and the Association, each
                       calendar quarter in each FY;

                       the right of MEM to inspect by themselves or jointly with the
                       Association the services, goods, works and constructions

                                             - 3 1 -


                          financed under the relevant Subproject, the operation thereof and
                          any record or relevant document; and

                  (vi)    the right of MEM to suspend or terminate the right of a CLP to
                          use the goods, works and services financed out of the proceeds
                          of the Credit upon failure by such CLP to perform any of its
                          obligations under the SubprojectAgreement.

CLPAs

5.       The Borrower shall ensure that CLPAs prepare and, thereafter, act in accordance
with the operating rules guiding their institutional functioning.

6.       The Borrower shall ensure that the annual managementplans preparedby CLPAs
and including CLPs `Subprojects appraisedas eligible for financing by MEM:

          (i)     are preparedin a fully participatory manner;

          (ii)    are fully reflective of Co-Managementorientations and principles;

         (iii)    include relevant key performance indicators for their implementation;
         and

         (iv)     include an itemized budget and financing plan;

7.       Not later than 9 months after the Effective Date, the Subprojects for the 4 initial
pilot sites selected under the Project shall have been submitted for MEM's approval.

8.       Not later than 3 months after the Subprojects for the 4 initial pilot sites selected
under the Project shall have been submitted for approval to MEM, the eligible
Subprojects shall have been effectively financed.

I


                                              - 32 -

    CLPS

    9.      The Borrower shall ensure that CLPs prepare and, thereafter, act in accordance
    with the operatingrules guidingtheir institutionalfunctioning.

    Annual Work Programs

    10.     The Borrower shall ensure that Annual Work Programs are submitted annually
    and approvedby the Comitk de pilotagebeforetheir implementation.



     11.    The Borrower shall ensure that the National Biodiversity Committee prepares
    and furnishes to MEPN annual reports, in form and substance satisfactory to the
    Association.

    12.     Not later than January 1, 2005, the Borrowershall establish a secretariat for NBC
    within DPN.

    - ProjectImplementationReview
    I11

     13.    The Borrower shall:

    evaluate(a) an ongoing basis, in accordancewith the indicators set forth in Schedule 6 to
                    maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and
             on
    this Agreement, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives
    thereof;

            (b)     prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Association, and
    furnish to the Association, on or about February 15 and August 15 in each FY, a report
    integratingthe results of the monitoringand evaluation activities performed pursuant to
    paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carryingout of the Project
    during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures
    recommendedto ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of
    the objectivesthereofduringthe periodfollowing such date; and

            (c)     review with the Association, by March 15 and September 15 in each FY,
    or such later date as the Association shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b)
    of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient
    completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the
    conclusions and recommendationsof the said report and the Association's views on the
    matter.

                                                                                      ,.
                                       - 33 -

                                 SCHEDULE5


                             PerformanceIndicators

       For purposes ofthis Agreement, the performanceindicatorsto be usedfor Project
implementationare as follows:


       Local fisheries managementsub-projects are implementedin4 pilot sites
   by EOP.
   0   Management plans for 2 key fisheries are prepared, and approvedby the
   National Consultative Council for MaritimeFisheries.
       Management effectives of biodiversity inthe three pilot areas increasedby
   at least 50% by EOP.
   0   Biodiversity andProtectedArea framework law is preparedand submitted
   to Governmentbefore EOP.

