                                      Document of
                                  The World Bank


                                                              Report No: ICR2377



             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION AND RESULTS REPORT
                    (TF-90534 IDA-39980 TF-54531 TF-24759)



                                        ON A

                                     CREDIT
                       IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR6.9 MILLION
                         (US$10.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                       AND A

                   GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITY GRANT
                      IN THE AMOUNT OF US$5.0 MILLION

                                       TO THE

                              REPUBLIC OF SENEGAL

                                      FOR AN

   INTEGRATED MARINE AND COASTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT



                                   October 30, 2012



Environment and Natural Resources Management Unit 3 (AFTN3)
Sustainable Development Department
Country Department 1 (AFCF1)
Africa Region
                       CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                   (Exchange Rate Effective June 30, 2012)

                         Currency Unit = Franc CFA
                            CFAF500 = US$1.00
                            US$1.00 = SDR 0.66

                              FISCAL YEAR
                         [January 1 – December 31]

                   ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

CAS      Country Assistance Strategy
CBD      Convention on Biodiversity
CCLME    Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem Project
CFAF     CFA Francs
CRODT    Centre de Recherches Océanographiques de Dakar-Thiaroye / National
         Oceanographic Research Centre
DMF-IU   Department of Maritime Fisheries Implementation Unit
DNP-IU   Department of National Parks Implementation Unit
EIG      Economic Interest Groups
EMC      Ecosystem Management Committee
GDO      Global Development Objective
GEF      Global Environment Facility
GEO      Global Environment Objective
ICR      Implementation Completion Report
IMCRMP   Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project
ISRA     Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole / Senegalese Agricultural
         Research Institute
IUCN     International Union for conservation of Nature
LAFC     Local Artisanal Fisheries Council
LFC      Local Fisher Committee
MAB      Man and Biosphere (UNESCO)
MFME     Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy
MTR      Mid-term Review
NGO      Non-government organization
NRP      National Registration Program
PAD      Project Appraisal Document
PAME     Protected Areas Management Effectiveness
PCU      Project Coordination Unit
PDO      Project Development Objective
PFZ      Protected Fishing Zones




                                     ii
PPF      Project Preparation Facility
RAPPAM   Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management
SMFRP    Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources Project
UNEP     United Nations Environment Programme
WARFP    West Africa Regional Fisheries Program
WCPA     World Commission on Protected Areas
WWF      World Wildlife Fund




                         Vice President:   Makhtar Diop
                       Country Director:   Vera Songwe
                        Sector Manager:    Magdolna Lovei
                   Project Team Leader:    John Virdin
                      ICR Team Leader:     John Virdin




                                       iii
                           SENEGAL
 INTEGRATED MARINE AND COASTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT




                                                          CONTENTS




Data Sheet
    A. Basic Information
    B. Key Dates
    C. Ratings Summary
    D. Sector and Theme Codes
    E. Bank Staff
    F. Results Framework Analysis
    G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs
    H. Restructuring
    I. Disbursement Graph

  1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives Design ............. 1
  2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes .............................................. 8
  3. Assessment of Outcomes .......................................................................................... 15
  4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environmet Outcome .. 21
  5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance ..................................................... 22
  6. Lessons Learned ....................................................................................................... 26
  7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners .......... 28
  Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing .......................................................................... 29
  Annex 2. Outputs by Component ................................................................................. 32
  Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis ................................................................. 61
  Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes ............ 66
  Annex 5. Results Framework Analysis......................................................................... 69
  Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR and/or Comments on Draft ICR ..................... 73
  Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders ....................... 96
  Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents ...................................................................... 97




                                                                  iv
A. Basic Information
                                                                            Integrated Marine and
Country:                 Senegal                   Project Name:            Coastal Resources
                                                                            Management Project
                                                                            IDA-39980,TF-
Project ID:              P086480,P058367           L/C/TF Number(s):        90534,TF-24759,TF-
                                                                            54531
ICR Date:                11/01/2012                ICR Type:                Core ICR
                                                                            GOVERNMENT OF
Lending Instrument:      SIL,SIL                   Borrower:
                                                                            SENEGAL
Original Total
                         USD 10.00M,USD 5.34M Disbursed Amount:             USD 9.07M,USD 3.85M
Commitment:


Environmental Category: B,B                        Focal Area: B
Implementing Agencies:
 Ministry of Marine Economy, Maritime Transports and Fisheries
 Ministry of Environment
Cofinanciers and Other External Partners:



B. Key Dates
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P086480
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         12/18/2003      Effectiveness:             04/15/2005          04/15/2005
Appraisal:              04/16/2004      Restructuring(s):                              11/14/2008
Approval:               11/11/2004      Mid-term Review:           01/17/2008          01/17/2008
                                        Closing:                   06/01/2010          05/01/2012

Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P058367
                                                                                  Revised / Actual
      Process              Date               Process            Original Date
                                                                                      Date(s)
Concept Review:         12/18/2003      Effectiveness:             02/11/2004          04/15/2005
Appraisal:              04/16/2004      Restructuring(s):                              11/14/2008
Approval:               11/11/2004      Mid-term Review:           01/17/2008          01/17/2008
                                        Closing:                   06/01/2010          12/01/2011




                                                   v
C. Ratings Summary
C.1 Performance Rating by ICR
Outcomes                                      Moderately Satisfactory
GEO Outcomes                                  Moderately Satisfactory
Risk to Development Outcome                   High
Risk to GEO Outcome                           High
Bank Performance                              Moderately Unsatisfactory
Borrower Performance                          Moderately Unsatisfactory



C.2 Detailed Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance (by ICR)
          Bank                  Ratings                Borrower             Ratings
                              Moderately                                   Moderately
Quality at Entry                               Government:
                             Unsatisfactory                               Unsatisfactory
                              Moderately       Implementing                Moderately
Quality of Supervision:
                             Unsatisfactory    Agency/Agencies:           Unsatisfactory
Overall Bank                  Moderately       Overall Borrower            Moderately
Performance                  Unsatisfactory    Performance                Unsatisfactory


C.3 Quality at Entry and Implementation Performance Indicators
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P086480
      Implementation                           QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                   Rating:
       Performance                                      any)
 Potential Problem Project
                                    No         Quality at Entry (QEA)        None
   at any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                    Quality of Supervision
                                   Yes                                       None
         (Yes/No):                                     (QSA)
      DO rating before
                               Satisfactory
  Closing/Inactive status

Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P058367
      Implementation                          QAG Assessments (if
                               Indicators                                   Rating:
       Performance                                     any)
 Potential Problem Project
                                   No        Quality at Entry (QEA)          None
   at any time (Yes/No):
Problem Project at any time                   Quality of Supervision
                                   No                                        None
         (Yes/No):                                    (QSA)
     GEO rating before
                              Satisfactory
  Closing/Inactive Status




                                             vi
D. Sector and Theme Codes
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P086480
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             25                    25
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector              70                    70
Other social services                                          5                    5


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                    25                  25
Environmental policies and institutions                         13                  13
Other environment and natural resources management              25                  25
Participation and civic engagement                              13                  13
Rural non-farm income generation                                24                  24

Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P058367
                                                             Original           Actual
Sector Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Central government administration                             20                    20
General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector              80                    80


Theme Code (as % of total Bank financing)
Biodiversity                                                    40                  40
Environmental policies and institutions                         40                  40
Rural non-farm income generation                                20                  20




E. Bank Staff
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P086480
         Positions                    At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                      Makhtar Diop
Country Director:       Vera Songwe                       Vera Songwe
Sector Manager:         Magdolna Lovei                    Magdolna Lovei
Project Team Leader:    John Virdin                       John Virdin
ICR Team Leader:        John Virdin
ICR Primary Author:     Huong-Giang Lucie Tran




                                                   vii
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P058367
         Positions                    At ICR                          At Approval
Vice President:         Makhtar Diop                      Makhtar Diop
Country Director:       Vera Songwe                       Vera Songwe
Sector Manager:         Magdolna Lovei                    Magdolna Lovei
Project Team Leader:    John Virdin                       John Virdin
ICR Team Leader:        John Virdin
ICR Primary Author:     Huong-Giang Lucie Tran




F. Results Framework Analysis

Project Development Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
Increase sustainable management of coastal and marine resources in 3 pilot areas by
communities and the Government of Senegal.

Revised Project Development Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
PDO remains the same.

Global Environment Objectives (from Project Appraisal Document)
The global environmental objective of the Project is to secure the conservation and management
of Senegal's marine and coastal ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the
sustained livelihoods of coastal communities.

Revised Global Environment Objectives (as approved by original approving authority)
To strengthen the conservation and management of Senegal#s marine and coastal ecosystems,
which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods of coastal communities.

(a) PDO Indicator(s)

                                              Original Target                         Actual Value
                                                                   Formally
                                               Values (from                            Achieved at
   Indicator           Baseline Value                               Revised
                                                 approval                            Completion or
                                                                 Target Values
                                                documents)                            Target Years
                 Local fisheries management sub-projects are implemented in 4 pilot sites by End of
Indicator 1 :
                 Project (EOP).
Value
(quantitative or 0                          4                                     4
Qualitative)
Date achieved 01/03/2005                    06/01/2010                            06/01/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                 National management plans for 2 key fisheries are prepared, and approved by the
Indicator 2 :
                 National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries.


                                                 viii
Value
(quantitative or   0                            2                                     0
Qualitative)
Date achieved      11/11/2004                     06/01/2010                              06/01/2012
Comments           This target was 80% achieved - the management plans are not approved, so the value is
(incl. %           still given as zero, but the plans have almost been completed, and will be finalized and
achievement)       approved shortly with support from the West Africa Regional Fisheries Program.
                   Participatory assessment of local community involvement in the management of
Indicator 3 :
                   biodiversity in the three pilot areas rated as satisfactory at the end of the Project.
Value
(quantitative or No                           Yes - satisfactory                  Not fully measured
Qualitative)
Date achieved 11/11/2004                      06/01/2010                          06/01/2012
                 Could not be measured fully since no beneficiary assessment was conducted at EOP.
Comments
                 However, a participatory assessment carried out in 2006, and between 2009 to 2011,
(incl. %
                 indicated mean score variation from 67% in 2006 to 75% in 2011, indicating
achievement)
                 satisfaction.


(b) GEO Indicator(s)

                                                Original Target                           Actual Value
                                                                        Formally
                                                 Values (from                              Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                                  Revised
                                                   approval                              Completion or
                                                                     Target Values
                                                  documents)                              Target Years
                   Effective management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas increased by at least 50%
Indicator 1 :
                   by EOP.
Value
(quantitative or   0                            50                                    61
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/03/2005                   06/01/2010                            11/01/2011
Comments
                   The mean score improved from 46% in 2006 to 61% in 2011. Evaluation carried out by
(incl. %
                   DNP from 2009-2011.
achievement)


(c) Intermediate Outcome Indicator(s)

                                                 Original Target                      Actual Value
                                                                     Formally
                                                   Values (from                       Achieved at
   Indicator             Baseline Value                           Revised Target
                                                     approval                        Completion or
                                                                      Values
                                                    documents)                        Target Years
                   60 percent of Local Fisher Committees implementing sub-projects comply with sub-
Indicator 1 :
                   project performance targets by end of project.
Value
(quantitative or   0                            60                                    75
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/03/2005                   06/01/2010                            06/01/2012

                                                     ix
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
                   Biodiversity and Protected Area framework law is prepared and submitted to
Indicator 2 :
                   Government before EOP
Value
(quantitative or   No                          Yes                                     Yes
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/03/2005                  06/01/2010                              06/01/2012
Comments
(incl. %
achievement)
Indicator 3 :      State of biodiversity update reports produced on an annual basis.
Value
                                               Yes - reports
(quantitative or   No - none produced                                                  Yes - partially
                                               produced
Qualitative)
Date achieved      01/03/2005                  06/01/2010                              06/01/2012
Comments
(incl. %           Reports were prepared and submitted for 2005, 2007, 2010. 2012 report pending.
achievement)




                                                     x
G. Ratings of Project Performance in ISRs

 -
                                                                           Actual Disbursements
          Date ISR                                                            (USD millions)
 No.                        DO           GEO                  IP
          Archived
                                                                           Project 1   Project 2
     1    12/15/2004        S                                 S               0.00       0.00
     2    06/21/2005        S                                 S               1.13       0.00
     3    12/30/2005        S               S                 S               1.66       0.30
     4    06/30/2006        S               S                 S               2.52       0.74
     5    01/12/2007        S               S                 S               3.42       1.30
     6    06/06/2007        MS            MS                  MS              3.91       1.43
     7    12/20/2007        MS            MS                  MS              5.18       2.08
     8    04/12/2008        MU            MU                  MU              5.44       2.25
     9    12/03/2008        MS            MS                  MS              6.40       2.51
     10   05/30/2009        S               S                 S               7.15       2.87
     11   12/16/2009        S               S                 S               8.64       3.13
     12   05/25/2010        S               S                 S               8.90       3.36
     13   03/16/2011        S               S                 S               9.24       3.80
     14   08/17/2011        S               S                 S               9.33       3.88
     15   03/13/2012        S               S                 S               9.52       3.85




H. Restructuring (if any)
                                                   Amount Disbursed at
                                  ISR Ratings at
                 Board Approved                     Restructuring in        Reason for
 Restructuring                    Restructuring
                                                      USD millions     Restructuring & Key
    Date(s)
                  PDO    GEO                                             Changes Made
                                  DO GEO        IP Project1 Project 2
                 Change Change
11/14/2008                        MS            MS     6.40
11/14/2008                  Y          MU       MU                 2.51   See main documents




                                                xi
I. Disbursement Profile
P086480




P058367




                          xii
1. Project Context, Development and Global Environment Objectives (GEF) Design
(this section is descriptive, taken from other documents, e.g., PAD/ISR, not evaluative)

Context. Senegal’s fisheries resources and related industries, which contributed to about 2.3
percent of the GDP in 2002 and employed about 17 percent of the active workforce, had been
experiencing steep cycles of growth and decline over the last 30 years. The fishing sector was in
crisis and the coastal demersal resources which represented the bulk of exports was particularly
affected. Overfishing and unsustainable fishing practices at the artisanal and industrial levels
and the management structure of the marine fisheries and environment sectors from the national
to the local levels contributed to this crisis – essentially this was a tragedy of the commons, as
the Government failed to address fundamental constraints of open access to the fish resources.
In recognition of the threats to its declining natural resources, Senegal identified the conservation
and sustainable use of coastal and marine ecosystems as priorities in its national biodiversity
strategy and action plan.

In this context, the World Bank and the GEF agreed to co-finance the Integrated Marine and
Coastal Resources Management Project in support of the Government of Senegal’s
implementation of two complementary agendas: (a) empowering coastal communities to take
concrete actions to reduce conditions of open access and thus overfishing, and (b) protecting
sensitive coastal environments and its biodiversity. The Project would thus contribute to
alleviating the poverty found in the coastal areas where fishing communities were steadily losing
their main source of income and environments of global significance.

The project’s design was aligned with the objectives of Senegal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy
Paper of 2002 and the Country Assistance Strategy of 2003, which placed emphasis on rational
management of natural resources and the environment for sustainable development while
developing the country’s natural capital, i.e., natural resources and biodiversity. It attempted to
address the Government’s concern that “rapid growth and lack of national management
capacities subject Senegal's coastal and marine biodiversity to over-exploitation while posing a
serious risk to the sustainability of marine exports.?

With regards to the GEF areas of emphasis, Senegal had ratified the Convention on Biological
Diversity in June 1994. The project was aligned with the GEF Biodiversity Operational Strategy,
the Operational Program on Coastal and Marine Ecosystems, and the Conferences of the Parties
to the Convention on Biological Diversity which stresses in situ conservation of coastal and
marine ecosystems, and to the Jakarta Mandate endorsed at COP2, through conservation and
sustainable use of vulnerable marine habitats and species.

The Project’s Development Objective (PDO), to increase sustainable management of coastal
and marine resources in three pilot areas by communities and the Government, and the revised
Global Environment Objective (GEO), to strengthen the conservation and management of
Senegal’s marine and coastal ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the

                                                 1
sustained livelihood of coastal communities were formulated to closely align the project
activities with these national priorities.


1.1 Context at Appraisal
(brief summary of country and sector background, rationale for Bank assistance)

Senegal’s coastline constitutes one of the richest and most productive upwelling areas in the
eastern tropical Atlantic Ocean. Fishing played a critical role in Senegal's economy with related
activities such as processing and marketing amounting to a production gross value of about
US$550 million and a domestic value added approximately US$370 million. Senegal's fisheries
also employed some 600,000 people (17 percent of workforce), including over 52,000 full-time
artisanal fishers. In 1999, Senegal exported roughly 124,000 tons of fish products (over 60
percent destined for the European market), with a commercial value of over US$300 million and
representing 25-30 percent of the country's exports. Between 1997 and 2002, catches of
demersal species of fish, commercially valuable as an export product, fell by 50 percent, and left
a major impact on the economic performance of Senegal’s fisheries.

Artisanal fisheries, using an estimated 10-12,000 locally built pirogues, or small fishing vessels,
operated by 50,000-75,000 fishermen, caught 85 percent of fish landed in Senegal, which
equaled some 60 percent of the total marine fish catch value. They were among the most
effective in Africa with value added per ton of product being double that of industrial vessels. At
the time of appraisal, this level had dropped to only a third of the fish caught twenty years ago,
and about 30-40 percent of such artisanal catch originated in the neighboring countries of
Guinea-Bissau, The Gambia, and Mauritania.

Gaps and weaknesses in the management of the fisheries sector that failed to address the open
access nature of the resources, including the governing and management structures, capacity of
knowledge institutions, the knowledge base needed for policy decision making and the
accompanying measures, contributed to the crisis. The Fisheries Law at that time allowed for
open access fisheries which was unsustainable ecologically, economically, and socially.
Historically, boat owners have resisted local fishing restrictions, government attempts to regulate
artisanal fisheries have met with strong resistance and limited success. Consequently, the
fisheries administration in Senegal had not been supportive of local initiatives to limit fishing.
The management system in place at the time contributed to overfishing at both artisanal and
industrial levels allowing for fishing capacity to increase beyond the level of available resources
and without allowing for fish stocks to recover.

Senegal also had a limited capacity to conduct large research programs (stock assessments for
industrial and artisanal fisheries, investigations on marine environments, assessment of life
cycles of specific fish species). The Centre de Recherches Océanographiques de Dakar-
Thiaroye (CRODT) was the primary source of information on Senegalese fish stocks. Once a
premier marine fisheries research institution in West Africa, CRODT had lost many of its senior
staff to private sector or international organizations resulting in its modest contribution to
fisheries management. The knowledge base needed for the sustainable management of fisheries
was either lacking or outdated, and knowledge of the social, cultural, and political context was
limited. Little research had been carried out on local management strategies or on their
                                                2
relationship to sound policy decision-making. Senegal also planned to implement a nationwide
system of canoe/boat registration, based on the results of a Swiss-supported pilot project, as a
means to generate revenue for the Government and to control fishing capacity. This was funded
by multiple donors and by the Bank under the Project.

In the Conservation of Critical Habitats area, Senegal had established protected areas along its
coast and by the late 1980s had developed an internationally recognized network of protected
areas, including five National Parks and three Nature Reserves. However, by the 1990s, the
model used for protected parks experienced problems due to: (i) the nature of the parks which
were created initially for a tourism market which never grew, (ii) budget constraints affecting the
staffing and maintenance of the parks, (iii) lower levels of international funding support than
expected; and (iv) conflicts with the local population who were not consulted when the parks
were established. Such conflicts (which often involved fishing communities) also undermined
public support for protected areas.

Project Rationale

The Project was a first step in linking fisheries management to address open access with
biodiversity conservation, in support of the Government’s strategy to shift focus from sector
development to sustainable management of fish resources. It integrated a project which had been
identified in 1997 for GEF financing, the Marine and Coastal Biodiversity Management Project,
with urgent initiatives proposed to address the crisis in the fisheries sector in Senegal. A study
was subsequently commissioned in the context of an integrated diagnostic and commercial
approach to resources management, which confirmed the urgent need for solutions. The
fisheries sector became a part of the CAS.

The Project was a pilot for an ecosystem approach to the management of marine and coastal
resources in targeted areas. It envisaged a 10-year programmatic approach in collaboration with
other donor programs while building the base with pointed interventions in three project areas
(Senegal River Delta, Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta) and testing co-
management initiatives in several pilot sites. Fisheries sector management was to be tackled
through a dual system - industrial fisheries, and highly commercial artisanal fisheries. These
were to be reinforced by accompanying measures, policy revisions, and activities at the national
level. The aim was to put in place measures to start to reduce fishing capacity to a sustainable
level.

At the local level, the co-management system engaged the Local Artisanal Fisheries Councils
(LAFC) and the Local Fisher Committees (LFC) for greater ownership of management decisions
by communities, in partnership with the Government through its fisheries administration
authorities. The system was relevant given the conflicts which have risen from insufficient or
lack of community consultation by government institutions in the past. Co-management
introduced to the communities a broader range of themes related to environmental, biological,
economic issues, as well as social considerations while building support for their initiatives from
the local level through local advisory councils to national level administration. It was designed
to reduce inefficient competition among fishermen for depleting fish resources in the context of
open access, and promote community decision-making and ownership of management

                                                3
measures 1. Compensation for local fishermen who would be affected by reduced fishing was not
built into the Project but would be provided through another Bank operation under preparation at
the time, under the Senegal Social Investment Fund to ensure synergy between operations.
Ecosystem Approach. The Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection has since the early
1990s adopted co-management as its core policy, as demonstrated in the National Environment
Action Plan (1997) and the National Biodiversity Strategy (2000). Most particularly, the
Government wants to promote the establishment of community-based protected areas, to increase
the protected area coverage from 8 to 12 percent of the country.

1.2 Original Project Development Objectives (PDO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
Increase sustainable management of coastal and marine resources in three pilot areas by
communities and the Government of Senegal.

The associated Key Indicators were:
   • Catch per fishing effort improved by 10-30 percent from baseline in most community-
       managed fisheries targeted by the Project, by end of Project.
   • Measures to alleviate the impact of reduction in fishing capacity rated satisfactory by at
       least 75 percent of targeted communities.

1.3 Original Global Environment Objectives (GEO) and Key Indicators (as approved)
The global environmental objective of the Project is to secure the conservation and management
of Senegal's marine and coastal ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the
sustained livelihoods of coastal communities.
The associated Key Indicator was:

     •    Effectiveness of biodiversity-management improved in the three pilot areas by 20
          percent at mid-term review and 50 percent at the end of Project, with the active
          participation of local stakeholders.

1.4 Revised PDO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
The PDO remained the same. However, the Key Indicators were revised in a first order
restructuring approved by the Board in November 2008, to reflect more achievable targets in the
remaining project timeframe. Both of the previous Key Indicators were dropped. The previous
intermediate indicators were revised to become Key Indicators for the restructured Project as
follows:

     •    Local fisheries management sub-projects are implemented in four pilot sites by end of
          Project.
     •    National management plans for two key fisheries are prepared, and approved by the
          National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries.



1
  This includes the numbers of boats, restrictions on gear, seasons and fishing areas, to protect spawning and
juvenile fish, and specific limits on fish landings to optimize fish price and quality.


                                                          4
    •   Participatory assessment of local community involvement in the management of
        biodiversity in the three pilot areas rated as satisfactory at the end of the Project.

1.5 Revised GEO (as approved by original approving authority) and Key Indicators, and
reasons/justification
To strengthen the conservation and management of Senegal’s marine and coastal ecosystems,
which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods of coastal communities.

The revised Key Indicator was:
    • Effective management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas increased by at least 50
        percent by end of Project.

1.6 Main Beneficiaries,
(original and revised briefly describe the "primary target group" identified in the PAD and as
captured in the PDO/GEO, as well as any other individuals and organizations expected to
benefit from the project)

At the local level
The primary beneficiaries are the members of fishing communities in the three project areas (the
Senegal River Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta). Within these areas,
the fishing communities of four pilot sites (Ouakam, Ngaparou, Foundiougne, and Betenty) are
the primary target groups for Component 1: Management of Sustainable Fisheries. Local
Artisanal Fisheries Council members are also beneficiaries as the project is seeks to build their
mandate to advise and guide the Local Fisher Committees representing the fishing communities.
Local Fisher Committees benefitted as private sector organizations supported and strengthened
under the project. All the facilitators were direct beneficiaries of the project funding, having
been trained and employed as consultants under the project.

Under the GEF-funded Component 2: Managing Ecosystems, the primary beneficiaries are
members of the local communities in and surrounding the protected parks and reserves,
commissioners of the protected areas and officers, local and regional council members,
Department of Forestry personnel in the field.

At the regional level
The beneficiaries were the representatives of the Ecosystem Committees, regional development
agencies, rural community councils, regional representatives from the Ministry of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy (MFME), the Ministry of Agriculture, the Ministry of Environment (ME),
and the Governor.

At the national level
The beneficiaries were the Ministry of Maritime Economy and personnel of the Department of
Marine Fisheries - Implementation Unit (DMF-IU), the Ministry of Environment and personnel
of the Department of National Parks - Implementation Unit (DNP-IU). National research
institutions such as the Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole (ISRA) and the Centre de
Recherches Océanographiques de Dakar-Thiaroye (CRODT) benefitted from capacity building
activities through contracts funded under the project for studies and participative research at the
community level. Various national and international consulting firms including BRLi (fisheries
                                                5
management plans), CAES-Consult (communications), OAFIC (fisheries, agro-processing), were
recipients of consultant contracts under the project.

1.7 Original Components (as approved)

The Project originally had three components.

Component 1: Management of Sustainable Fisheries (US$6.53 million, of which US$6.0 million
IDA). The objective was to increase the sustainability of fisheries through the use of area-based
co management through three subcomponents:

       1.1 National-level activities to improve fisheries management (US$1.38 million), to
           enable the implementation of co management initiatives.

       1.2 Promotion and coordination of local management initiatives (US4.67 million in three
           pilot areas, Senegal river Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta.

       1.3 Institutional strengthening and capacity building (US$0.48 million) to oversee,
           support and monitor the implementation of co-management initiatives.

Component 2: Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species (US$6.02 million, of which US$0.5
million IDA and US$5.0 million GEF).           The objective was to improve the long-term
management of Senegal’s network of coastal protected areas by (a) developing and
implementing management plans for these areas, according to an ecosystem approach, and (b) by
restructuring the biodiversity management framework, through two sub-components:

       2.1 Managing ecosystems (US$4.45 million) in three pilot areas, Senegal River Delta, the
           Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta.

       2.2 Strengthening the Biodiversity Conservation Framework (US$1.57 million) by
           preparing a Biodiversity and Protected Area Act, strengthening institutions, and
           preparing the establishment of Trust Fund.

   Component 3: Program Management, M&E and Communication (US$3.94 million, of
   which US$3.5 million IDA). The objective was to effectively manage the project through
   five sub-components:

       3.1: Monitoring and Evaluation (US$2.8 million). The Project Coordination Unit (PCU)
            was to manage aid from donors and partners, ensure efficient implementation and
            procurement, monitor implementation against indicators, and commission periodic
            independent evaluation.

       3.2: Coordination (US$0.1 million). The PCU was to ensure the operations of the
            Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Steering Committee and the
            Advisory Scientific and Technical Committee. It was to also support the cross-
            sectoral structures necessary in the pilot intervention areas to ensure coordination


                                               6
               among various implementing agencies, including joint sessions between the
               CNCPM and the National Biodiversity Committee.

       3.3: Communication (US$0.3 million). The PCU was to develop and implement a
            communication plan to ensure the flow of necessary information to and from
            stakeholders on project activities.

       3.4: Sub-regional coordination (US$0.1 million). The PCU was to coordinate with sub-
            regional and regional structures involved in similar initiatives.

       3.5: Activities funded under the PPF (US$0.64 million).

1.8 Revised Components
As a result of a first-order project restructuring approved by the Board in October 2008, the GEO
was modified and the PCU dissolved. Components 1 and 2 were retained, and Component 3 was
removed and the remaining funds from the PCU’s operation were reallocated to the technical
Ministries’ implementation units (DMF-IU and DNP-IU) for project management for each of the
Sustainable Fisheries and the Ecosystems Management components.

Component 1: Management of Sustainable Fisheries (US$6.53 million, of which US$6.0
million IDA). The objective was to increase the sustainability of fisheries through the use of
area-based co-management through three sub-components:

   1.1: National-level activities to improve fisheries management, to enable the implementation
        of co-management initiatives.

   1.2:     Promotion and coordination of local management initiatives in three pilot areas,
           Senegal river Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta.

   1.3: Institutional strengthening and capacity building to oversee, support and monitor the
       implementation of co-management initiatives.

Component 2: Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species (US$6.02 million, of which
US$0.5 million IDA and US$5.0 million GEF). The objective was to improve the long-term
management of Senegal’s network of coastal protected areas by: (i) developing and
implementing management plans for these areas, according to an ecosystem approach, and (ii)
restructuring the biodiversity management framework, through two sub-components:

    2.1:    Managing ecosystems in three pilot areas, Senegal River Delta, the Cap-Vert
           Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta.

    2.2: Strengthening the Biodiversity Conservation Framework by preparing a Biodiversity
         and Protected Area Act, strengthening institutions, and preparing the establishment of
         Trust Fund.

1.9 Other significant changes


                                               7
(in design, scope and scale, implementation arrangements and schedule, and funding
allocations)

Early in implementation, it was realized that the GEO was not attainable within the project
timeframe. Some of the Key Indicators were not measurable and there was insufficient data to
provide a viable baseline. The GEO was revised and the associated key indicator reformulated.
Two of the PDO key indicators were dropped because they were either not measurable or were
more appropriate as an intermediate indicator.

The number of pilot sites was reduced from 12 to four for this Project, and the eight others were
transferred to the Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources (SMFR) Project under
preparation at the time.

Five fisheries management plans (including national level stock assessments and baseline
assessments) planned at appraisal were reduced to two due to the shortage of experts and time
caused by delays in project start-up.

The following activities were dropped: (a) the review of policy options, which was replaced
with support to revisions to the Fisheries Code, finalization of the Letter of Sector Policy and
related Action Plan; (b) study on coastal demersal species to be carried out with the CRODT; and
(c) the Information, Education, and Communication (IEC) activities (including the international
consultancy) was dropped from Component 3 as a result of the dissolution of the PCU.

Six indicators were dropped: three in Component 2 (the outcomes were no longer feasible), and
three in Component 3 (the component was removed). Other indicators were moved to
intermediate-level indicators and two were moved up to key project indicators for the Project as
a whole (see Annex 5). These changes were reflected in the first-order Project Restructuring of
October 2008 which resulted in the removal of Component 3 and the dissolution of the PCU.

2. Key Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcomes

2.1 Project Preparation, Design and Quality at Entry
(including whether lessons of earlier operations were taken into account, risks and their mitigations
identified, and adequacy of participatory processes, as applicable).

Lessons Learned. The Project drew lessons from best practices examples in the sector and from
similar Bank-funded operations involving community-based management of fisheries resources 2,


2
    In particular from the Indonesia Coral Reef Rehabilitation and Management Program I and II, the Ghana Fisheries
     Sub-sector Capacity-Building Project, and the Albania Pilot Fishery Development Project, for the design of the
     components on national level activities including: managing fisheries stock, not on a stock-by-stock basis but by
     managing and ensuring the health of the ecosystem which supports the stocks; focusing on the high-value artisanal
     fisheries sector important for generating employment in the rural sector; establishing partnerships between
     government and fisher communities to manage resources, i.e., area-based collaborative or co-management
     approaches; establishing marine protected areas to protect key fisheries habitat, and providing alternative
     livelihoods to fishers affected from controls on fishing efforts.


                                                           8
Lessons from Bank documents for the fisheries sector (Diagnostic Trade Integration Study for
Senegal, Fisheries Approach Paper) and the ecosystems approach (endorsed by FAO and central
to the Fisheries Approach Paper) were also built into the ecosystem approach and biodiversity
conservation activities.

Quality at Entry. The Project was proposed as a result of sector studies, lessons learned in the
sector from other countries mentioned above, and Government strategy in response to the
fisheries crisis. It was the first operation of its type to pilot the integrated approach to coastal
and marine resources management in Senegal to address the often conflicting priorities of
conservation and fisheries exploitation (including tourism and land development). Its approach
was to maximize impact by avoiding the more fragmented approach of a stand-alone fisheries
project and a biodiversity conservation projects. In supporting revisions to policy and legal
framework documents for both biodiversity and protected areas management and fisheries
management, the Project envisioned a consolidation of dispersed mandates in these areas, and
greater clarity in policy objectives. Its approach placed more emphasis on capacity development
and less on infrastructure as with past aid projects in the fisheries sector, and established the
links with macro-economic development policies (CAS and government strategies).

Internal reviews by Bank management endorsed the Project’s strategic relevance, innovative
approach, and technical analyses. It was viewed as a new operation in a risky sector and a
difficult environment. The Bank prepared the project with highly qualified staff and consultants,
with quality peer reviews, and appropriate management guidance. Bank inputs for preparation
for the IDA component was low, but higher for the GEF component due to longer preparation
time and merging of the earlier GEF-funded Marine and Coastal biodiversity Management
Project with this Project. The processing time from appraisal to board approval and
effectiveness took a month or two longer than average, typical for a complex operation.
Safeguards documentation adequately addressed the triggers identified in the PAD with the
required documentation prior to Board Approval. Procurement and financial management
assessments carried out by Bank specialists on the capacity of the implementing agency rated
procurement risk as medium and financial management capacity as satisfactory.

Government Ownership and Participatory Process. The Project was prepared with strong
donor collaboration and Government support. It used a broad-based consultation process to
coordinate projects among donors, within World Bank projects, and to seek agreement of fishing
communities to promote the participation aspects. Agreements were reached with the
Department of Marine Fisheries and the PCU to support the merging of the sustainable fisheries
priorities with the biodiversity conservation priorities of the Department of National Parks, and
both Ministers of Fisheries and Maritime Economy and Environment at the time fully supported
the project. The Ministry of Maritime Economy (MME) demonstrated ownership by taking the
lead role in mobilizing donors around a common agenda (January 2004) bringing together the
projects of the World Bank, FAO, the European Union, the Agence française de Développement
(AfD), and JICA.         The donor coordination group which was established to ensure
complementarity and synergies is still active to date.

The design for community-level fisheries activities was based on several successful consultation
workshops to build partnership and ownership with different levels of actors from the local,

                                                 9
regional and national levels, and collaboration with other donors, civil society and NGOs was
sought through consultations as well as through their participation in the Steering Committee and
contracts (memoranda of understanding, World Wildlife Fund (WWF), International Union for
Conservation of Nature). The Swiss Corporation funded the national boat registration program
supported under the Project through a trust fund managed by the Bank.

At preparation, the PCU, which was at the Ministry of Environment, was a dynamic unit and
actively involved in the preparation of the Project. It organized a national workshop in April
2003 to outline a management plan for fisheries and the selection of project activities. It held
public hearings to consult stakeholders at the three project areas with regards to environmental
safeguards. However, as project implementation progressed, the PCU’s location within the
Ministry of Environment exposed it to pressure and interference and seriously affected its ability
to implement the project activities effectively.

Identification and Mitigation of Risks. The PAD correctly identified a number of the critical
risks, particularly those involving community-based activities from components to outputs. The
mitigation measures were appropriate for the community-level activities and were employed
successfully in the project. The mitigating measures proposed for ensuring successful decision
making and capacity-building at the national level were less successful. Risks to the
sustainability of community-level activities were not identified, particularly with regards to the
funding of operating costs of such activities as well as the provisions to alternative livelihood
support, e.g., the collaboration with the Bank-funded Social Investment Fund which did not
materialize. At the Outputs to Objectives level, the PAD correctly identified all the risks listed
but did not identify the risk of ministerial interference in project activities as well as the risk of
poor management at the PCU level which affected project implementation as a whole. The
Project also did not identify the effects of insufficient capacity in employing and implementing
an eco-system management approach over a relatively short-term timeframe.

Project Design. The Project’s approach was innovative and technically sound. Project design
for local co-management initiatives involving communities as partners with the Government in
natural resources management were highly successful and formed the core of the project’s
successes. Facilitators selected were successfully trained and inserted into the pilot sites to assist
in the preparation of sub-projects and co-management initiatives and were not rejected by the
local communities. Supporting activities targeting training and capacity building of LFCs, and
building partnership with fisheries administration and DNP representatives yielded good results
and impact, but was less successful with building the partnership with research institutions.

The Project design, however, proved to be too ambitious and complex in certain areas for the
project timeframe and the capacities of the agencies involved. The Project attempted to address
a complex set of issues (changes in behavior and approach to natural resources management,
social and environmental implications, coordination and collaboration across sectors and
institutions, revisions to national policy legislation) in a relatively short timeframe more suited to
an APL-type of operation. Key indicators reflected the high expectations and ambitious targets
set at appraisal. The requirements for project activities required operating budgets and resources
which the implementing agencies did not have and which the project’s limited resources could



                                                 10
not provide (e.g., incentives to regional representatives, regional authorities, supervision of
community activities launched and re-animation, coordination/oversight of committees).

The institutional arrangements to offset weak institutional capacity by establishing a well-staffed
and well-paid PCU at the Ministry of Environment created dissention between ministries and
absorbed much of the project’s resources during early implementation until the project was
restructured. Restructuring and the dissolution of the PCU improved ownership of the project by
the line ministries but overall monitoring, reporting, and collaboration across ministries suffered
somewhat as a result. This indicated that up-front institutional analysis may have been
insufficient to ensure Government ownership and commitment at the highest levels. Building
ownership for the ecosystem approach by establishing committees at different levels and pilot
sites required a commitment of resources in terms of time, staffing, budget and skills which the
implementing agencies did not have.

2.2 Implementation
(including any project changes/restructuring, mid-term review, Project at Risk status, and actions taken,
as applicable)

The project was rated as “at risk? prior to the Mid-term review (MTR) of January 2008 where
the Development Project Objective (DPO), Global Development Objective (GDO) and
Implementation Progress (IP) were downgraded further from “Moderately Satisfactory (MS)? to
“Moderately Unsatisfactory (MU)?. Project Management and Procurement were also similarly
downgraded whereas M&E remained “Unsatisfactory (U)?. The ratings of the Bank supervision
teams reflected realistically the situation on the ground. The main issues were: cases of non-
compliance with project procedures with regards to use of project vehicle and fuel, the PCU
impinging on the prerogatives of the MEM, derailing key consultancies, and ineligible
expenditures to be reimbursed. Despite a high level of disbursements, the results on the ground
were minimal, key indicators had not been reached, and PCU expenditures went over budget and
consisted mostly of workshops and staff allowances. The Bank’s management recommended
restructuring the project to avoid downgrading the project to “U?and early closure.

During the MTR the Bank reviewed all project activities and institutional arrangements with a
view to restructuring the project which was stalled due to poor management on the part of the
PCU, and contentions to the institutional arrangement on the part of the Ministry of Fisheries.
Following the MTR, a first-order restructuring was proposed and approved by the Board around
October 2008. The changes included: (i) closing the PCU and integrating its remaining activities
from Component 3 to Components 1 and 2, and establishing the financial management and
procurement oversight at the Ministry of Economy and Finance; and (ii) establishing that the
MFME would be responsible for implementing Component 1, and the Ministry of Environment
and Natural Resources would be responsible for implementing Component 2 of the project. In
addition to the above changes, Global Environment Objective (GEO) was modified and the
results framework revised to better realistic outcomes for the remaining life of the Project. The
decision to continue to support the Project was based on the technical aspects of the Project
which the Government and the Bank’s management considered to still be valid. The local
initiatives, in particular, remained consistent with the priorities listed in the revised 2008 Letter
of Sector Policy for fisheries to which the Bank provided substantial inputs, along with other
donors.
                                                   11
Project management was also affected by a high turnover of key staff in the PCU and at the
ministerial level. During the implementation period, the Project had three Project Coordinators,
five Procurement Specialists, and three Ministers of Environment and two different Ministers of
Fisheries and Maritime Economy. The high turnover of ministers added to the challenges
already facing the Bank team and the implementing agencies as they had to re-engage different
Ministers at each turnover and certain structures agreed with a preceding minister was not
supported by a subsequent one. As a result, the Government’s ownership and commitment
obtained at preparation seemed to lack conviction as the project progressed. Towards the last
year of the project, a newly elected Government promptly took action and removed the second
Project Coordinator from the DMF-IU following allegations of misappropriation of project funds.

2.3 Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) Design, Implementation and Utilization

The PCU prepared the original M&E plan included reporting and coordination system, impact
and performance indicators during project preparation. The reporting system was based on the
actual system used by the DNP, DMF, and the CRODT. However, following Project
restructuring, the overall responsibility for maintaining the system was transferred to two
separate agencies which were inadequately staffed with qualified personnel. Consequently, the
oversight on M&E for the Project as a whole was lost and regrettably resulted in piecemeal
follow-up, particularly at the community level where positive results on fish catch and
rejuvenation of resources were observed, some local data collected under the Project were
officially validated by the MFME at the regional and central levels, but still need continued
support to maintain the effort.

Quarterly Financial Reports were received in a timely manner and were of good quality.
However, they did not contain the qualitative evaluations that yearly progress reporting would
have provided. Although yearly progress reports were stipulated in Project design as part of the
M&E system, no such reports were submitted. Such reports would have provided the
Government and the Bank with a useful means to track progress on the Project’s capacity-
building objectives, particularly at the national institutions level.

CRODT began the monitoring work for biological monitoring and left fishing communities it
visited with data collection sheets. However, although this work was begun with the enthusiastic
participation of the local fishing communities, it was insufficiently followed up by the
implementing agencies to ensure that a participative approach was maintained and to validate
data collected.

2.4 Safeguard and Fiduciary Compliance
(focusing on issues and their resolution, as applicable)

Environmental. The Project is rated as a Category B for which broad consultation with
stakeholders was carried out through public hearings, workshops and assessments. An
environmental and social assessment was carried out at preparation including an Environmental
Management Plan and Resettlement and Process Framework. During implementation a pier in
the Saloum River Delta was constructed without the Bank’s approval and caused a blockage to
the movement of shrimp fry. The Bank team moved quickly to resolve the issue by requesting

                                                    12
the DNP to modify the construction to allow the flow of the fish fry. Environmental compliance
is rated as moderately satisfactory.

Social. The Project promoted community participation with success, particularly in support to
women’s groups by focusing on specific activities such as shrimp processing and marketing.
Stakeholder workshops were held during preparation to ensure broad representation and social
concerns are included in project design from the local level to the national level (local fisher
councils and committees, Scientific and Technical Committees, Steering Committees) and
involve local civil society and NGOs. The key project indicator related to the successful
implementation of sub-projects was the measure for social development outcomes. However, the
beneficiary assessments recommended at the MTR and end of project have not been carried out.
As such, the compliance aspect is rated moderately satisfactory.

Procurement. Procurement performance throughout the implementation has been mixed. The
project coordination units changed procurement specialists five times which affected the pace of
important contracts (e.g., fisheries management plans, research contracts). The Bank’s decision
to collaborate with Senegal’s Central Procurement Department in 2008 for eventual use of
country systems for procurement, added to the delays caused by an already cumbersome process.
Consequently, the pace of procurement was slow throughout implementation although the
quality of documentation was judged acceptable by the Bank team, and a rating of moderately
satisfactory was given towards the end of the project.

Financial Management is rated unsatisfactory for the following reasons.

   (a) Sustainable Fisheries Management (DMF-IU). Following supervision, the mission found
       that: (i) the accounting records are up-to-date, (ii) the Interim Financial Reports (IFRs)
       are received on time and are of satisfactory quality, and (iii) the rate of budget execution
       is acceptable and monitored properly. However, the overall performance of the financial
       management of the Project is rated as unsatisfactory because of: (1) the lack of adequate
       monitoring of financial activities at the Local Fishermen’s Committee level which
       constitutes one the most important activities of the Project, (2) ineligible expenditures in
       the amount of 9.13 million CFA, (3) incomplete documentation for payments from IDA
       funds for a total of 13 million CFA, (4) delay in the implementation of recommendations
       made by the external auditor dated June 2011, in particular sufficient justification for
       expenditures related to field supervision missions conducted by technical experts in the
       field, (5) recommendations concerning the adoption of the Procedures Manual, and (6)
       evidence that cast doubt on the authenticity of expenditure on a workshop expenses
       amounting to 8.433 million CFA.

   (b) Ecosystems Management (DPN-IU). The financial management system is assessed as
       adequate: (i) project accounts are current; (ii) the Financial Monitoring Reports are
       received on time and are considered satisfactory; and (iii) the rate of budget expenditure
       is acceptable and properly monitored. However, the overall performance of the financial
       management of the Project is rated unsatisfactory due to: (1) ineligible expenditures
       amounting to 72 million CFA paid for works which were unfinished or non-existent at
       project closure, contrary to the provisions of the financial agreement; and (2) the lack of

                                               13
        supporting documentation relating to the disposal of two vehicles amounting to 44
        million CFAF which must be reimbursed.

In total the Bank has requested the reimbursement of 189 million CFA francs of ineligible
expenses at the end of the Project.

2.5 Post-completion Operation/Next Phase
(including transition arrangement to post-completion operation of investments financed by present
operation, Operation & Maintenance arrangements, sustaining reforms and institutional capacity, and
next phase/follow-up operation, if applicable)

Even prior to the mid-term review of the Project, the pilots for local management of fisheries
were showing strong community ownership and demand, to help reduce the open access nature
of targeted coastal fisheries. On this basis, when additional GEF funds became available in early
2006, the Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources Project (SMFRP), 3 was designed in
order to replicate and expand the number of these pilots, as a complement to the Project. More
specifically, the SMFRP was a three-year project to build on the results of pilot activities of
community fisheries co-management under the Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources
Management Project and apply it to eight other sites (Sombédioune, Bargny, Yenne, Mballing,
Nianing, Pointe Sarène, Mbodiène, and Fimela) along the central coastline of Senegal from the
Cap-Vert Peninsula to the Saloum River Delta. It was designed to include activities for
rehabilitating key coastal habitats essential for fisheries as part of the pilots, as well as additional
community development aspects including alternative livelihoods and marketing of fisheries
products. The SMFRP also provided funding for micro-projects and incentives (reconversion of
fishermen) which could not be provided under the Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources
Management Project. The SMFR, which was financed with GEF resources from the Strategic
Partnership for Fisheries in Africa, was approved in 2008. The project closed in June 30, 2012.
The SMFRP recorded similar results as the IMCRP, in terms of strong local ownership and
uptake of the pilots for local management of targeted fisheries, and continued to validate this
model. However, the project also suffered from significant delays and mismanagement at the
national level in late 2011, which led to its closure without an anticipated 18-month extension.

With the IMCRP under implementation and the SMFRP approved, the Bank moved to widen the
support from a focus on addressing the constraints of open access in specific pilot sites for local
management of fisheries, to addressing these constraints at the national and even regional level
via the West Africa Regional Fisheries Program (WARFP). 4 The WARFP is a nine-country
regional program, that aims to support the countries to sustainably increase the economic returns
to the region from marine fisheries, by strengthening governance arrangements to address the
constraints posed by open access to the resources, to increase surveillance of the fisheries to
reduce illegal fishing and enhance compliance with strengthened governance, and, once these


3
  The SMFRP was approved on December 16, 2008 for US$9.5 million, of which $3.5 million IDA and $6.0 million
   GEF.
4
  The ongoing WARFP was approved in April 2008 and spans seven countries with US$15.0 million allocated to
   Senegal. The WARFP has been effective in Senegal since June 2010.


                                                    14
two steps are completed, to support increased local value added to healthier fisheries, via
infrastructure and skills investments. The WARFP investment in Senegal aims to expand the
efforts of the local management pilots to the national level via nation-wide licensing for the
country’s fisheries and support for reduction of the industrial fleet, together with increased
surveillance of the fisheries and infrastructure for greater value added. The aim of this combined
support is to help the country deliver on the fundamental first objective of the 2008 Letter of
Sector Policy, which is to rebuild the natural resource base underpinning the sector.

3. Assessment of Outcomes

3.1 Relevance of Objectives, Design and Implementation
(to current country and global priorities, and Bank assistance strategy)

The objectives of the Project remain relevant to the global concerns on sustainable fisheries and
the growing crisis on world fisheries. In particular, its objectives are aligned with such global
partnership initiatives as Profish and the more recent Global Partnership for Oceans supported by
the Bank. The project also presented an opportunity for the Bank to re-engage with the
Government of Senegal in the fisheries sector after long absence.

The Project’s objectives remains relevant to the objectives of the CAS pillars of May 2007 and
Senegal’s Poverty Reduction Strategy which supports: (a) accelerated growth and wealth
creation, including promoting a modern and diversified agricultural sector, and fostering
sustainable development and management of natural resources; (b) human development and
shared growth including increasing access to social services and creating opportunities for poor
and vulnerable groups, and (c) rural and urban synergies including improving the quality of life
of the population through better management of natural resources and improved access to water
and sanitation.

In light of the strategies mentioned above, the design of local management initiatives remain
particularly relevant since it focuses on the artisanal fisheries sector which plays a major role in
poverty alleviation as a major contributor to employment for the rural sector but is risky and
difficult to regulate. However, sustainability of operating costs for local initiatives and attention
to alternative livelihood promotion to alleviate overfishing and poverty remains an issue.

Aspects of biodiversity management and ecosystems management are also relevant, although
with a modified design with reduced complexity and realistic timeframe and associated targets.
These would be accompanied by strong institutional capacity building and development
measures.

3.2 Achievement of Project Development Objectives and Global Environment Objectives
(including brief discussion of causal linkages between outputs and outcomes, with details on outputs in
Annex 2)

Achievement of PDO. The first key indicator: that local fisheries management sub-projects are
implemented in four pilot sites by the end of the Project, has been substantially met. Sub-
projects have been prepared by LFCs, submitted and approved by the MME, and implemented
successfully at the four pilot sites, with most co-management activities completed at three out of

                                                    15
four sites. At the fourth project site at Ouakam, only one co-management activity (immersion of
artificial reefs) in under preparation due to the late start of activities at this site. As such, it
would imply that the capacity of LFCs as private sector organizations have been strengthened to
better manage resources, in partnership with the Fisheries Administration of the MME.
Furthermore, stakeholders at the local, regional and national levels collaborated on developing
co-management initiatives which reflect a common perception towards management of resources
and have tested an alternative decision-making structure which has yielded positive results.

The second key indicator: national management plans for two key fisheries are prepared, and
approved by the National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries was not met, although the
preparation work for the plans have been substantially completed under the Project. The plans
will be finalized under the Bank’s ongoing WARF program and expected to be submitted and
approved by the National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries shortly. The remaining
work involves conducting the last of the participatory workshops and finalizing the
documentation for the management plans before submitting them to the Council for approval.
More importantly, experience with this kind of activity has contributed to strengthening the
capacity of the MME for preparing and managing the preparation of national fisheries
management plans in the future.

The third indicator: participatory assessment of local community involvement in the
management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas rated as satisfactory at the end of the Project,
did not benefit from an end of project beneficiary assessment. However, a participatory
assessment carried out in 2006 by the PCU, and between 2009 to 2011 by the DNP using the
same tools, indicated a mean score variation from 67 percent in 2006 to 75 percent in 2011, as a
measure of satisfaction at the level of communities. Also, popular demand by communities for
some services provided under the project indicates that such activities have been successful in
encouraging and strengthening local community involvement in biodiversity management.

Achievement of GEO. The key indicator: effective management of biodiversity in the three
pilot areas increased by at least 50 percent by end of project was substantially met. It was
measured using the Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management
(RAPPAM) 5 methodology developed by the World Wildlife Fund (WWF). Compared to the
baselines for management effectiveness measured with WWF/World Bank Protected Areas




5
  The Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Areas Management (RAPPAM) methodology is based on
the WCPA/Protected Areas Management Effectiveness (WCPA PAME) Framework. It was developed by the
WWF between 1999 and 2002 and is designed to identify management strengths and weaknesses, analyse the scope,
severity, prevalence and distribution of threats and pressures; identify areas of high ecological and social importance
and vulnerability; indicate areas of urgency and conservation priority; and help develop appropriate policy
interventions and follow-up actions to improve protected areas management. It is similar to the WWF/World Bank
tool above but provides additional information on habitat and species evaluation. The methodology is best
implemented through interactive workshops with policy makers, PA managers, and relevant stakeholders.
RAPPAM has been implemented in some 40 countries and over 1,000 protected areas in Europe, Asia, Africa and
Latin America.


                                                         16
Management Effectiveness Tool 6 in 2006, the results at end of project (2011) indicates an
improvement (see Results Framework Analysis in Annex 5). The mean score increased from 46
percent in 2006 to 61 percent in 2011, although the target set by the DPN for itself was actually
69 percent. For years 2009 – 2011, the RAPPAM methodology was used because it gives more
information for habitat and species evaluation than the tool which was used in 2006. In addition,
the development of local level ecosystem management plans for eight of the 10 sites contributed
to effective management of biodiversity because of the active participation of the local
communities in those areas.

3.3 Efficiency
(Net Present Value/Economic Rate of Return, cost effectiveness, e.g., unit rate norms, least cost, and
comparisons; and Financial Rate of Return)

In the PAD, the economic analysis presents a description of the likely costs and benefits, and the
likely fiscal impacts due to weaknesses of data collection in Senegal and the difficulty of
measuring many of the effects involved, especially the likely off-site benefits (positive
externalities) of the three proposed Biosphere reserves. In this ICR, the team will use the same
approach (analysis of costs and benefits of the project) with the available data.

At project completion, the financial costs after project completion (amount of total
disbursement) were $13.25 million (80 percent of appraisal) (2005 - 2012) (with two extensions
of the closing date occurring in 2008 and 2010). In terms of benefits, from the PAD, the three
main benefits of the project are: (i) increased fisheries rent some years after the project
implementation as a consequence of stock recovery and reduced fishing effort, (ii) increased
recreational/ecotourism rent and, (iii) better preservation of marine and bird biodiversity, both in
the short term and long term.

From the PAD, the fisheries benefits of the project are the rent of the coastal demersal fisheries,
where the remaining fishers would see their catch-per-unit-effort (CPUI) increase due to the
project. For the purpose of the ICR, the team could not calculate this rent for the targeted
fisheries due to lack of data for small-scale vessels operations. Hence, the team has analyzed the
CPUE for the targeted fisheries in each of the four pilot sites. From 2005 to 2011, the CPUE of
green lobster fisheries in Ngaparou has increased from 7 kg through 40 kg per vessel, and in
Ouakam, the same CPUE has increased from 10 kg to 34 kg between 2007 and 2011 and the
CPUE of Thiof has reached 166 kg per vessel (against only 75 kg per vessel in 2007) during the
implementation of co-management fisheries.




6
  This tool is simple and basic, and is designed to measure management effectiveness over time, i.e., in line with
project capacity-building objectives. The tool is used as a cost-effective proxy to determining impact and has been
used in over 85 countries, primarily by donor agencies and NGOs, and is now mandatory for World Bank, GEF and
WWF projects. The methodology uses a rapid, site level assessment based on a score-card questionnaire which
includes all six elements of management effectiveness identified in the international Union for Conservation of
Nature / World Commission on Protected Areas (IUCN/WCPA) Framework: context, planning, inputs, process,
outputs and outcomes. It enables park managers and donors to identify needs, constraints and priority actions.


                                                        17
For the coastal white shrimp stocks in Foundiougne and Betenty, the implementation of fisheries
management initiatives by the LFCs in these localities has allowed the stock of shrimp to begin
to rejuvenate and to recover. As in Betenty for instance, the number of individual shrimp present
per sample increased by 38 percent from 2005 through 2011 (it means that the body size of the
shrimp has increased as an indicator of higher quality of the fisheries product).

In the PAD, ecotourism benefits depended on the additional number of visitors over time
(compared to the scenario without the project) and on the economic rent from tourism captured
by Senegal from the additional visitors. For the ICR, the team, given the availability of data, has
calculated the additional benefits generated by the additional number of visitors at the parks and
reserves concerned by the IMCRP through the project implementation. The additional number of
ecotourists was about 44,172 which generated a total additional revenue of the ecotourism in
these protected areas during the project implementation (between 2006 and 2010) is about
US$96,532.

The benefits of biodiversity conservation by the implementation of the project can be evaluated
by the effectiveness rate of management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas (biosphere) and
by the rate of participatory involvement of the local communities in the management of
biodiversity in these three pilot areas through the project implementation. As results of such
assessment of the effectiveness rate of management of biodiversity, all the three zones have
reached the target fixed by the end of the project: Cap Vert 61 of 65 percent, Senegal Delta 62
percent of 70 percent and Saloum Delta 57 percent of 60 percent. As for the rate of participatory
involvement of the local communities in the management of biodiversity, the participatory
assessment was done using the same tools. According to the WWF/CATIE scale, and between
2006 and 2011, this score has increased from 76 percent to 79 percent for Cap-Vert zone, from
64 percent to 75 percent for Senegalese river Delta zone and from 65 percent to 73 percent for
the Delta of Saloum zone.

 3.4 Justification of Overall Outcome and Global Environment Outcome Rating
(combining relevance, achievement of PDO/GEOs, and efficiency)
Rating: Moderately Satisfactory.

The justification for the rating on the PDO is that, in terms of impact, important results on the
ground were achieved compared to when the Project began, despite the shortcomings in
management at the national level. It was a new operation piloting an innovative approach in a
difficult environment (risky sector, difficult social, environmental, economic and political
conditions). Overall, the Project has been successful in changing perceptions towards fisheries
resources and biodiversity conservation, and introducing new approaches, even if not all physical
targets have been met. Conflicts from users of the same resources still occur but are increasingly
rare as the co-management approach gains ground. Awareness has been raised from local to
national levels in various areas including resources use and management, resources monitoring
and evaluation, partnership building and shared decision-making, conflict resolution, as well as
technical skills in conservation methods. Harmful methods of fishing and gear has been reduced,
and at the national level for the first time, the nationwide registration program for small fishing
boats has put in place an important surveillance system for fisheries administration staff to
monitor artisanal fisheries efforts. Revisions to major legislation in both sectors such as the
Fisheries Law, Letter of Sector Policy and Biodiversity Framework Law has re-engaged the
                                                18
Government in the sectors and provided an important opportunity for staff of the MME and
MENP to demonstrate their strengthened technical capacities. The rating justifications are
detailed below.

Gaps and weaknesses in the management of the fisheries sector, including governing and
management structures, have been narrowed due to the institutional strengthening support to the
government institutions 7. The knowledge base for policy decision-making and accompanying
measures has been strengthened through the revisions to major sector legislations 8 . The
successful establishment of a nationwide system for registering small fishing vessels is an
important step towards regulating artisanal fisheries for the Government 9 . The successful
implementation of sub-projects by pilot communities whose members (LFCs) conduct their own
MCS activities and basic data collection and M&E, indicates that the objective of strengthening
capacity of local artisanal fisheries management has been met.

The successes of the co-management approach are now known and the approach is being applied
in other donor interventions. The Government of Senegal is now fully supportive of local
initiatives to manage and limit fishing and the co-management approach, moving from pilots to
policy 10. Communities and Government (through the legal agreements signed with the Minister
of Fisheries and Maritime Economy) have successfully built partnerships in fisheries resources
management and local development which contributes to the achieving the PDO. In a recent
interview during a visit to a coastal fishing community (Mbour in July 2012), the newly
appointed Minister of Fisheries and Maritime Economy was quoted as saying that he and the
President would support co-management because he was reassured by its consultative approach
which provides the fishing communities with a means to overcome challenges without waiting


7
  These are due to: (a) the direct involvement of the MME and MENP staff at national, regional and local levels
involved in the implementation of the Project; (b) the institutional strengthening of the DMF and the DPN through
the implementation of Components 1 and 2, experience with project management, monitoring and control, (c)
increased government interaction with local communities; and (d) direct involvement of ministry technical personnel
providing input into the revisions of sector legislation in Senegal.

8
  The revised Fisheries Law has been submitted to Parliament for approval, and the Letter of Sector Policy was
revised in 2008. The revisions to the Fisheries Law is expected to address the difficult issues of open access to
fishing. The legislations demonstrate Government engagement at the national level and is an important step linking
improved fisheries management with the sectoral policy framework. These will also provide a channel for more
effective aid and aid coordination in the fisheries sector.

9
  Historically, government regulation of artisanal fisheries has had little success and has been met with strong
resistance from boat owners. By end of project, however, boat owners are increasingly complying with the
registration program and the number of boats registered have almost doubled (18,900 boats) over the number
estimated at appraisal (10,000).

10
   The co-management approach to fisheries resources management has contributed to the reduction in fishing
efforts, elimination of unsustainable and harmful fishing gear and methods, and sustainable management of local
resources through local enforcement and compliance with biological rest periods to allow fish stocks to recover,
rehabilitation of reefs, and MCS activities. Data collected at the local level are indicating that fish stocks around the
pilot sites are showing signs of improvement in terms of size and catch volume.


                                                          19
for the state to intervene. 11 This illustrates that the project’s objectives for co-management has
been fully accepted by the Government.

The justification for the GEO is that, the submission of the Biodiversity Framework Law to
Parliament for approval established a base for future measures in conservation, and the
establishment of Ecosystems Management Committees at two out three sites and the completion
of eight out of 10 local level ecosystem management plans contributes to effective management
of biodiversity because of the active participation of populations concerned. However, to
maintain the momentum, the DPN would need support through additional funding.


3.5 Overarching Themes, Other Outcomes and Impacts
(if any, where not previously covered or to amplify discussion above)
(a) Poverty Impacts, Gender Aspects, and Social Development

The artisanal fisheries sector is an important source of employment for the rural sector where
most of the fishing methods are traditional. Women’s groups are involved mainly in the
processing of fish products. The Project’s objectives are focused on poverty reduction and the
sustainability of local resources, by targeting small-scale, labor-intensive fisheries. This is
carried out through support to the organization of fishers and the allocation of user rights, the
promotion of alternative livelihoods, and the establishment of protected marine reserves. The
protection of fisheries resources at the local, small-scale level remains important for providing
food security for the poor fishing communities which depend on them for their livelihood.
Through the Project, the co-management initiatives used to gain the support of communities have
been successful in controlling unsustainable fishing methods and reducing overfishing at pilot
sites while ecosystems management initiatives have raised awareness and increased capacity of
communities to also manage the use of natural resources at the protected areas and reserves on
which they depend. Relevant sector policies and regulations finalized under the Project provide
support and strengthen the level of contribution of local fishing and harvesting activities to
poverty alleviation and food security.

Although the participation of women in fisheries activities is limited, the provisions for
identifying the impact of project initiatives on women were in the preparation of the fisheries
management plans. Women’s interest groups were well represented in Local Fisher Committees
as well as the protected area management groups, including volunteer groups such as the
Ecoguards. The Project provided support also for women’s groups involved in fish processing
and marketing in the form of project funding, technical advice and guidance, and procurement of
goods and materials.

In terms of social development, the cohesion of groups targeted by the Project were strengthened
through the co-management initiatives, and existing associations were supported with funding



11
  “Mbour est le capital de la pêche? (Ministre), http://mbour.info/economie/economie-maritime, jeudi, 12 juillet
2012.


                                                      20
and procurement of goods. The ecosystems and protected areas activities attracted volunteers to
the Ecoguards groups which were mostly comprised of youth from the nearby communities.

(b) Institutional Change/Strengthening
(particularly with reference to impacts on longer-term capacity and institutional development)

The MFME was strengthened with technical assistance provided by national and international
consultant services, training programs, workshops, office equipment and software, as well as
vehicles and budget for operating costs during the life of the project. The Bank teams provided
substantial support and inputs into national level strategic, legal and regulatory documents such
as the Fisheries Law revisions and the Letter of Sector Policy, as well as sector studies and
strategies for relevant sectors, and provided technical inputs into the preparation and
implementation of fisheries programs. In this context, the MFME was strengthened to provide
support and influence to changes in policy in the fisheries sector at the national level, and at the
local level, changed the perception of local communities as partners and modified the traditional
top-down approach. Local communities also changed their perception of Government as
partners.

In other areas, the establishment of the National Registration Program for fishing vessels
provided Senegal with an effective means to control fishing effort in country with the potential
for further collaboration with neighboring countries. The Project also presented an opportunity
to strengthen the capacity of a national level research institutions like ISRA and CRODT, despite
reservations about its declining capacity. The CRODT was contracted to carry out research on
demersal species; however, due to lengthy contract preparations, the research experienced
important delays but was completed. Funding was also provided for the LFCs to collaborate
with the CRODT to prepare co-management initiatives. Funding was also provided to ISRA, the
national agricultural research agency, to conduct participatory research and for setting-up a
monitoring system to support local co-management initiatives for artisanal fisheries. Such
contracts exposed national research institutions to participatory research methods and offer
alternatives to the top-down research and data collection approach.

With regards to the Ministry of Environment, Component 2 funded by GEF aimed at
strengthening and restructuring units within the ministry to better manage and conserve
Senegal’s biodiversity through the restructuring of the DNP and supported its operations in
implementing the Ecosystems management component, the revisions of the Biodiversity and
Protected Area Law, the National Action Plan for iconic fauna, and strengthening the National
Biodiversity Committee. Support and awareness raising activities strengthened local level
associations (ecosystems management committees and Ecoguards) and was successful in
building ownership of local populations in protected area management initiatives.

(c) Other Unintended Outcomes and Impacts (positive or negative)

The success of piloting local level initiatives in co-management provides a starting point for
dialogue at a policy level with the government to support the sensitive and difficult discussions
on open access.



                                                   21
Some Local Fisher Committees revolving funds established for operating costs have developed
into a broader social fund /safety net type of community fund (e.g. , Ngaparou).

3.6 Summary of Findings of Beneficiary Survey and/or Stakeholder Workshops
(optional for Core ICR, required for ILI, details in annexes)

Not available.

4. Assessment of Risk to Development Outcome and Global Environment Outcome
Rating: High
Senegal shares its fisheries resources with the neighboring countries of Mauritania, The Gambia
and Guinea-Bissau. Therefore, a regional or wider approach to fisheries management is
imperative if Senegal is to manage such resources sustainably. The Project did not focus on
industrial fishing, which also plays a major role in the depletion of fisheries resources. This area
was already being supported by other donors (EU, France, and Japan). While the Project’s
objectives focus on artisanal fishing communities in an attempt to raise awareness and improve
the management of such resources, it does not address industrial deep sea fishing. Therefore, for
the efforts to have a sustainable impact, the community level efforts must be accompanied by
regional or international initiatives, including close coordination with other donors, to strengthen
sustainable management of such resources.

The likelihood that the two ministries at the political level will continue to work in silos
following the separation of the project into two themes is high, although their staff cooperate on
the technical level. As such, the capacity-building aspects of the project strengthened the
capacity of each technical ministry but failed on the collaboration at the national levels. As a
result, the vision of managing resources across sectors, including the ecosystem approach,
remains premature as long as political will is lacking. At the local level, communities seem to
adjust better to the approach and vision but lack the capacity and need the reinforcement of
accompanying measures at the national level measures.

Sustainability of certain Project activities such as local level initiatives, particularly with regards
to alternative livelihood options, operating costs of community MCS initiatives, is unsure, unless
it will be supported under follow-up operations which will explore these aspects.

5. Assessment of Bank and Borrower Performance
(relating to design, implementation and outcome issues)

5.1 Bank Performance
(a) Bank Performance in Ensuring Quality at Entry
(i.e., performance through lending phase)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory.

Project preparation was carried out with an experienced team of experienced and consultants to
address the technical aspects, with quality input and guidance from peer reviews and
management. The Bank provided adequate resources to ensure quality preparation and appraisal
work. The team ensured consistency with the CAS and Government priorities in the sector and
compliance with the Bank’s environmental protection and safeguards strategies. Lessons of

                                                  22
experience were drawn from best practice in the sector and similar projects in other countries,
but piloted for the first time in Senegal the integrated, eco-system management approach to
fisheries management. The project benefited from strong Government ownership having been
prepared by the experts at the Ministries of Environment and Fisheries and Maritime Economy,
with strong donor collaboration and participation from NGOs, civil society, and communities.

The Project was designed to coordinate efforts across ministries and sectors to manage a broad
range of activities on sustainable fisheries management and biodiversity conservation along the
coastline of Senegal stretching from Mauritania to the Gambia, but at strategic pilot sites spread
along the coast. However, the design proved to be too complex and ambitious for the project
timeframe and taxed the limited capacities of the implementing agencies in terms of manpower
and resources. Insufficient validation of the ownership and mandate of the PCU within the
Government before establishing the unit within the Ministry of Environment caused problems in
implementation; and more attention could have been paid to establishing the monitoring and
evaluation (M&E) system and setting realistic targets for the timeframe and capacity of
implementing agencies. The Project could also have built in a stronger support for developing
the capacity for research with such institutions as the CRODT which was already identified as
weak.

(b) Quality of Supervision
(including of fiduciary and safeguards policies)
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Supervision was carried out on a regular basis for most of the project, with at least two missions
a year. Resources allocated for supervision under IDA were modest for a complex operation and
blended project. GEF resources allocated averaged $17,000 - $35,000 per year. Implementation
of project activities were followed closely by Bank task teams from the start of the project and
substantial efforts made to react to implementation problems in a timely manner (MTR, project
restructuring). However, the skills mix for the site visits was adequate for fisheries management
but inadequate for addressing ecosystems and biodiversity conservation. Consequently, results
on essential aspects such as annual reporting, M&E, and the social dimensions were overlooked.
In terms of safeguards, expertise was provided irregularly, particularly on environmental
safeguards, and briefly for social safeguards (MTR). On fiduciary compliance and project
management issues, the Bank issued firm recommendations for improvement as needed, with
regular follow-up after formal supervision missions. However, fiduciary missions were not
carried out at the same time as those of the Bank implementation missions and consequently,
findings were sometimes lagging those of Bank implementation missions and create
discrepancies in ratings in the given by the team.

Early in implementation the Bank was intent on getting the project started but was plagued by
the institutional arrangement problems of the PCU. However, the mission teams could have
received more guidance from management in handling some of the more difficult issues of
coordination and collaboration between the ministries, particularly with regards to Government
interference in project management as project performance rating began to decline early in
implementation, and towards the end of the project as the two ministries began to operate two
separate projects. Maintaining Government commitment through turnover in ministers would


                                                   23
require a higher level policy dialogue in the context of poverty alleviation strategies and sector
reviews.

7.3 Overall

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Bank Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Although there were adequate resources and skills mix during the preparation phase, resources
were seriously lacking for supervision to properly monitor progress after project restructuring,
particularly in ecosystems management. Technical input for fisheries management was adequate
and provided when needed. The Project was four years into implementation with little results on
the ground before a decision was made to restructure the Project. It had underestimated the
cooperation needed of the Ministries concerned on project arrangements.              Following
restructuring, the Bank made a serious attempt to save the Project by addressing some of the
institutional arrangements issues of the PCU and resetting the targets to a more realistic level.
However, supervision post-restructuring lacked attention to M&E, results on essential aspects,
and their follow-up. Fiduciary supervision was effective when carried out, but was late in
identifying the issues.

5.2 Borrower Performance
(a) Government Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Although the Government prepared the project with ownership and enthusiasm, it implemented
with mixed success a set of complex activities. The performance of the Government was
satisfactory on the updated Letter of Sector Policy in 2008 and on the revision to the Fisheries
Law which has been submitted to Parliament, an important development for the sector in Senegal
and a significant development under the Project. The Biodiversity Framework Law was
submitted to Parliament for approval ahead of the target date and is expected to passed in 2012.
However, when the design of the project was too ambitious for the capacity of the DNP and
DMF and for the timeframe involved, the Government tried to salvage the Project by requesting
the dissolution of the original PCU and, despite the lack of capacity within its departments,
proposed to mainstream the management of a complex operation into its ministry agencies. As a
result, some of the essential activities of the project coordination was divided and not followed
up, e.g., M&E, IEC, research, annual biodiversity reporting. Following restructuring, indications
are that the Project lacked sustainable ownership on the part of the Government.

The Government’s performance in project start-up was slow in establishing functional
committees and declining commitment in maintaining the structures and supporting or
strengthening their mandates (Special Commission, Steering Committee, Ecosystems
management Committees). The National Biodiversity Committee (NBC), which had oversight
of biodiversity monitoring and reporting to the U.N. Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD),
was not effective and played a passive role in promoting biodiversity monitoring. The
Operational Coordination Committee (OCC), however, played an important role in coordinating
with the Ministry of Environment the transmission of the Biodiversity and Protected Areas Act
and submitting the Act to Parliament for approval.

                                                24
(b) Implementing Agency or Agencies Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

The key PDO target for the national fisheries management plans was not met although
substantial preparation for the plans have been completed and finalization funded under the
Bank’s ongoing WARFP. Targets for project activities at the local level, however, were met and
the results from the co-management initiatives represent a key success of the Project. The
implementing agencies successfully used the consultation and negotiations methods, recruiting
qualified and experienced individuals to work with communities (e.g., facilitators, co-
management experts, national parks personnel, technical consultants, etc.) to achieve objectives
and reach targets. Data on fish catch, weight and size show an increase and co-management
implementation has yielded positive reaction from the local communities. Participation rates
from all pilot communities was high with strong ownership of measures undertaken on
conservation and management of resources. With the DNP-IU, initiatives to raise conservation
awareness in protected areas and schools with the younger generation was impressive. With the
DMF-IU, co-management initiatives managed to change the perception and approach to
traditional management at national, regional and local levels. Both IUs contributed to building
partnerships between fisheries and parks administration and local communities, an important
development for the Project.

The DMF’s and DNP’s performances suffered, however, from the disruption of project
restructuring and from a complex project design. M&E lacks commitment and interest and the
system is particularly weak. Annual reporting of progress has been overlooked. Key
performance indicators and physical targets were partially met.

Project start-up experienced many problems due to the institutional arrangements, the
restructuring improved performance to some extent (increasing the ownership of the
components) but the capacity of each agency to manage the range of monitoring and follow-up
activities across multiple project sites is limited. Management of the agencies has improved in
terms of a common shared vision, but still lacks a cohesion between the two ministries. The
Ministry of Environment lacked capacity to implement the project activities, the MFME fared
better. A stronger political will is needed to bring the operational areas together. Instead, each is
operating independently from the other. M&E was weak, as was supervision of the research
contracts with CRODT probably due to the lack of clarity of M&E arrangements,and research
objectives.

Regarding local level Monitoring Control and Surveillance (MCS), law enforcement and
prosecution of offenders is weak and inconsistently applied across the country which weakens
the resolve to conduct effective and legitimate MCS. The implementing agencies have a role to
play in proposing an effective system nationally.

Compliance with Legal Covenants.

Most of the covenants were complied with but experienced the following shortfalls: (a) the long
delay in getting the Fisheries Law revised and passed through Parliament; (b) the preparation of
the two key fisheries management plans (substantially prepared but not finalized); (c) the

                                                 25
preparation of an incremental program of fisheries research and its implementation by CRODT
(not carried out due to lack of capacity of CRODT); (c) CRODT evaluations of local fish stock
programs prepared by DMF (not carried out due to lack of capacity); and (d) the preparation of
management plans using an ecosystem approach (local ecosystem management plans were
prepared), (e) timely submission of the UNESCO MAB Biosphere Reserve application for the
Cap-Vert Peninsula (not carried out), and (f) annual updates to the State of Biodiversity Report
during the life of the Project (not all received).

7.7 Overall

(c) Justification of Rating for Overall Borrower Performance
Rating: Moderately Unsatisfactory

Important legislations have been submitted to Parliament for approval and these are expected to
have a positive impact on the perception and approach to natural resources management
initiatives in the country. The national fishing vessels registration program has been
implemented for the first time in Senegal and has put in place a surveillance successful tool for
managing artisanal fisheries in the sector. However, although the Borrower prepared with
project with strong ownership and reached many of the targets set, the complex operation
seriously taxed the resources, time and skills of the implementing agencies which had difficulty
maintaining the momentum. M&E was weak in both the DMF and DPN which lacked the skills
and resources to implement the system.

6. Lessons Learned
(both project-specific and of wide general application)

    •   The fundamental constraint of open access to the fisheries resources may remain
        the key obstacle to the sector achieving its potential. However, the project did
        successfully pilot a model for local management of targeted fisheries that can help
        address this constraint in the coastal waters. In this model, the project supported
        communities to establish private associations of fishers that were legally recognized, and
        then these associations developed regulations and plans for the management of targeted
        fisheries. On the basis of these plans, the Government signed a legal agreement (i.e. the
        Minister of Maritime Economy) and passed an accompanying decree for the regulations
        developed by the association. In this way, the Government successfully delegated
        responsibility for resource management to these private user associations of fishers in
        each of the sites, and then provided monitoring support to enforce the regulations.
        These associations were supported to conduct a consultation and negotiation process for
        formulating co-management plans that was highly successful in soliciting the effective
        participation of relevant stakeholders. The successful method used was to introduce
        initiatives in a pilot community was to apply the rapid result method, i.e., obtain rapid
        results on a commonly agreed-upon measure to encourage the community to adopt other,
        stronger or more difficult measures. The result was that by the end of the project, fish
        catch volumes and prices had increased in all pilot sites, in many cases doubling.

    •   For this model to become truly sustainable and fully address the fundamental
        constraint of open access to the resources, the legal and institutional framework
                                               26
    will need to provide local users and associations not just the authority to manage
    (i.e. regulate) targeted fisheries, but also to limit access. Unless there is some scope
    for control of access to these fishing grounds that are locally managed, their success will
    also be their downfall – as improved fisheries and higher catch rates will only attract
    more fishers from neighboring waters, so that overall exploitation increase to the point
    that the stock sizes and catch rates decrease to pre-project levels. In fact, in a number of
    the pilot sites fishing activity has increased as a result of the success of local
    management measures, and this threat will become larger in the future. Essentially,
    creating and allocating the right to manage targeted fisheries has been a very successful
    first step, but the country will need to take the next step to create and allocate rights to
    access the fisheries, in order for this progress to be maintained.

•   The issues of open access to fisheries and other sectoral reforms should be addressed in
    the context of a policy dialogue and partnership discussion with the highest level of
    Government, while building a constituency at the local level for reform.

•   The Bank underestimated the cooperation needed of the ministries with regards to the
    institutional arrangements (establishment of the PCU within the Ministry of
    Environment). It could not have predicted the high turnover of ministers nor the level of
    interference in project activities. However, this could have been avoided through
    stronger institutional analysis during the preparation phase and commitment could have
    also been obtained up-front from higher levels in government.

•   Greater community involvement in identifying issues and solutions ensured greater
    ownership of initiatives, enhancing prospects for sustainability of new approaches.
    Formalizing the co-management proposals through legal agreements between
    community associations and government gave communities a voice and shared
    accountability with decision-makers. However, the sustainability of certain activities
    launched under the Project such as operating costs for MCS activities, technical advice
    or assistance for marketing and market access, needs to be addressed in follow-up
    operations.

•   M&E was weak and lacked attention on the part of the implementing agencies.
    M&E arrangements and realism in setting targets are crucial in avoiding early
    problems in implementing project activities. This is better achieved through
    obtaining agreements on clear, measurable indicators and targets through joint
    formulation of indicators (at project preparation workshops); implementation of the
    M&E system should followed up closely for early identification of constraints (e.g.,
    institutional capacity, knowledge gaps, budget and time, technical); up-front/re-fresher
    M&E training should be given to project teams before implementation begins and
    repeated as necessary (in cases of staff turnover). Participatory M&E requires clear
    definition of the purpose and terms of the partnership accompanied by close follow-up
    on the part of donors and implementing agencies to ensure the involvement and
    momentum with local communities is not lost. The dissolution of the PCU meant that
    project coordination and monitoring activities, including IEC, reporting, following up on
    research and assessments, etc., needed to be continued at two separate implementing

                                            27
         agencies. However, these were carried out sporadically by the agencies and as a result,
         insufficient data made it difficult to assess consistently final results. Overall, the
         respective Ministries never conducted the work necessary to sufficiently monitor and
         evaluate project progress, despite multiple Aide Memoires recording agreement to do so.

     •   The ecosystems approach requires a long-term commitment over 10-15 years in a
         phased approach, particularly as it relates to biodiversity conservation. In the shorter
         term, modest gains are to be expected. In the longer term, donor assistance would need
         to build in appropriate incentives to keep communities engaged in conservation
         activities in the face of poverty placing pressure on the resources, and funding support
         for the cost of ecological works required for habitat and species conservation.

     •   The establishment of biosphere reserves requires broad and sustained consultation
         with stakeholders to engender a common vision. This would have worked better if it was
         managed by an entity associated with the biosphere reserves. The DPN was not well-
         suited to perform these functions, particularly in forming the EMCs which needed to
         cross administrative jurisdictions while the DPN’s jurisdiction was limited to protected
         areas and national parks


7. Comments on Issues Raised by Borrower/Implementing Agencies/Partners
(a) Borrower/implementing agencies

(b) Co-financiers

(c) Other partners and stakeholders
(e.g. NGOs/private sector/civil society)




                                               28
Annex 1. Project Costs and Financing (as of June 30, 2012)

   (a) Project Cost by Component (in USD Million equivalent)

Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - Total Project Cost
                               Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                    Percentage of
Components                     Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD
                                                                    Appraisal (%)
                               millions)       millions)
1. Management of sustainable
                                      6.53            5.67                 87
    fisheries
2. Conservation of critical
                                      6.02            4.35                 72
    habitats and species
3. Program management, M&E
                                      3.94            3.23                 89
    and communication

Total Baseline Cost                  16.49              13.25             80
Physical Contingencies                0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                  16.49              13.25             80
PPF Refinancing                       0.64               0.53             83
Front-end fee IBRD                    n.a.               n.a.
Total Financing Required             17.13              13.78             80

Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project – P086480 - IDA
                              Appraisal        Actual/Latest
                                                                  Percentage of
Components                    Estimate (USD    Estimate (USD
                                                                  Appraisal (%)
                              millions)        millions)
1. Management of sustainable
                                     6.00             5.59               110
   fisheries
2. Conservation of critical
                                     0.50             0.14                28
   habitats and species
3. Program management, M&E
                                     3.50             3.08                88
   and communication

Total Baseline Cost                  10.00               8.81             88
Physical Contingencies                0.00               0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00               0.00
Total Project Costs                  10.00               8.81             88
PPF Refinancing                       0.64               0.53             83
Front-end fee IBRD                    0.00               n.a.
Total Financing Required             10.64               9.34             88



                                          29
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - P058367 - GEF
                               Appraisal       Actual/Latest
                                                                   Percentage of
Components                     Estimate (USD   Estimate (USD
                                                                   Appraisal
                               millions)       millions)
1. Management of sustainable
                                      0.00            0.00                 0
   fisheries
2. Conservation of critical
                                      5.00            3.76                75
   habitats and species
3. Program management, M&E
                                      0.00            0.00                 0
   and communication
Total Baseline Cost                   5.00            3.76                75
Physical Contingencies                0.00
Price Contingencies                   0.00
Total Project Costs                  5.00              3.76               75
PPF Refinancing                      0.00              0.00                0
Front-end fee IBRD                   0.00              0.00                0
Total Financing Required             5.00              3.76               75

(b) Financing
IDA - P086480 - Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project
                                                            Actual/
                                                Appraisal
                                                            Latest      Percentage
                                   Type of      Estimate
 Source of Funds                                            Estimate    of Appraisal
                                   Financing    (USD
                                                            (USD        (%)
                                                millions)
                                                            millions)
                                   Counterpart
  Borrower                                          1.49        0.69        46
                                      Funds
  International Development
                                      Credit       10.00        8.81        88
 Association (IDA)

GEF - P058367 - Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project
                                                           Actual/
                                               Appraisal
                                                           Latest     Percentage of
                                  Type of      Estimate
Source of Funds                                            Estimate   Appraisal
                                  Financing    (USD
                                                           (USD       (%)
                                               millions)
                                                           millions)
Borrower                                           2.00        0.69        35
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT -
                                                  10.00        8.81        88
Associated IDA Fund
Global Environment Facility (GEF)                  5.00        3.76        75



                                            30
(c) Other Financing
 IDA - P086480 - Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project
                                                            Actual/
                                                Appraisal
                                                            Latest       Percentage
                                    Type of     Estimate
 Source of Funds                                            Estimate     of Appraisal
                                    Financing   (USD
                                                            (USD         (%)
                                                millions)
                                                            millions)
 PHRD (TF 53114)                    Trust Fund     0.522       0.117          22
 Swiss Corporation (TF 90534)       Trust Fund     0.526       0.468          89
 PDF-B (TF 24759) (Cancelled)       Trust Fund     0.344         0.0           0
 PDF-B (TF 516622)                  Trust Fund     0.344       0.344         100




                                         31
Annex 2. Outputs by Component

Component 1: Management of Sustainable Fisheries

The implementation of this component is rated as moderately satisfactory. The objective was
to increase the sustainability of fisheries through actions at the national and local levels through
the following three sub-components: (a) national-level activities to improve fisheries
management, (b) promotion and coordination of local management initiatives, and (c)
institutional strengthening and capacity building. The key performance indicators have been
substantially met (successful implementation of sub-projects at the pilot sites, positive results for
specific years that participatory assessments were conducted), and physical targets substantially
achieved (good results on sub-project performance and catch volumes). Fisheries management
plans were not completed.

Sub-Component 1.1: National-level activities to improve fisheries management

The preparation of two selected fisheries management plans by COMO in cooperation with the
CRODT were not completed. This was a key performance indicator for the project. The two
target species, i.e., white shrimp (Penaeus notialis) and Yeet (Cymbium spp.), were selected early
in implementation but the procurement and formulation of the plans experienced significant
delays from the start. An international consulting firm, BRL Ingénierie (BRLi) was selected
from the short-list of qualified firms. However, the time from advertising for Expressions of
Interests (January 26, 2005) to Bank approval and contract award (June 9, 2008) took about 3.5
years whereas the usual procurement processing time for this type of contract, from advertising
for expressions of interest (EOI) to consultant selection normally takes about 6-7 months.
Preparation for the management plans began a year later. However, a substantial amount of
preparation work has been carried out on the management plans under the Project which will
now be completed under the ongoing West Africa Regional Fisheries Program approved by the
Board in 2009.

During the preparation of the plans, BRLi’s team of fisheries experts changed three times.
Finding qualified replacements in a highly specialized technical fields, e.g., socio-economics
modeling of tropical fisheries, was made more difficult by the requirement to have the approval
of the Government and of the Bank to such changes. These requirements further delayed the
process by eight months. Consequently, in August 2010, BRLi proposed a new timetable for
activities which extended past the Project closing date of December 1, 2011. A fisheries expert
then fell ill and by the time the replacement arrived, it was too late to complete the assignment.
The Bank extended the closing date to May 1, 2012 to allow for the completion of the fisheries
management plans, however, delays in approving the amendment to BRLi’s contract by the
Government’s Central Procurement Department prompted the firm to officially notify the Bank
on March 20, 2012 that it was suspending all remaining activities and cancelling the contract,
citing insufficient time to complete the work before the Project closing date.

The management studies planned at appraisal to evaluate fisheries sector policy options were
removed from project activities by 2008 because they were overtaken by national policy
discussions dealing with similar concerns and ongoing at the time. These included: (a) revisions

                                                 32
to the 1998 Fisheries Law which were a result of broad consultations between donors and the
Government of Senegal; (b) revisions to the 2004 Letter of Sector Policy, and (c) the results of
the 2007 Public Expenditure Review of the Fisheries Sector which was being conducted to
identify the key policy options in the sector. However, a consensus on the key policy options
could not be reached and the Public Expenditure Review report was not finalized because of the
diverse interests which were at stake.

Important policy decisions which did take place were: (a) revisions to the Fisheries Law which
has been submitted to Parliament for approval and at the time of the ICR is still pending; (b) the
revisions to the Letter of Sector Policy in 2008. Although the policy revisions were completed
towards the latter part of the Project, they represented key achievements under the Project. The
Bank team provided substantial inputs into the revisions of both documents. The revised
Fisheries Law provides for important innovations including the right of access and ecosystem
management. It provides the legal backing for the establishment of the LFCs, the linkages
between the LAFCs, LFCs, and local fishermen, allows provisions for co-management, deals
with artisanal fisheries permits, and sports fishing permits, among others. Once the Fisheries
Law is approved by Parliament, it will provide the basis for the strategic fisheries management
framework.

The Special Commission which was established by the Government to determine the nature of
any major reforms proposed by changes in fisheries sector policies did not function. Its statute
was not renewed after 2006 because the Government changed its mind regarding the usefulness
of its mandate. Although it may indicate a shifting priority on the part of the government, it also
indicates the flexibility of the Bank in accommodating the priorities of the Borrower.

An Information, Education and Communications (IEC) plan was drafted and included in
project documentation. It was to be attached as an Annex to the Project Implementation Manual
but was not finalized. The IEC plan analyzes the country context in light of the new initiatives
introduced by the Project, weaknesses in communication, needs and constraints, and lays out the
vision, objective, and roll-out strategy, including timetable and budget requirements. However,
its dissemination and implementation was delayed well past the mid-term review. The Bank
supervision missions of 2006 reminded the Government executing agencies of the importance of
disseminating project documents to those involved in implementation. The supervision mission
of February 2010, it was noted that the IEC plans along with other participatory research
activities, were still not disseminated whereas they were meant to be launched at the same time
as the co-management activities. Following the Project restructuring, the IEC plan was not
updated and following project restructuring on Component 3, funding for IEC activities were
transferred to other components. At the pilot sites, planned IEC activities were carried out with
the assistance of a local firm, CAES-Consult, which included sensitization and awareness-raising
activities with villages and CLPAs, printed materials (flyers, posters, etc.) for distribution,
exchange visits with neighboring villages, door-to-door communication with relevant
establishments, radio spots and public information sessions with local stakeholders. Although
the local communities were aware and were actively participating in IEC events, an evaluation
conducted as part of a beneficiary assessment would be needed to validate the effectiveness of
the IEC campaign for the local level.



                                                33
The preparation of an incremental program of fisheries research targeting the life cycles of
key demersal species by the COMO was dropped following the MTR and restructuring. It was
to be implemented in collaboration with the national fisheries research institution, CRODT
(Centre de Recherche Océanographique de Dakar-Thiaroye) as part of the Project’s institutional
capacity-building activities, but although a contract was signed between COMO and CRODT in
2005, in 2006 it became evident that CRODT was not capable of providing the needed services,
its capacity having been weakened by departures of researchers towards other international
organizations. Subsequently, the Bank recommended exploring other institutions outside of
Senegal but no replacement was identified.

The nationwide system of small fishing vessel registration (Programme national
d’immatriculation (PNI)). The objective of establishing a functional nationwide registration
system for small fishing vessels was to provide a system for the government to control fishing
efforts and reduce fishing over time, by location, for the long-term management and
sustainability of fisheries resources.

At the time of appraisal, all industrial vessels in Senegal were locally registered and licensed, but
not the artisanal pirogues and their fishermen owners. To date, about 18,900 small vessels have
been registered. The PNI in Senegal began as a two-year program from 2006-2008 with the
objective of registering an estimated 10,000 artisanal fishing boats (pirogues). Over the years
since the PNI began, the number of fishing boats seemed to grow, partly because no census had
been taken since the one conducted by CRODT in 1986; therefore, the beginning estimate was
not accurate. In addition, the number of boats fluctuated as new boats were being constructed
and as fishermen moved from one neighboring country to another while the registration was
being carried out.

The PNI received funding totaling CFAF1,948 million from various sources:

           Source of Funds           (CFAF million)
           Swiss Corporation         239
           EU                        132
           World Bank                489
           Spanish Corporation       260
           Government         of     420
           Senegal
              Total                  1,948

Funding from the Swiss Corporation in the form of a Trust Fund (TF90534) of $526,829 (of
which $468,516 was disbursed) from 2005-2010 was managed by the World Bank. The Bank
supported the program through three projects in various amounts: the Integrated Marine and
Coastal Resources Management Project (IMCRM) (2004-2012), the Sustainable Management of
Fish Resources Project (SMFR), and the West Africa Regional Fisheries Project (WARFP)
(ongoing – 2014).




                                                 34
The PNI has been in implementation for six years and its closing date was extended four times
from 2006 to January 2011. It experienced technical difficulties and resource constraints
resulting in considerable delay to its completion.

The technical constraints were:
   • Locating itinerant fishermen (migration to the interior of the country and to neighboring
       countries), reaching areas with limited access such as Fatick and Ziguinchor;
   • fading or disappearance of registration markings (lettering and numbering) through
       voluntary removal by the fishermen, normal wear and tear, or use of poor quality paint;
   • difficulty reaching fishing areas bordering another country, e.g., St. Louis region, near
       Mauritania; limited means for personnel to travel to remote areas to follow-up on
       registration;
   • certain types of boats (senne tournante, Moudjass) which navigate in deep seas are more
       difficult to mark because of high water levels;
   • registration data issues such as equipment malfunctions and date entry management
       affecting reporting quality, shortage of registration number templates and materials;
       faulty placement of registration numbers on the boat; and
   • refusal by some fishermen to use certain assigned acronyms.

Administrative constraints were:
  • the lack of familiarity with the fishing boat sites/parc piroguier (inaccurate statistical
      data),
  • wrong application of registration procedures, non-compliance with administrative
      procedures for building new boats, and
  • lack of procedures and standardized sheet to delete non operating vessels from the
      database.

Financial constraints were:
   • insufficient compensation and delays in payments to the Economic Interest Groups
       responsible for marking the boats; and
   • frequent shortage of materials and supplies for printing the plastic registration cards.

Human resources constraints were: staffing personnel involved in the registration program
include one Coordinator, 15 information technology professionals initially (five resigned since
2006), 58 Economic Interest Groups, and 60 technical field visit teams (including the DMF
station chief, fishermen representatives, carpenter) spread across Senegal and one team per
fishing port.

Some fishermen’s groups who were concerned about the administrative and fiscal implications
initially rejected any form of registration. However, this has improved in most fishing sites
where fishing communities have been organized into co-management units under the Project. At
such sites as the Senegal River Delta where the fishing population is more mobile (moving
between Mauritania and Senegal) and groups diverse and less cohesive, registration has been
more difficult.



                                              35
Other Issues. The PNI changed coordinators in 2010. Under the Swiss TF, the cost of the
contract for the national consulting firm consumed half of the fund’s resources, the quality of its
data reporting was judged to be unsatisfactory by the PNI coordinator, and as result of the
disagreements, the firm has not been paid. The TF closed in December 2010. In terms of donor
funds, some were consumed quickly because of the ease of access to the funding. Among the
easiest donor accounts to access was the Spanish Corporation funds which was held at a
commercial bank (CNCS). Withdrawals required the signatures of the Director and the Project
Coordinator, whereas access to the other donor funds were managed by the financial
management unit of the COMO. By late 2009, most of the CFAF1,948 million had been spent,
whereas the CFAF420 million in counterpart funding never materialized.

Another factor causing delays in the program’s implementation was the management problems at
the COMO-Fisheries in July 2011 which stopped all project activities. As a result, no field work
or follow-up was carried out just as the program was about to move into its data consolidation
phase.

Since August 2010, the PNI has been receiving funding support from the World Bank’s West
Africa Regional Fisheries Program (WARFP) until 2014 when it is expected to complete the
registration and transfer the process from the COMO to the MFME’s administrative services.
The next steps include completing the registration for the remaining boats, nationally and sub-
regionally (Mauritania), consolidating the results of the program, ensuring the sustainability of
the program, and progressively transferring the activities of the PNI to the local administration
services by end 2014.

To date, about 18,900 fishing boats covering the seven maritime regions of Senegal have been
registered electronically (registration numbers distributed to owners). Of these, 16,207 have
been manually embossed. The cost of marking a boat is estimated at CFAF3,000/boat. The
fishing boats of the continental fishing areas have not been included. A data base for the
registration program has been established by the MFME at (www.bdpni.gouv.sn) as well as a
website (www.dpm-pni.com) containing details on program. The following is the list of
registrations by region as of July 2012:


                                  No. of canoes      No. of canoes   No. of          % of
   Name of           Total No.    registered         embossed        canoes to be    Canoes
   Region            of canoes    electronically     manually        embossed        embossed
   Dakar             4,119        4,119              3,619           500             87.86
   Thies             5,876        5,876              4,895           911             84.50
   St. Louis         3,210        3,210              2,186           1,024           68.10
   Louga             223          223                163             60              73.09
   Fatick            2,105        2,105              2,051           54              97.43
   Kaolack           201          201                137             64              68.16
   Zinguichor        3,166        3,166              3,086           80              97.47
   TOTAL             18,900       18,900             16,207          2,693           85.75



                                                36
Sub-component 1.2: Promotion and coordination of local management initiatives.

The key project performance indicator: that local fisheries management sub-projects are
implemented in four pilot sites by the end of the project has been substantially met. Building
sustainable resources management through local management initiatives was the core of the
project. The formulation of sub-projects and co-management initiatives were well-received by
the local population and the sub-projects have been implemented successfully in three pilot sites,
while in the fourth site, Ouakam, delays in project start-up resulted in one incomplete
conservation activity (placement of artificial reefs) by the end of the Project. The selection and
placement of facilitators into local communities worked particularly well; none were rejected by
the communities and all remained until the end of their contracts. Although there were delays in
implementing some of the activities with some improvements needed in terms of quality of
outputs, the co-management approach has been successful in building the ownership and
participation of local communities in national conservation efforts in the pilot sites and in
building the partnership with Government authorities in decision-making and accountability for
the decisions. It has also improved local governance of coastal and fisheries resources in the co-
management areas resulting in encouraging data gathered by LFCs at the pilot sites and validated
by the MFME. Communities demonstrated at all pilot sites strong ownership and accountability
for the initiatives they selected and managed with the help of facilitators and fisheries
administration representatives. These are key successes of the Project.

The main objective of this sub-component was to test in four pilot sites (Ouakam and Ngaparou
around the Cap-Vert project area, and Foundiougne and Betenty around the Saloum Delta area),
the empowerment of artisanal fishing communities to manage their marine and coastal resources
while enhancing their livelihoods and building the capacity of local institutions to manage,
monitor and evaluate together their resources. The aim was to arrest the unsustainable use of
natural resources and the decline in fisheries resources and related income for the fishing
communities. This was to be carried out through sub-projects formulated with the local
communities with the assistance of a facilitator, a co-management expert, and fisheries
administration representatives. Sub-projects, containing proposed local-level initiatives, were
subsequently endorsed and approved by the Government (through the signed agreement with the
Ministry of Maritime Economy) and implemented through the Local Fisher Committees (LFCs)
under the guidance of the DPM-IU.

The pilot sites were identified early before project effectiveness and the recruitment, training,
and posting of facilitators at the pilot sites were carried out soon after effectiveness. This
ensured against a loss in momentum of project launch activities and that the main stakeholders,
the targeted fishing communities and their associations, would stay engaged after the facilitators
promoted the co-management initiatives. As a result, preparation for fisheries sub-projects for
the four pilot sites began one year after implementation. However, they did not get finalized
until well into 2007 because of the delayed arrival of an international co-management specialist
who was to advise and guide the process, assist in building capacity of local experts, and oversee
the formulation of local initiatives as well as the drafting of co-management manuals.

Together, the facilitator and the co-management specialist assisted the local fishing communities
to form Local Fisher Committees (LFC) for each site. Each LFC has several sub-committees

                                               37
responsible for specific themes, e.g., administration and finance; monitoring, control and
surveillance (MCS); information, education and communication (IEC); technical and scientific
matters; a council of sages and conflict management. The Project funded training in fabrication
and management of artificial reefs, administrative and financial management, community
awareness, participatory monitoring and surveillance, diving, conflict management, and basic
data gathering skills needed for efficient implementation of the co-management activities.

Support to Local Fisher Committees (LFC) by the Project was successful in that as part of the
co-management approach, the activities gave local communities a voice in decision making and
for the first time in Senegal, the co-management approach was formalized through the legal
agreement signed between LFCs and the Minister of Fisheries and Maritime Economy.
Although co-management did exist before the Project began, it was not successful; the
Senegalese court ruled against it on a couple of occasions because the local community members
took the law into their own hands to settle issues. With the building of partnerships through
participatory approaches, these incidents have decreased significantly.

The Project was also successful in changing the perception of some of the fishing population
where the fishermen met the proposals with skepticism, fearful that the initiatives would limit
access to fishing grounds, lead to loss of land territory, or lead to additional taxation. Where
cohesion was already present, either through prior experience with similar initiatives in capacity-
building or through pre-existing group cohesion due to existing associations, e.g., in Betenty and
Ngaparou, the Project built on such base, reinforced the existing capacity, strengthened the
cohesion and improved on its management and structure. By the end of the Project, all pilot sites
managed to successfully implement most sub-project activities except for Ouakam.

The Project also provided an organizational structure and forum which managed to represent all
stakeholders, particularly, in those communities previously divided by different fishing interests.
It provided a means to defuse tensions between fishing community members and local
administration services by reversing top-down decision-making. In the past, fishing seasons
were determined by the authorities without sufficient consultation with fishing communities.
This resulted in confrontations and challenges to local authority decisions. Another achievement
under the Project is that unsustainable use of fishing gear and methods (small –size fishnets, over
fishing, or wastage, e.g., fish caught which could not be sold were often discarded), have been
reduced.

The process of engaging fishing communities in co-management was based on broad
consultations with regional administration authorities (préfet), the PCU, COMO-DMF, Artisanal
Fisheries Division of MEM, local fisheries administration and stakeholders. Decisions to
restructure existing community committees which were no longer effective and replace them
with the Local Fisher Committees which had a larger representation base was based on such
consultation to guarantee success. Participatory diagnostic sessions were conducted with focus
groups, parties concerned were interviewed to identify all those who may be impacted by the
initiatives proposed, and the problems identified, e.g., the challenges of applying the Fisheries
Law at the local level, provided useful feedback to higher levels of authority to consider.




                                                38
Among the more successful activities supported by the Project was the construction of the
Fishermen’s Houses or “Maison de Pêcheurs? for local communities. These contributed to
building cohesion and community support for co-management at all pilot sites. It was greatly
appreciated by the communities at all sites because they provided working premises for Fisher
Committee members and the facilitators, as well as a general meeting hall for gatherings and
functions for the local population where previously none had existed. The Project funded their
construction and the purchase of office equipment and basic furniture, and provided technical
assistance through effective facilitators and consulting services (construction of artificial reefs,
fishing conservation techniques, communication, monitoring, etc.). On a less positive note, two
of the four Fishermen’s Houses (Foundiougne and Betenty) are in bad need of repair after only
two years of being constructed, a result of poor quality materials and workmanship.
Furthermore, the local fisher communities have not been able to fund such repairs pending
successes of income-generating activities.

Sub-projects and Co-management initiatives. The implementation of co-management
initiatives was one of the key successes of the Project. The process is that for each pilot site, the
selected fisheries management initiatives targeting rehabilitation of resources or income-
generation are compiled into one document and becomes a sub-project of that site. A co-
management agreement is then signed with the Minister of Fisheries and Maritime Economy and
the process is formalized into a legal agreement.

The most common initiatives selected by the fishing communities were the conservation of
resources through imposed rest periods for fishing, and eliminating the use of unsustainable
fishing methods and equipment. Co-management activities often included the creation of
restricted fishing zones and of no-fishing zones, the cleaning of sea beds, the placement of
artificial reefs to encourage regeneration, and measures to improve the livelihoods of community
members impacted by reduced fishing. Accompanying measures included surveillance,
monitoring, participation in research, and awareness-raising. The conservation measures
introduced in combination with the participatory community management approach was met
with enthusiasm by all of the targeted communities because the measures dealt with their direct
concerns. In all pilot sites, there is strong support and enforcement of replacement of
unsustainable fishnets and, in Foundiougne in particular, there was strong endorsement and
compliance with the imposed biological rest periods for shrimp fishing. Sub-projects for each
pilot site have been submitted and approved by authorities for all pilot sites and initiatives are
being successfully implemented (see tables below).




                                                 39
                 Initiatives under Implementation at the Co-management Pilot Sites

Ouakam : 3 initiatives
                                                                                        Targeted
 N°      Initiatives                     Objective
                                                                                        fisheries
                                         Rehabilitation of marine and coastal
 1       Cleaning of sea bed
                                         areas for demersal species.
                                                                                        Coastal demersal
                                         Restoration of coastal demersal resources
                                                                                        fish, mainly
 2       Creation of no-fishing zone     and rehabilitation of degraded marine
                                                                                        grouper, green
                                         habitat.
                                                                                        crayfish, and the
                                         Reduce conflict between fishermen using
                                                                                        cigale de mer
         Creation of controlled          lines those using nets.
 3                                                                                      lobster.
         fishing zones                   Reduction in fishing efforts
                                         Improve quality and price of catches.

N.B.: The placement of artificial reefs for Ouakam are under preparation and therefore do not appear
      in the table above.


Ngaparou : 3 initiatives
 N°                    Initiatives                         Objectives                  Targeted fisheries

         Put in place measures for the Protect juvenile crayfish and
     1
         management of the green crayfish restore resources.
                                                                     Green crayfish and
                                                                     other coastal
         Alternate closures to fishing in Reduce pressure on coastal
     1                                                               demersal species
         coastal zones                     zone fishing.
                                                                     linked to the crayfish
         Placement of artificial reefs and
     2                                     Resource replenishment.
         other devices to attract fish

Foundiougne : 2 initiatives
 N°                    Initiatives                         Objectives                  Targeted Fisheries
         Replacement of illegal fishnets        Reduce juvenile shrimp catch
     1                                          by improving means.
         (bombardiers)
                                                                                     Coastal white shrimp
         Impose biological rest period          Protect immature shrimp and          (Penaeus notialis)
     2   (August) for coastal shrimp            weak market prices related to
         fishing                                small size.




                                                     40
 Bétenty : 2 initiatives
   N°               Initiatives                       Objectives               Targeted Fisheries
                                            Replenish resources for large
        Impose biological rest periods
                                            size shrimp.
    1   (Niokoc) for coastal shrimp
                                            Improve quality of shrimp
        fishing in the Bétenty area                                           Coastal White shrimp
                                            landings.
                                                                              (Penaeus notialis)
        Replace illegal, small-size         Protect immature shrimp and
    2   fishnets (killi) with approved      weak market prices related to
        fishnets of legal size (24 mm)      small size.


                           Status of Sub-Project Activities in Pilot Sites

                                        Co-mgt
                  Sub-Projects
   Pilot Site                       Agreement Signed               Status at End of Project
                  Established
                                       with MMF
                                                           Completed December 2011
                  February
  Betenty                          March 7, 2008           Monitoring of co-mgt activities are
                  2006
                                                           ongoing
                                                           Completed December 2011
  Foundiougn
                  June 2006        March 7, 2008           Monitoring of co-mgt activities are
  e
                                                           ongoing
                                                           Completed December 2011
  Ngaparou        June 2006        March 7, 2008           Monitoring of co-mgt activities are
                                                           ongoing
                                                           Placement of artificial reefs under
                  February
  Ouakam                           March 7, 2008           preparation. Monitoring of other co-
                  2006
                                                           mgt activities are ongoing.
N.B.: At project closing, co-management initiatives at the LAFC level were being expanded and scaled
up around the pilot sites.

Legal endorsements of co-management initiatives. The legal co-management agreements
signed with the MFME provides important legal endorsements and legitimacy to co-management
initiatives and increases the communities’ ownership of their proposals. They are sometimes
backed up at times by decrees issued by the ministers or by local authorities in the form of Codes
of Conduct. Such support from Government administration provides positive prospects for
longer-term Government commitment to new approaches and for sustainability. The process is
as follows: the president of the LFCs signs a legal agreement on co-management with the
Minister of Fisheries and Maritime Economy who then issues a Ministerial Decree
acknowledging the co-management initiatives. The local government authorities then sign a
decree defining the terms of implementation of the initiatives. In Ouakam, for example, the
initiatives were discussed more widely with neighboring villages before being signed. In the
Dakar region, several meetings were held with stakeholders to share and seek consensus on how
to implement the initiatives proposed, particularly concerning restricted fishing zones. This, for
example, would define sanctions defined in the area’s code of conduct.               Following the
endorsements the LFCs formulate their annual work programs around the initiatives.

                                                 41
For the Government the legal agreements also provides a means to negotiate and gain
community support for related government initiatives and helps to decrease tensions. In
Foundiougne, a good example of such cooperation is that the local authorities (préfecture)
renews the local decree on biological rest periods annually with the community.

Monitoring, Control and Surveillance (MCS). Communities participated actively in MCS
activities and managed them with regular patrols by LFC members, initially with Project funds
but at times with LFC funds. The Project provided a surveillance boat for each of the sites to
carry out control and surveillance activities. In the past, fishermen imposed their own methods
of deterrence which were at times violent. Since the promotion of co-management initiatives,
however, these have been conducted with minimal conflict. Surveillance teams or patrols are
usually made up of local fishermen and some were conducted with the collaboration of the
DPSP. When infractions occur, warnings are given and sanctions are escalated through the
council of sages and local prefectures although fines do not go over the limit allowed by the
Fisheries Law. However, the inconsistency between the low level of fines permitted under the
Law compared to the commercial value of the catch is often a weak deterrent for the offender.
The communities have often cited this as a challenge in sanctioning repeat offenders. At most of
the pilot sites, the surveillance patrols are funded out of LFCs funds, this includes not only cost
for fuel but also for work time, food for those on patrol. Fines collected are not kept by the
communities but go back to the Treasury at the Ministry of Finance. Thus, generating sufficient
funds to run the surveillance patrols as well as funding the operations of the fishermen lodges
can be costly and is a sustainability issue. At project closure, most of the pilot sites, except for
Ngaparou, have not generated sufficient operating funds to maintain such operations over the
long term, and have not sufficiently explored alternative arrangements, e.g., partnerships, fees
and contributions, to address the sustainability issue. In addition, such surveillance activities
should not be administered on a community-by-community basis but, to be sustainable in the
long run, be built into local government administration, and be consistent with national laws
which dictate terms and conditions for fishing activities to take place. Conversely, national laws
should support the local level if the measures and methods imposed do not deter repeat
offenders.

Information Education and Communication (IEC). The IEC activities were important in
building collaboration and cohesion in the local fishing communities and should be continued.
However, its implementation by the consulting firm CAES-Consult,was less successful in
soliciting the involvement of the migrant population.

Advisory Fisheries Councils. Support to the Advisory Fisheries Councils generated mixed
results. At the national level, the National Council for Consultation on Fisheries (NCCF)
(Conseil National Consultatif des Pêches Maritimes) which were established through the 1998
Fisheries Law to provide a framework for consultation at the national level on fisheries did
provide effective support to the fisheries management proposals of the LFCs. However, the
contribution of the Local Artisanal Fisheries Councils (LAFC) (Conseils Locaux de Pêche
Artisanale) were variable. The LAFCs were part of the framework structure for fisheries
consultation at the local level. They were being established nationally at the same time as the
Project was being prepared and not as part of the Project. Some were established as a result of

                                                42
decentralization of several sectors in Senegal in 1996 while others were established later.
However, as the fisheries sector was not decentralized, LAFCs were used as part of the
framework for fisheries consultation at the local level. Some of the LAFCs were not effective in
supporting LFCs in the management of fish resources and in approving sub-project proposals
because they were either not yet functional (regulations governing their mandate and operation
were not finalized), did not have the right representation, or did not cover the same jurisdictions
as those of the fishing communities. The LAFCs were public administrative structures whereas
LFCs were private associations. On one occasion, some LFCs by-passed the LAFCs by
submitting their fisheries management proposals directly to the national level for approval by the
NCCF.

Production and Catch Volume. Support from the Project for improving this area received
strong support and solicited active involvement from communities, particularly the women.
Throughout the Project, a good standard of consultation and animation was maintained for
decision-making process by the facilitators and central and regional staff of the fisheries
administration. As a result, awareness and accountability has increased among local
communities and news of positive results are spreading into surrounding communities.
Activities which have had a positive impact are: (a) fishing and processing of small shrimp has
ceased; (b) use of small-size fishnets has decreased; (c) the capacity of actors strengthened
(administrative and financial skills, control and surveillance, monitoring and evaluation), and (d)
demonstrated greater ownership and accountability for initiatives selected by the communities
through the LFCs. Co-management initiatives have yielded visible results which local fisher
communities have confirmed through visual observation and data collected: (a) catches have
increased (although they vary with rain levels); (b) the average catch size has increased, (c)
there has been a small rise in producer price, (d) there is a better redistribution of fish resources,
and (e) there are impressive results from participatory surveillance program and reduction in
conflict despite the drop in the level of interventions by the authorities.

In Ngaparou, co-management pilot site for the green crayfish, the average weight for the crayfish
increased from 1.5 kg in 2005 to 3.5 kg in 2011. In Bétenty, co-management pilot site for
shrimp, the average count of shrimp decreased from 226/kg to 141/kg. In Foundiougne, the
average catch has increased for shrimp, mullets, tilapia and barracuda, from 2007 to 2011, with
accompanying doubling of the number of fishers and small boats, indicating a regeneration of
fish resources. Commercial prices for various catch also show a rise. At the pilot sites of
Bétenty, Ngaparou, and Ouakam, the data collected locally also show a relatively stable number
of small fishing boats which could indicate that the communities have been able to monitor the
number of registered boats at their sites. Selected data for pilot sites are shown in the tables
below.




                                                 43
            Change in Catch Volume and Market Price over time in co-management pilot sites
                                           (2005-2007)

            Ouakam                                                          Year
Targeted
                                     2005           2006       2007          2008          2009            2010         2011
species
                Quantity of
                               N/A            N/A          10,100       13,960          22,200          17,200       23,300
                catches (Kg)
‘‘Thiof’’       Commercial
Epinephelus                    N/A            N/A          38.020,000 52,431,000        76,250          55,540,000 85,511,000
                value (FCFA)
aenus           Average
                price/unit     N/A            N/A          3,670        3,980           3,380           3,620        4,500
                (FCFA/Kg)
           Ngaparou                                                         Year
 Targeted
                                     2005           2006       2007          2008          2009            2010         2011
 species
                Quantity of
                               770            700               1,575           1,561           1,645        2,835           4,095
                catches (Kg)
                Commercial
 Green                         5,075,000      4,515,000    11,200,000 11,161,500        11,322,500 13,272,000 28,962,500
                value (FCFA)
 Lobster
                Average
                price/unit     4,900          6,000        6,270        6,850           5,727           5,700        6,725
                (FCFA/Kg)
              Betenty                                                       Year
 Targeted
                                     2005           2006       2007          2008          2009            2010         2011
 species
 Coastal        Quantity of
                               365,700     336,200     340,700     328,900     296,900     237,200     229,400
 shrimp         catches (Kg)
                Commercial
                               146,280,000 184,910,000 204,420,000 197,340,000 207,830,000 213,480,000 183,520,000
                value (FCFA12)
                Average
                price/unit     400         550         600         600         700         900         800
                (FCFA/Kg)

Source: Data collected at the pilot co-management sites by the fishing communities in partnership with the local
fisheries administration, and data validated by the Fisheries Authorities at regional or central level.




12
   The total commercial value of coastal shrimp caught in Betenty has declined by a small amount from 2010 and 2011 due to
the drop in the number of active fishermen targeting this species (from 693 fishermen in 2010 to only 649 in 2011).


                                                             44
                Bétenty: Detailed Catch Data for Shrimp and fishing vessels (2005-2011)

     Year          Catch (‘000       No. of             Price         Market Price          Shrimp            No. of
                       kg)         Fishermen           (FCFA)          (CFAF)              count/kg          fishing
                                                                                                             vessels
     2005             365.7             831             400            146,280,000           226                65
     2006             336.2             768             550            184,910,000           179                 59
     2007             340.7             784             600            204,420,000           184                 62
     2008             328.9             672             600            197,340,000           175                 53
     2009             296.9             727             700            207,830,000           144                 57
     2010             237.2             693             900            213,480,000           138                 51
     2011             229.4             649             800            183,520,000           141                 59

N.B.: A majority of shrimp harvesters work on foot; those on boats normally are two to a boat. Prices quoted are
landing price/kg for fresh shrimp.

                                      Ngaparou: Fishing vessels (2005-2011)

            Year                 2005          2006        2007         2008       2009          2010         2011
 Local fishing vessels               103         140            83         90         103           105           103
 Seasonal fishing vessels               88        46            34         35         29                43            40
 TOTAL                               190         186          117         125        131            148           143

            Year                 2005          2006        2007        2008        2009          2010        2011
 Local fishermen                    410          558          330         360        410           418            410
 Foreign fishermen                  350          184          136         140        114           172            160
 TOTAL                              760          742          466         500        524           590            570


            Foundiougne: Catch Volume Data for Various Species (2007-2011)

              Shrimp              Ethmalose       Mullet              Tilapia        Barracuda           Total
 2007         343,370             770,650         212,050             193,500        10,250              1,529,820
 2008         287,190             742,400         292,550             275,250        10,700              1,608,090
 2009         362,835             630,300         180,450             171,350        22,600              1,367,535
 2010         274,232             815,660         252,521             307,336        44,622              1,694,371
 2011         431,625             631,940         416,780             709,530        140,830             2,330,705

                                               Market Prices
                                    2007              2008              2009              2010               2011

 Landing Price (CFAF)            473,341,600     486,081,000         449,300,836     476,866,035         982,549,250




                                                              45
                                        Fishing Vessels
    No. of fishermen        1,600         1,700           1,710           1,750        2,650
     No. of vessels          127           120            142             160          300

                                          Average Shrimp Count/kg
                             2007          2008         2009              2010         2011
   Number of shrimp
                             178            96             92              88          115
     (count) / kg


              Change in Average Market Price (CFAF) at landing for Various Species
                  Shrimp      Ethmalose          Mullet         Tilapia    Barracuda
    2007            600          100              300            350          900
    2008            600          100              300            350          950
    2009            550          100              250            300         1,000
    2010            500          100              300            200         1,750
    2011            750          150              300            200         2,000



On the negative side, the project’s successes were hampered by the slow endorsement of co-
management initiatives once sub-projects have been identified; this took about two years to be
approved through the administrative procedures of the Government and of the Bank. While all
the pilot sites had finalized their sub-projects February 2006, the legal agreements on co-
management were signed much later in August 2008 which was demotivating for the main actors
and posed a risk to maintaining the momentum of a new initiative. Furthermore, the
procurement procedures were not well understood by the communities and perceived to be slow
and cumbersome.       Combined with the administrative and financial procedures, these
requirements slowed down further the implementation of activities between 2008 and 2010. The
consulting contracts with essential institutions such CRODT for demersal research, ISRA for
participatory research, and CAES-Consult for communication campaign (IEC) experienced
problems and yielded weak results having used what the communities perceived to be traditional
top-down approaches not in line with the approaches promoted under the Project.

The poverty level of the communities also limited the greater success of such activities as the
biological rest initiatives which deprived an already poor community of a source of income.
Although all initiatives were implemented successfully, in the case of Foundiougne, the diverse
population of certain communities made cohesion more difficult, the topography of the area
(nine out of 10 are islands) also posed a challenge for implementing sub-projects where the
budget was under-estimated for the area to be covered. A similar constraint affected the MCS
program. Efforts to involve migrant fishermen in co-management activities have been less
successful.

Reconversion Fund. During preparation, the Bank team had provided for funding to offset the
impact of reduced fishing on fishing communities’ level of income and livelihood. This was
removed on recommendations from Bank management to ensure synergy across operations with
another project under preparation, the Senegal Social Investment Fund. A cash fund type of

                                                   46
facility was proposed to offset the negative impact to support alternative livelihood activities for
fishermen to alleviate overfishing under the second phase of the Bank-funded Social Investment
Fund, which was managed by the Agence de Financement pour le Développement Social
(AFDS). However, even though the PCU had signed a Memorandum of Understanding with
AFDS management to incorporate a fisheries window in the follow-up project to support the
“reconversion? of the fishermen, the arrangement did not materialize because the Social
Investment Fund was later merged with the National Infrastructure Project into a new operation –
the National Local Development Project. With the merger, the fisheries reconversion fund
window no longer fit into the priorities of the new operation. Subsequently, previously
anticipated funds for this activity became unavailable early in implementation.

At the MTR the establishment of the reconversion fund was discussed and broadly redefined to
accompany the co-management initiatives and provide a safety net for members of communities
affected by the reduction in fishing, or who wish to leave fishing to explore alternative
livelihoods. The Fund was to be financed through project cost savings from the institutional
streamlining proposed for project restructuring (the dissolution of the PCU). However, feedback
from the fishing community representatives indicated resistance: that restricting access to
fishing was not accepted to date and that reducing the capacity for fishing even less so;
reconversion was not seen as plausible, particularly among the older generation (insufficient time
to begin a new trade); however, among the younger generation, particularly the marginalized
(divers) they welcomed the idea. Although the detailed preparation for the fund was outlined at
the MTR, the timeframe did not allow sufficient time for the reconversion fund to be
implemented and it was transferred under the Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources
(SMFR) Project approved in 2008.

Sub-component 1.3: Strengthening institutional capacity of the Ministry of Marine Economy
and the National Research Institute (CRODT)

Participatory Research and CRODT. Participatory research yielded mixed results. It
succeeded in raising awareness of local communities on research needs and introducing its
members to basic data collection and monitoring but was inconsistently applied and perceived as
top-down. CRODT, a department of the Institut Sénégalais de Recherche Agricole (ISRA) was
contracted to carry out demersal species research, but because of lengthy contract preparation
and lack of capacity (available personnel) the study was not completed. It will be funded under
the Bank’s ongoing West Africa Regional Fisheries Program. Under the Project, funding was
provided for the LFCs to collaborate with the CRODT to finalize the co-management initiatives.
A contract on participatory research was signed between the DMF and CRODT. Activities
included the study of baseline estimates for artificial reefs and placement zones, how to add
value to products with weak commercial value, and participatory/community data collection.
Following the results of the study, Ouakam was found to be a major fishing site and,
consequently, CRODT has placed a researcher on site to carry out further work with the fishing
community. CRODT also funded a contract with a local fisherman, selected by the LFC, as part
of the participatory research activities. In Foundiougne, there was disagreements between the
community and the research institution on the research results regarding when the biological rest
period for shrimp was to begin. Consequently, the results were not unanimously accepted by the



                                                47
local community, which also perceived the research to be a classic, top-down approach rather
than a participatory one.

Capacity-building of the Ministry of Fisheries and Maritime Economy (MFME). The
Project supported capacity-building for the MFME through the provision of technical experts and
advice through international and national consultant services. The Project funded training
programs, workshops, office equipment and software, specialized equipment for the national
boat registration program, vehicles, and a budget for operating costs during the life of the project.
The Bank teams provided substantial inputs into national level strategic, legal and regulatory
documents such as the Fisheries Law revisions and the Letter of Sector Policy, as well as sector
studies and strategies for relevant sectors, and provided technical inputs into the preparation and
implementation of fisheries programs.

Impact

Overall, significant results have been obtained in the sector through the contributions of the
Project. Although the design reflected higher expectations than could be accomplished in the
time span of the Project, progress has been made in the sector and in Senegal compared to when
the Project began. The pilots were an opportunity to test new approaches in Senegal in order to
provide viable options to fisheries resources management and biodiversity conservation and
build sustainable strategies for the future.

The gaps and weaknesses in the management of the fisheries sector, including governing and
management structures has been narrowed due to: (a) the direct involvement of the MFME and
MENP staff at national, regional and local levels involved in the implementation of the Project;
(b) the institutional strengthening of the DMF and the DPN through the implementation of
Components 1 and 2, experience with project management, monitoring and control, (c) increased
government interaction with local communities; and (d) direct involvement of ministry technical
personnel providing input into the revisions of sector legislation in Senegal.

The knowledge base for policy decision making and accompanying measures has been
strengthened through the revisions to the Fisheries Law which has been submitted to Parliament
for approval, and the Letter of Sector Policy revisions in 2008. The revisions to the Fisheries
Law is expected to address the difficult issues of open access to fishing. The legislations
demonstrate Government engagement at the national level and is an important step linking
improved fisheries management with the sectoral policy framework. These will also provide a
channel for more effective aid and aid coordination in the fisheries sector.

The successful establishment of a nationwide system for registering small fishing vessels is an
important step towards regulating artisanal fisheries for the government; historically, government
regulation of artisanal fisheries has had little success and has been met with strong resistance
from boat owners. By end of project, however, boat owners are increasingly complying with the
registration program and the number of boats registered have almost doubled over the number
estimated at appraisal.




                                                 48
Opportunities were also provided for strengthening national research institutions
(ISRA/CRODT) through partnerships with local communities in participatory research, data
collection and monitoring, and through research contracts for national studies which were to
provide input to policy decisions. However, the institutions did not have the capacity to carry
out the contracts fully and results did not meet expectations under the Project.

At the community level, successful interventions in co-management have already begun to gain a
reputation and is being replicated across the country in other donor interventions. Communities
at all pilot sites have demonstrated ownership and commitment in carrying out sub-project
initiatives and conduct surveillance and basic monitoring of such resources. The Government of
Senegal is now fully supportive of local initiatives to manage and limit fishing and the co-
management approach. The system which has been successfully pilot at the local level is now
contributing to the reduction in fishing efforts, elimination of unsustainable and harmful fishing
gear and methods, and sustainable management of local resources through local enforcement and
compliance with biological rest periods to allow fish stocks to recover, rehabilitation of reefs,
and MCS activities. Data collected at the local level are indicating that fish stocks around the
pilot sites are showing signs of improvement in terms of size and catch volume.

Communities and Government (through the legal agreements signed with the Minister of
Fisheries and Maritime Economy) have successfully built partnerships in fisheries resources
management and local development. In a recent interview during a visit to a coastal fishing
community (Mbour July 2012), the new Minister of Fisheries and Maritime Economy was
quoted as saying that he and the President would support co-management because he was
reassured by its consultative approach which provides the fishing communities with a means to
overcome challenges without waiting for the state to intervene. 13 This illustrates that the
project’s objectives for co-management has been fully accepted by the Government.




13
  “Mbour est le capital de la pêche? (Ministre), http://mbour.info/economie/economie-maritime, jeudi, 12 juillet
2012.


                                                        49
Component 2: Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species

The implementation of this Component is rated moderately satisfactory. The Borrower met
most of the physical targets: establishment of biosphere reserves in two out of three project areas,
eight out of 10 local management plans have been formulated, and the Biodiversity Conservation
Framework Law submitted for approval by the Government (earlier than the target date).
Performance on the IEC, outreach to communities, and results on community participation were
strong, while the establishment of Ecosystem Management Committees, and compliance with
biodiversity reporting was weak. Overall capacity for biodiversity management, a key
performance indicator for the Project, has improved over the baseline.

The purpose of this component was to improve the long-term management of ecosystems in the
three designated pilot areas: the Senegal River Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum
River Delta to be carried out through: (i) supporting ecosystem management in each of the pilot
areas, according to an ecosystem approach, and (ii) restructuring the biodiversity management
framework, to overcome the constraints that have limited the effective management and
protection of ecosystems nationwide.

The effective management of biodiversity in three pilot areas to be increased by at least 50
percent by end of project was a key performance indicator for the Revised Global Environment
Objective.      Compared to the baselines for management effectiveness measured with
WWF/World Bank Protected Areas Management Effectiveness Tool 14 in 2006, the results at end
of project (2011) indicates an improvement (see table below and Results Framework Analysis in
Annex 5). The mean score increased from 46 percent in 2006 to 61 percent in 2011, although the
target set by the DPN itself was actually 69 percent. For 2009 – 2011, the Rapid Assessment and
Prioritization of Protected Area Management (RAPPAM) 15 methodology developed by the
WWF was used because it gives more information for habitat and species evaluation than the
tool used in 2006.


14
   This tool is simple and basic, and is designed to measure management effectiveness over time, i.e., in line with
project capacity-building objectives. The tool is used as a cost-effective proxy to determining impact and has been
used in over 85 countries, primarily by donor agencies and NGOs, and is now mandatory for World Bank, GEF and
WWF projects. The methodology uses a rapid, site level assessment based on a score-card questionnaire which
includes all six elements of management effectiveness identified in the international Union for Conservation of
Nature / World Commission on Protected Areas (IUCN/WCPA) Framework: context, planning, inputs, process,
outputs and outcomes. It enables park managers and donors to identify needs, constraints and priority actions.

15
   The Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Areas Management (RAPPAM) methodology is based on
the WCPA/Protected Areas Management Effectiveness (WCPA PAME) Framework. It was developed by the
WWF between 1999 and 2002 and is designed to identify management strengths and weaknesses, analyse the scope,
severity, prevalence and distribution of threats and pressures; identify areas of high ecological and social importance
and vulnerability; indicate areas of urgency and conservation priority; and help develop appropriate policy
interventions and follow-up actions to improve protected areas management. It is similar to the WWF/World Bank
tool above but provides additional information on habitat and species evaluation. The methodology is best
implemented through interactive workshops with policy makers, PA managers, and relevant stakeholders.
RAPPAM has been implemented in some 40 countries and over 1,000 protected areas in Europe, Asia, Africa and
Latin America.


                                                         50
  Key indicator results from the Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Areas
  Management (RAPPAM) 16 Tracking Tool for IMCRP Protected Area Sites.

                          Q9        Q9        Q12       Q12       Q13       Q13       Q15        Q15       Total     Total
Area/Reserve Name
                          (2006)    (2011)    (2006)    (2011)    (2006)    (2011)    (2006)     (2011)    (2006)    (2011)
le Parc National des
Oiseaux du Djoudj         6         11        15        17        13        17        9          17        56%       75%
(PNOD)
le Parc National de la
Langue de Barbarie        3         11        15        15        8         15        1          6         42%       63%
(PNLB)
la Réserve Spéciale de
Faune de                  3         11        11        11        8         14        5          5         43%       60%
Gueumbeul (RSFG)
le Parc National des
Iles de la Madeleine      6         11        7         9         10        23        10         13        41%       58%
(PNIM)
la Réserve Naturelle
                          7         11        11        11        8         17        13         15        54%       64%
de Popenguine (RNP)
la Réserve Naturelle
d’Intérêt
                           3          11        7         11       8         21         9        11         38%        61%
Communautaire de
Somone (RNICS)
Réserve
Communautaire de           9          13        9         11       6         13         3        3          42%        57%
Palmarin (RCP)
le Parc National du
Delta du Saloum            11         13        15        11       9         10         7        7          52%        55%
(PNDS)
  The above table presents aggregate scores (out of 25 points for the best score) of five sub-questions related to Q9:
  Staffing; Q12: Funding; Q13: Management planning; Q15: Research, monitoring, and planning. Overall RAPPAM
  effectiveness score for all protected areas increased from 46% IN 2006 to 61% in 2011.



  Sub-component 1: Managing Ecosystems Managing ecosystems in three pilot areas, Senegal
  River Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta.

  The management of Senegal’s ecosystems through national parks and reserves has been a
  responsibility of the Department of National Parks (DNP) (Direction des Parcs Nationaux:
  DPN) within the Ministry of Environment for over fifty years. Currently, about ten percent of
  Senegal’s terrestrial territory and eight percent of Senegal’s marine territory is now protected.


  16
    For further information on RAPPAM, please refer to: Ervin, J. 2003. WWF: Rapid Assessment and Prioritization
  of Protected Area Management (RAPPAM) Methodology. World Wildlife Fund. Gland, Switzerland.




                                                             51
This coverage brings Senegal close to its commitment to Aichi Target 11 of the Convention on
Biological Diversity which aims for at least 17 percent of terrestrial and ten percent of marine
territory under protection by 2020. To strengthen the management of Senegal’s protected areas,
the Project was to update and coordinate the management plans under DNP’s authority using
UNESCO’s Man and Biosphere (MAB) Reserve model.

In total, the Project identified ten coastal pilot sites already under DNP’s management. Existing
sites consisted of four national parks, four national reserves, and two community reserves. The
sites were selected instead of establishing new reserves because it was envisioned that the Project
would be able to maximize synergies between sustainable fisheries objectives and biodiversity
conservation objectives through an ecosystem approach. Furthermore, each of identified Project
sites had draft management plans and varying degrees of community participation in place.

Biosphere Reserves. The establishment of Biosphere Reserves was designed as the key
instrument for managing ecosystems in the three designated pilot areas. Of the three biosphere
reserves planned under the Project, only the Cap-Vert Peninsula reserve was not established.
The Project’s COMO-Ecosystem acted as the national MAB committee and is the unit
responsible for preparing the UNESCO MAB Biosphere Reserve application for the Cap-Vert
Peninsula. At MTR, it was decided that the establishment of the Cap-Vert Biosphere Reserve
was not feasible before the end of the Project and it was removed from Project activities. The
processes for submitting the necessary documentation to UNESCO for the Biosphere Reserve
program took longer than expected for the Cap-Vert Peninsula because of the numerous
stakeholders involved. In 2006, COMO-Ecosystem recruited a consultant to lead the preparation
of the biosphere reserve. The Cap-Vert Biosphere was partitioned into four sub-regions (Îles de
la Madeleine, Rufisque, Popenguine/Somone, and Dakar) due to the different types of
ecosystems that comprise the reserve. Two workshops were held within each zone to let all the
stakeholders discuss and then agree on management priorities. Two additional workshops were
held to bring the four sub-regions together to discuss and agree on the management of the
biosphere reserve. The process was also delayed by an incident that occurred in 2010 on Îles de
la Madeleine, one of the four sub-regions of the reserve, which resulted in a poor relationship
between DNP and the local fishing community of Soumbédioune, a key stakeholder. Because the
MAB Biosphere Reserve program only accepts applications for new reserves in April of each
year, DNP plans to submit the application for the Cap-Vert Peninsula in April of 2013.

The Senegal River Delta Biosphere Reserve is the second of kind in Africa and was a model in
the management of natural resources. It was formally recognized by the UNESCO Man and
Biosphere Programme in 2005. The reserve consists of 641,768 hectares of which 26,198
hectares are marine. The Project assisted development of the UNESCO proposal, including
workshops with authorities in Mauritania who are part of the Senegal River Delta Biosphere
Reserve because of the inclusion of the Diawaling National Park and the Chat TBoul Reserve,
both of which are also recognized Ramsar Wetlands.

The Saloum River Delta Biosphere Reserve was established in 1980 and consists of 72,000
hectares marine areas, 23,000 hectares of flooded areas, and 85,000 hectares of terrestrial islands.
Prior to the project, no local management plans existed within the parks. The Project assisted
revising the regional management plan for the Biosphere Reserve and established local

                                                52
management plans of the respective Project sites within the reserve, including the Parc National
du Delta du Saloum (PNDS) and the Réserve Naturelle Communautaire de Palmarin (RNCP).
This Biosphere Reserve is also transboundary because it shares with the Gambia a rich
ecological complex composed of the Niumi National Park.

Ecosystem Management Committees (EMC). The Project assisted in the establishment and
operation of Ecosystem Management Committees (EMC) which were designed to bring together
representatives of local management committees, including management committees for
protected areas. The EMC would oversee the preparation and implementation of ecosystem
management plans for each of the pilot areas. Such a structure was to reflect a model of
sustainable economic use of natural resources, and biodiversity conservation.

The establishment of ecosystem management committees, as designed under the Project, yielded
mixed results and functioned better at the local level than at the national level. Originally, the
purpose of establishing the three UNESCO Biosphere Reserves was to consolidate existing
protected areas and serve as anchor sites for ecosystem management activities and contribute to
the preparation of ecosystem management plans. In each of the anchors, EMCs were to be
established to foster co-management from the multiple protected areas and their respective
stakeholders. EMCs had difficultly managing at the regional scale. Because DNP was the point
of entry for the EMCs, they lacked legal jurisdiction outside the park’s boundaries. The biggest
challenge was faced by the Cap-Vert Peninsula EMC which spanned two legal regions. For this
EMC to function properly, its management plans needed to be approved by contiguous local
government bodies. However, not all communities within the planned biosphere reserve agreed
to the EMC’s management plan. The EMC for the Senegal River Biosphere Reserve was
established in 2006 - one year after the Biosphere Reserve was recognized by UNESCO – but is
also no longer functioning by the time the Project closed. It was decided at MTR that the Project
would no longer support the EMCs. Instead, ecosystem management was to be managed locally
at the of the Project sites without regional committee oversight.

A common problem encountered in the design of the EMCs was its size. Memberships
frequently exceeded 50 stakeholders and resulted in conflicting interests. Many of the
stakeholders had little or no experience with the concept of natural resource management and, as
a result, participated in the EMCS with personal interests in mind. The Senegal River Biosphere
Reserve tested sub-committees to manage the various interests at stake and attempted to reduce
the size of EMCs in 2008, but with limited success due to the lack of funding needed for
conduction needed workshops.

The three EMCs that were established and then dropped by the Project were, for the most part,
the first time all the various stakeholders had an opportunity to discuss co-management of the
natural resources within the Biosphere Reserves. The workshops that provided this forum for
discussion were well received by the community. The DNP staff noted that in recent years many
of the key community stakeholders, including local governments, showed a great interest in
EMCs, inquiring about their status of the EMCs, and requesting additional fora and workshops.
Most importantly, EMC workshops provided a new way for stakeholders to think about natural
resources co-management. Thus, while the EMCs did not succeed in forming a new means of
ecosystem-based co-management, they nevertheless had a positive impact

                                               53
Community participation. Local community participation was strong and efforts to integrate
parks and reserves with local communities were successful. In many cases, community members
were actively involved in park management. The two most common means of community
participation were as nationally recognized “Ecoguards? and as active members of local
management committees. In both cases, communities involved lived within or near to the
protected areas. Although no beneficiary assessment was conducted and the monitoring and
evaluation data is lacking, the ICR mission took note that discussions with local Ecoguard
volunteers reflected the enthusiastic participation and ownership in protected areas management
activities which would contribute to meeting the key indicator for the GEO: effective
management of biodiversity in the project areas.

Ecoguards are local volunteers responsible for a variety of duties associated with national parks.
The Ecoguard program started in 2001 as a DNP pilot program in the Poponguine Community
Reserve and has since expanded to all national parks and community reserves in Senegal. Their
activities range from park surveillance and biological monitoring, to tour guide and ecolodge
operations and restauration. Through the Project, many of the Ecoguard groups at the pilot sites
have obtained legal status which provides them with access to bank accounts and loans, and the
ability to receive payments for services. All profits earned by Ecoguard operations are returned
to cover operating costs of the program to better manage the parks.

In many communities, Ecoguards are usually selected by the village chief and are often young
adults from their communities. About half of the Ecoguards are women. The Ecoguard service
is well organized with a local president for each park, and affiliation with a regional and national
level organization. Since the service is voluntary, communities have at times found it difficult to
keep the volunteers engaged. As part of the strengthening of DNP, the Project funded training
for biodiversity monitoring for Ecoguards, including SCUBA diving training, biodiversity
monitoring and collection.

The sustainability of the Ecoguard service was highlighted as an issue in the MTR and requested
that the COMO-Ecosystems discuss within the ministry solutions for more permanent financing
opportunities. No permanent solution was found but there are plans to assist the Ecoguards in
finding international funding (GEF SGPs for example). It should be noted that all parks visited
on the final mission had active Ecoguards who were typically dynamic individuals. It is within
DNPs best interest to promote this service to: (a) nurture the mindset of younger generations
towards environmental conservation; (b) strengthen monitoring and management of parks, and;
c) strengthen community co-management and relationship with parks.

Lastly, the Project also built capacity for local management of biodiversity conservation and
protected areas through the rehabilitation of infrastructure, construction of work stations and
office space for park rangers, as well as parks operation equipment, observation towers and other
structures. The Project enabled local management committees to purchase equipment such as
binoculars and GPS units to aid in monitoring and park surveillance.

Unfortunately, management issues which surfaced during the latter half of Project
implementation detracted from achievements. A Financial Management report issued shortly

                                                54
before Project closure identified instances of financial mismanagement. At four of the Project
sites for Component 2, construction of buildings were either incomplete or never started.
Furthermore, the poor relationship with the fishing community of Soumbédioune and the local
staff of PNIM due to an incident in 2010 resulted in the local fishermen destroying a concrete
pier, an observation tower, and a DNP patrol boat, which were funded under the Project.

Ecosystem Management Plans. An important achievement under the Project is that local
ecosystem management plans have been prepared for eight out of the ten pilot sites. This an
intermediate outcome indicator under this Component. The preparation of such plans was an
important input to the preparation of the Biodiversity and Protected Area Framework Law. The
eight locations are the:

                •     Parc National des Iles de la Madeleine (PNIM)
                •     Parc National des Oiseaux du Djoudj (PNOD),
                •     Parc National de la Langue de Barbarie (PNLB),
                •     Réserve Spéciale de Faune de Gueumbeul (RSFG),
                •     Réserve Naturelle de Popenguine (RNP)
                •     Réserve Naturelle d’Intérêt Communautaire de Somone (RNICS),
                •     Parc National du Delta du Saloum (PNDS), and
                •     Réserve Naturelle Communautaire de Palmarin (RNCP).

The Marine Protected Area of Bamboung and the Réserve Spéciale de Faune du Ndiaël obtained
the assistance of other donors in developing or revising their management plans.

Most of the management plans were already under preparation before the Project intervened; but
since the project supported the strengthening of the DNP, it facilitated this preparation process.
Where the Project fell short was in the coordination of the local management plans into the larger
UNESCO Biosphere Reserve model. EMCs were established as sectoral associations to
facilitate coordination of the ecosystem management plans; however, since the point of entry for
establishing the EMCs was the DNP whose authority did not reach beyond the parks, obtaining
collaboration across administrative boundaries or jurisdictions was challenging and did not work
well. However, with the co-management approach and collaboration with fishing communities
the EMCs may have found a more conducive environment within which they can operate.

The preparation process for the local ecosystem management plans was slow and cumbersome,
and would have been better staged in two, five-year phases: a first phase for negotiations and
consensus building with the key stakeholders, and a second phase for establishing the
foundations for the rehabilitation of the ecological functions of the nature reserves and
empowering local communities to have active and adaptive management of the natural resources.
Allowing communities to manage their own procurement and disburse their own funds would
have accelerated procurement and avoided the delays from cumbersome processes required by
the Central Procurement Department of Senegal and by the Bank’s own procedures.




                                               55
Sub-component 2.2. Strengthening of the biodiversity conservation framework

The Biodiversity Conservation Framework Law has been drafted and submitted to the
Government for approval. This was an intermediate indicator under this component and has been
completed satisfactorily. The Law was prepared and submitted to Parliament in September 2011,
ahead of the target date of “end of project? set for this indicator.

The Project played an essential role in facilitating the preparation and timely submission of the
law, and funded consultants for the preparation and national stakeholder workshops. The DNP-
IU (COMO-Ecosystème) and parent Operational Coordination Committee (OCC) also played a
lead role in working with the parliamentary-level committee on environment to promote the law
among lawmakers, and to organize three intra-ministerial meetings to discuss the framework.

Preparation of the Biodiversity and Protected Area framework law began in late 2006 with the
establishment of a steering committee within the Ministry of Environment. In early 2007, a
consultant was hired to do a comparative analysis of similar framework laws in Cameron, Côte
d’Ivoire, Guinea Bissau, and South Africa. The results of the comparative analysis led to the
drafting of the framework law for Senegal in December of 2008. At the 2008 Project
restructuring, the key performance indicator monitoring the framework law was modified to read
“Biodiversity and Protected Area framework law is prepared and submitted to Government
before end of project? - allowing the Project more time to prepare the bill. In March 2009, the
drafting of the bill began and circulated to all stakeholders for comments in October of 2010.
The review process concluded with a national workshop held in February 2011 for all interested
stakeholders where a consensus was reached on the text of the framework law. In May of 2011,
the framework law was submitted to the Government of Senegal for review, all comments
incorporated, and the law was resubmitted for consideration by Parliament in September 2011.
A new parliament has since been in place (July of 2012) causing some delay, but is expected to
pass the law shortly.

Strengthening the Department of National Parks (DNP). The conservation of biodiversity in
Senegal is the responsibility of the Ministry of Environment. The second subcomponent is
aimed at strengthening and restructuring units within the ministry to better manage and conserve
Senegal’s biodiversity. Within the Ministry, the DNP handles the day-to-day operations.
Because the DNP staff were for the most part armed park rangers responsible for enforcing anti-
poaching laws, the concept of biodiversity and ecosystem-based management were not well
understood. The capacity of DNP needed to be strengthened to manage the expanding network
or parks, reserves, and marine protected areas while employing a collaborative process with the
local population. The strengthening of DNP was addressed through: (a) modernizing the legal
and regulatory framework of biodiversity conservation; (b) institutional restructuring of DNP,
and; (c) establishing and operationalizing the management, monitoring, evaluation, and public
awareness of the state of biodiversity. The Biodiversity and Protected Area Law if it was already
in effect, would have provided the DNP with a national mandate and directed the capacity-
building efforts towards that mandate. However, under the Project, DNP’s capacity was
strengthened though its role with the OCC in contributing to the formulation of the Framework
Law; the OCC organized three workshops to highlight the importance of biodiversity and
ecosystem management to other units within DNP; the process of revising and submitting the

                                               56
Framework Law provided the DNP with an opportunity to dialogue with Senegal’s lawmakers
including new members of parliament who entered into office in July 2012.

The Project also funded advisory and technical services for the DPN-IU, and training and
workshops as follows: (a) ten DNP staff obtained an advanced degree in marine and coastal
ecosystem management from a local university in Dakar; (b) four DNP staff were trained in
Project management, human resources, forestry, and natural resource management and (c) ten
workshops were conducted for DNP field staff on various thematic topics including waterbird
and wetland management, preparation of local co-management plans, and Geographic
Information System (GIS) software. The workshops were well attended with over one hundred
participants from the DNP’s staff.

At each of the ten Project sites, the Project financed goods and equipment including: a vehicle, a
boat for transport for DNP staff and Ecoguards to carry out their monitoring and surveillance
responsibilities, and each project site received a computer, GPS, and binoculars to aid monitoring
and surveillance. At DNP headquarters, the Project provided the M&E unit with several
computers, a network server, office equipment (desks, chairs, etc), as well as a full-time
secretary.

National Biodiversity Committee (NBC). The NBC was established in 2006 with Project
funds. The NBC typically met before and after every CBD COP. The Project funded four
workshops of the NBC before and after the 2008 and 2010 COPs and travel for the president of
the NBC and one DNP staff to the 2008 COP in Bonn, Germany. However, the NBC is not well
suited for monitoring and evaluating the state of biodiversity in Senegal. It suffered from poor
management and has not met since 2010; the Committee consisted of too many stakeholders to
function efficiently. While DNP serves as the permanent secretary for the NBC, the committee
is headed by the Agriculture and Environment advisor to the prime minister who was often too
busy to lead and had limited incentives to promote biodiversity conservation. It is unlikely the
NBC will be sustainable now that the Project has closed, particularly since the Government has
not allocated funding for the NBC secretariat in the DNP’s budget.

Biodiversity Monitoring. The submission of annual Biodiversity update reports, an
intermediate outcome indicator for the Component was partially met. Biodiversity update
reports were produced in 2005, 2007, and 2010. A fourth report is expected to be completed by
the end of 2012. Delays in annual reporting is due to several factors. The unit within the DNP in
charge of monitoring was not sufficiently resourced to carry out the yearly reporting. The unit
only has a staff of three for the entire country, and from 2010 until 2012, two of the three staff
members were not permanently located in Senegal (one was in the United States and the other
was in France). Furthermore, approximately only 25 percent of their time was dedicated to the
Project and updating the State of Biodiversity reports. Because the unit was not well staffed, the
DNP was unable to complete a national biodiversity monitoring plan with indicators defined by
the CBD that would produce consistent data for the annual State of Biodiversity report.
Although the Project provided funding to build the capacity of this unit, (office equipment, a
secretary staff position placed within DNP, training for staff in biodiversity monitoring and
collection), with only one to three staff in charge of a national campaign, it was unlikely that the
DNP could maintain the collection, processing, and compiling of such annual updates.

                                                57
National Action Plans. National action plans serve as internal strategy documents within DNP
to achieve a coordinated effort in conservation and monitoring of specific species. An important
achievement under Component 2 was the establishment of National Action Plans for several
iconic fauna: (a) in 2008, the DNP completed a national action plan for African manatees
(Trichechus senegalensis), and (b) in 2012, a national action plan was completed for marine
turtles. In both cases, the Project provided the funds for consultants to prepare the national
action plans.

IEC. The DNP had modest success with increasing the awareness of biodiversity and integrated
ecosystem management nationally. As part of the International Waterbird Census held every
January 15th, the Project funded the Training of trainers programs from 2006 until 2011 to
spread awareness of the importance of Senegal’s migratory waterbird population. The annual
event is a success with increasing participation from the general public and tourists as well as
from the DNP staff and local Ecoguards. A similar program is done on May 22 of each year for
the International Day of Biodiversity. In 2010, DNP used the opportunity to use Project funds to
spread awareness of the importance of biodiversity.

From 2008 through 2012, the DNP tested a pilot community education program to teach students
basic environmental concepts with Project funding. Four pilot schools in the communities of
Yoff, Ngor, Ouakam, and Soumbedioune were targeted because of the large concentration of
fishing families and were received enthusiastically by the students as well as the teachers.
Outreach was launched by dynamic and committed parks personnel (mainly women rangers and
officers). The goal of the community education program was to mainstream environmental
concepts and stewardship into future generations. The curriculum was not specifically focused
on coastal and marine issues, but rather provided an overview of more broad environmental
concepts (e.g. biodiversity, water management, pollution, recycling). However, school masters
and teachers tried to adjust the curriculum to address local issues. The target age range for the
program was nine to 11 years old as it was felt by DNP that is the most receptive age for children
to be introduced to these concepts. The result of the program led to a more environmentally-
conscious young population in one of the most populated areas of Senegal. In some cases, DNP
noted that the children now have a better understanding of how their actions can affect the
environment than their parents.

Sustainable Financing for Biodiversity Conservation. The feasibility study and consultations
regarding the establishment of a trust fund for biodiversity conservation in Senegal was
completed in April of 2007. The study suggested it follow similar approaches of other African
francophone countries, like Madagascar, and establish a foundation to manage a trust fund. The
study outlined a number of next steps, but no significant action was taken and no trust fund for
biodiversity conservation had been establish by the end of the Project.

Sub-Regional Coordination Efforts. The building of sub-regional partnerships and linkages
under the Project with other projects in the region was weak. This was an intermediate outcome
indicator for the Component. Of the three partnerships that were to be established with other
GEF-funded projects, one was established while no others provided any meaningful partnership
support.

                                               58
The sub-committee for the Senegal River Basin Project held two workshops in 2007. However,
closure of the IMCRM Project also brought closure to the sub-committee. Other than some
sharing of Project information no significant results were attained from the workshops.

The sub-committee for the GEF-funded Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (CCLME)
Project (funded by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and UNEP) met but was never
established. The preparation of the IMCRM Project began in 2007 while the CCLME Project
was not implemented until April of 2010, by which time, the IMCRM Project was close to
completion. However, the technical staff of the DNP and DMF were involved in the preparation
of the CCLME project.

The sub-committee for the Project to enhance the conservation of the critical network of sites
required by migratory waterbirds on the African/Eurasian Flyways was not established; however,
Component 2 includes activities which promote the protection of migrating bird reserves in the
Saloum River Delta and the Senegal River Delta Biospheres.

Impact

Prior to the project, there was little in the way of formal collaboration between DNP and DMF,
although the two departments often worked in the same locations and shared information.
Although the original vision under the Project was the coordination of efforts between the
Ministry of Maritime Economy and the Ministry of Environment resulting in an ecosystem-based
fisheries and coastal management approach, the restructuring divided the implementation of the
Project into two separate sectors and removed the opportunity for long-term integrated
ecosystem-based management between the two ministries.

Coordination of activities between the DNP and DMF at project sites was also a challenge.
Under Component 2, the pilot sites for reserves were identified during Project preparation with
stakeholders by 2005, whereas the identification of fishing community pilot sites under
Component 1 were not completed until 2007 due to a lengthier selection process. This left only
one year - from 2007 until the restructuring in 2008 - for the DNP to work with fishing
communities to integrate an ecosystem-based management plan. When the restructuring divided
the responsibilities of the two components under the respective Ministries, the integration
stopped and Project collaboration effectively ended.

The restructuring also ended the EMC approach to regional ecosystem-based co-management.
While the EMCs were not operating as originally planned, they were making modest progress
and provided a forum for many stakeholders to discuss conservation of shared resources and an
opportunity to learn about ecosystem-based management of resources. As a result, EMCs were
quite popular at the community level, to the extent that communities and local government
officials have asked the DNP to continue holding workshops. The DNP has been unable to
comply due to lack of funds.

The annual State of Biodiversity reports were not provided regularly because the DNP did not
have sufficient staff or capacity in its monitoring unit. When the DNP was restructured in 2000,

                                              59
a monitoring and evaluation unit was created but was given no strategy. It was not until the
establishment of the NBC in 2006 that a monitoring strategy was formulated, and another four
years in 2010 before a Biodiversity Monitoring Plan was established. In terms of capacity, only
three DNP employees were responsible for coordinating the monitoring of Senegal’s biodiversity.
Of these three, two were pursuing higher education in Europe and North America during the
most of the Project implementation period. Funds allocated for strengthening the monitoring
unit was used for a secretarial position, office equipment, and monitoring equipment for park
staff at the ten pilot sites, while there was a lack of DNP technical staff at headquarters. With
only one full time staff member and a secretary in the unit, much of the analysis and report
writing was given to a local university. With a shortage of staff, it is unlikely that biodiversity
monitoring will become an important aspect of DNP or the Ministry of Environment.

Through the Project, however, the DNP was strengthened to provide and explore different
methods for training and raising the awareness of stakeholders in eco-system management and
conservation of natural resources. Local communities, students, ministries and politicians have
been sensitized about integrated natural resource management through Project activities such as
the establishment of EMCS, the process of drafting the Biodiversity and Protected Areas
Framework Law, school education programs and outreach activities, and younger and older
generations are beginning to think more about their impact on the local environment.
Communities are actively participating in local management of the parks, and schoolchildren
from fishing families are explaining to their parents about the effects of overfishing and
depleting resources. As such, the Project has helped to establish an active community as a base
to implement further reforms.

In April 2012, a new Government was elected into office in Senegal. The new Minister of
Environment was the president of a dynamic national NGO focused on environmental
conservation known as “Oceanium?, a member of Senegal’s Green Party, and a well-respected
environmentalist acclaimed for his conservation efforts. In the area of environmental
management and conservation, a committed leadership and political will are essential for
bringing the vision and the reforms to reality.




                                               60
Annex 3. Economic and Financial Analysis
(including assumptions in the analysis)

The Project implemented, from 2005 to 2012, two separate but complementary groups of
activities: (i) activities aiming to empower coastal communities and fishers to sustainably
manage the coastal demersal fisheries resources through an area-based co-management system,
and (ii) activities aiming to strengthen the protection of coastal ecosystems that support these
resources through strengthened or created network of coastal protected areas.

In the PAD at Project appraisal, the annex on summary economic analysis presents only a
description of the likely costs and benefits, and the likely fiscal impacts due to weakness of data
collection in Senegal and the difficulty of measuring and valuing many of the effects involved,
especially the likely off-site benefits (positive externalities) of the three proposed Biosphere
reserves. In this ICR, the team will use the same approach (analysis of costs and benefits of the
project) with the available data collected through the local Posts of control of fisheries and the
Local Fisher’s Committees in the four co-management pilot sites, which have been subsequently
validated by the Fisheries Administration at central/national level, and through the units of
management of the parks/reserves in the area of implementation of the project (under the
Authority of the Directorate of National Parks).

Costs

The PAD evaluated the costs of implementing the project and the opportunity costs from use of
areas concerned by the project (for the area-based co-management of demersal fisheries and for
the enhancement of the management of the network of coastal protected areas). For the ICR, the
financial costs after project completion (amount of total disbursement) were $13.25 million (80
percent of appraisal) (2005 - 2012) (with two extensions of the closing date occurring in 2008
and 2010).

Regarding the opportunity costs, no data could be gathered for them at project completion. As
mentioned in the PAD, the coastal demersal fisheries are currently overexploited; the rent from
the fishery has already been dissipated. Consequently, the opportunity cost for other alternative
use of the same areas should be very low.

Benefits

From the PAD, the three main benefits of the project are: (i) increased fisheries rent some years
after the project implementation as a consequence of stock recovery and reduced fishing effort,
(ii) increased recreational/ecotourism rent and, (iii) better preservation of marine and bird
biodiversity, both in the short term and long term. All these benefit can either give a qualitative
analysis (no available data) or a quantitative one (with available data).

   (i)     Fisheries benefits

From the PAD, the fisheries benefits of the project are the rent of the coastal demersal fisheries,
where the remaining fishers would see their Catch Per Unit Effort (CPUE) increase due to the

                                                61
project. In fact, for the overexploited fisheries stocks, the area-based co-management activities
aimed to reduce the fishing effort in the short term and consequently to allow the stocks to
rejuvenate and be replenished. So, the fish yield and production will increase in the medium and
long term through the increased CPUE of the remaining fishing vessels and finally to lower costs
and greater revenues per vessel (which means an increase of the artisanal fishery rent). For the
purpose of the ICR, the team could not calculate this rent for the targeted fisheries due to lack of
data related to the operational small-scale vessels for them. Hence, the team has analyzed the
CPUE for the targeted fisheries in each of the four pilot sites and has calculated the total revenue
per year and per vessel as an indicator of more healthy stock and better management through the
project intervention. Table 3.1 summarizes the results of this analysis.

From 2005 to 2011, the CPUE of green lobster fisheries in Ngaparou has increased from 7 kg
through 40 kg per vessel, and in Ouakam, the same CPUE has increased from 10 kg to 34 kg
between 2007 and 2011 and the CPUE of Thiof has reached 166 kg per vessel (against only 75
kg per vessel in 2007) during the implementation of co-management fisheries measures for the
declining stock of these species in these areas. Consequently, the total revenue per vessel per
year for the two species has increased also in these two pilot sites through the project
implementation.

For the coastal white shrimp stocks in Foundiougne and Betenty, the activities to implement
area-based co-management for the fishery, especially the reduction of the fishing effort, has not
resulted in the immediate increase of the CPUE. The pluviometry also has its influence on the
fluctuation of the coastal shrimp stock. As for the fisheries co-management measures/initiatives
undertaken by the LFCs in the four pilot sites, there was no specific target to reduce the fishing
capacity yet; however, the reduction of fishing effort has been carried out through area restriction
and fishing time restriction measures and also limitation and selection of fishing engines (mesh
size). The sudden increase of number of vessel observed in Foundiougne would be due to the
fact that the seasonal vessels would not be taken into consideration for some of the years of the
evaluation. But the implementation of fisheries management initiatives by the LFCs in these
localities has allowed the stock of shrimp to begin to rejuvenate and to recover. In Betenty, for
example, the number of individual shrimp per sample increased by 38 percent from 2005 through
2011, i.e., the average size of individual shrimp has increased, an indicator of higher quality
fisheries product).

   (ii)    Ecotourism benefits

In the PAD, ecotourism benefits of the project depend on the additional number of visitors that
would come with the project over time (compared to the scenario without the project) and on the
economic rent from tourism captured by Senegal from the additional visitors. Rents can be
captured in a variety of ways, including through park entrance fees, airport and visa fees, and
hotel taxes.

For the ICR, the team, given the availability of data, has calculated the additional benefits
generated by the additional number of visitors at the parks and reserves concerned by the IMCRP
through the project implementation. Table 3.2 summarizes the results of this analysis by



                                                62
      comparing the situation with and without the project. The team has then made the comparison of
      the evolution of


         Table 3.1.: CPUE and the revenue per vessel in the four area-based co-management pilot sites
                                                (2005-2011)

                        Targeted,
                        high-
                        commercial
          Sites                        2005      2006         2007      2008      2009      2010        2011
                        value
                        demersal
                        species
                       Thiof           n/a       n/a          10,100    13,960    22,200    17,200      23,300
          Ouakam
                       Green lobster   n/a       n/a          1,300     1,500     1,850     5,050       4,800
Total
           Ngaparou    Green lobster   770       700          1,575     1,561     1,645     2,835       4,095
harvest
per year               coastal white
           Foundiougne                 n/a       n/a          343,370   287,190   362,835   274,232     431,625
(Kg)                   shrimp
                       coastal white
           Betenty                     365,700   336,200      340,700   328,900   296,900   237,200     229,400
                       shrimp
                       Thiof           n/a       n/a          135       133       142       140         140
           Ouakam
Number of              Green lobster   n/a       n/a          135       133       142       140         140
operating Ngaparou     Green lobster   103       140          83        90        103       105         103
small-
scale                  coastal white
           Foundiougne                 n/a       n/a          127       120       142       160         300
vessels                shrimp
                       coastal white
           Betenty                     65        59           62        53        57        51          59
                       shrimp
Total                  Thiof           n/a       n/a          75        105       156       123         166
           Ouakam
harvest                Green lobster   n/a       n/a          10        11        13        36          34
per vessel Ngaparou    Green lobster   7         5            19        17        16        27          40
and year
                       coastal white
(Kg/small- Foundiougne                 n/a       n/a          2,704     2,393     2,555     1,714       1,439
                       shrimp
scale
vessel)(CP Betenty     coastal white
                                       5,626     5,698        5,495     6,206     5,209     4,651       3,888
UE)                    shrimp
                       Thiof           n/a       n/a          3,670     3,980     3,380     3,620       4,500
           Ouakam
                       Green lobster   n/a       n/a          8,500     8,340     5,000     5,000       5,500
Average
           Ngaparou    Green lobster   4,900     6,000        6,270     6,850     5,730     5,700       6,730
landed
prices                 coastal white
           Foundiougne                 n/a       n/a          600       600       550       500         750
(XOF/Kg)               shrimp
                       coastal white
           Betenty                     400       550          600       600       700       900         800
                       shrimp




                                                         63
                         Thiof             n/a          n/a             37,067,000 55,560,800 75,036,000 62,264,000 104,850,000
             Ouakam
                         Green lobster     n/a          n/a             11,050,000 12,510,000 9,250,000 25,250,000 26,400,000
Total
             Ngaparou    Green lobster     3,773,000    4,200,000       9,875,250 10,692,850 9,425,850 16,159,500 27,559,350
revenue
per year                 coastal white
             Foundiougne                   n/a          n/a             206,022,000 172,314,000 199,559,250 137,116,000 323,718,750
(XOF)                    shrimp
                         coastal white
             Betenty                       146,280,000 184,910,000 204,420,000 197,340,000 207,830,000 213,480,000 183,520,000
                         shrimp
Total                    Thiof             n/a          n/a             274,570     417,750     528,423       444,743      748,929
             Ouakam
revenue                  Green lobster     n/a          n/a             81,852      94,060      65,141        180,357      188,571
per          Ngaparou    Green lobster     36,631       30,000          118,979     118,809     91,513        153,900      267,567
small-                   coastal white
scale        Foundiougne                   n/a          n/a             1,622,220   1,435,950   1,405,347     856,975      1,079,063
                         shrimp
vessel
per year                      coastal white
(XOF/        Betenty                        2,250,462   3,134,068       3,297,097   3,723,396   3,646,140     4,185,882    3,110,508
                              shrimp
vessel)

Source: Local offices of Department of Fisheries Control and the LFCs.

           It was assumed that the number of ecotourists without project would be the lowest. The
           additional number of ecotourists was about 44,172 which generated a total additional revenue of
           the ecotourism in these protected areas during the project implementation (between 2006 and
           2010) is about US$96,532.

           Table 3.2: Benefits generated by the ecotourism and would be made by the project implementation

                                                                                                                         Total
             Group of sites                                      2006       2007      2008      2009        2010        (2006-
                                                                                                                         2010)
                                 Difference of the number
                                 of ecotourists with and         369        470       920        -46        -595        1,118
           PNOD/PNLB/            without project
           RSFG                  Difference of ecotourism
                                 revenues with and without    8,152        9,394      -182      -5,430      -684        11,250
                                 project (US$)
                                 Difference of the number
                                 of ecotourists with and         846       7,478     9,834      9,898       12,927      40,983
           PNIM/RNP/             without project
           RNICS
                                 Difference of ecotourism
                                 revenues with and without       846       14,469    17,749     17,203      24,593      74,860
                                 project (US$)
                                 Difference of the number
                                 of ecotourists with and          8          31      2,037       -78         73         2,071
                                 without project
           PNDS/RNCP
                                 Difference of ecotourism
                                 revenues with and without       16          62      3,842      2,894       3,608       10,422
                                 project (US$)
           Source: Department of National Parks.



                                                                      64
   (iii)    Biodiversity preservation benefits

The Biodiversity preservation benefits by the implementation of the project can be evaluated by
the effectiveness rate of management of biodiversity in the three pilot areas (biosphere) and by
the rate of participatory involvement of the local communities in the management of biodiversity
in these three pilot areas through the project implementation. So, regarding the effectiveness rate
of management of biodiversity has been measured with the World Bank/WWF Protected areas
Management effectiveness Tool improved in 2008. This tool has been improved with the Rapid
Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management (RAPPAM) Methodology also
developed by WWF and it gave more information for habitats and species evaluation. As results
of such assessment, all the three zones have reached the target fixed by the end of the project:
Cap Vert 61% (if the target at appraisal was 65%), Senegal Delta 62% (if the target at appraisal
was 70%) and Saloum Delta 57% (if the target at appraisal was 60%). The difference of rate
between the achievements and the targets is due to the lack of financial resources to implement
the activities identified in the established management plans for these protected areas. As for the
rate of participatory involvement of the local communities in the management of biodiversity,
the participatory assessment was done using the same tools. According to the WWF/CATIE
scale, and between 2006 and 2011, this score has increased from 76% to 79% for Cap Vert zone,
from 64% to 75% for Senegalese river Delta zone and from 65% to 73% for the Delta of Saloum
zone.




                                                 65
Annex 4. Bank Lending and Implementation Support/Supervision Processes

   (a) Team Members

         Names                             Titles                   Unit     IDA      GEF
                                                                           P086480   P058367
                                               Lending
Alliali, Solange A          Senior Counsel                       LEGES                
Browning, Brantley          Consultant, Policy                               
Burbridge, Peter R.         Consultant, Coastal Zone Mgt                              
Carret, Jean-Christophe     Natural Resources Economist          AFTA1                
Crepin, Christophe          Sector Leader, GEF                   EASER                
Diaite, Bourama             Senior Procurement Specialist        AFTPC                
Diarra, Dieneba             Social Development Specialist                             
Doetinchem, Nina            Carbon Finance Specialist            ENVCF                 
Guazzo, Caroline            Language Program Assistant           AFTCS                 
Kotschoubey, Nicolas        Consultant, Environmental            MNSHD                
                            Safeguards
Ndiaye Lixi, Marie          Program Assistant                    FGIDB                 
Poirier, Lucie              Procurement Specialist               AFTPC                
Prevost, Yves André         TTL, Environmental Advisor           PA9SS                
Seck, Aissatou              Programs Assistant                   AFTCS                
Sissoko, Fily               Lead financial Mgmt. Specialist      AFTMW       
Strengerowski-Feldblyum,    Operations Analyst                   AFTN3                
Liba C.
Toure, El Hadj Adama        Senior Agricultural Economist        AFTA1       
Van Santen, Gert            Consultant                                                
Virdin, John                Sr Natural Resources Mgmt. Spec      ENV                   
Wilson, Wendy               Operations Analyst                   AFTA1       
                                              Supervision
Agwe, Jonathan              Operations Officer                   ARD                  
Balde, Demba                Senior Social Development Spec.      AFTCS                
Boisrobert, Cedric          Consultant, Fisheries                AFTEN                
Brito, Laurent Mehdi        Procurement Specialist               AFTPC                
Cipriani, René              Consultant, Operations                                    
Chu, Jingjie                Natural Resources Economist          AFTN3                
Diaite, Bourama             Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPW                
Diop, Sidy                  Sr. Procurement Specialist           AFTPW                
Faye, Mbaye Mbengue         Consultant, Env./Social Safeguards               
Follea, Salimata D.         Operations Analyst                   AFTN1       
Hume, Andrew                JPA, Environment                     GEF                   
Ioniarilala, Radonirina     Consultant, Fisheries Specialist     AFTN3       
Kanungo, Gayatri            Environmental Specialist             AFTN3                 
Keita, Abdoulaye            Senior Procurement Specialist        MNAPC       
Kristensen, Peter           Lead Environmental Specialist        ENV                   
Lee, Marcus John Jin Sarn   Urban Economist                      FEUUR                 
Ndiaye, Mademba             Senior Communications Officer        AFRSC       
Page, Hawanty               Language Program Assistant                                
Prevost, Yves André         Environmental Advisor                PA9SS                

                                                    66
Romao, Osval Rocha And.    Financial Management Specialist      AFTMW             
Samba, Fatou               Financial Management Specialist      AFTFM                  
Sanoussi, Ibrah Rahamane   Sr Procurement Specialist            AFTPW             
Santley, David John        Sr. Petroleum Specialist             SEGEI             
Sarno, Francesco           Consultant, Procurement Specialist                          
Sene, Manievel             Sr. Rural Development                AFTA2             
Strengerowski-Feldblyum,   Operations Analyst                   AFTN3                  
Liba C.
Talla,Takoukam, Patrice    Counsel                                                     
Tran, Huong-Giang Lucie    Consultant, ICR                      AFTN1             
Tynan, Ellen J.            Sr. Environmental Specialist                                 
Vaselopulos, Virginie      Language Program Assistant           AFTN1             
Vincent, Xavier F.P        Senior Fisheries Specialist          AFTN1                  
Virdin, John               TTL, Sr. Natural Resources Mgt.      ENV                    
                           Specialist
Winter, Carolyn            Sr Social development Specialist     MNSSO                  
Yoboue, Eric Jean          Sr. Procurement Specialist                             




b) Staff Time and Cost

    ? IDA P086480
                                        Staff Time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
                                                              ($’000)(includes labor,
            Stage
                                       # Staff weeks          travel and consultant
                                                              costs)
                                        Lending
            FY04                           14.24                         87,485
            FY05                            7.48                         28,330
Subtotal:                                  21.72                        115,815
                                    Supervision/ICR
            FY05                           13.82                         44,823
            FY06                           14.59                         58,835
            FY07                           34.43                        133,900
            FY08                           38.63                        191,884
            FY09                           65.40                        177,037
            FY10                           56.51                         94,484
            FY11                           27.40                         79,102
            FY12                           44.92                         61,062
            FY13                             0                           6,263
Subtotal                                  295.70                        847,388
Grand Total                               317.42                        963.203




                                                67
    ? GEF P058367
                          Staff time and Cost (Bank Budget Only)
              Stage                             ($’000 )(Includes labor,
                        # Staff Weeks
                                                travel and consultant costs)
                         Lending
              FY00           5.25                          25,241
              FY01           4.24                          30,674
              FY02           4.86                          22,931
              FY03           6.90                          38,231
              FY04          35.42                          171,475
              FY05           7.59                          56,409
Subtotal:                   64.26                          344,961
                      Supervision/ICR
              FY05           0.00                           1,297
              FY06           7.03                          55,270
              FY07           6.60                          31,922
              FY08           2.28                          35,090
              FY09          16.39                          79,243
              FY10          11.50                          53,391
              FY11           4.21                          30,282
              FY12           0.00                             0
Subtotal                    48.01                          286,495
Grand Total                 112.27                         631,456




                              68
Annex 5. Results Framework
                        SENEGAL: Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project
                                            Results Framework (EOP)

      Original Project Development
                                                      Revised Performance Indicators                                        Comments at ICR
                Objective:
    To increase the sustainable      Local fisheries management sub-projects are                     Completed satisfactorily by LFCs. Sub-projects have been
    management of marine and coastal implemented in 4 pilot sites by End of Project (EOP).           approved and substantially implemented satisfactorily in 4 pilot
    resources in 3 pilot areas by                                                                    sites. Delays in completion for 1 co-management initiative in
    communities and the Government.                                                                  Ouakam due to late start in project activities. Capacity of LFCs
                                                                                                     as private sector organizations strengthened as a result with
                                                                                                     changed perception towards resources management, decision-
                                                                                                     making structure alternatives. Positive results in co-
                                                                                                     management of green lobster, mussels and shrimp in terms of
                                                                                                     increased average weight and size.
                                         National management plans for 2 key fisheries are           Almost completed. Most of the work on the plans completed,
                                         prepared, and approved by the National Consultative         and the remaining consultative workshops and document
                                         Council for Maritime Fisheries.                             finalization to be funded under the Bank-funded West Africa
                                                                                                     Regional Fisheries Program (2009-2014)(US$46.30 million).
                                         Participatory assessment of local community                 Could not be measured fully since no beneficiary assessment
                                         involvement in the management of biodiversity in the        was conducted at EOP. However, a participatory assessment
                                         three pilot areas rated as satisfactory at the end of the   carried out in 2006 by the PCU, and between 2009 to 2011 by
                                         Project.                                                    the DNP using the same tools, indicated a mean score variation
                                                                                                     from 67% in 2006 to 75% in 2011 which indicates satisfaction.
                                                                                                     Popular demand by communities with regards to some services
                                                                                                     provided under the project indicate that such activities have
                                                                                                     been successful in encouraging and strengthening local
                                                                                                     community involvement in biodiversity management.
       Revised Global Environment                  Revised Global Environment Objective
                Objective:
    To strengthen the conservation       Effective management of biodiversity in the three pilot     At appraisal, this was measured using the World Bank/WWF
    and management of Senegal’s          areas increased by at least 50% by EOP.                     Protected Areas Management Effectiveness Tool which was
    marine and coastal ecosystems,                                                                   upgraded in 2009 with the Rapid Assessment and Prioritization
    which are globally significant and                                                               of Protected Area Management methodology developed by the
    vital to the sustained livelihoods                                                               WWF to improve habitats and species evaluation. The mean
    of coastal communities.                                                                          score improved from 46% in 2006 to 61% in 2011. Evaluation
                                                                                                     carried out by DNP from 2009-2011.
                                                                                                     The completion of 8 local level ecosystem management plans
                                                                                                     will contribute further to effective management of biodiversity
                                                                                                     because of the active participation of populations concerned.

                                                                                   69
    Intermediate Outcomes:                 Revised Intermediate Outcome Indicators
Component 1:                         60 percent of Local Fisher Committees implementing Beneficiary assessment needed. However, all sub-projects
Local communities sustainably        sub-projects comply with sub-project performance submitted have been approved by the national level fisheries
manage coastal and marine            targets by end of project.                         advisory councils and local level councils and are completed in
fisheries.                                                                              3 out of 4 sites satisfactorily. Positive catch volume results in
                                                                                        co-management of green lobster, mussels and shrimp in terms
                                                                                        of increased average weight and size.

Component 2:                         Biodiversity and Protected Area framework law is Met satisfactorily. The framework law was submitted to
Local communities participate in     prepared and submitted to Government before EOP.           Parliament for approval in September 2011 before EOP.
the conservation of critical coastal
and marine habitats and species.     State of biodiversity update reports produced on an Partially met. Reports were prepared and submitted for 2005,
                                     annual basis.                                              2007, 2010, and pending for end 2012, due to lack of capacity
                                                                                                in DPN to carry out a national biodiversity monitoring plan,
                                                                                                and the procedures and slow approval process required to
                                                                                                establish national biodiversity indicators to be included in the
                                                                                                report.
                                     Coordination sub-committees established with the Met with adjustments to changing circumstances. Protocol
                                     Senegal River Basin Project, the Protection of the signed with Senegal Basin River Project signed in May 2006.
                                     Canary Current Large Marine Ecosystem (LME) Project, The EMC (COGEM) of the Senegal River Delta
                                     and the Project to enhance the conservation of the Transboundary Biosphere Reserve designated as a sub-
                                     critical network of sites required by migratory waterbirds committee to participate in sustainable biodiversity
                                     on the African/Eurasian Flyways.                           conservation and development of water resources efforts.

                                                                                                 Meetings and discussions held with the Large Marine
                                                                                                 Ecosystem of Canary Current Project (CCLME) to explore
                                                                                                 synergies. An MOU signed in May 2006 established a
                                                                                                 framework for collaboration, but was negated by delays in the
                                                                                                 preparation of the CCLME. Subsequently, it was replaced by a
                                                                                                 protocol signed with Wetlands International as implementing
                                                                                                 agency of the Project Wings Over Wetlands in October 2006,
                                                                                                 which focuses on conservation of the critical network of sites
                                                                                                 required by migratory waterbirds on the African/Eurasian
                                                                                                 Flyways. Wetlands International reinforced the capacities of
                                                                                                 DPN and projects staff through training on migratory birds and
                                                                                                 wetlands monitoring.




                                                                             70
Project Outcome Indicators          Baseline                Baseline (2008)              End of Project         End of Project Actual
                                    (2005)                                               Target
Local fisheries management sub-     No sub-projects         4 pilot sites selected and   sub-project            Sub-project implementation completed in 3
projects are implemented in 4       implemented             sub-projects                 implementation         pilot sites (Bétenty, Foundiougne, Ngaparou),
pilot sites by End of Project                               implementation               completed in 4 sites   partially completed in 1 project site
(EOP).                                                      underway in 4 sites;                                (Ouakam).
                                                            4 local co-management
                                                            plans and initiatives
                                                            prepared, and signed into
                                                            legal agreement between
                                                            communities and
                                                            Government.
National management plans for       No national fisheries   Contracts for national       National fisheries     Two national fisheries management plans
2 key fisheries are prepared, and   management plans        fisheries management         management plans       substantially prepared. They will be
approved by the National            prepared                plans under finalization     approved by Council.   completed under the Bank-funded WARFP.
Consultative Council for
Maritime Fisheries.
Participatory assessment of local   Cap Vert 38%,           75%                          100%                   Unable to be measured fully since no
community involvement in the        Senegal Delta 49%,                                                          beneficiary assessment was conducted at
management of biodiversity in       Saloum delta 44%                                                            EOP. However, a participatory assessment
the three pilot areas rated as                                                                                  carried out in 2006 by the PCU, and between
satisfactory at the end of the                                                                                  2009 to 2011 by the DNP using the same
Project.                                                                                                        tools, indicated a mean score variation from
                                                                                                                67% in 2006 to 75% in 2011 which indicates
                                                                                                                satisfaction. Lack of M&E data for EOP
                                                                                                                comparison to baseline estimates for the
                                                                                                                fisheries component.        However, popular
                                                                                                                demand by communities with regards to some
                                                                                                                services provided under the project indicate
                                                                                                                that such activities have been successful in
                                                                                                                encouraging      and     strengthening    local
                                                                                                                community involvement in biodiversity
                                                                                                                management.
Effective management of             0                       20%                          50%                    At appraisal, this was measured using the
biodiversity in the three pilot                                                                                 World Bank/WWF Protected Areas
areas increased by at least 50%                                                                                 Management Effectiveness Tool which was
by EOP.                                                                                                         upgraded in 2009 with the Rapid Assessment
                                                                                                                and Prioritization of Protected Area
                                                                                                                Management methodology developed by the
                                                                                                                WWF to improve habitats and species

                                                                               71
                                                                                      evaluation. The mean score improved from
                                                                                      46% in 2006 to 61% in 2011. Evaluation
                                                                                      carried out by DNP from 2009-2011.

                                                                                      The completion of 8 local level ecosystem
                                                                                      management plans will contribute further to
                                                                                      effective management of biodiversity because
                                                                                      of the active participation of populations
                                                                                      concerned.
Intermediate Outcome
Indicators
60 percent of Local Fisher         0   N/A                       60%                  75%
Committees implementing sub-
projects comply with sub-project
performance targets by end of
project.
Biodiversity and Protected Area    0   BPAF currently in         BPAF law submitted   BPAF law submitted to GVT before EOP.
framework law is prepared and          progress.                 to GVT
submitted to Government before
EOP
State of biodiversity update       0   1st report not yet        All update reports   Reports were prepared and submitted for
reports produced on an annual          produced.                 completed.           2005, 2007, 2010. 2012 report pending.
basis.




                                                            72
Annex 6. Summary of Borrower's ICR


    REPUBLIQUE DU SENEGAL
        Un Peuple – Un But – Une Foi
                 *******



  MINISTERE DE LA PECHE ET DES
      AFFAIRES MARITIMES
             *******
DIRECTION DES PECHES MARITIMES
                -------------------------------------------------------------------
                           RAPPORT D’ACHEVEMENT
                                             DU
   PROJET DE GESTION INTEGREE DES RESSOURCES MARINES ET COTIERES
                                        (GIRMaC)

PREFACE: Identification du projet

1. Contexte du projet, conception de l’objectif de développement et de l’objectif global
   environnemental
Le programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières (GIRMaC) est né de la
volonté du Sénégal d’asseoir les principes d’une gestion durable des ressources marines et
côtières comme éléments de base du développement et principalement de la lutte contre la
pauvreté des communautés littorales. Il vise ainsi à matérialiser l’intégration entre les objectifs
de développement, d’utilisation durable et de conservation de la biodiversité marine et côtière.
Pour la pêche maritime, le contexte est marqué par l’avènement de projets et programmes axés
sur gestion durable des pêcheries et portant sur la gestion paritaire du secteur de la pêche
maritime, l’évaluation et la gestion des ressources halieutiques du Sénégal, l’immersion et la
surveillance de récifs artificiels, la création et la mise en place des Conseils Locaux de Pêche
Artisanale (CLPA), etc.
Dans le secteur de la conservation de la biodiversité, les bailleurs de fonds se sont focalisés sur la
préparation de plans de gestion de sites communautaires et des principales aires protégées.
L’adoption d’une vision ou d’une stratégie globale de gestion durable des ressources marines et
côtières du Sénégal était devenue indispensable pour arriver à une synergie entre la pêche et la
biodiversité. Pour optimiser la valeur ajoutée du Projet, il a été ainsi retenu de limiter le nombre
de composantes et de rechercher une synergie entre elles afin d’augmenter la contribution de la
conservation de la biodiversité à la pêche durable et vice versa. Les ressources du projet ont ainsi
été mobilisées autour de deux composantes opérationnelles : (i) la composante « Gestion durable
des Pêcheries » financée par un accord de crédit de l’IDA pour lequel un objectif de
développement a été formulé, et (ii) la composante « Conservation des habitats critiques et des
espèces » financée par un accord de don du FEM qui a justifié l’objectif global environnemental.
    1.1. Contexte à la phase de conception et d’évaluation préalable
Les ressources halieutiques et l’industrie de la pêche sont en phase de déclin à cause de la
surexploitation des principaux stocks due pour l’essentiel au libre accès aux ressources. Au

                                                 73
même moment, la Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée (SCA) du Gouvernement considère la
pêche et l’aquaculture comme un des piliers de la croissance accélérée.
La phase de conception et d’évaluation préalable de ce projet a été ainsi une période où plusieurs
chantiers stratégiques ont été finalisés ou en cours de lancement : (i) les concertations nationales
sur la pêche et l’aquaculture, (ii) les travaux sur le Cadre intégré pour l’Assistance au
Commerce extérieur, (iii) la mise en vigueur du programme de Gestion de la Biodiversité
Marine et Côtière (PBMC), (iv) le processus d’élaboration des documents de politique sur la
Stratégie de Croissance Accélérée et le DSRP, et (v) l’Etude économique sectorielle sur la pêche
(ESW) réalisée par la Banque Mondiale pour le Sénégal.
Parallèlement, les secteurs de la Pêche et de l’Environnement devaient faire face, pour le moyen
et le long terme, (i) à une crise environnementale, sociale et économique grave qui frappe la
Pêche et qui compromet la survie des communautés littorales en accentuant la pauvreté dans les
zones côtières où se concentrent plus de la moitié des populations et l’essentiel des activités
économiques du pays; et (ii) à une augmentation des risques bioécologiques, sociaux et
environnementaux qui font craindre un appauvrissement des écosystèmes marins et côtier à un
niveau tel qu’ils ne puissent plus supporter une exploitable durable des ressources.
Les problématiques auxquelles devait s’attaquer en priorité le projet correspondent aux facteurs
qui sont à la base de cette crise de la Pêche et de l’Environnement et qui risquent de saper les
bases de la viabilité et de durabilité des activités socio-économiques de la zone marine et côtière.
Le Gouvernement du Sénégal et la Banque Mondiale ont en conséquence décidé de renforcer le
programme de Gestion de la Biodiversité Marine et Côtière (PBMC) en 2003, par l’introduction
d’un volet « Gestion durable des pêcheries », donnant ainsi naissance au projet GIRMaC.
Celui-ci serait donc en phase avec les orientations stratégiques du Document de Stratégie de
Réduction de la Pauvreté (DSRP-Sénégal) et recoupe les préoccupations exprimées dans le
Country Assistance Strategy (CAS Sénégal) selon lesquelles « la croissance rapide et le manque
de capacités nationales de gestion exposent la biodiversité marine et côtière du Sénégal à la fois à
une surexploitation des ressources et à une menace sérieuse sur la durabilité des exportations des
produits de la mer».
      1.2. Objectif de développement originel du projet et les indicateurs clés de
           performance
L’objectif de développement du Programme est d’améliorer la gestion durable des ressources
marines et côtières par les communautés et le Gouvernement du Sénégal, dans trois zones
pilotes. La gestion durable implique à la fois l’exploitation responsable des ressources et la
protection des écosystèmes et des processus écologiques critiques pour leur régénération.
Les indicateurs de performance des résultats/d’impact du programme sont définis comme suit :
    • Les captures par unité d’effort de pêche (CPUE) augmentent de 10 à 30% dans la plupart
        des pêcheries gérées par les communautés, à la fin du Projet.
    • les mesures d’atténuation de l’impact de la réduction de la capacité de pêche sont jugées
        satisfaisantes par au moins 75% des communautés ciblées.
Les indicateurs de performance pour la composante 1 sont définis comme suit :
   • Nombre de sous projets de cogestion locale des pêcheries mis en oeuvre dans les 4 sites
       pilotes initiaux au cours des 18 mois suivant le démarrage du Projet, et le nombre de sous
       projets dans les 8 sites pilotes additionnels pendant les 18 mois suivants.
   • 60% de Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs ont mis en oeuvre leurs sous projets, à la fin du
       Projet, conformément aux performances ciblées par lesdits sous projets ;
   • Plans d’aménagement nationaux préparés pour au moins deux (2) pêcheries clés et
       approuvés par le Conseil National Consultatif des Pêches Maritimes (CNCPM).


                                                74
   1.3. Objectif global originel en matière d’environnement et les indicateurs clés de
        performance
L’Objectif global en matière d’environnement est de renforcer la conservation et la gestion des
écosystèmes côtiers et marins du Sénégal, qui sont globalement significatifs et vitaux pour les
moyens d’existence durables des communautés côtières.
Les indicateurs des performances attendues à la fin du projet sont :
   • Une évaluation participative indique que l’implication de la communauté locale dans la
       gestion de la biodiversité dans les 3 zones pilotes est jugée satisfaisante à la fin du Projet;
   • L’efficacité de la gestion d’espèces menacées clés (tortues marines, lamantins et 5
       espèces oiseaux d’eau) est améliorée de 50% à la fin du Projet;
   • La Réserve de Biosphère de la Presqu’île du Cap-Vert est créée avant la fin du Projet;
   • La Loi- Cadre sur la Biodiversité et des Aires Protégées est promulguée avant la fin du
       Projet, et est en phase avec les engagements pris dans les conventions internationales.

    1.4. Objectif de développement révisé du projet et les indicateurs clés de performance
L’objectif de développement du Projet a été maintenu pendant la restructuration du programme
GIRMaC. Par contre, les indicateurs de performance retenus pour la composante « Gestion
durable des pêcheries » sont les suivants :
    • 60% des Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs ont mis en œuvre leurs sous projets de cogestion
        locale avant la fin du Projet, conformément aux performances ciblées par ces sous
        projets;
    • Les plans d’aménagement pour les deux pêcheries sont préparés puis approuvés par le
        Conseil National Consultatif des Pêches Maritimes (CNCPM) avant la fin du Projet.
.
    1.5. Objectif global révisé en matière d’environnement et les indicateurs clés de
         performance
L’objectif global n’a pas été modifié dans l’accord de don amendé du 26 février 2009. Les
indicateurs de performances ont été révisés et réduits à deux :
    • L’efficacité de la gestion de la biodiversité dans les trois zones d’intervention prioritaire
        est améliorée de 50%, au moins, à la fin du Projet;
    • La Loi- Cadre sur la Biodiversité et des Aires Protégées est préparée et soumise au
        gouvernement avant la fin du Projet.

    1.6. Principaux bénéficiaires
Pour la composante 1 du Projet : (i) les pêcheurs et autres usagers des ressources halieutiques
des sites d’intervention (mareyeurs, transformatrices …), des agents des pêches et ou de
surveillance, etc. Pour ce qui concerne spécifiquement la pêche industrielle, les bénéficiaires sont
principalement les marins et équipages des navires de pêche, les gestionnaires et personnels des
établissements de transformation et ou d’exportation des produits de la mer.
Les bénéficiaires peuvent également être impliqués ou impactés à travers leurs organisations
professionnelles (GIE, Groupement, associations, comités, fédérations, etc.) ou leurs structures
administratives (DPM, DPSP, CRODT, etc)
Pour la gestion des écosystèmes (Composante 2) : (i) les volontaires du réseau des parcs
nationaux qui proviennent de la périphérie des aires protégées, (ii) les écogardes qui sont
volontaires qui appuient régulièrement les agents des gestionnaires des aires protégées dans leurs
activités régaliennes. Ils sont organisées en GIE et mènent des AGRs, (iii) les écoguides qui sont
des écogardes qui ont acquis une expertise au fil du temps. Ils servent de guides aux visiteurs des
aires protégées, (iv) les GIE de femmes pour la protection de la nature. Elles sont issues de la

                                                 75
périphérie des aires protégées et mènent des AGRs, (v) les élèves de la périphérie des aires
protégées qui bénéficient d’un programme d’éducation et de sensibilisation relative à
l’environnement, (vi) les gestionnaires des aires protégées dont les sites sont équipés et
aménagés, en plus d’être formés ;
Pour le renforcement du cadre de conservation de la biodiversité (Composante 2) : (i) la DPN et
les autres directions du Ministère chargé de l’environnement, (ii) le Comité National sur la
Biodiversité, et (iii) le Comité National MAB (Man and Biosphere).

    1.7. Composantes originelles du projet (comme approuvé)
Le programme GIRMaC est structuré en 3 composantes comme suit :
La Composante 1 « Gestion Durable de la Pêche » qui a pour objectif d’améliorer la durabilité
de la pêche à travers l’application de la cogestion locale, notamment territoriale. Cette
composante est constituée de trois sous-composantes :
• La mise en œuvre d’activités au niveau national pour améliorer la gestion des pêcheries en
    facilitant l’application des initiatives de cogestion ;
• La promotion et la coordination des initiatives locales de cogestion dans les sites pilotes
    situés dans la Presqu’île du Cap Vert et le Delta du Saloum ;
• L’appui institutionnel et le renforcement des capacités pour superviser, appuyer et suivre la
    mise en œuvre notamment des initiatives de cogestion.
La Composante 2 « Conservation des Habitats et des Espèces Critiques » qui a pour objectif
d’améliorer d’une façon durable, la gestion des réserves de biosphère et du réseau des aires
protégées côtières par :
    1. La gestion des écosystèmes des zones prioritaires d’intervention
• La préparation des plans de gestion selon l’approche par écosystème et leur mise en œuvre
    dans les zones d’intervention prioritaires sélectionnées : (i) la réserve de biosphère du delta
    du Saloum, (ii) la presqu’île du Cap Vert, et (iii) la réserve de biosphère du delta du fleuve
    Sénégal ; et
• L’installation de comités de gestion des écosystèmes opérationnels dans les processus de
    prise de décision concernant la préparation et la mise en œuvre des plans de de gestion des
    sites d’ancrage ;
    2. Le renforcement du cadre de conservation de la biodiversité
• La révision du cadre juridique et réglementaire ;
• L’appui institutionnel à la Direction des Parcs Nationaux, incluant : (i) le renforcement des
    capacités de certaines catégories d’agents dans les techniques de gestion de la biodiversité,
    les stratégies de communication et de planification participative, (ii) l’acquisition
    d’équipements, (iii) des conseils techniques pour la gestion fiduciaire, un système de suivi et
    d’évaluation de la mise en œuvre de la composante 2 ;
• L’appui à la mise en place et au fonctionnement : (i) du Comité National Biodiversité, (ii) du
    processus de révision du cadre juridique et réglementaire, pour assurer le suivi, l’évaluation
    et la diffusion des informations sur l’état de la biodiversité au Sénégal, (iii) d’un système
    d’information et d’une base de données pour le suivi et l’évaluation de l’état de la
    biodiversité.

La Composante 3 « Gestion du Programme, Suivi et Evaluation et Communication » a pour
objectif la gestion efficace du programme par les activités suivantes:
• Assurer le Suivi et évaluation. L’Unité de coordination du projet gère les contributions des
   donateurs et des partenaires, assure la passation de marchés et suit la performance du projet à
   l’aide d’indicateurs et réalise des évaluations périodiques ;

                                                76
•   Assurer le fonctionnement du Comité de Pilotage du Programme GIRMaC (CP-GIRMaC) et
    du Comité Scientifique et Technique (CST-GIRMaC) ;
• Assurer la Communication. L’UCP développe et met en oeuvre un plan de communication
    pour une bonne circulation de l’information entre les acteurs sur les activités du projet ;
• Assurer la coordination avec les structures sous régionales et régionales impliquées dans des
    initiatives similaires ;
• Assurer le suivi des activités financées par le PPF (Project Preparation Facility).
La fermeture de l’UCP-GIRMaC a eu comme conséquences (i) la suppression de la composante
3 « Gestion du Programme, Suivi et Evaluation et Communication », (ii) la réforme du Comité
de Pilotage et la mise en veilleuse du CST-GIRMaC, et (iii) la prise en charge des fonctions
fiduciaires (suivi-évaluation, gestion financière, passation des marchés) par les COMOs.
     1.8. Composantes révisées du projet
Les objectifs initiaux de la composante 1 n’ont pas fondamentalement changé. Toutefois, seuls
deux indicateurs de performance plus réalistes ont été adoptés, respectivement pour la cogestion
et pour les plans d’aménagement. L’indicateur lié à l’augmentation de 10 à 30% de la CPUE a
été jugée peu réaliste en raison notamment des délais restants pour la mise en oeuvre des
initiatives de cogestion et des plans d’aménagement, ces deux activités ayant enregistré des
retards très importants.
Le contenu de la composante 2, notamment la sous composante gestion des écosystèmes, a
connu une évolution à la suite de la revue à mi-parcours. Face au constat que les aires protégées
et la conservation de la biodiversité au Sénégal étaient dans une situation précaire, l’option a été
prise de considérer les aires protégées comme partie intégrale d’un écosystème, afin que les
décisions sur l’utilisation des terres soient prises à une plus grande échelle. Ainsi, bien que
l’approche écosystème telle que proposée dans le PAD demeure valide, sa mise en œuvre dans le
cadre de réserves de biosphère, en consultation avec les COGEMs, a rencontré des difficultés,
liées surtout à l’incompétence de la DPN, hors du domaine classé. Il a été convenu que le projet
se focalise en priorité dans les zones de conservation, pour avoir des résultats tangibles. C’est la
préparation du plan de gestion de l’écosystème a été abandonnée au profit de celle de niveau site
d’ancrage.
    1.9. Autres changements significatifs
A l’issue de la revue à mi-parcours et surtout de la restructuration du GIRMaC, des changements
significatifs ont pu être opérés au niveau des activités et de l’ampleur du projet (sites
d’intervention). Il s’agit particulièrement :
• De la réduction du nombre de sites pilotes, de 12 à 4 par le transfert des 8 sites additionnels
    au projet GDRH en cours de préparation ;
• De la suppression du volet « information et communication » de la composante 3 du Projet
    ainsi que du poste d’expert correspondant ;
• De la suppression de certaines activités au cours de la mise en œuvre (i) l’Evaluation des
    Options de Politique Sectorielle , activité remplacée par la révision du Code de la Pêche
    Maritime et la finalisation de la Lettre de politique sectorielle et de son Plan d’action, (ii) le
    programme de recherches sur les démersaux côtiers négocié avec le CRODT;
• La prorogation du chronogramme de mise en œuvre du Projet GIRMaC jusqu’au 1er
    décembre 2011 (avant la revue à mi-parcours) et jusqu’au 1er mai 2012 (après une demande
    de prolongation de 5 mois introduite en 2011 par le Gouvernement).
• Le passage d’une tutelle administrative unique et d’une double tutelle technique à une
    autonomisation des deux directions techniques (DPM et DPN) et leurs COMOs.
2. Facteurs clés affectant la mise en œuvre et les résultats

                                                 77
   2.1. Préparation du projet, Conception et Qualité de la préparation
La préparation de la composante « Gestion durable des pêcheries » a tiré toutes les leçons
positives et négatives des expériences de gestion locale enregistrées par les communautés de
Kayar. Il en est de même des expériences des projets financés par l’Agence Française de
Développement (AFD) sur les concessions de droits d’accès (Kayar, Mbour). Les leçons de la
surveillance du récif de Bargny, enregistrées par OFCA/JICA, ont été notées. Des concertations
avec les communautés de pêche des sites concernés par ces initiatives et avec les leaders des
organisations professionnelles (GAIPES, FENAGIE-Pêche, CNPS, etc) ont accompagné la
préparation du projet.
Beaucoup d’études de base ont également été conduites afin d’établir une bonne situation de
référence mais surtout pour capitaliser d’autres expériences au niveau national et international en
vue d’une définition appropriée des activités du Projet.
Tirant des leçons d’autres projets de la Banque, une partie du personnel-clé a été recrutée depuis
la phase de préparation du Projet afin d’atténuer les risques de déviation durant la mise en œuvre
des activités du Projet.
   2.2. Mise en œuvre
La revue à mi-parcours, tenue du 17 au 31 janvier 2008, s’est surtout focalisée sur les problèmes
institutionnels qui ont perturbé le fonctionnement du projet GIRMaC et gangréné les relations
entre les deux ministères de tutelle du Projet mais aussi entre les COMOs et l’UCP-GIRMaC.
L’option d’une tutelle administrative unique assurée par le ministère chargé de l’Environnement
et une co-tutelle technique assurée par les ministères chargés de l’Environnement et de la Pêche
a nettement montré ses limites avec la création de nombreux dysfonctionnements. Par ailleurs, à
partir de 2008, la majorité des fonds décaissés ont été utilisés pour financer la seule Unité de
Coordination (UCP) au détriment des activités à conduire dans les sites pilotes.
L’UCP malgré les pouvoirs fiduciaires et techniques jugés exorbitants par l’Administration n’a
pu mettre en place des passerelles entre la Pêche et l’Environnement pour faciliter une gestion
intégrée des ressources marines et côtières au Sénégal.
La revue à mi-parcours du GIRMaC a ainsi recommandé la restructuration du projet, option
nettement préférable à une fermeture du projet.
La restructuration, a permis aux deux parties prenantes de s’accorder sur les mesures suivantes :
(1) la fermeture de l’Unité de Coordination du Projet (UCP) dont l’existence n’a pas été jugée
nécessaire pour que le Projet atteigne ses objectifs, (2) le transfert des missions fiduciaires de
l’UCP-GIRMaC aux services de l’Etat (DPM, DPN) ainsi que la conduite des opérations des
composantes pour faciliter l’appropriation du Projet et la pérennisation des acquis, (3) le transfert
de la gestion du crédit IDA à la COMO-Pêche (DPM) et de la gestion du don FEM à la COMO-
Ecosystème (DPN), (4) la réallocation des ressources libérées par catégorie de dépenses, (5) un
inventaire et une réaffectation dans les COMOs des ressources matérielles (véhicules, matériels
et mobilier de bureau, fournitures de bureau).
D’autres mesures ont également été prises :
• Le suivi et évaluation (S&E) de la composante 2 a été transféré à la division concernée de la
    DPN alors que la COMO-Pêche a recruté un nouveau spécialiste en S&E.
• Le spécialiste en Gestion Financière et celui en Passation des Marchés, nouvellement recruté,
    sont chargés d’appuyer les deux COMOs.
La réallocation budgétaire effectuée n’a pas eu les effets escomptés au niveau de la COMO-
Ecosystème du fait d’un déséquilibre de provisions entre les catégories de dépenses. La structure
via son ministère de tutelle, a sollicité sans suite, des mesures correctives.


                                                 78
Il faut rappeler qu’avant la restructuration, l’Expert en Conservation de la Biodiversité, le
Spécialiste en Participation Communautaire et le Spécialiste en Aménagement des Pêcheries ont
été mis à la disposition des COMOs, par arrêtés ministériels, pour renforcer leurs capacités.
      2.3. Conception, mise en œuvre et utilisation du système de suivi-évaluation (S&E)
Dans le cadre de la préparation du Projet GIRMaC, un Manuel de suivi-évaluation (S&E) a été
produit par un Consultant spécialisé. Par la suite, un Cabinet international fut chargé de
concevoir, développer et mettre en œuvre un système de suivi évaluation opérationnel (bases de
données et rapports) pour l’ensemble du Projet GIRMaC.
Malgré tout, la mise en œuvre du système global de S&E du Projet GIRMaC, y compris le suivi-
évaluation de la cogestion locale, n’a jamais été effective avant la revue à mi-parcours.
A la date de clôture du projet GIRMaC, malgré le recrutement d’un nouveau spécialiste en S&E
en 2010, le manque voire l’absence de données fiables pour mesurer les résultats enregistrés par
le Projet, de la base (sites de cogestion) jusqu’au niveau central (DPM, COMO-Pêche), a
beaucoup handicapé le Projet dont les indicateurs de performances sont difficilement mesurables
avec la fiabilité requise.
       2.4. Conformité et respect des procédures fiduciaires et de sauvegarde.
         2.4.1. Problèmes rencontrés dans les procédures fiduciaires
La passation des marchés du projet GIRMaC a connu des difficultés liées à l’instabilité du poste
de spécialiste en passation des marchés, d’une part, et à des lourdeurs et lenteurs de la passation
des marchés particulièrement avec la double application des procédures nationales et de la
Banque, d’autre part. Ces problèmes ont gravement perturbé la bonne mise en œuvre du Projet.
Le Projet a connu cinq (5) spécialistes en passation des marchés (SPM) en 7 ans d’existence.
Leurs délais de sélection et de remplacement se sont traduits par des ralentissements voire des
arrêts d’activités. De même, la lourdeur et la longueur des procédures de passation des marchés
ont été une cause importante de retard des activités au regard du chronogramme originel.
Les activités qui ont le plus souffert de cette situation ont été: (i) le recrutement de la firme en
charge des plans d’aménagement, (ii) le recrutement du consultant chargé de l’étude de base des
sites pilotes, (iii) la sélection de CAES Consult pour la sensibilisation (IEC) et le renforcement
des capacités en cogestion et en recherches participatives, (iv) le recrutement et le démarrage de
la mission du spécialiste international en cogestion (SICOPE), et (v) la contractualisation avec le
CRODT par entente directe (recherches participatives).
L’arrêté n° 02884 portant reconnaissance des initiatives de cogestion locale a été signé et
enregistré le 31 mars 2008 alors que cette approbation du Ministre chargé de la Pêche maritime
était inscrite pour le 15 avril 2006 dans le chronogramme originel du Projet. De même, la
construction des « Maisons du Pêcheur » a connu des retards dus aux procédures administratives
nationales en matière d’acquisition du foncier dans le domaine public maritime.
L’avènement du Code des marchés publics et les cadres institutionnels chargés de sa mise en
œuvre (DCMP, ARMP, Commissions et Cellules de passation des marchés, etc) s’est traduit par
la mise en vigueur de procédures nationales de passation des marchés avec l’intervention de
cellules de passation qui ne maitrisaient pas les procédures applicables. Le respect des
procédures nationales et l’exigence de conformité avec les procédures de la Banque Mondiale
rallongent encore les délais de contractualisation, notamment dans le cas des firmes.
Les procédures de gestion financière, y compris les DRF, ont occasionné moins de contraintes et
sont plus régulièrement améliorées que la passation des marchés.
       2.4.2. Problèmes rencontrés dans les procédures de sauvegarde environnementale
            et sociale
                                                79
Lors du montage du projet GIRMaC, il avait été retenu de mettre en place un Fonds
d’Investissement Social pour la prise en charge des pertes de revenus et d’emplois que les
initiatives locales de cogestion de la composante « Gestion durable des pêcheries » vont entraîner
chez les communautés de pêcheurs. Ce Fonds Social devait être confié à l’Agence du Fonds de
Développement Social (AFDS). Un protocole d’accord n° 001/2004 a ainsi été signé
conjointement par l’AFDS et l’UCP-GIRMaC dès 2004. La décision de la Banque Mondiale et
du Gouvernement de fusionner l’AFDS et le PNIR a signé la disparition de l’AFDS et
l’avènement du Programme National de Développement Local (PNDL) dont le mode de
fonctionnement n’a pas permis la prise en charge d’un tel fonds dédié à la pêche.
En définitive, un Fonds d’Investissement Social (FRAP) a été mis en place par le projet GDRH.
Dans le cadre de la gestion des Ecosystèmes, des ouvrages de franchissements (radiers) ont été
réalisés au niveau de Fatala et Salanding dans le Parc National du Delta du Saloum avec l’appui
du projet. Ces ouvrages ont soulevé des inquiétudes au niveau de certains acteurs. Les mesures
correctives ont été apportées par la COMO-Ecosystèmes pour assurer la pérennité de
l’écoulement des eaux basses permettant ainsi à la faune aquatique (alevins, crevettes) de migrer
aisément en période de marée basse.
     2.5. Opération post-achèvement/Phase suivante.
La Banque Mondiale a accordé un avis favorable à la composante 2, pour le financement d’un
service de consultants pour la préparation d’un document de projet pour une nouvelle phase. Un
montant d’un million de dollars US a été alloué au projet dans le cadre du programme STAR du
FEM-V. Il reste à trouver une nouvelle agence d’exécution.
Il faut également noter la prorogation de cinq mois de la clôture du projet GIRMaC, accordée par
la Banque Mondiale au Gouvernement afin de permettre au consultant recruté de finaliser le
processus de préparation des plans d’aménagement des pêcheries de crevette blanche et de volute
(Cymbium spp.). Cet arrangement n’ayant pas permis la finalisation des plans
d’aménagement, l’activité a été transférée dans le projet PRAO restructuré.

3. Evaluation des résultats.
    3.1. Pertinence des Objectifs, de la Conception et de la Mise en Œuvre
•   Cohérence du Programme avec les politiques nationales de Pêche et d’Environnement
    et celles de la Banque mondiale
L’analyse des composantes 1 et 2 du Projet GIRMaC et de leurs sous-composantes montre
qu’elles s’inscrivent toutes dans l’une ou l’autre des objectifs stratégiques de développement de
la pêche. Par ailleurs, le projet GIRMaC contribue aux axes stratégiques du DSRP II relatifs à la
« création de richesse» et à la « bonne gouvernance et développement décentralisé et
participatif». Il est en conséquence en accord avec la Stratégie d’Assistance au Sénégal (CAS) de
la Banque Mondiale. Les activités du projet demeurent encore cohérentes avec les priorités
actuelles de la Pêche et de l’Environnement.
• Pertinence des objectifs et des orientations stratégiques du Programme
Au regard de la situation actuelle de crise du secteur de la pêche et d’érosion de la biodiversité
marine et côtière, les objectifs du Projet GIRMaC (objectif de développement et objectif global
en matière d’environnement) sont encore très pertinents. Tous le monde continue à s’accorder
sur la pertinence et l’importance des objectifs du Projet GIRMaC.
Toutefois, beaucoup de contraintes n’ont pas permis au projet d’atteindre l’objectif de
développement et certains des indicateurs de performance et de résultats dans les délais restants
pour la mise en œuvre des activités clés. Malgré les avancées obtenues dans certaines réformes


                                               80
sectorielles, des efforts restent à être déployés dans la gouvernance de la Pêche et de
l’Environnement.

     3.2. Réalisation des Objectifs de développement du projet et des Objectifs Globaux
          environnementaux
La mise en œuvre d’une approche de gestion intégrée des ressources marines et côtières n’a pu
être opérationnalisée, les deux composantes ayant fonctionné comme deux projets distincts alors
que le GIRMaC avait pour vocation la promotion de la politique de gestion intégrée telle
qu’approuvée par les Ministres chargés respectivement de la Pêche et de l’Environnement.
Pour la composante 1, la mise en œuvre des initiatives de cogestion dans les 4 sites pilotes
initiaux a changé positivement la perception et la prise de conscience des bénéficiaires dans la
gestion durable des ressources halieutiques. Ces changements ont permis d’améliorer, selon les
sites, la gestion des ressources ciblées au niveau local : réduction même limitée de l’effort de
pêche (repos biologique), augmentation ou maintien des quantités débarquées, augmentation de
la taille moyenne des espèces-clés capturées, participation effective des communautés dans
l’identification des mesures de gestion, dans les opérations de surveillance et dans la conduite de
recherches participatives, etc. Toutefois, les impacts réels des initiatives sur l’abondance de la
ressource restent difficilement mesurables en l’absence d’un dispositif opérationnel de S&E.
Les capacités d’organisation des communautés ont été renforcées avec le regroupement des
populations au sein d’une seule instance, le Comité Local des Pêcheurs (CLP). Certaines
communautés ont amélioré leurs relations, autrefois conflictuelles, dans le sens d’une meilleure
cohésion sociale (pêcheurs de poisson et pêcheurs de crevette à Foundiougne, pêcheurs et
mareyeurs à Foundiougne, plongeurs et pêcheurs à Ouakam, par exemple).
Certaines communautés se sont fortement engagées dans la cogestion en participant
financièrement à la surveillance participative (cas de Ngaparou). Les résultats obtenus dans ce
site ont fortement contribué à la sensibilisation des communautés des sites voisins sur les
bénéfices d’une gestion durable des ressources adjacentes à leurs terroirs.
D’une manière générale, les communautés se sont appropriées les concepts et les processus
prônés par le projet en matière de cogestion locale. Il en est de même des membres des Comités
Techniques Régionaux (CTRs), du Comité Technique National (CTN) et du CNCPM en ce qui
concerne l’aménagement des pêcheries de crevette blanche et de volutes (ou yeet).
En outre, le Projet a contribué à faire évoluer les mentalités des populations en matière de
gestion des ressources halieutiques et surtout leurs rapports avec l’administration des pêches
dans ce domaine (cas de Bétenty). Les membres des Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs (CLP) sont
ainsi devenus plus influents auprès des autorités administratives locales des régions concernées.
Au niveau politique, le Projet GIRMaC a impulsé des réformes à travers la lettre de politique
sectorielle, le Code de la Pêche maritime, la redynamisation du CNCPM et des CLPA. L’analyse
du secteur a été améliorée avec les résultats de la revue des dépenses publiques et l’analyse
économique de la filière halieutique.
Globalement, pour la composante 2, la préparation et le début de mise en œuvre de huit plans de
gestion de sites d’ancrage a permis d’en améliorer l’efficacité de plus de 50% par rapport à la
situation de référence. Par rapport au suivi des espèces menacées, la préparation et la mise œuvre
d’un plan d’action pour la conservation des tortues marines a permis d’identifier et de suivre
plusieurs sites de ponte sur la côte.
D’une manière spécifique, les activités de recherche participative ou collaborative sur les
habitats et/ou espèces, de décomptes mensuels ou annuels de l’avifaune, de surveillance
participative et de suivi écologique dans les sites d’ancrage ont permis une amélioration des
connaissances sur l’état de la ressource. Les aménagements participatifs ont permis de réduire les

                                                81
pertes de biodiversité. Le renforcement des capacités techniques et institutionnelles a amélioré
les performances des parties prenantes dans la gestion de la biodiversité (formations
individuelles ou collectives, mise en place et fonctionnement de comités de gestion de sites,
visites d’échanges inter-sites, éducation et sensibilisation relatives à l’environnement, etc). Enfin,
la mise en œuvre de sous projets d’AGRs a permis de valoriser certains produits des aires
protégées pour le bien-être des communautés locales de leur périphérie.
      3.3. Thèmes généraux, Autres résultats et Impacts
(a) Impacts sur la pauvreté, Aspects genre, et Développement social
    • Le développement d'AGRs dans les 4 sites a impulsé une nouvelle dynamique sociale
       avec le développement des capacités d’autofinancement de la communauté, facilitant
       ainsi des actions sociales envers les familles les plus vulnérables à la pauvreté.
    • Dans certains sites comme Ngaparou, l’appui à la commercialisation par le Fonds de
       Reconversion du Projet a solutionné les problèmes d’écoulement des produits.
(b) Changement Institutionnel/renforcement (particulièrement avec référence aux impacts
    sur la capacité à long-terme et le développement institutionnel)
    • Renforcement des capacités techniques et opérationnelles des agents des pêches, des
       facilitateurs et des acteurs de la pêche artisanale ;
    • Renforcement des capacités institutionnelles et juridiques à moyen et long termes du
       secteur notamment par (i) la finalisation de la Lettre de politique sectorielle de la Pêche et
       de l’Aquaculture et de son Plan d’action, (ii) la révision du Code de la Pêche maritime,
       (iii) la revue des dépenses publiques du secteur et à l’analyse économique de la filière,
       (iv) les capacitations du CNCPM et des CLPA, (v) la mise en place de CLPA (Dakar
       Ouest, Missirah, Toubacouta, Sokone) pour améliorer la gouvernance des pêches
       artisanales, (vi) l’appui institutionnel à la DPM et aux organisations professionnelles
       (CONIPAS) par la mise en place d’un portail et d’un site Web, et (vii) l’impulsion
       donnée au programme national d’immatriculation (PNI) ;
    • Préparation et mise à disposition du Ministère chargé de l’Environnement d’un projet de
       Loi Cadre sur la Biodiversité et les Aires Protégées, avec l’implication des principales
       parties prenantes.
(c) Autres résultats et Impacts inattendus (positifs ou négatifs)
    • Un des résultats majeurs du Projet, en termes de réorientation politique, était d’obtenir
       une approche coordonnée de la gestion des ressources marines et côtières, qui intègre la
       pêche durable et la conservation de la biodiversité. L’adoption d’une Lettre de Politique
       de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières fut pour cela une avancée
       appréciable. Mais les résultats subséquents pour une gestion de la ressource qui accroît
       d’une part la durabilité de la pêche sénégalaise et la contribution des aires protégées au
       maintien des stocks, d’autre part, n’ont pas été obtenus ;
    • Le projet n’a pas pu proposer un mécanisme de financement durable. La revue des
       dépenses publiques du secteur de la conservation qui était la première étape, n’a pu être
       finalisée. L’analyse de la valeur ajoutée de la biodiversité devait être complétée afin de
       prendre davantage en compte d’autres modes de valorisation que le tourisme, en
       particulier la pêche. Les orientations stratégiques en termes de financement de la
       conservation devaient être approfondies par le développement d’options alternatives à la
       création d’une fondation. Le mandat initial des consultants n’a pas permis d’apporter de
       réponses suffisantes aux attentes du projet. Un financement additionnel de 68 000 Euros
       était requis pour finaliser l’étude qui a été abandonnée avec la restructuration.


                                                 82
4. Evaluation de Risques aux Résultats de Développement et Résultats Globaux
   environnementaux
L’évaluation des risques est indiquée à l’Annexe 1.1.
5. Evaluation de la Performance de la Banque et de l’Emprunteur
   5.1. Performance de la Banque
La Performance globale de la Banque Mondiale a été jugée modérément satisfaisante (Détails à
l’Annexe1.2.).
     5.2. Performance de l’Emprunteur
La Performance globale de l’Emprunteur a été jugée modérément satisfaisante (Détails à
l’Annexe 1.3.).

6. Leçons tirées
Les leçons tirées du projet GIRMaC (composantes 1 et 2) et sur les performances de la Banque
et de l’Emprunteur sont indiquées à l’Annexe 1.14. /-

Annexe 1.1. - Evaluation de Risques aux Résultats de Développement et Résultats
Globaux environnementaux
Risques           Notation Mesures d’Atténuation du Risques et commentaires à la fin du
                  du       projet.
                  Risque
                  adopté
                  dans le
                  PAD
Des résultats aux
objectifs de
développement et
environnemental
Les acteurs dans les    H      L’engouement suscité au sein des communautés de pêche par le
pêcheries ciblées ne           modèle de cogestion locale du Projet a facilité les consensus
peuvent s’accorder             enregistrés dans les sites pilotes autour des mesures de gestion durable
sur les mesures de             des ressources marines et côtières.
gestion durable des
ressources marines
et côtières.
Lenteurs dans la        H      Il était prévu que le projet appuie directement les institutions
mise en œuvre des              clés impliquées pour atténuer les lenteurs administratives. Pour
sous-projets (pêche            la composante « Ecosystèmes » les risques sont relatifs aux
et environnement)              lenteurs provoquées par les procédures de passations de
du fait de retards             marchés. Il faut prévoir à l’avenir, pour des projets de ce type,
occasionnés par la             des procédures communautaires de passation de marchés.
bureaucratie.                  En ce qui concerne la composante 1, l’approbation des sous
                               projets de cogestion locale par le Ministre chargé de la Pêche
                               maritime n’est intervenue qu’en mars 2008 alors qu’elle était
                               planifiée pour avril 2006 dans le chronogramme originel du
                               Projet.
La gestion de la        S      La principale mesure d’atténuation était de fixer des attentes réalistes
biodiversité ne                en début de projet. Malgré ces précautions, la durée relativement
génère pas les                 courte du projet n’a pas permis d’atteindre un niveau de résilience des
                               écosystèmes qui permette de générer des bénéfices. Cinq ans, c’est
                                              83
bénéfices attendus.                 encore trop court pour l’espérer.
Les acteurs locaux         S        Pour éviter le risque, les acteurs locaux devaient être impliqués
ne s’engagent pas à                 dans les processus de définition et de mise en œuvre
gérer durablement                   des mesures de gestion durable. Des accords ont été trouvés avec les
la biodiversité.                    GIE de bénéficiaires, sous forme de contrat. Le score de l’implication
                                    des communautés dans la gestion est satisfaisant. Le risque a été
                                    globalement contrôlé partout sauf au PNIM. Les activités ont été
                                    pratiquement gelées dans ce site au cours des quatorze derniers mois,
                                    suite à des incidents.
Les procédures            M         Il a été décidé de sensibiliser les décideurs pour faciliter le processus
bureaucratiques                     de création. Le projet s’est appuyé sur le Comité MAB. Cependant
Retardent l’établis-                c’est le processus de consultation publique qui a pris du temps. Enfin
sement de la                        les incidents intervenus au PNIM, pilier central du dispositif de
                                    concertation et d’animation, ont bloqué le processus de validation qui
Réserve de
                                    était presque à son terme.
Biosphère du Cap
Vert.
L’UCP peut                M         Les changements récurrents de spécialistes de passation de marchés,
engager un                          très demandés sur le marché, ont accentué les lenteurs dans les
personnel                           procédures de passation. D’une manière générale, l’UCP a pu
compétent pendant                   maintenir un noyau d’experts compétents dans leurs domaines.
la durée du projet.
Niveaux de risque - H (Haut Risque), S (Risque Important), M (Risque Modéré), N (Risque Négligeable
ou Faible)
Annexe 1.2. Evaluation de la Performance de la Banque

Classement de l’action   Notation     Commentaires à la fin du projet.
                         de
                         l’action
Qualité de la phase            S      Très bonne collaboration entre le management du projet à la Banque
de préparation                        et les équipes nationales chargées de la préparation.
Diligence des avis         MS         Il y a eu des lenteurs qui ont parfois ralenti les opérations (services de
de non objection                      consultants).
(ANO)
Mission de                 MS         La composante « Ecosystèmes » a souffert d’un manque de
supervision                           supervision technique au cours des 18 derniers mois. Les
technique                             changements de responsables chargés du suivi de la composante ont
                                      constitué un handicap dans le suivi des dossiers notamment des
                                      réallocations budgétaires.
Mission de                     S      Les missions de supervision de la gestion financière par la Banque
supervision de la                     Mondiale se sont bien déroulées durant la mise en œuvre du projet.
gestion financière                    Elles ont permis de déceler des dépenses inéligibles qui résultent du
                                      manque de respect des Directives et du Manuel de procédures par la
                                      Coordination du Projet. Le seul reproche qu’on peut faire à la Banque
                                      c’est le manque de suivi des recommandations issues des missions de
                                      supervision.
Politiques de                  S      Elles ont permis de rectifier certains travaux dans les sites
sauvegarde                            conformément aux directives édictées.
environnementale et                   Pour la composante 1, la Banque malgré les efforts déployés n’a pu
sociale                               mettre en place à temps et exploiter les financements appropriés pour

                                                    84
                                    le Fonds Social.
Politiques                 MS       Le premier handicap est lié à la non prise en charge des procédures
fiduciaires.                        communautaires dans la passation de marchés.
                                    Le second est l’option d’utiliser à la fois les procédures nationales de
                                    passation des marchés et celles de la Banque est également source de
                                    lenteurs et donc de retards dans les activités à conduire.
Performance globale        MS
de la Banque
Mondiale

Insatisfaisant (IS), Modérément Satisfaisant (MS), Satisfaisant (S), Très Satisfaisant (TS)




                                                 85
Annexe 1.3. Evaluation de la Performance de l’Emprunteur


Classement   de Notation de   Commentaires à la fin du projet.
l’action          l’action
Qualité de la          S      Très bonne collaboration entre les différents services et Directions
phase de                      techniques au niveau central ou déconcentré des ministères
préparation                   concernés.
Mise à                MS      Hormis quelques retards au début tout s’est bien passé durant le
disposition des               projet. Toutefois le niveau des indemnités allouées aux
fonds de                      fonctionnaires impliquées dans la mise en œuvre des activités du
contrepartie                  Projet est faible et mal réparti selon les charges de travail (Décret
nationale                     n° 90.600 obsolète depuis longtemps).
Gestion de la          IS     Il y a eu un conflit de compétences et d’objectifs qui a été
tutelle                       préjudiciable à l’intégration des deux secteurs « pêche » et
administrative                « environnement ».
Gestion de la         MS
                              Les COMOs ont fonctionné sous la tutelle technique des directions.
tutelle                       Cependant le niveau d’appropriation du projet reste insuffisant.
technique des                 Pour la pêche, les effectifs des agents réellement en charge de la
composantes                   gestion, au quotidien, des pêcheries sont encore très faibles. Pour
                              l’essentiel, les tâches des agents sont administratives.
                              De même, de nombreux changements sont intervenus au plan
                              institutionnel (Ministres de la Pêche, Directeurs, coordonnateurs de
                              la COMO-Pêche, etc) qui ont entravé le suivi efficace du projet.
                              Le management du portefeuille « pêche » par la COMO-Pêche a été
                              déficient au cours de ces 12 derniers mois, tant au plan technique
                              que fiduciaire.
Performances          MS
globales de
l’Emprunteur

Insatisfaisant (IS), Modérément Satisfaisant (MS) Satisfaisant (S), Très Satisfaisant (TS)




                                              86
Annexe 1.4.        Leçons tirées

    COMO-ECOSYSTEMES :
•   L’approche écosystème telle que proposée dans le document de projet demeure pertinente.
    Toutefois, sa mise en œuvre dans le cadre de réserves de biosphère, nécessite de larges et
    longues concertations ainsi qu’une vision partagée. Ce processus doit être porté par un socle
    institutionnel rattaché à ces réserves de biosphère. En effet, les COGEMs ont pêché parce la
    DPN en constituait la porte d’entrée alors qu’elle n’était compétente que dans le domaine
    classé.
•   Cinq (05) années sont insuffisantes pour atteindre l’objectif global défini dans le cadre de ce
    projet. Il faut au moins le double et prendre en compte, les grands travaux de génie
    écologique pour améliorer l’état de conservation des habitats et des espèces.

•   Le caractère durable de la gestion de la biodiversité ne peut être garanti que par une
    autonomisation financière des structures communautaires impliquées dans la cogestion des
    ressources. Autrement dit, la pauvreté engendre et accroît la pression sur la ressource.
•   Le financement durable de la conservation nécessite des réformes pour un cadre
    institutionnel, législatif et réglementaire approprié. Le statu quo actuel n’est pas viable./

    COMO-PECHE :
•   La motivation des fonctionnaires de l’Administration locale impliqués, dans la cogestion locale, est
    une nécessité. Les fonds de contrepartie doivent prendre en charge cette question en priorité..
•   Les expériences de cogestion locale conduites dans les 4 sites pilotes démontrent l’urgence de mettre
    en place un mécanisme de contrôle et de limitation de l’accès aux ressources cogérées.
•   L’introduction des recherches participatives dans le système de cogestion locale n’a pas connu
    l’appropriation souhaitée par la DPM, le CRODT et les acteurs locaux.
•   Le cadre organisationnel de concertation et de négociation, mis en place pour la préparation des plans
    d’aménagement, a permis une participation effective et efficace des divers acteurs aux échelles les
    plus pertinentes (locales, régionales et nationales)
•   Les mesures sociales de lutte contre la pauvreté (AGR, appuis à la commercialisation) initiées suite à
    la mobilisation du FRAP dans le cadre du projet complémentaire (GDRH) ont encouragé les
    communautés et renforcé leur participation à l’effort de gestion durable des ressources halieutiques
•   Les communautés, organisées en CLP, sont capables de s’investir pleinement dans la gestion
    responsable des ressources halieutiques si l’Etat leur fait confiance et met à disposition l’appui
    technique et financier nécessaire
•   L’impact des initiatives est optimal dans le cas d’application d’amende communautaire dissuasive,
    nonobstant leur non-conformité avec les dispositions des textes réglementaires.
•   La cogestion des pêcheries par concession de droits d’accès, inscrite dans la Lettre de Politique
    Sectorielle (LPS), est souhaitée par certaines communautés mais non encore prise en compte par les
    textes légaux en vigueur.
•   Les surveillants-pêcheurs issus du CLP (commission surveillance) semblent plus engagés et plus
    efficaces que les agents de l’administration dans la recherche de renseignements sur les infractions et
    dans la surveillance des aires de mise en œuvre de la cogestion.
•   L’identification des initiatives locales de cogestion met en évidence la très bonne connaissance que
    les communautés ont de leurs pêcheries tant du point de vue bioécologique que socioéconomique.
•   Une garantie du succès de la cogestion locale des pêcheries est de démarrer par l’application de
    mesures consensuelles qui puissent donner des résultats rapides et visibles afin d’encourager les
    communautés de pêche à être plus engagées dans l’application de mesures de gestion encore plus
    courageuses.


                                                    87
•   Une nette augmentation de la cohésion sociale des communautés est notée dans tous les sites de mise
    en œuvre de la cogestion suite à la création des CLP, cadre adéquat de concertation et d’échange de
    toutes les parties prenantes./

SUR LA PERFORMANCE DE LA BANQUE
•   La Banque Mondiale a joué un rôle important dans le montage du Projet GIRMaC dont il est
    le principal bailleur avec un prêt IDA et un don du FEM.
•   Le sentiment globalement partagé est que le retard dans la mise en œuvre effective des
    activités est dû en grande partie à des lenteurs observées dans les procédures de passation de
    marchés de la Banque (situation d’avant restructuration) mais également, et en plus, dans
    celles à dérouler au niveau national (situation d’après restructuration).
•   Le financement par le Crédit IDA de la Revue des Dépenses Publiques, initialement prévu
    sur les fonds PHRD, a été de nature à réduire substantiellement les fonds du Projet.
•   Il en est de même du Fonds Social qui n’a pu être pris en charge par un organisme approprié
    de même nature que l’AFDS. Les procédures internes de la Banque n’ont pas permis le
    financement par le Fonds Japonais de Développement Social (JSDF)./

SUR LA PERFORMANCE DE L’EMPRUNTEUR

•   Les questions institutionnelles qui sont à la base de la restructuration du GIRMaC sont de la
    responsabilité de l’Emprunteur (Ministères de tutelle et Coordination du Projet).
•   Les nombreux changements de responsables opérés dans les Départements ministériels de
    tutelle (Ministres, Directeurs, Coordonnateurs de la COMO, Administration déconcentrée)
    ont retardé par moment la bonne conduite du Projet.
•   Le taux élevé de décaissements réalisés pour le compte de l’UCP-GIRMaC, avant la
    restructuration, au détriment des activités de terrain.
•   Le volume des dépenses inéligibles de l’année 2011, dont le remboursement a été exigé par
    la Banque Mondiale, témoigne du manque de contrôle de nos administrations compétentes. .
•   Les communautés des sites pilotes considèrent depuis le démarrage du GIRMaC que les
    équipements et infrastructures que leur fournit le Projet sont onéreux et de mauvaise qualité.
    En tant que bénéficiaires, elles ont toujours souhaité être impliquées dans le processus de
    passation des marchés.
    La mauvaise qualité des travaux et le coût élevé des « Maisons du Pêcheur », notamment à
    Bétenty et à Foundiougne, sont de l’entière responsabilité de la COMO-Pêche et donc de la
    Direction des Pêches maritimes.
•   L’insuffisance des effectifs des agents de l’administration déconcentrée pour accompagner,
    d’une manière générale les processus d’aménagement et de cogestion des pêcheries côtières./




                                                  88
Annexe 2. - Coûts et Financement du Programme (30 juin 2012)

   (b) Composante par Bailleur de Fonds (en Millions Francs CFA)
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project - Total Project Cost
                                     Document          Cumul
                                     d’évaluation      Décaissements à la Pourcentage de
Composantes
                                     Coût du projet cloture du Projet décaissement (%)
                                     (CFA millions) (CFA millions)
 4. Gestion Durable des Pêcheries             3.100,26           2.832,12                91
 5. Conservation des Habitats et des
                                              3.022,47           2.177,22                72
    Espèces critiques
 6. Gestion du Programme, Suivi
                                              2.170,66           1.616,29                74
    Evaluation et Communication

Total Coût Composantes                     7.930,40            6.307,32                 80
Divers et imprévus physiques                   0.00
Divers et imprévus en monnaie                  0.00
Total Coût du Projet                       7.930,40            6.307.32                 80
PPF                                          363,00             318,32                  88
Non Alloué IBRD & FEM                        776,10
Total Financement demandé                  9.069,50            6.625,64                 73

Programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières Projet – P086480
                                  Document            Cumul
                                  d’évalution Coût Décaissements à la Pourcentage de
Composantes
                                  du projet (CFA      cloture du Projet décaissement (%)
                                  millions)           (CFA millions)
 4. Gestion Durable des Pêcheries            2.798,90            2.793,87              99
 5. Conservation des Habitats et
                                               275.00               69,52              25
    des Espèces critiques
 6. Gestion du Programme, Suivi
                                              1595.00            1.220,37              77
    Evaluation et Communication

Total Coût Composantes                     4.668,90            4.083,76                 87
Divers et imprévus physiques                   0.00
Divers et imprévus en monnaie                  0.00
Total Coût du Projet                       4.668,90            4.083,76                 87
PPF                                          330.00             318,32                  96
Non Alloué IBRD                              501,10
Total Financement demandé                  5.500,00            4.402,08                 80




                                            89
Programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières Projet - P058367
                                  Document            Cumul
                                  d’évalution Coût Décaissements à la Pourcentage de
Components
                                  du projet (CFA      cloture du Projet décaissement (%)
                                  millions)           (CFA millions)
 4. Gestion Durable des Pêcheries                0.00                0.00                0
 5. Conservation des Habitats et
                                             2.475,00            1.879,00              75
    des Espèces critiques
 6. Gestion du Programme, Suivi
                                             2.475,00            1.879,00              75
    Evaluation et Communication
Total Coût Composantes                       2.475,00            1.879,00              75
Divers et imprévus physiques                     0.00
Divers et imprévus en monnaie                    0.00
Total Project Costs                        2.475,00           1.879,00                 75
PPF                                           0.00                0.00                  0
Non Alloué                                  275,00
Total Financement demandé                  2750.00            1.879,00                 68

(b) Financement
 P086480 - Programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières
                                                              Cumul
                                               Document
                                                              Décaissement Pourcentage
                                               d’évalution
                                   Type de                    s à la cloture de
Source des fonds                               Coût du
                                   financement                du Projet       décaissement
                                               projet (CFA
                                                              (CFA            (%)
                                               millions)
                                                              millions)
 Bailleur                                              819,50          344,54           42
 International Development
                                                     5.500,00        4.402,08           80
Association (IDA)
 P058367 - Programme de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marines et Côtières
                                                              A Cumul
                                               Document
                                                              Décaissement Pourcentage
                                               d’évalution
                                   Type of                    s à la cloture de
Source des fonds                               Coût du
                                   Financing                  du Projet       décaissement
                                               projet (CFA
                                                              (CFA            (%)
                                               millions)
                                                              millions)
 Bailleur                                              819,50          344,54           42
 GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT -
                                                     5.500,00        4.402,08           80
Associated IDA Fund
 Global Environment Facility (GEF)                    2750.00        1.879,00           68




                                           90
Annexe 3. Résultats par composante ( KPIs)               -   SENEGAL: Cadre des résultats (Projet et Composantes)

                                                                                                                                                Commentaires
    Objectif de Développement du           Indicateurs de
                                                                                      Commentaires (Equipe Gouvernement)                        (Equipe de la
           Projet (originel)              performance révisés
                                                                                                                                                  Banque)
    L’objectif de développement du        Les sous projets de cogestion         Les sous projets de cogestion locale ont été préparés par
    Projet est d’améliorer la gestion     locale sont mis en oeuvre dans les    les Comités Locaux de Pêcheurs (CLP) des 4 sites pilotes,
    durable des ressources marines et     4 sites pilotes avant la fin du       avec l’appui des facilitateurs et d’un consultant recruté
    côtières par les communautés et le    Projet.                               comme spécialiste national en cogestion. Ces sous projets
    Gouvernement du Sénégal, dans trois                                         ont ensuite été validés puis finalisés par le spécialiste
    zones pilotes.                                                              international en cogestion, avant d’être soumis à
                                                                                l’appréciation du Conseil National Consultatif des Pêches
                                                                                Maritimes (CNCPM). Les sous projets ont finalement fait
                                                                                l’objet d’Accords de cogestion signés entre les Présidents
                                                                                des CLP et le Ministre chargé de la Pêche maritime. Un
                                                                                arrêté ministériel reconnaissant les initiatives de cogestion
                                                                                a été en définitive pris par le Ministre de tutelle.
                                                                                Plus des 2/3 des tâches nécessaires à la finalisation des
                                          Les     plans      d’aménagement
                                                                                plans nationaux d’aménagement des deux pêcheries clés
                                          nationaux de deux pêcheries clés
                                                                                ont été réalisées et les livrables correspondants ont été
                                          sont preparés et approuvés par le
                                                                                approuvés par le Conseil National Consultatif des Pêches
                                          Conseil National Consultatif des
                                                                                Maritimes (CNCPM).
                                          Pêches Maritimes (CNCPM).
                                                                                Le Consultant BRLi a unilatéralement arrêté ses activités
                                                                                contractuelles du fait de la non approbation par la
                                                                                Direction Centrale des Marchés Publics (DCMP) de
                                                                                l’Avenant convenu avec la DPM et ayant un Avis de non
                                                                                objection de la Banque Mondiale.
                                                                                Objectif non atteint dans le GIRMaC mais la finalisation
                                                                                des plans est inscrite dans le PRAO-Restructuré.


       Objectif global en matière           Indicateurs de performance
        d’environnement révisé                          révisés
    Renforcer la conservation et la       Efficacité de la gestion de la        Le score est mesuré avec l’outil de l’efficacité de la



                                                                           91
gestion des écosystèmes marins et    biodiversité dans les trois zones    gestion des aires protégées de l’alliance
côtiers qui sont globalement         pilotes augmentée d’au moins         WWF/Banque Mondiale. Cet outil a été combiné en
significatifs et vitaux aux moyens   50% à la fin du Projet               2008 avec la méthodologie d’évaluation rapide et de
d’existence durable des                                                   priorisation de la gestion des aires protégées
communautés côtières du Sénégal.                                          (RAPPAM) développée aussi par le WWF. Cette
                                                                          combinaison donne plus d’information pour la
                                                                          description des habitats et des espèces. La préparation
                                                                          des plans de gestion des sites a contribué à accroître
                                                                          l’efficacité de leur gestion et leur score. Cependant
                                                                          aucune zone n’a atteint la cible fixée pour la fin du
                                                                          projet: Cap Vert 61 sur 65%, Delta du Sénégal 62 sur
                                                                          70% et Delta du Saloum 57 sur 60%. Cela s’explique
                                                                          par le manque de fonds alloués à la mise en œuvre des
                                                                          plans de gestion.
    Résultats intermediaires           Indicateurs de résultats
                                        intermediaries révisés
Composante 1:                     60% des Comités Locaux de            Trois des quatre CLP ont mis en oeuvre leurs sous
Les communautés locales gèrent de Pêcheurs (CLP) ont mis en            projets de cogestion de manière satisfaisante :
manière durable les resources œuvre leurs sous projets de              - Site de cogestion de la langouste verte : la CPUE
marines et côtières.              cogestion locale avant la fin du        de langouste verte est passée de 1,5Kg par sortie en
                                  Projet,     conformément      aux       2005 à 3,5 Kg par sortie à Ngaparou en 2011 soit
                                  objectifs performances ciblées          une augmentation de +133%
                                  par lesdits sous projets.            - Sites de cogestion de la crevette : Le moule moyen
                                                                          de la crevette à Bétenty est passé de 226 individus
                                                                          au kilo en 2005 à 141 individus au kilo en 2011 soit
                                                                          une amélioration de 38%.
Composante 2:                      La Loi Cadre sur la Biodiversité La Loi Cadre sur la Biodiversité et les Aires Protégées
Les       communautés      locales et les Aires Protégées est est préparée et soumise au Gouvernement en fin 2010.
participant à la conservation des préparée      et    soumise      au
habitats et des espèces marines et Gouvernement avant la fin du
côtières.                          Projet.
                                   La mise à jour des rapports sur Le projet a tenté de combler l’absence d’un système
                                   l’état de la biodiversité est faite de suivi en initiant la mise en place d’un programme
                                   chaque année.                       national de surveillance des indicateurs de la
                                                                       biodiversité, tel que recommandé par le secrétariat de



                                                                     92
                                     la Convention sur la Diversité Biologique. Ce
                                     processus a pris du temps mais devra contribuer à
                                     favoriser la production régulière du rapport sur l’état
                                     de la biodiversité.
Des        sous-comités        de    Le protocole entre GIRMaC et le Projet du Bassin du
coordination sont établis entre le   Fleuve Sénégal a été validé et signé par le MEPN et le
Projet GIRMaC et le Projet du        Haut Commissaire de l’OMVS le 12 mai 2006. Le
Bassin du Fleuve Sénégal, le         COGEM du Delta du Sénégal a été désigné comme
Projet       des        « Grands     sous-comité de coopération pour la gestion intégrée
Ecosystèmes Marins du Courant        des ressources en eau et l’utilisation durable de la
des Canaries » (CCLME), pour         biodiversité.
renforcer la conservation des
réseaux de sites critiques pour      Le GIRMaC et le CCLME ont eu une série de
les oiseaux d’eau migrateurs         rencontres et de discussions autour des synergies
dans les couloirs de migration       possibles. Le GIRMaC a participé à la préparation du
Afrique/Eurasie.                     Projet CCLME. Un memorandum d’entente a été
                                     rédigé en mai 2006 pour mettre en place un cadre
                                     commun de collaboration et de partenariat. Sa mise
                                     en œuvre a été retardée par la longueur du processus
                                     de préparation du Projet CCLME dont l’Unité de
                                     Coordination ne sera mise en place qu’en fin 2010.

                                     Le Protocole entre GIRMaC et Wetlands international
                                     comme Agence d’éxécution du Projet WoW (Wings
                                     Over Wetlands) a été signé le26 octobre 2006. Avec
                                     cette convention, Wetlands a renforcé les capacités du
                                     staff de la DPN et du projet dans le suivi des oiseaux
                                     d’eau et des zones humides à travers un programme
                                     de formation.




                                93
Annex 7. Comments of Cofinanciers and Other Partners/Stakeholders

No comments received.




                                    94
Annex 8. List of Supporting Documents


       Accord de Cogestion, signed, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Bétenty, Ministère de
l’Economie Maritime des Transports Maritimes de la Pêche et de la Pisciculture, Dakar,
Sénégal, 7 mars 2008.

       Accord de Cogestion, signed, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Foundiougne,
Ministère de l’Economie Maritime des Transports Maritimes de la Pêche et de la
Pisciculture, Dakar, Sénégal, 7 mars 2008.

       Accord de Cogestion, signed, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Ngaparou, Ministère
de l’Economie Maritime des Transports Maritimes de la Pêche et de la Pisciculture,
Dakar, Sénégal, 7 mars 2008.

       Accord de Cogestion, signed, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Ouakam, Ministère
de l’Economie Maritime des Transports Maritimes de la Pêche et de la Pisciculture,
Dakar, Sénégal, 7 mars 2008.

       Aide-Memoire, ICR Mission of July 2012.

       Rapport d’Achèvement du Projet de Gestion Intégrée des Ressources Marine et
Côtières (GIRMaC), Direction des Pêches Maritimes, Ministère de la Pêche et des
Affaires Maritimes; Direction des Parcs Nationaux, Ministère de l’Environnement,
République du Sénégal, 24 septembre 2012.

       Recherches participatives et suivi-évaluation en appui aux initiatives locales de
co-gestion des pêcheries artisanales, Rapport final de recherches, Centre de Recherches
Océanographiques de Dakar Thiaroye, Ministère de l’Agriculture, Institut Sénégalais de
Recherches Agricoles, Dakar, Sénégal, novembre 2011.

        Sous-projet portant sur l’Institution d’Arrêts Périodiques de la Pêche Crevettière
et Utilisation de Filets Killy à Grandres Mailles à Bétenty, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de
Bétenty, Bétenty, Sénégal, février 2006.

       Sous-projet portant sur la Réglementation de la Pêche Crevettière dans les Eaux
du Saloum, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Saloum, Saloum, Sénégal, juin 2006.

       Sous-projet Réglementation ds Activités de Pêche et Reconstitution des Resources
en langouste Verte et Espèces associées dans les Eaux Adjacentes au Village de
Ngaparou, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Ngaparou, Ngaparou, Sénégal, juin 2006.

        Réglementation de l’Exploitation des Zones Traditionnelles de Pêche de Ouakam,
Nettoyage des fonds marins, Comité Local des Pêcheurs de Ouakam, Ouakam, Sénégal,
février 2006.



                                           95
96
                 18°W                                                                                 16°W                                                                                           14°W



                                                                                                                                                                               M A U R I TA N I A
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    SENEG AL
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      SELECTED CITIES AND TOWNS
                                                                                                                                                    Sénégal
                                                                                                             To                                                 Podor
                                                                                                          Nouakchott                                                                                                                                                                                  REGION CAPITALS
                                                                                                          Rosso                                                                Doue
                                                                                                                             Dagana                                                                                                                                                                   NATIONAL CAPITAL
                             SENEGAL                                                                                                                         Ndiayène
                                                                                                                      Richard-Toll                                           Haïré Lao
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      RIVERS
                                                                                                                   Lac de
                                                                                                                   Guier                              SAINT-                                                                                To                                                        MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                      LOUIS                                                                Kaedi           Mbout
                                                                                       Saint-Louis                                                                                                                                                                                                    RAILROADS
              16°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  16°N
                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Thilogne                                                                            REGION BOUNDARIES
                                                                                       Mpal                            Va                                     Lagbar
                                                                                                                          ll   ée
                                                                                                                                  d   u Fer                                                                                                                                                           INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                                                         Léona                                                                lo
                                                                        Ndiaye                   Louga                                                                                                                               Matam
                                                                                                          Koki
                                                  Tioukougne Peul                                                                                                                                                                                                                      This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                                         Kébémèr                                      Daraa                Linguère                                                                                                                    The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank
                                                       Fâs Boye                                                                                                                                                                                                                        Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Va                                          én




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               S
                                                                                                                                                                                                                      llée                                          ég                 endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                               Darou Khoudos                                                                                                                                                               du                                         al
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                F
                                                                             Mékhé                      Darou Mousti                   LOUGA                                                                     Mamâri




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                er
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    lo
                                                                                                                                                                            Vélingara
                                       CAP-             Kayar
                                                                    Tivaouane                                                                                                                                                                                              Bakel
                                                                                                                 Mbaké
                                       VE
                                       VERT                     Thiès            DIOURBEL                                                                                           La Ferdo                     M ATA M
                             DAKAR
                                                                                                                                                                                            Val
                                            Rufisque
                                                         THIÈS                                   Diourbel                                                                                      lée   du Mboun                                                                                         To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Kayes
                                                                                                       Gossas
                                                   Mbour
                                                                                 FATICK                                                                                             Payar
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   Nayé
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     Toubéré Bafal
                                                                                                                                                              oum
                                                                               Fatick                       Guinguinéo                                     Sal




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Falém
                                                                                                                                                   KAFFRINE
                                                                                m




                                                                               lo u                   Kaolack
                                                                             Sa                                                   Kaffrine                                                                                                TAMBACOUNDA




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                é
                                                          Ndangane
              14°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              14°N
                                                                              Sakone            KAOLACK                                              Niahène            Koungheul                    Koussanar
                         AT LAN TI C                                                                   Keur Madiabel                      Nganda
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           MALI
                                                                                                 Nioro du Rip                                                                                                               Tambacounda
                          OCEAN                                                         Karang                                                                                      Maka
                                                                                                                                                                                                   dou
                                                                                                                                                                                                      gou
                                                                                                                                                                                            S an
                                                                                  To
                                                                                                          Gambia
                                                                                 Barra
                                                                                        TH E
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Dialakoto
                                                                     To
                                                                    Banjul                   IA
                                                                                       GAM B I A                                                                                                                       Meedina
                                                                                                                                                                                                                       Gounas
                                                                                                                   SÉDHIOU                               e      KOLDA                 Vélingara        M
                                                                                                                                                   anc                                                                                                                             KÉDOUGOU


                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    Ko
                                                                                Diouloulou                                                                                                                  al
                                                                                                                                          am                                                                     ink



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    ulo
                                                                                                           Bounkiling
                                                                                                                                       as                                                                              e



                                                                                                                                                                                                                                        unt
                                                                        ZIGUINCHOR                                               C                 Diana         Kolda                                                                             Gam




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           ou
                                                                                                                                                   Malari                                                                                                bie                           Mako
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  Saraya
                                                                                      Bignona                                                                                                    nga
                                                                                                                                                                                             Kaya
                                                                                                 Casamance                              Tanaf
                                                                                                                  Sédhiou
                                                                              Ziguinchor                                                                                                                                                                                       419 m
                                                                                                                                                    To                                                                                                                                              Kédougou
                                                                                                     Goudomp                                       Farim                   To                                                          To
                                                       Diembéreng                 Oussouye                                                                                Bafata                                                    Koundara
                                                                                                   To
                                                                                                 Ingore
                0       25        50   75       100 Kilometers




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          IBRD 33475R1
                                                                                                                            GUINEA-BISSAU                                                                                                                                                                      To
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                             Balake
AUGUST 2010




                0            25         50               75 Miles                                                                                                                                                                                              GUINEA
              12°N                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              12°N
                 18°W                                                                                 16°W                                                                                           14°W                                                                                           12°W
