                                 Document of
                               The World Bank




                                                 Report No.: 95315




            PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                                 SENEGAL

                    INTEGRATED MARINE AND
            COASTAL RESOURCES MANAGEMENT PROJECT
                       (CREDIT NO. 3998-SE)

     SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF FISH RESOURCES PROJECT
                    (CREDIT NO. 4545-SE)




                                March 27, 2015




IEG Public Sector Evaluation
Independent Evaluation Group
                                                ii


Currency Equivalents (annual averages)

Currency Unit = CFA Franc

2004                     US$1.00                 CFAF 525.43
2005                     US$1.00                 CFAF 524.36
2006                     US$1.00                 CFAF 522.73
2007                     US$1.00                 CFAF 480.35
2008                     US$1.00                 CFAF 447.49
2009                     US$1.00                 CFAF 467.98
2010                     US$1.00                 CFAF 495.20
2011                     US$1.00                 CFAF 471.68
2012                     US$1.00                 CFAF 512.13
2013                     US$1.00                 CFAF 502.47


Abbreviations and Acronyms
CLP         Local Fishers’ Committee
CLPA        Local Council of Artisanal Fisheries
CPUE        Catch Per Unit Effort
CRODT       Center for Oceanography Research of Dakar-Thiaroye
DPM         Direction for Maritime Fisheries
DNP         Department of National Parks
GEF         Global Environment Facility
GEO         Global Environment Objectives
GIRMAC      Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Project
GDRH        Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project
ICR         Implementation Completion Report
IDA         International Development Association
IEG         Independent Evaluation Group
IEGPS       IEG Public Sector Evaluation
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PNI         National Registration Program
PPAR        Project Performance Assessment Report
WWF         World Wildlife Fund
ZPP         Protected Fishing Zone

Fiscal Year

Government:              January 1 – December 31




Director-General, Independent Evaluation                  :   Ms. Caroline Heider
Director, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                    :   Mr. Nick York (acting)
Manager, IEG Public Sector Evaluation                     :   Ms. Marie Gaarder
Task Manager                                              :   Ms. April Connelly
                                                                   iii



Contents
Principal Ratings ................................................................................................................. v
Key Staff Responsible......................................................................................................... v
Preface............................................................................................................................... vii
Summary ............................................................................................................................ ix
1. Background and Context............................................................................................... 13
2. Integrated Marine and Coastal Resource Management Project .................................... 14
   Objectives, Design, and Relevance ............................................................................... 15
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 25
   Changes to the Timing and Scope of Activities............................................................ 25
   Planned versus Actual Disbursements .......................................................................... 26
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 31
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 48
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 50
       Outcome .................................................................................................................... 50
       Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................. 50
       Bank Performance ..................................................................................................... 51
       Borrower Performance .............................................................................................. 53
       Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................................................................... 55
3. Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project .................................................... 56
   Implementation ............................................................................................................. 62
   Changes to the timing and scope of activities ............................................................... 62
   Planned versus Actual Disbursements .......................................................................... 62
   Achievement of the Objectives ..................................................................................... 66
   Efficiency ...................................................................................................................... 69
   Ratings .......................................................................................................................... 69
       Outcome .................................................................................................................... 69
       Risk to Development Outcome ................................................................................. 69
       Bank Performance ..................................................................................................... 70
       Borrower Performance .............................................................................................. 72
       Monitoring and Evaluation ....................................................................................... 73
4. Lessons .......................................................................................................................... 74
This report was prepared by April Connelly with input from Cheikh Niang, who assessed the project in
June 2014. The report was peer reviewed by Lauren Kelly and panel reviewed by Kris Hallberg. Marie
Charles provided administrative support.
                                                                  iv


References ......................................................................................................................... 76
Annex A. Basic Data Sheet ............................................................................................... 77
Annex B. List of Persons Interviewed .............................................................................. 84



Tables
Table 1: Original and Revised Key Performance Indicators ............................................ 16
Table 2: Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent) .................................. 26
Table 3: Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent) ................................. 27
Table 4: Initiatives under Implementation at the Co-management Pilot Sites ................. 32
Table 5: Select indicator results from the Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of
Protected Areas ................................................................................................................. 47
Table 6: Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent) .................................. 63
Table 7: Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent) ................................. 63
                                                        v


Principal Ratings
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resource Management Project
                                 ICR*                       ICR Review*                      PPAR
Outcome                  Moderately Satisfactory            Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Risk to                             High                          High                          High
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance               Moderately                    Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Borrower                       Moderately                   Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Performance                   Unsatisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project
                                 ICR*                      ICR Review*                       PPAR
Outcome                       Unsatisfactory            Highly Unsatisfactory         Highly Unsatisfactory
Risk to                             High                          High                          High
Development
Outcome
Bank Performance               Moderately                    Moderately                    Moderately
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Borrower                      Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory
Performance
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department. The ICR
Review is an intermediate IEGWB product that seeks to independently verify the findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible
Integrated Marine and Coastal Resource Management Project
                                                        Division Chief/
Project               Task Manager/Leader               Sector Director                 Country Director
Appraisal                 Yves Provost                 Mary Barton-Dock                 Madani M. Tall
Completion                  John Virdin                  Magdolna Lovei                   Vera Songwe

Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project
                                                       Division Chief/
Project               Task Manager/Leader              Sector Director                Country Director
Appraisal                 John Virdin              Marjory-Anne Bromhead            McDonald P. Benjamin
Completion                  John Virdin                  Magdolna Lovei                   Vera Songwe
                                                           vi


      IEG Mission: Improving World Bank Group development results through excellence in evaluation.


About this Report
       The Independent Evaluation Group assesses the programs and activities of the World Bank for two purposes:
first, to ensure the integrity of the Bank’s self-evaluation process and to verify that the Bank’s work is producing the
expected results, and second, to help develop improved directions, policies, and procedures through the
dissemination of lessons drawn from experience. As part of this work, IEG annually assesses 20-25 percent of the
Bank’s lending operations through field work. In selecting operations for assessment, preference is given to those that
are innovative, large, or complex; those that are relevant to upcoming studies or country evaluations; those for which
Executive Directors or Bank management have requested assessments; and those that are likely to generate
important lessons.
      To prepare a Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR), IEG staff examine project files and other
documents, visit the borrowing country to discuss the operation with the government, and other in-country
stakeholders, and interview Bank staff and other donor agency staff both at headquarters and in local offices as
appropriate.
      Each PPAR is subject to internal IEG peer review, Panel review, and management approval. Once cleared
internally, the PPAR is commented on by the responsible Bank department. The PPAR is also sent to the borrower
for review. IEG incorporates both Bank and borrower comments as appropriate, and the borrowers' comments are
attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of Executive Directors. After an assessment report has
been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


About the IEG Rating System for Public Sector Evaluations
     IEG’s use of multiple evaluation methods offers both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to ad apt to
lending instrument, project design, or sectoral approach. IEG evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive
at their project ratings. Following is the definition and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (additional
information is available on the IEG website: http://worldbank.org/ieg).
     Outcome: The extent to which the operation’s major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to
be achieved, efficiently. The rating has three dimensions: relevance, efficacy, and efficiency. Relevance includes
relevance of objectives and relevance of design. Relevance of objectives is the extent to which the project’s
objectives are consistent with the country’s current development priorities and with current Bank country and
sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals (expressed in Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers, Country
Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational Policies). Relevance of design is the extent to which
the project’s design is consistent with the stated objectives. Efficacy is the extent to which the project’s objectives
were achieved, or are expected to be achieved, taking into account their relative importance. Efficiency is the
extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the opportunity cost of capital
and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. The efficiency dimension generally is not applied to adjustment
operations. Possible ratings for Outcome: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Risk to Development Outcome: The risk, at the time of evaluation, that development outcomes (or
expected outcomes) will not be maintained (or realized). Possible ratings for Risk to Development Outcome: High,
Significant, Moderate, Negligible to Low, Not Evaluable.
     Bank Performance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry of the
operation and supported effective implementation through appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate
transition arrangements for regular operation of supported activities after loan/credit closing, toward the
achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: quality at entry and quality of supervision.
Possible ratings for Bank Performance: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
     Borrower Performance: The extent to which the borrower (including the government and implementing
agency or agencies) ensured quality of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and
agreements, toward the achievement of development outcomes. The rating has two dimensions: government
performance and implementing agency (ies) performance. Possible ratings for Borrower Performance: Highly
Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.
                                             vii


Preface
This is the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) for the Integrated Marine and
Coastal Resource Management Project and the Sustainable Management of Fish
Resources Project in Senegal (IDA-39980, IDA- 45450).

The first operation was approved on November 11, 2004, and closed on May 1, 2012,
twenty three months after the original closing date. At closure the project disbursed US$
8.81 million of a US$ 10 million IDA credit and US$ 3.85 million of a US$ 5 million
GEF grant. The second operation was approved on December 12, 2008 and closed on
June 30, 2012, three months after its original closing date. The project disbursed US$
0.76 million equivalent of a US$ 3.5 million IDA credit and US$ 2.07 million of a US$
6.00 million GEF grant.

IEG prepared this report based on an examination of the Project Appraisal Documents,
the Implementation Completion and Results Reports, the Legal Agreements, project files
and archives, as well as other relevant reports, memoranda and working papers.
Discussions were also held with Bank staff in Washington, DC and in the resident
mission in Dakar. An IEG field mission visited Senegal in June 2014 to review the results
on the ground and to hold discussions with relevant government officials, fishing
communities and other sector stakeholders. IEG held meetings with government officials,
project staff, and other donors in Dakar. Field visits were made to 8 project sites. All four
of the original fisheries co-management pilot sites and two of the eight expanded co-
management sites were visited, where the mission met with the Local Fishermen Council,
project facilitators, the local DPM agent and other members of the community. Two of
the national parks supported by the GIRMAC project were visited. There the mission met
with the local community management committee, women’s groups and park officials.
Field visit site selections were made on the basis of understanding the range of project
performance (sites where the project had made greater and lesser progress) and in
consideration of travel time. The mission appreciates all support and attention given by
the borrowers and all concerned parties in Senegal as well as in Washington, DC.

Following standard IEG procedures, copies of the draft PPAR where shared with relevant
Government officials and agencies for their review and comment. No comments were
received.
                                              ix


Summary
This Project Performance Assessment Report reviews World Bank support for the
sustainable management of fisheries in Senegal over the period of 2004 to 2012, provided
by two investment projects: Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Project (2004-
2012) and Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project (2008-2012). Designed in
response to a crisis in the fisheries sector, both projects aimed to enhance the sustainable
management of the artisanal fisheries sector.

The Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Project (GIRMAC) promoted the
sustainable management of Senegal’s coastal demersal fisheries through two parallel but
complementary tracks under the jurisdiction of two separate Ministries: (i) reducing
overfishing of valuable coastal fish stocks through the promotion of area based co-
management, under the Ministry of Maritime Economy; and (ii) the protection of critical
habitats and ecosystems upon which these fisheries depend through the management of
biosphere reserves, under the Ministry of Environment. The project was originally
designed to apply a coordinated ecosystem approach to the management of the fisheries
sector that would bring together stakeholders concerned with fisheries management and
stakeholders involved with biodiversity conservation. The coordinated approach proved
to be unworkable and ultimately the two agendas were implemented separately. Both
agendas were pursued through a combination of local level and national level activities.
In both cases the project made greater strides implementing local activities than national
activities. Project implementation as a whole was constrained by project management
problems, pervasive procurement delays, and slow administrative clearances.

The project’s fisheries management activities resulted in the development of new tools to
manage the artisanal fisheries sector. The main project achievement was to successfully
pilot the use of legally recognized co-management agreements with local communities,
allowing them to regulate a designated fishery. The targeted fisheries in all four pilot sites
have demonstrated some signs of recovery and based on the pilot experience the
government has adopted co-management as an official tool for implementing fisheries
sector policy and is replicating the model in additional sites. A National System for
registering small fishing vessels was also established, which is a tool to control and
reduce fishing efforts over time. An updated Letter of Sector Policy was approved to
provide a more conducive environment for implementing artisanal fisheries management
measures. Less progress was made in getting a revised Fisheries Code approved and
preparing national level fisheries management plans.

The project’s ecosystem management activities focused on enhancing the conservation of
coastal biodiversity and ecosystems by improving the management of the National Park
system. The project provided opportunities for increased collaboration between the
National Parks officials and local communities in the management of coastal biodiversity.
While such activities resulted in a temporary boost in management capacity, few
activities have continued beyond the project’s closure. Less progress was made in
enhancing capacity for biodiversity conservation management at the central level. A
Biodiversity Framework Law was submitted to Parliament, but as of the evaluation
assessment mission it had not been approved. Efforts to enhance national capacity for
biodiversity monitoring were unsuccessful. A feasibility study was conducted with
                                             x


recommendation for establishing a trust fund to cover long term management costs, but
no follow up measures were taken.

The Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources Project (GDRH) was designed
as a complementary project to the fisheries management activities of the GIRMAC
project. The two projects were implemented in parallel during the final three years of
GIRMAC’s implementation. The GDRH aimed to consolidate and expand the fisheries
co-management pilot by replicating the model to new sites, providing additional
implementation support to consolidate co-management efforts in the four initial pilot sites
and deepen the impact and geographic coverage beyond individual sites by preparing
consolidated management plans across multiple co-management sites in a given area.
Overall the project was too ambitious given its short implementation timeframe coupled
with procurement delays and project management challenges that hampered its
implementation progress. Locally implemented project activities made good progress
initially but they were subsequently held up by delays in centralized administrative
clearances and processing of key consultant contracts. Consequently, much of what the
project set out to achieve was not completed by project closure. Several uncompleted
activities from both projects were transferred to the West Africa Regional Fisheries
Program, an ongoing program with World Bank and GEF funding that aims to enhance
the capacity of nine countries along the West African coast to sustainably govern and
manage their fisheries.

Ratings

The overall outcome rating of the GIRMAC project is unsatisfactory. The project
objectives – to assist the communities within the Recipient’s territory in achieving
sustainable management of the Recipient’s coastal and marine resources, including
ensuring responsible exploitation of resources combined with protection of ecosystems
and ecological processes critical for their replenishment - were and remain highly
relevant to country conditions and priorities. But the relevance of design to meeting its
objectives was modest. Efficacy was substantial for the first objective but modest for the
second. Project efficiency was negligible, owing to significant inefficiencies in project
management: implementation disruptions, misuse of resources, and activities that could
not be completed by project closure. Risk to development outcome is high. Bank
performance is moderately unsatisfactory and Borrower Performance is rated
unsatisfactory.

The overall outcome of the GDRH project is rated highly unsatisfactory. The
project’s objective – to empower the communities to reduce fishing pressure on the fish
stocks supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal – was highly relevant to country
conditions and priorities but the relevance of design to achieving these objectives was
modest. Achievement of the objective was negligible. Efficiency was also negligible, due
to significant project management inefficiencies and the fact that few of the project
activities reached a stage to generate the intended benefits. Risk to development outcome
is high. Bank performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory and Borrower performance
is rated unsatisfactory.
                                             xi


The experience of the two projects yields the following lessons:

      Reforming the fisheries sector is a politically sensitive and long term pursuit,
       best suited to a phased programmatic approach in which sustained support is
       ensured over a series of operations. The timeframe for each stage needs to be set
       taking into account the capacity of the implementing agencies and the complexity
       of activities financed. In this case, the Bank has maintained continuity in support
       across several operations but this was not designed upfront. Consequently,
       implementation was disrupted in the transfer of activities from one project to the
       next, as activities were put on hold while restructuring process was carried out.

      Operationalizing co-management requires actions at both local and national
       level, lack of synchronization between the two can disrupt implementation and
       the motivation of key actors. In both cases implementation progress at the local
       level was bottlenecked by slow clearances at the central level, as well as delays
       for centrally procured materials and in processing contracts for experts to support
       critical activities. This slowed momentum and has frustrated local level actors.
       The lack of synchronization can be particularly disruptive to seasonal activities.

      Supporting Alternative Revenue Generating Activities can potentially reduce
       the poverty-conservation tradeoff by making up for lost income or subsistence
       opportunities that stem from reduced resource access caused by project
       activities. But realizing this potential requires more rigorous feasibility studies to
       ensure that the proposed activity has the potential to generate profits that are equal
       to revenues forgone and that adequate budgets are provided to cover the full
       investment costs of the alternative activity. A sustainable system to support
       alternative revenue generating activities beyond the project timeframe is also
       needed.




                                                                     Caroline Heider
                                                                     Director-General
                                                                        Evaluation
                                            13


1. Background and Context
1.1     This project performance assessment report reviews World Bank support for the
sustainable management of fisheries in Senegal over the period of 2004 to 2012, provided
by two investment projects: Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Project and
Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project. Together with the West Africa
Regional Fisheries Program (approved in 2008 and under implementation at the time of
the IEG assessment), the projects under review form a package of operations designed to
enhance the sustainable management of Senegal’s artisanal fisheries sector. This
combined support, is in line with and supports the implementation of the Government’s
sector policy (World Bank 2009).

1.2     Senegal is endowed with some of the richest fishing grounds in the world. The
fisheries sector plays an important role in Senegal’s economy in terms of its contribution
to Gross Domestic Product, foreign exchange, food security and livelihoods. Between
1997 and 2002 the fisheries sector accounted for about 2.3 percent of the country’s GDP
and 12.5 percent of the primary sector’s GDP. Fish products account for 32 percent of the
country’s exports by volume, and roughly 37 percent of the total export value. Fishing
and associated activities (processing, marketing, services and other part-time activities)
provide more than 600,000 jobs in Senegal (employing about 17 percent of the active
population). The fisheries sector also makes a significant contribution to food security,
constituting 70 percent of animal protein consumption in the country (World Bank 2004).

1.3     Despite the economic importance of Senegal’s fishery resources, the sector has
faced a significant drop in fish stocks caused mainly by over-exploitation. Similar to
other uncontrolled fisheries around the world, Senegal’s fisheries sector has experienced
a ‘boom and bust’ cycle where rapid development and investment led to strong growth in
catches and returns, as well as an increase in the number of fishers and fishing capacity.
Growth in the sector continued in an uncontrolled environment beyond what the resource
base could sustain, followed by a downturn in catch and growth rates (World Bank 2004).
Senegal’s fisheries production rose steadily until 1985, when catches began to level off
and landings began to decline. The most valuable commercial resources are overfished
and there has been an uncontrolled expansion of the number of fishers, boats and gear, as
well as land-based fish processing and preservation facilities.

1.4     As a consequence of declining fish stocks, fishing communities are steadily losing
their main source of income and livelihoods. Senegal’s fisheries sector is divided into the
artisanal sub-sector and the industrial sub-sector. The industrial sub-sector is controlled
through licensing but the artisanal sub-sector essentially operates in a 'quasi unregulated'
open access environment. Over time, the artisanal fleet has become highly competitive to
the point of over-shadowing its industrial counterpart. It now accounts for 90% of all
catches in Sénégal (Sarr 2012). Although the number of industrial vessels has remained
stable, small-scale vessels have continued to proliferate even as fish stocks and catches
have declined, due in part to rising world prices and demand for food fish which helped
offset declining catch rates, and by vessels going farther and farther up and down the
coast of West Africa in search of fish, or constantly replacing overfished higher value
species for lower value ones in a race to the bottom (World Bank 2004).
                                            14


1.5     Historically, to control fishing effort the Government of Senegal has relied on
input controls and top-down directives elaborated by the central administration with little
or no consultation with stakeholders. Such measures, have been difficult to enforce,
especially where enforcement capacities are weak. Since fishers have had little
involvement in deciding the measures, this has created a sense of distrust and led them to
question the legitimacy of imposed regulations. In addition, poor information on fish
stocks and the number of fishing vessels made it difficult to develop management plans
for the various stocks (World Bank 2004).

1.6     Pressure on fish stocks also stems from the degradation of coastal ecosystems
(World Bank 2004). The preservation of critical habitats, such as breeding and nursery
grounds, play a key role in ensuring the sustainability of Senegal's fisheries, by providing
biological refuges from which depleted areas can be restocked. At the same time fish
resources are also an important element of coastal and marine biodiversity and excessive
fishing destabilizes the marine ecosystems, by triggering massive fluctuations in the size
of individual stocks. Animals that feed on fish such as sea turtles, dolphins and numerous
bird species are also directly affected by the overall decline in stocks. If properly
managed, coastal protected areas can: (i)provide nursery grounds for juveniles of fish
species, (ii)serve as refuges for vulnerable species, (iii)prevent habitat damage, iv)
promote the development of natural biological communities, and (v) facilitate recovery
from catastrophic human and natural disturbances. Although Senegal has established an
internationally recognized network of protected areas along its coast, the original
rationale for their establishment was to provide the central government with revenue from
the collection of fees from tourism as opposed to emphasizing the provision of ecological
services. By the early 1990’s the Senegal’s protected areas model was strained, due to the
lack of growth in the tourism market for which the parks were initially created,
insufficient budget to cover staff and park maintenance, lower than expected level of
international funding and conflicts with the local population (including fisher
communities) who were not consulted when many of the parks were created (World Bank
2004).

1.7     The projects under review were prepared at a time when the Bank began to re-
engage in the fisheries sector. For years World Bank and other multilateral assistance to
the sector was directed towards the development of an industrial fishing capacity, the
construction of harbor infrastructure or processing plants. This was followed by a period
of disengagement. Preparation of the projects coincided with a significant shift in the
World Bank’s approach to the fisheries sector, reorienting its support away from a focus
on infrastructure and developing productive capacity towards building institutional
capacity and integrated fisheries management.



2. Integrated Marine and Coastal Resource
Management Project
2.1   The Integrated Marine and Coastal Resource Management Project (GIRMAC)
was one of the first projects prepared by the Bank after reorienting its approach to the
                                             15


fisheries sector. The project was also the first operation to pilot an integrated approach to
coastal and marine resources management in Senegal, in an attempt to address the often
conflicting priorities of conservation and fisheries exploitation. Senegal's past fisheries'
policy focused on catching and exporting more and more fish with little regard for
sustainability, while conservation efforts focused on excluding fishermen with little
regard for the economic consequences (World Bank 2004). The project’s ecosystem
approach to fisheries management emphasized the importance of resource management in
making Senegal's fisheries sustainable, and the need for protected areas to contribute to
the maintenance of fish stocks.

2.2      The project promoted the sustainable management of Senegal’s coastal demersal
fisheries through two parallel but complementary tracks under the jurisdiction of two
separate Ministries: (i) reducing overfishing of valuable coastal fish stocks through the
promotion of area based co-management, under the Ministry of Maritime Economy; and
(ii) the protection of critical habitats and ecosystems upon which these fisheries depend
through the management of biosphere reserves, under the Ministry of Environment.
Working through two ministries to address complementary agendas in a single project,
the project aimed to maximize its impact by avoiding the more fragmented approach of
separate stand-alone fisheries and biodiversity conservation projects.

Objectives, Design, and Relevance
STATEMENT OF OBJECTIVES

2.3     This is a fully blended GEF / IDA financed project that had both a project
development objective (PDO) and a global environment objectives (GEO). However,
only the PDO is used as the benchmark for assessing the projects outcome rating. This is
due to the fact that the project was financed with a blend of IDA and GEF funding as
opposed to a standalone GEF operation, in which the Bank acts as implementing agency
but does not contribute financing. Moreover, only the PDO is reflected in the IDA credit
agreement and GEF grant agreement.

2.4     According to both the IDA credit agreement (pg. 21) and the GEF grant
agreement (pg. 20), the project’s development objectives were "to assist the communities
within the Recipient’s territory in achieving sustainable management of the Recipient’s
coastal and marine resources, including ensuring responsible exploitation of resources
combined with protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their
replenishment."

2.5     The Project Appraisal Document (pg. 3) states the objective similarly: “The
project's development objective is to increase the sustainable management of marine and
coastal resources in three pilot areas by communities and the Government. Sustainable
management includes responsible exploitation of resources combined with protection of
the ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment.” This review
uses the project development objective, as stated in the loan agreement as the basis of
assessment, as that is the legally binding objective.
                                                          16


2.6     The project development objective remained consistent throughout
implementation. However, the project was restructured in November 2008, at which point
its key performance indicators were revised. The original and revised key performance
indicators as reflected in the restructuring document are shown in table 1.

2.7     When there are substantial changes to the original project objectives or key
associated outcome targets approved by the Board, evaluation of project performance is
assessed using a split methodology.1 In this case the split rating methodology has not
been applied because this was a pilot project to test a new management system. While
revised indicators reduced the scale of the project in terms of the number of project sites,
the scale of the project is less important than testing and learning. Four pilot sites were
sufficient to test establishing the model and to generate learning for scaling up.

Table 1: Original and Revised Key Performance Indicators
                          Indicator                                 Original Target              Revised Target
    No. of sites implementing community-based                             12                           4
    fisheries management sub-projects
    Average fish catch per unit of effort in most                   10-30% increase            Indicator dropped
    project sites
    % of respondents in targeted communities that                     At least 75%             Indicator dropped
    assign a satisfactory rating to measures to
    alleviate the impact of reduction in fishing
    capacity
    Participatory assessment rating of local                          No indicator                 Satisfactory
    community involvement in the management of
    biodiversity in the three pilot areas
    Change in index of effective management of                        50% increase                50% increase
    biodiversity in three pilot areas


RELEVANCE OF THE OBJECTIVES

2.8     The objectives of the project were and continue to be highly relevant to country
conditions and the development priorities set forth in Senegal’s government strategy
documents and the World Bank’s country partnership strategies. At time of appraisal, the
fisheries sector employed 17 percent of the active labor force, 10 percent of the rural
population, and generated 30 percent of exports. The sector is also a key source of food
security, providing 70 percent of animal protein consumption in the country, and
performs a safety net function for farmers in times of drought. Yet the benefits generated
by the sector were threatened by declining fish stocks owing to overfishing, resulting
from lack of adequate management of the resource and the degradation of ecosystems
that serve as key nursery grounds.

2.9     The fisheries sector is identified by Senegal’s Accelerated Growth Strategy as one
of the five sectors of the national economy with high economic potential and a driver of

1
  Under the split rating methodology the project’s outcome rating is assessed against both the original and revised
project objective and weighted in proportion to the share of actual loan/credit disbursements made in the periods before
and after approval of the revision.
                                             17


accelerated economic growth. The sector is also is identified as one of the key drivers of
the “creation of wealth” pillar in the first and second Poverty Reduction Strategy Papers
(2003-2005; 2006-2010). The project’s objectives support the need to shift the approach
towards the sector from a focus on sector development to the sustainable management of
fish resources, as identified in the 2001 Strategy for Sustainable Fisheries and
Aquaculture. The objectives also support the Government’s 2008 Letter of Sector Policy
which calls for the sustainable management of fish resources through a two-pronged
approach of implementing collaborative or co-management for the coastal fisheries, to
devolve more of the responsibility for managing these overfished resources to the users,
to support them to implement needed reforms, and introducing a system of fishing access
rights to fishers as a tool to offset the reduction of fishing capacity and the recovery of
the stocks. In addition the conservation and sustainable use of coastal and marine
ecosystems are identified as priorities in Senegal’s national biodiversity strategy and
action plan.

2.10 The project’s objectives are also relevant to international conventions to which
Senegal is a signatory - specifically, the United Nations Convention on the Law of the
Sea, the Convention on Biological Diversity, and the first, second and third Conferences
of the Parties to the Biodiversity Convention, which stress the importance of in situ
conservation of marine and coastal ecosystems.

2.11 The project objectives are aligned with the goal of supporting wealth creation by
ensuring sustainable management of fishery resources, under the World Bank’s Country
Assistance Strategy at project approval (2003-2005). They are pertinent to the growth and
wealth creation pillar in the subsequent Country Assistance Strategy (2007-2010), which
specifically promotes sustainable development and management of natural resources,
addressing the unregulated access to fisheries by artisanal sector and the destruction of
critical spawning and nursery grounds for fish stocks. Finally, they remain relevant to the
pillar for accelerating growth and generating employment in the more recent Country
Partnership Strategy (2013-2017).

2.12   Relevance of objectives is rated high.

DESIGN

2.13 The project was designed to support two complementary agendas under two
separate Ministries: reducing overfishing of coastal fish stocks, under the jurisdiction of
the Ministry of Maritime Economy; and, supporting coastal protected areas, under the
jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.

2.14 As originally designed, the project comprised three components – Management of
Sustainable Fisheries, Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species, and Program
Management, M&E and Communications. Each of the components had several sub-
components, summarized below:

2.15 Component 1: Management of Sustainable Fisheries (appraisal estimate
US$6.53 million, actual costs US$ 5.67 million). This component aimed to increase the
                                                       18


sustainability of fisheries through the use of area-based co-management.2 It included the
following subcomponents:

        Sub-Component 1.1: National level activities to enable the implementation of
         co-management initiatives. Six activities would be financed:

         Evaluation of Policy Options. The project would conduct an in depth evaluation
         of fisheries sector policy options for Senegal to help orient the decisions expected
         from the Special Commission. The assessment would take into account past and
         present policy choices, the prevailing institutional framework and management
         system, and evaluate the biological, economic and social impacts of these choices.
         It would also draw on examples from other countries. Project funds would cover
         targeted technical assistance (TA) to help supervise the team of consultants, and
         support for consensus building.

         Fisheries Management Plans. This includes the design and implementation of
         management plans for two groups of species, an annual evaluation of the
         implementation of each plan, and annual adjustments in light of evaluation
         results. Project funds would cover consultants, and targeted TA to assist in
         overseeing the preparation, implementation, evaluation and revision of the plans.

         Support to the National Consultative Council for Marine Fisheries
         (CNCPM)3. The project would enhance the capacity of CNCPM to function as
         the primary negotiation and consensus-building forum among stakeholders for
         each of the key fisheries management plans, including Local Artisanal Fisheries
         Councils (CLPA) and Local Fisher Committees (CLP). Project funds would cover
         operating expenses, specialized studies, TA, and training.

         Awareness Building. The project would fund the development of an information,
         education and communication plan to increase awareness and understanding
         regarding the principles and benefits of co-management systems promoted by the
         Project. Awareness campaigns will target: (i) fisher communities in the pilot
         areas, including the members of Local Fisheries Councils and Local Fisheries
         Committees, (ii) professional organizations involved in the fisheries sector, and
         (iii) the general public at the national level. Project funds would cover
         consultants, and support for conducting the campaigns.

         Research on Demersal Fish Stock. The project would develop an incremental
         program of fisheries research through the CRODT, targeted at defining the life
         cycles of key demersal species. The research program would integrate results
         from the local level participatory fish stock evaluation programs that will take
         place at the 12 co-management sites of the Project, and the Ecosystem
         Management Plans that will be prepared under component 2. It would

2Area based co-management is a partnership system in which fishermen share with Government both the power to
make decisions regarding a geographically localized fish stock, and accountability for those decisions.
3 The CNCPM was established in 1999 by the Director of Maritime Fisheries to support consultations among
stakeholders in Senegal’s fisheries at the national level, in accordance with the 1998 Fisheries Code.
                                          19


    complement ongoing, routine assessments of specific demersal species. An
    operational planning framework for research would also be designed to support
    national level management plans, and local level co-management. Project funds
    would cover TA, support for incremental research and research equipment.

    Registration of Pirogues. The Project would support the development and
    implementation of a nationwide system of registration of small scale fishing
    vessels. Registration is needed to monitor artisanal fishing operations as part of
    national and local management plans. Registration also supports the collection
    and interpretation of fisheries statistics, improves the quality of research data, and
    facilitates the creation of area-based rights for fisheries. This activity would
    support a nationwide process of consultation with fishermen, boat owners and
    other stakeholders to draft a revised decree that will govern the future registration
    program, create and implement an information communication campaign
    targeting artisanal fishermen, supply registration plates and the electronic
    registration system of the Ministry of Maritime Economy, train local and regional
    Ministry staff, and set up a system of evaluation and control. Project funds would
    cover TA, support for consultations and equipment.

   Sub-component 1.2: Promotion and coordination of local co-management
    initiatives in three pilot areas, Senegal River Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and
    the Saloum River Delta. This subcomponent would support Government efforts to
    test local co-management of demersal species in the three designated pilot areas.
    The following activities would be supported:

    Selection of Initial Pilot Sites. The project would support the process of selecting
    pilot communities based on a criteria of initiatives that are most likely to succeed.
    The project would also fund baseline studies for each selected pilot site, to
    identify and minimize the risks that might be associated with the implementation
    of the proposed co-management initiative.

    Identification of Local Co-management Initiatives. Training of facilitators for
    each pilot site who would to assist communities with the preparation of local co-
    management subprojects, help communities define realistic management
    objectives, and submit their final proposals to relevant Local Councils for
    approval. The project would also fund the construction of “Fishermen’s Houses”
    that includes office space for the facilitator as well as common space for the fisher
    community. Project funding would cover training, TA, local construction,
    equipment, and operating support to facilitators and Local Fisher Committees.

    Local Level Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance (MCS). Support for local
    level MCS measures required to ensure that fishing activities within the
    geographic footprint of the co-management initiative comply with fisheries
    regulations. Project funds would cover boats, equipment and operating support to
    Local Fisher Committees.

    Participatory Fish Stock Evaluation Programs. CRODT would be contracted
    to prepare local fish stock evaluation programs in response to information needs
                                         20


    identified by the facilitators. CRODT scientists would implement these programs
    but would systematically rely on local fishers for the collection of data, to benefit
    from their knowledge of local fish resources. CRODT would also develop a
    methodology to evaluate fish stocks in shallow waters. The program would ensure
    coordination local research efforts with national level research efforts targeting
    demersal fish stocks, funded by the Project. Project funds would cover TA,
    support for Local Fisher Committees, and research equipment adapted to shallow
    waters.

    Support to Local Fisheries Councils. The project would support the
    development of legal statutes to define parameters for the Local Fisheries
    Councils, the preparation of annual management plans by the Councils, and fund
    independent evaluations of the implementation of the annual management plans.
    Each management would integrate the co-management initiatives submitted by
    Local Fisher Committees into a coherent management plan for the Council's area.
    Project funds would cover TA, equipment and operating costs.

    Monitoring and Evaluation. Support for the preparation of a system to monitor
    the performance of co-management initiatives. This would include development
    of indicators for each pilot site and co-management initiative in partnership with
    the concerned Local Fisher Committees. The Local Fisher Committees would use
    the monitoring system to measure annual progress in achieving the objectives of
    the sub-project. Project funds cover TA and operating costs.

    Evaluation of the Performance of Co-management Initiatives. This involves
    funding for an independent evaluation of the implementation of co-management
    initiatives at the four initial pilot sites and incorporate the recommendations of the
    evaluation into the design of co-management initiatives, as a trigger for adding
    eight additional pilot sites. A second evaluation would be conducted on all 12
    pilot sties to identify adjustments that need to be made to the legal, regulatory and
    institutional framework for fisheries management, to better support co-
    management initiatives and to incorporate them into the national fisheries
    management system. Project funds would cover TA and operating costs.

   Sub-Component 1.3: Institutional strengthening and capacity building to
    oversee, support and monitor the implementation of co-management initiatives.
    The following activities would be supported:

    Support to the COMO-Peche, establishing a technical implementation unit in
    the Ministry of Marine Economy to manage implementation of component 1.

    Strengthening Capacity of the Ministry of Marine Economy and CRODT in
    Designing Participatory Research Programs for Co-management Initiatives.
    This would involve training staff from MME and CRODT involved in the
    implementation of Component 1, to accommodate the introduction of co-
    management and participatory research in their work programs.
                                            21


       Capacity Building in the Design and Implementation of Co-management
       Initiatives. The project would fund a program to inform and train representatives
       of professional organizations about the potential benefits and constraints of co-
       management experiences in Senegal and abroad. Professional organizations
       would be targeted to play an effective role in Local Artisanal Fisheries Councils,
       and in playing a more effective role in CNCPM.

2.16 Component 2: Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species (appraisal
estimate US$6.02 million, actual cost US$ 4.35 million) This component aimed to
improve the long-term management of Senegal’s network of coastal protected areas by:
(i) developing and implementing management plans for these areas, according to an
ecosystem approach, and (ii) restructuring the biodiversity management framework. It
included the following subcomponents:

      Sub-Component 2.1: Managing ecosystems in three pilot areas. The Project
       would support the National Man in Biosphere Committee to ensure the
       establishment or redesign of Biosphere Reserves in the three pilot areas. The
       project would strengthen the existing Saloum Delta Biosphere Reserve, and help
       establish two additional Biosphere Reserves. It would also support the
       establishment of Ecosystem Management Committees with in each site that would
       oversee the preparation and monitor the implementation of an ecosystem
       management plan for each of the pilot areas. It would also fund interim measures
       for each of the three pilot areas, which include expenditures and activities in the
       annual work plans of protected areas that have remained unfunded, as well as
       measures to increase the involvement of neighboring populations in the
       sustainable management of marine and coastal resources, such as ecotourism,
       participatory biodiversity assessments and local surveillance committees. Project
       funds would also support implementation of the ecosystem management plans
       until Project completion.

      Sub-Component 2.2: Strengthening the Biodiversity Conservation
       Framework by preparing a Biodiversity and Protected Area Act, strengthening
       institutions, and preparing the establishment of a Trust Fund. This sub-component
       would support Government efforts to update the framework for biological
       diversity, including a thorough revision of the legal framework, the institutional
       framework, and the governance mechanism, and the establishment of a
       mechanism to ensure long-term sustainability. The following activities would be
       funded:

       Preparation of a Biodiversity and Protected Area Act, which sets biodiversity
       management objectives, incorporates obligations under international conventions
       and treaties that Senegal has signed, defines the different types of protected areas,
       their objectives and management principles, adopts co-management as a driving
       principle and setting co-management guidelines, redefines the mandate of DPN,
       and defines the mandate of the National Biodiversity Committee and its link to
       the DPN. Adoption of the Act is expected before the mid-term review.
                                            22


       Strengthening of DPN, by supporting the DPN to reorganize itself according to
       the new mandate spelled out in the Biodiversity and Protected Area Act. The
       project would also support the establishment of technical implementing unit
       within the DPN to oversee the implementation of Component 2. Project funds
       would cover critical equipment, training and technical assistance, and operating
       expenses of the PIU.

       National Biodiversity Committee and Biodiversity Monitoring. The Project
       would support the National Biodiversity Committee to monitor and evaluate the
       state of biodiversity in Senegal, to prepare a State of Biodiversity Report with
       annual updates, and to disclose the Report and updates to the general public.

       Sustainable Financing. The Project would fund a feasibility study and
       consultations regarding the Establishment of a Trust Fund for Biodiversity
       Conservation in Senegal.

2.17 Component 3: Program management, M&E and Communication (appraisal
estimate US$3.94 million, actual Costs US$ 3.23 million). This component aimed to
ensure optimal implementation of Project activities through the following
subcomponents:

      Sub-Component 3.1: Monitoring and Evaluation. Project funds would support
       the PCU in managing aid from donors and partners, ensure efficient
       implementation and procurement, monitor implementation against indicators, and
       commission periodic independent evaluations.

      Sub-Component 3.2: Coordination. This subcomponent would support the
       Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources Management Steering Committee and
       the Advisory Scientific and Technical Committee. It would also support cross-
       sectoral structures necessary in the pilot intervention areas to ensure coordination
       among various implementing agencies, including joint sessions between the
       National Advisory Council on Marine Fisheries and the National Biodiversity
       Committee.

      Sub-component 3.3: Communication. The project would fund the design and
       implementation of a communication plan to ensure the flow of necessary
       information to and from stakeholders on project activities.

      Sub-component 3.4: Sub-regional Coordination. The project would support a
       partnerships at sub-regional level between the PCU and institutions or structures
       of other countries involved in activities similar as those being implemented under
       the Project.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

2.18 The project was originally designed with a multi-tiered implementation structure.
A project coordination unit (PCU) was established under the administrative oversight of
the Ministry of Environment and Nature Protection. The PCU was responsible for overall
                                                          23


project coordination and for implementation of the project management activities in
Component 3. Technical management of the project’s sector specific activities were
decentralized to two separate implementing agencies. The sustainable fisheries
management component was implemented through a dedicated implementation unit
established within the Department of Maritime Fisheries (the COMO-Peche). The
conservation of critical habitats and species component was implemented by an
implementation unit established within the Department of National Parks (the COMO-
ecosystem).

2.19 A multi-sectoral Program Steering Committee 4 co-chaired by the Ministry of
Environment and Nature Protection and the Ministry of Maritime Economy was
established to ensure inter-sectoral coordination and ensure consistency of project
activities with the Letter of Sector Policy. It was responsible for the review and approval
of annual work programs, monitoring implementation of work programs, reviewing
annual progress in achieving specific outcomes, and providing the implementing units
with suggestions for improvements.

2.20 The Government has also established an advisory Technical and Scientific
Committee to support the Steering Committee by bringing together relevant program
stakeholders, including representatives from the private sector.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

2.21 The project included both World Bank and GEF financing. It was designed to
address two distinct but complementary agendas of the Government of Senegal in the
coastal areas of the country: (i) overfishing of valuable coastal fish stocks; and (ii)
protection of globally important ecosystems and biodiversity. It included a clear
statement of objectives that reflected this dual intent: “to assist the communities within
the Recipient’s territory in achieving sustainable management of the Recipient’s coastal
and marine resources, including ensuring responsible exploitation of resources combined
with protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment."
The project represented a change in approach with respect to the traditional
implementation of projects led by the Federal Government in both the fisheries and
environment ministries, which were top down in nature with limited involvement of local
communities.




4
 The Steering Committee comprised 17 members representing relevant government ministries/agencies, professional
associations and civil society organizations: Minister of State, Minister of Maritime Economy, Minister of
Environment and Nature Protection, Minister of Axmed Forces, Minister of Urbanisme et de Umtnagement du
Territoire, Minister of Tourism and Air Transportation, Ministry of Energy and Mines, Department of Economic and
Financial Cooperation (DCEF), Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Department of Debt and Investments (DDI),
Ministry of Economy and Finance, the Department of Collectivitds locales, Ministre des Collectivitts, Locales et de la
Decentralisation, the Conseil Suptrieur des Ressources Naturelles (CONSERE),he Agences Rdgionales de
Dtveloppement (ARD), ENDA-Dialogue Politique, professional organizations of artisanal fishermen, professional
organizations of industrial fishermen (GAIPES),the World Wildlife Fund (WWF),the International Union for the
Conservation of Nature (IUCN), Wetlands International.
                                            24


2.22 The first objective, ensuring responsible exploitation of resources, was addressed
by the project’s first component, implemented by the Division of Maritime Fisheries. The
main path for pursuing this objective was to develop and pilot a new model of co-
management, whereby communities enter into a legally binding agreement with the
government that allows them to regulate a designated fishery. This was expected to result
in more responsible exploitation of the resource in the pilot sites because the
communities would implement measures aimed at reducing overfishing and would be
more likely to comply with regulations they had developed themselves. In addition they
would have legal backing and support from the government with monitoring and
enforcement. The project also supported revisions to the policy framework that would
improve the enabling environment for co-management measures. Additional activities
were funded that would enhance the government’s fisheries management capacity
including the preparation of management plans on a national scale, a research program on
demersal fish stock and a nationwide registration system for small fishing vessels, as a
tool to control and reduce fishing efforts over time. While these activities would enhance
the Ministry’s capacity to manage the artisanal fisheries sector, they were not critical for
meeting the objective on a pilot scale, and somewhat overloaded the project.

2.23 The second objective, protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical
for the replenishment of coastal and marine resources, was addressed through a second
component to be implemented by the Department of National Parks. This set of activities
aimed to strengthen the capacity of government to protect sensitive coastal environments,
that serve as important nursery grounds for the fisheries in the same three pilot areas, by
funding a network of parks and protected areas to be managed with greater participation
of local communities. The theory of change explaining how the individual activities
would lead to achievement of the project objective was not as clearly articulated.

2.24 While the project activities were related to its objectives, there were several
shortcomings in design. The project's design was too complex and ambitious for its
timeframe and the capacity of the agencies involved. The implementation completion
report notes that the Bank underestimated the time and resources required for the project
to accomplish its objective and its design "included activities which required operating
budgets and resources that the implementing agencies did not have and which the
project's limited resources could not provide" (World Bank, 2011). It’s also notes that the
Bank underestimated the time to induce behavior change in ministries, and the political
economy challenges of shifting the Ministry of Environment from a top down to
participatory approach.

2.25 The timeframe and targets for some activities was also unrealistic. For example,
the project appraisal document set the following target for implementation of the co-
management pilots: Local fisheries management sub-projects implemented in four pilot
sites within 18 months of Project startup, and implemented in an additional eight pilot
sites within the following 18 months. This timeframe runs counter to the experience of
many World Bank community based development projects, which typically spend the
first 18 months to two years with little disbursed as communities are organized. The
targeted timeframe for implementation of the 8 additional sites does not appear to take
into account the project M&E plan that calls for an independent evaluation of the first
four pilots prior to before scaling up to other communities.
                                                           25


2.26 In addition, the selection of instrument should have taken into account the long
term nature of the two agendas being pursued and the need for a longer term
programmatic approach.5 An Adaptable Program Loan would have better suited to
designing the longer term support upfront.

2.27      Relevance of design is rated modest.

Implementation

Changes to the Timing and Scope of Activities
2.28 The project was approved on November 11, 2004 and became effective on April
15, 2005. The original closing date of June 1, 2010 was extended twice by a total of 23
months. The first extension, approved in May of 2010 in conjunction with the project’s
restructuring, added 18 months to the original closing date. The revised closing date of
December 1, 2011 was subsequently extended until May 1st, 2012, to allow the project to
complete the two national fisheries management plans that were delayed because the lead
technical specialist contracted for the work fell ill and had to be replaced.

2.29 The original project development objective was retained throughout
implementation but there were three amendments to the loan agreement impacting the
projects implementation arrangements, the global environment objective, and scope. The
first was a third tier restructuring approved by the country director on May 19, 2008, that
modified the project’s implementation arrangements. The project coordination unit was
closed (the details of which are discussed in para. 2.34) and project management
responsibilities and the remaining funds from the PCU’s operation were reallocated to
each of the technical Ministries’ implementation units for project management of their
respective components.

2.30 The second revision, a first-order project restructuring approved by the Board in
October 2008, modified the Global Environment Objective (GEO), revised the results
framework, and modified the scope of activities. The Global Environment Objective
(GEO), was originally phrased as, “to secure the conservation and management of
Senegal’s marine and coastal ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the
sustained livelihoods of coastal communities.” During implementation it was realized that
the GEO was not attainable within the projects timeframe. The revised GEO was: “to
strengthen the conservation and management of Senegal’s marine and coastal
ecosystems, which are globally significant and vital to the sustained livelihoods of
coastal communities”. The project scope was changed by reducing number of co-
management pilot sites from 12 to four. The eight others were transferred to the
Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources Project under preparation at the time.
The five fisheries management plans originally planned were reduced to two due to the
shortage of experts and time caused by delays in project start-up. The following activities

5 The ICR notes that the project addressed a number of complex issues (e.g. changing behaviors of communities and
government agencies, collaboration across sectors, revisions to legal and institutional frameworks) in a relatively short
time. The project approaches were also of a long term nature. The ecosystems approach requires a long-term
commitment over 10-15 years in a phased approach, particularly as it relates to biodiversity conservation. Likewise,
reforming fisheries sector governance is a long term pursuit.
                                              26


were dropped: (a) the review of policy options was replaced with support to revisions to
the Fisheries Code, finalization of the Letter of Sector Policy and its related Action Plan;
(b) a study on coastal demersal species; and (c) the Information, Education, and
Communication activities were dropped from Component 3 as a result of the dissolution
of the PCU. The projects results framework was also revised.

2.31 The third amendment, approved November 2011, reflected the final six month
extension of the closing date.

Planned versus Actual Disbursements
2.32 Total costs estimated at appraisal were US$16.49 million. At completion actual
costs were US$ 13.26 million, 20 percent below the appraisal estimate. This was largely
due to implementation delays which resulted in some activities that could not be
completed by the end of the project. Costs by component are shown in table 3.

2.33 The project was expected to be financed through an IDA credit of US$ 10 million
US dollar equivalent, a GEF grant of US$5 million USD equivalent and Government
contribution of US$1.49. At closure US$8.8 million of the IDA credit and US$3.7 of the
GEF grant disbursed. US$1.46 of the IDA credit and USD 1.38 of the GEF grant were
cancelled. The government contribution was US$ 0.69, approximately 54 percent below
the planned contribution.6



    Table 2: Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
    Components                               Appraisal          Actual/Latest     Percentage
                                             Estimate             Estimate        of Appraisal
                                           (USD millions)      (USD millions)
    Project Component 1: Management of
                                                6.53                 5.67              87
    Sustainable Fisheries
    Project Component 2: Conservation of
                                                6.02                 4.35              72
    Critical Habitats and Species
    Project Component 3: Program
    management, M&E and                         3.94                 3.24              82
    Communication
    Total project costs                         16.49               13.26              80
Source: World Bank 2004, 2012




6
  It is not entirely clear why the government’s contribution was so much lower then what it had
committed to at project appraisal. Staff in the implementing agency informed IEG that there were
delays in some disbursements and the government budgeting system did not allow for retroactive
financing to cover the years when disbursement did not happen.
                                              27


 Table 3: Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent)
 Source of Funds                Appraisal Estimate       Actual/Latest       Percentage of
                                 (USD millions)         Estimate (USD          Appraisal
                                                           millions)
 IDA                                   10.0                  8.81                 88
 Global Environment                   5.00                   3.76                 77
 Facility (GEF)
 Government of Senegal                 1.49                   0.69                35
 Total:                               16.49                  13.26                79
Source: World Bank 2004, 2012




Implementation Experience
2.34 The project’s original institutional arrangements proved to be unworkable and
significantly hampered implementation during the first half of the project. The decision
to have one overall project coordination unit was taken in part from an operational
perspective, to have only one coordination unit responsible for the project’s fiduciary
aspects. In addition it was believed that establishing an independent project coordination
unit would facilitate overall integration of the two parallel technical agendas that were
being implemented through separate implementation agencies. But the fact that the
project coordination unit was an independent unit staffed by consultants under the
auspices of the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources, led to a lack of
ownership on the part of the Ministry of Maritime Economy who was charged with
implementing the fisheries management component. Supervision reports indicate that
implementation was impacted by conflicts between the Ministry of Environment and
Natural Resources and the Ministry of Maritime Economy over technical issues and the
PCU’s poor project administration performance, including its non-compliance with
World Bank procedures and execution of ineligible expenditures. The well paid PCU also
absorbed much of the project’s resources. As a result prior to project restructuring
disbursements for project management component were ahead of schedule but behind for
the technical components. The Bank team identified the need to adjust the institutional
arrangements within six months of project start-up was but the idea was initially opposed
by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources. Discussion of the issue is
reported to have dominated project supervision until consensus was reached during the
mid-term review in January 2008 when the decision was made to dissolve the PCU and
transfer project management functions to the two technical implementation units.

2.35 Following the dissolution of the PCU, project ownership by the line ministries
initially improved. However, implementation of the fisheries management component
stalled again in August 2011 when the project coordinator stopped communicating with
the Bank team over the Bank’s refusal to give a no objection to contracts for PCU staff
that had ineligible clauses. Supervision reports indicate that at that point most of the
funds for the fisheries activities had already disbursed. The impact of this situations was
greater for the Sustainable Fisheries Management Project that was managed by the same
implementation unit.
                                                           28


2.36 Implementation at the Central Level was also impacted by high turnover of staff
both in the PCU and at the ministerial level, impacting government ownership and
commitment. The Implementation Completion and Results Report noted that in the
course of project implementation there were three Project Coordinators, five Procurement
Specialists, three Ministers of Environment and two different Ministers of Fisheries and
Maritime Economy. With each turnover in Ministers the Bank team had to re-engage
with a new counterpart and agreements made with the preceding minister were not
always supported by the subsequent one.

2.37 Procurement was a persistent problem, resulting in slow disbursement, project
inefficiencies, and delays in the implementation of activities, some of which were not
completed by project closure. Examples include delays in contracting consultants under
fisheries component, and prolonged process of preparing management plans or
community activities in component 2. (Details are discussed in para. 2.47)

2.38 Implementation progress at the local level proceeded at a faster pace than at the
central level but was hampered by delays in centralized procurement and
administrative clearances. The process of endorsing co-management agreements took
much longer than anticipated. There was a gap of two years from the time communities
finalized their sub-project proposal until the co-management agreements were signed.
Procurement, financial and administrative procedures also disrupted implementation of
many community sub-project activities (this affected both fisheries and ecosystem
conservation activities).7 In addition to causing implementation delays, the wait
demotivated many of the local participants.
ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL SAFEGUARDS POLICIES

2.39 The project was classified as “Category B” under the Bank‘s environmental and
social safeguard policies and triggered following safeguards policies: environmental
assessment, natural habitats and involuntary resettlement. A full environmental and social
assessment was carried out during preparation, including an Environmental Management
Plan and Resettlement and Process Framework. Two potential safeguard concerns were
identified during preparation: access restrictions resulting from fisheries management
measures; and, the impact on local populations from the reestablishment of seasonal
floods in certain parts of the Senegal River Delta which were under consideration as an
ecological restoration measures.

2.40 The project provided provisions to fund a process to identify and provide
compensation to fisherman whose livelihood might be adversely impacted by co-
management restrictions. An agreement was signed with the Senegal Social Investment
7 The Implementation Completion and Results Report notes pilot sites were identified before project effectiveness and
the recruitment, training, and posting of facilitators at the pilot sites were carried out soon after effectiveness. This
ensured against a loss in momentum of project launch activities and that the main stakeholders, the targeted fishing
communities and their associations, would stay engaged after the facilitators promoted the co-management initiatives.
Preparation of fisheries sub-projects for the four pilot sites began one year after implementation. While all sites had
finalized their sub-projects by February 2006, the legal agreements on co-management were not signed until August
2008. Procurement requirements, administrative and financial procedures, slowed down further the implementation of
activities between 2008 and 2010.
                                                           29


Fund to establish a Fisheries Reconversion Fund earmarked to aid local fishermen
affected by fishing restrictions to obtain new skills and find alternative employment. A
social development indicator was also included as one of the project’s Key Performance
Indicators in order to monitor social development outcomes: “Measures to alleviate the
impact of a reduction in fishing capacity rated satisfactory by at least 75 percent of
targeted communities – to be measured by an independent participatory evaluation of
targeted communities.” In the event that a decision were taken to go forward with the
flood rehabilitation, project support would be contingent on the prior preparation of an
EA and EMP satisfactory to the Bank and Government compliance with the Project’s
Resettlement Framework.

2.41         The following safeguards issues arose in the course of project implementation:

2.42 Environmental Safeguards. In one of the National Park sites a bridge was
constructed, with project funding but without the Bank’s approval, to allow vehicles to
access to Park Headquarters. The bridge’s design was flawed, however, in that it lacked a
pipe to allow water to circulate between tides, inadvertently leading to the demise of
juvenile fish that were trapped in shallow water during low tide. Supervision reports
indicate that once the issue was detected the Bank team immediately called for the
modification of the structure to restore water flow and culverts were installed, rectifying
the problem.

2.43 Social Safeguards. The fisheries reconversion fund under the Senegal Social
Investment Fund did not materialize as planned. Following the project’s appraisal the
Social Investment Fund was merged into a new operation and the fisheries reconversion
fund window no longer fit into the priorities of the new operation. Hence the fund was
not established, even though an MOU had been signed with the project. As an alternative,
during the mid-term review the Bank and Government agreed to incorporate the
Reconversion Fund into the project with financing from the anticipated cost savings from
the dissolution of the PCU. The fund was ultimately established under the Sustainable
Management of Fisheries Resources Project, which was approved in 2008 and
implemented as a complement to the GIRMAC project. It covered social issues in both
projects.

2.44 Alternative revenue generating activities were implemented in two sites to
compensate women for forgone revenue due to co-management restrictions that
prohibited the processing juvenile shrimp.8 No other social safeguard issues were
reported in the project supervision reports and none were reported to the IEG mission.
The Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that beneficiary
assessments that were to be implemented at MTR and at the end of project to measure the
KPI on social outcomes were not carried out, thus compliance with safeguards not fully
satisfactory.9 IEG interviewed the safeguard specialist who worked on the project to
understand the significance of this omission. The mission was informed that the project

8 Thisissue occurred in Betenty and Foundiougne. In Bétenty the women were provided with seed capital to allow them
to commercialize other types of seafood and market them in Dakar. In Foundiougne a household goods and cooking
utensils store for a group of about 36 women.
9 The    Implementation Completion and Results Report rated safeguards compliance as moderately satisfactory.
                                           30


was in compliance with the safeguards policies in terms of having carried out the agreed
upon safeguards activities but because the beneficiary assessments were not carried out
the project did not produce the required safeguards documents, thus it did not fully
comply with the guidelines for documentation of social safeguards. He provided the IEG
mission with the following statement “In spite of the lack of documentation it is the
assessment of the safeguards specialist that in terms of carrying out social safeguards
activities the project achievements were satisfactory.”

FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND PROCUREMENT

2.45 Financial management of the project was unsatisfactory throughout
implementation. At the projects start, when financial management was under the
responsibility of a single project coordination unit, quarterly financial reports were
submitted on time and were reported to have been of satisfactory quality. However, a
financial management review found the PCU’s overall financial management
performance to be unsatisfactory due to non-compliance with WB procedures and
ineligible expenditures. The project coordination unit was closed, a financial audit was
carried out, and the Government prepared an action plan to address pending issues.
Financial management was then transferred to the line agencies implementing the
technical components. The financial management system for both technical agencies was
adequate in that project accounts were current, Financial Monitoring Reports were
received on time and were of satisfactory quality, and there was an acceptable rate of
budget expenditure. However, the overall financial management performance of each
agency was unsatisfactory for the reasons outlined below.

2.46 The implementation unit for Sustainable Fisheries Management activities did not
sufficiently monitor the financial activities at the Local Fishermen’s Committee level,
which was one the most important activities of the Project. The implementation unit
incurred ineligible expenditures. There was incomplete documentation for payments from
IDA funds and delays in implementing the recommendations made by the external
auditor to provide sufficient justification of expenditures incurred by technical experts
during field supervision missions. A Procedures Manual was not adopted and there were
doubts about the authenticity of workshop expenditures. The implementation unit for
Ecosystem Management incurred ineligible expenditures for works which were
unfinished or non-existent at project closure. It also lacked supporting documentation
relating to the disposal of two vehicles. By the end of the project the Bank requested the
reimbursement for a total of 189 million CFA francs of ineligible expenses from all
agencies combined.

2.47 Procurement was slow throughout the project’s implementation due to weak
capacity in the implementation units and the cumbersome demands of following dual
procurement processes. At the time that the project was implemented Senegal was one of
the countries in which the Bank was piloting the use of Country Systems. As a result the
implementing agencies were required to comply with both Bank and National
procurement systems. Project files indicate that procurement specialists changed five
times, contributing to protracted processing of key contracts which resulted in some
activities not being completed by the end of project. IEG interviews with implementing
agency staff also indicate that some procurement staff were not sufficiently qualified.
                                                           31


There were also shortcomings in quality control of the materials procured for civil works
in the co-management sites. The Implementation Completion and Results Report
indicates that two of the four fishermen council meeting houses that the project
constructed were already in need of repair by the time of the ICR mission because of poor
quality of materials and workmanship. The IEG mission was informed that in one of the
ecosystem management sites the project started construction of a restaurant, as an
alternative revenue generating measure, but didn’t complete it due to the poor quality of
materials procured that were not suited to local environmental conditions.

Achievement of the Objectives
2.48 The project development objective comprises two parts, assessed below as two
separate sub-objectives.

Sub-objective 1 – Assist the communities within the Recipient’s territory in achieving
sustainable management of coastal and marine resources by ensuring responsible
exploitation of resources

2.49 This sub objective was pursued through a combination local level activities to
pilot co-management initiatives with local communities and national level activities
aimed at providing a conducive enabling environment and tools for the government to
manage the artisanal fisheries sector through co-management. The outputs and outcomes
associated with each is presented below.

Outputs of Local Level Activities

2.50 The main tool for achieving this objective was to pilot a co-management model,
whereby the government would empower targeted communities to develop and
implement legally-recognized management measures to reduce overfishing. By project
closure, co-management agreements were signed and co-management activities had been
implemented in 4 sites, fully meeting the revised performance target. The target was
formally revised downward from original target of 12, following the mid-term review,
because the process proved to be more time consuming than realized at preparation10, in
part because this was the first time the process had been carried out.

2.51 By project closure the co-management measures had been carried out in full in
three of the four project sites, and all but one measure had been completed in the fourth
site. The specific management measures implemented in each site are detailed in Table 4.
At the fourth site, Ouakam, the immersion of an artificial reef was still under preparation
at project closure because activities at this site had a later starter than in the other sites.11



10The 12 pilot sites were to be implemented in stages. The original timeframe was to conduct pilots in four sites within
18 months of Project startup, and implemented in an additional eight pilot sites within the following 18 months. The
communities in the first 4 pilots completed co-management proposals within the first year but it took too years before
approval was granted.
11This site is located on the outskirts of the capital city, Dakar, and involved a more extensive consultation process
with neighboring communities than the other sites.
                                                         32


The IEG mission was informed that the artificial reef was subsequently damaged by the
submersion of an underwater cable by the national telephone company, SONATEL.12

 Table 4: Initiatives under Implementation at the Co-management Pilot Sites
 Co-Management Site and Target Species                        Subproject activities
 Ouakam                                                       Cleaning of sea bed
 Target species: Coastal demersal fish                        Creation of no-fishing zone
 (grouper/thiof, green lobster, and the cigale de             Creation of controlled fishing zones with approved
 mer lobster)                                                 fishing gear and methods
                                                              Establish artificial reef
 Ngaparou                                                     Put in place measures for the management of the green
 Target species: Green lobster and other coastal              lobster (sanctioning the use of unsustainable fishing
 demersal species linked to the lobster                       gear and fishing methods)
                                                              Alternate closures to fishing in coastal zones
                                                              Placement of artificial reefs and other devices to attract
                                                              fish
 Foundiougne                                                  Replacement of illegal fishnets to reduce juvenile
 Target species: Coastal White shrimp                         shrimp catch
                                                              Impose biological rest period to protect immature
                                                              shrimp and improve weak market prices related to
                                                              small size
 Bétenty                                                      Replace illegal, small-size fishnets with approved
 Target species: Coastal White shrimp                         fishnets of legal size (24 mm) to protect immature
                                                              shrimp and improve weak market prices related to
                                                              small size
                                                              Impose biological rest periods for coastal shrimp
                                                              fishing in the area to replenish resources for large size
                                                              shrimp and improve the quality of shrimp landings

2.52 The project also provided communities with accompanying measures to support
implementation of their co-management measures. This included support for
surveillance, monitoring, participation in research, and awareness-raising. Each
community was provided with a surveillance boat to conduct monitoring, control and
surveillance activities. The Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that
communities participated actively in monitoring, control and surveillance activities
(MCS) and managed them with regular patrols by CLP members. MCS activities were
initially carried out with Project funds. Overtime the CLP’s own funds were used. IEG
interviews confirmed this finding. The local fisheries administration representative at
each site also supports the communities with enforcement. However, MCS is an area that
requires further strengthening. (See risk to development outcome, para. 2.96, for a
discussion of MCS limitations).

2.53 Efforts to support co-management efforts with a participatory monitoring and
research partnership between national agencies and local communities yielded mixed
results. The project signed a contract with the Center for Oceanography Research of

12The West Africa Regional Fisheries Project continues to support this site and is working with the CLP to immerse a
new artificial reef.
                                                         33


Dakar (CRODT) to carry out participatory research with pilot communities. This
initiative was intended to provide communities with support to finalize the co-
management initiatives and enhance their capacity to monitor the impact of co-
management efforts. Activities included a study of baseline estimates for artificial reefs
and the placement of restricted zones, research on how to add value to products with
weak commercial value, and participatory/community data collection of catches.
According to the Implementation Completion and Results Report this activity succeeded
in raising awareness of local communities on research needs and introducing its members
to basic data collection and monitoring. A CRODT researcher has been placed
permanently on site at Ouakam to carry out further work with the fishing community,
because in the course of carrying out one study, CRODT discovered that Ouakam was a
major fishing site. However, the research activities were not carried out consistently and
the communities perceived that the agencies retained a top down approach. In some cases
there were disagreements between the community and CRODT agents over when to
implement the biological rest period.

2.54 As of the IEG assessment mission the co-management agreements remained
under implementation in all four sites. The West Africa Regional Fisheries Program
continues to strengthen the implementation capacity of the CLPs in each site.

Outputs of National Level Activities

2.55 The project made less progress implementing activities at the National level.
Some activities planned at appraisal were removed from the project during
implementation and their funds allocated to other project activities.13 Variable progress
was made in completing the remaining activities.

2.56 Revisions were to key sector policies and regulations were drafted but not all
were approved by project closure. A revised letter of sector policy was completed and
approved in 2008. Revisions to the 1998 Fisheries Code were also completed but their
approval was pending at project closure. As of the IEG assessment mission the revised
Code had been approved at the Ministry level but the process of obtaining parliament
approval had not been completed. The revisions to the Fisheries Code introduce
innovations related to the right of access to the resource and ecosystem management.14



13This included preparation of an incremental program of fisheries research targeting the life cycles of key demersal
species, expected to be conducted by CRODT. This activity was part of the Project’s institutional capacity-building
efforts, but could not be carried out due to the lengthy contract preparation and lack of available personnel CRODT
capable of providing the needed services. This activity was transferred to the ongoing West Africa Regional Fisheries
Program. Management studies planned at appraisal to evaluate fisheries sector policy options were removed from
project activities during implementation because they were overtaken by national policy discussions ongoing at the
time that dealt with similar concerns. The Special Commission which was established by the Government to determine
the nature of any major reforms proposed by changes in fisheries sector policies did not function. Its statute was not
renewed after 2006 because the Government changed its mind regarding the usefulness of its mandate.
14 The IEG mission was informed that the key differences between the old code and the revised code with respect to
artisanal fisheries are the following:
•The co-management system is introduced as a tool to manage artisanal fisheries. Co-management was implemented as
“experimental sites” under GIRMAC. Whereas under the new law it is recognized as an official approach or a public
tool to manage fisheries.
                                                          34


2.57 National Registration System for Small Fishing Vessels (PNI). The PNI
program was started prior to the project, with funding by other donors. Its goals was to
provide a functional nationwide registration system for small fishing vessels, as a tool to
control and reduce fishing efforts over time.15 The program experienced a number of
problems with implementation initially and by 2010 most of the other donors had stopped
funding it. The WB began contributing its own resources to finance the PNI program in
2010 after funding from other donors ended.16

2.58 At the start of the program official statistics estimated that the size of the artisanal
fleet was approximately 12,000 vessels. The estimate was based on census data from
1986, the latest available census data at the time. The target set for the PNI was to
register 10,000 artisanal fishing boats (pirogues). By the end of the project, 18,900
fishing boats were registered electronically (and registration numbers were distributed to
owners) and 16,207 of these boats had been marked with the registration number. An
online database for the registration program was also established (www.bdpni.gouv.sn).
Implementation of the program, however, was also affected by the management problems
at the COMO-Fisheries in July 2011 when all project activities stopped. As a result, no
field work or follow-up was carried out just as the program was about to move into its
data consolidation phase. Support for the program has continued under the West Africa
Regional Fisheries Program (WARFP). The WARFP expects to complete the registration and
marking of boats and transfer the process from the project coordination unit to the Ministry’s
administrative services.

2.59 Several implementation issues remain that the West Africa Fisheries Program is
attempting to address. Project staff noted that many of the boats that were registered no
longer have numbers on the boat. Interviews indicated that boat owners are not diligent in
remarking their boats with the registration number when they are repainted as part of annual
maintenance. There has also been a lack of enforcement on the part of local DPM agents in
controlling the construction of new boats. The IEG mission was informed that legally
authorization of the local DPM is required before constructing a new boat but it is not
universally applied. Efforts are ongoing under the WARFP to improve enforcement on the
part of the local DPM agents. The project is also exploring the possibility of switching from
painting registration numbers to issuing license plates.




•Fisheries Management Plans are recognized as an official public policy tool that government is using. Under the 1998
Code management plans were included as a definition. Under the revised code they have been elevated to a designated
management tool.
•Fishing Rights Concessions have been introduced as a new tool to control access rights. The old code only gave
fishing rights to government and licenses were granted to individuals. The new code provides for the right to issue
fishing permits and designate concessions. The CLPs will have a certain quantity of permits, and have the right to
regulate gear, set catch limits and fishing seasons.
• Protected Fishing Zones have been introduced for fishing management objectives. The Ministry can artificial reefs to
restore stocks.
15 Prior to establishing the PNI, all industrial vessels in Senegal were locally registered and licensed, but artisanal

vessels were not.
16 The Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that from 2005-2010 contributions from a Swiss Trust
Fund were managed by the World Bank. In 2010 the World Bank began contributing financing from all three of its
fisheries projects (GIRMAC, GDRH, WARFP). Interviews with implementing agency staff indicate that actual
implementation of PNI activities were only carried out under the GDRH project, not the GIRMAC project.
                                                            35


2.60 The key outcome of the PNI program to date is that it has raised awareness in the
Ministry that the size of the artisanal fleet is much higher than realized. In registering
close to twice the estimated number of boats, the PNI has demonstrated that the original
estimates significantly underestimated the size of the small scale fishing fleet. As a result
of the programs progress, the official statistic on the size of the artisanal fleet has been
revised from 12,000 to 19,000. The mission was informed that other projects are using
the PNI information to meet EU traceability requirements for exports and that some
processing facilities have begun to ask for registry information. DMP staff noted that the
PNI database is a useful tool to enhance their sea patrolling capacity.17 In addition project
staff informed the IEG mission that having an accurate count of the number small scale
vessels in operation is useful in for preparing ZPPs, designating access rights, and
limiting fishing efforts going forward. According to the project appraisal document, the
project’s success would also require that the Government is capable of monitoring the
movements of industrial vessels into the areas reserved for artisanal fisheries.
Accordingly an agreement was reached during negotiations that all industrial vessels
would be equipped with satellite-based, vessel monitoring system and that the Ministry of
Maritime Economy would be capable of monitoring the movements of industrial vessels,
by the time of the mid-term review of the Project. However, neither the mid-term review
nor the implementation completion and results report mention whether this capacity was
built as expected.

2.61 The project’s goal of preparing national management plans for two key fisheries
that are approved by the National Consultative Council for Maritime Fisheries was not
met. Preparation of the two plans was started but was not completed. The targeted species
were selected within the first few months of implementation but the procurement process
significantly delayed contracting the consulting firm and there were multiple setbacks in
implementation of the contract. It took about 3.5 years from the time the Expressions of
Interests were advertised (January 26, 2005) to Bank approval and contract award (June
9, 2008), whereas the usual procurement processing time for this type of contract takes
about 6-7 months. Preparation for the management plans began a year later. During the
preparation of the plans, the consulting firms team of fisheries experts changed three
times. Finding qualified replacements in a highly specialized technical fields, such as
socio-economics modeling of tropical fisheries, was difficult and required the approval of
the Government and of the Bank, further delaying the process by eight months. In August
2010, the consulting firm proposed a new timetable for activities which extended past the
Project closing date of December 1, 2011. At that point one of the fisheries experts fell ill
and by the time the replacement arrived, it was too late to complete the assignment. The
Bank extended the closing date to May 1, 2012 to allow for the completion of the
fisheries management plans. However, on March 20, 2012, the firm to officially notify
the Bank that it was suspending all remaining activities and cancelling the contract, citing
insufficient time to complete the work before the Project closing date due to after delays
in approving the amendment to the contract by the Government’s Central Procurement
Department. According to the Implementation Completion and Results Report, although
the plans were not completed a substantial amount of preparation work had been carried
out under the project which was expected to be completed under the West Africa

17 Staff noted that when a registered boat is spotted fishing in a protected area but is not caught the database is used to
track down the owner.
                                                          36


Regional Fisheries Program. As of the IEG assessment mission, a new consulting firm
had been contracted but its work was behind schedule.18 Staff in the ministry credit the
project with introducing the concept of national management plans to Senegal.

2.62 Efforts to create a negotiation and consensus-building forum among stakeholders
in the preparation of co-management fisheries management plans had mixed results. Two
government advisory councils were expected to play a role in this process. The National
Council for Consultation on Fisheries (NCCF) had been established through the 1998
Fisheries Law to provide a framework for consultation at the national level on fisheries.
Under the project it provided effective support to the fisheries management proposals of
the CLPs. Local Artisanal Fisheries Councils (CLPA) were established by the
government to be part of the framework structure for fisheries consultation at the local
level. They were expected to play a role in the approval of CLP subprojects. However,
they were being established nationally at the same time as the Project was being
prepared. Some of the CLPAs were unable to play an effective role in the project because
they were either not yet functional, did not have the right representation, or did not cover
the same jurisdictions as those of the targeted fishing communities.

OUTCOMES

2.63 The project’s main outcome related to this objective was to successfully pilot a
model to assist communities in the preparation and implementation of co-management
agreements in partnership with the government. By the end of the project, positive
impacts on the targeted fisheries were observed in each of the four sites were the
management model was piloted.

2.64 The original target set by the project to assess changes in the targeted fish stocks
as a result of co-management measures was an increase of 10 to 30 percent in the Catch
per Unit Effort (CPUE). The CPUE is an indirect measure of the abundance of a target
species. The project team included data on the CPUE for each site in the implementation
completion and results report, even though this indicator had been dropped as an official
key performance indicator during the 2008 restructuring. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report includes additional outcome data collected at the pilot
sites through 2011 on the quantity of catches, size of individuals, and the average price
per unit. The IEG mission obtained additional data for some indicators for 2012 and 2013
from three of the four sites.

2.65 A complication in assessing the data stems from difficulty pinpointing when
implementation of the various measures began, as well as the fact that the various
management activities were not implemented at once. The formal agreements were
signed in March 2008, although some communities reported having worked on measures
prior to that date. IEG interviews indicate that most measures had been implemented by


18 The IEG mission was informed that although about 70 percent of the work in preparing the management plans had
been completed under the GIRMAC project, a new consultant began work from scratch in February 2014. The first
firm modeled the fisheries with data from 1970s to 2008. The new consultant insisted on doing a new assessment in
part because of the 5 years gap in the data but also because they would only agree be held accountable for the quality of
their own work.
                                           37


2009. Taking this into account outcomes from 2009 forward, are more likely to reflect
effects of the co-management measures.

2.66 Data from each site are discussed separately below. Each sites has data on the
abundance of the targeted species (measured by volume of catches, CPUE) and/or the
size of individuals (measured by weight or the number of individuals per catch). The
implementation completion and results report also reports on the average price per unit of
the targeted species in each site but it is not clear how much price is driven by better
management of the targeted species versus other factors, so this information was not
factored into IEGs assessment of outcome. It is presented below for information only.

   In Ngaparou, prior to the implementation of co-management measures the quantity of
    catches for green lobster ranged from 770 - 1,575 kg. Following the start of the co-
    management measures catches increased to 1,645kg in 2009, 2,835kg in 2010, and
    4,095 in 2011. The CPUE of green lobster ranged from 83 - 140 kg per vessel,
    increasing to 142 kg per vessel in 2009, 160 kg per vessel in 2010, and 300 g. per
    vessel in 2011.The CLP provided IEG with additional information on the average
    weigh of lobster which increased overtime from 295 g. in 2005 to 420 g. in 2010 to
    900 g. in 2013. In addition, multiple stakeholder groups (CLP, local DPM,
    implementing agency staff, other donors) gave anecdotal reports that species that had
    not been seen in the area for 30 years, returned to the area shortly after the
    communities’ implementation of the co-management measures. They interpret this as
    an indication that the conditions in the co-management area have improved, though it
    is not possible to definitively attribute this to the co-management efforts.

   In Ouakam, prior to the implementation of co-management, the catches of grouper
    ranged from 10,100 - 13,960 kg. (in 2007 and 2008), increasing to 22,200 kg in 2009,
    17,200 in 2010 and 23,300 kg in 2011. The CPUE of grouper ranged from 75 – 105
    kg per vessel (in 2007 and 2008), increasing to 156 kg/vessel in 2009, 123 kg/vessel
    in 2010, and 166 kg/vessel in 2011. Catches of green lobster raged from 1,300 –
    1,500 kg. (in 2007 and 2008), increasing to 1,850 kg. in 2009, 5,050 kg in 2010, and
    4,800 kg. in 2011. The CPUE of green lobster ranged from 10-11 kg per vessel (in
    2007 and 2008), increasing to 13 kg/vessel in 2009, 36 kg/vessel in 2010, and 34
    kg/vessel in 2011.

   In Bétenty. The quantity of catches did not improve over the project timeframe, but
    the size of individuals increased suggest that the stock is improving. Prior to the
    implementation of co-management measures, the shrimp count per kg ranged from
    226 – 175 (2005-2008), decreasing to 144 shrimp/kg. in 2009, 138 shrimp/kg in 2010
    and 141 shrimp/kg.in 2011. The IEG mission was provided with additional
    information on the percent of small shrimp per catch, which ranged from 48 – 42
    percent (2005-2008), decreasing to 24 percent in 2009, 18 percent in 2010, 23 percent
    in 2011, 22 percent in 2012, and 21 percent in 2013.

   In Foundiougne, both the quantity of catches and the size of individuals improved
    following the implementation of the co-management measures. Quantity of catches
    ranged from 343,370 – 287,190 kg., prior to the implementation of co-management.
    Increasing to 362,835 kg in 2009, 274,232 kg in 2010, 431,625 kg in 2011, 309,390
                                                       38


    kg. in 2012 and 550, kg. in 2013. The number of shrimp per kg. ranged from 178- 96
    (2007-2008), decreasing to 92 shrimp/kg. in 2009, 88 shrimp per kg/ in 2010, and 115
    shrimp/kg. in 2011.



 NGAPAROU
 Species            Indicator         2005       2006       2007    2008      2009     2010       2011
 Green lobster      Quantity of       770        700        1,575   1,561     1,645    2,835      4,095
                    catches (kg)



 Green lobster      Average           4,900      6,000      6,270   6,850     5,727    5,700      6,725
                    Price/unit
                    (FCFA/Kg)
 Green lobster      Total harvest     103        140        83      90        142      160        300
                    per vessel
                    (kg/small
                    vessel)
(Source: Implementation and Completion Report)



 Additional information provided to IEG from Ngaparou
 Species      Indicator 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009                            2010    2011   2012    2013
 Green        Average      295                                               420                    900
 lobster      weight
                                                        39



 OUAKAM
                                                         20
 Species                        Indicator        2005       2007      2008    2009    2010    2011
                                                         06
                                                 NA      NA
                                Quantity
                                                            10,10     13,96   22,20   17,20   23,30
                                of catches
 Grouper (Epinephelus                                       0         0       0       0       0
                                (kg)
 aenus)
                                                 NA      NA
                                Quantity
 Green Lobster                  of catches                    1,300   1,500   1,850   5,050   4,800
                                (kg)

                                Total            NA      NA
                                Harvest
                                per vessel
                                                              75      105     156     123     166
                                (kg/small
 Grouper (Epinephelus           scale
 aenus)                         vessel)
                                Total            NA      NA
                                Harvest
                                per vessel
 Green Lobster                                                10      11      13      36      34
                                (kg/small
                                scale
                                vessel)
                                Average          NA      NA
                                Price/unit
                                                              3,670   3,980   3,380   3,620   4,500
 Grouper (Epinephelus           (FCFA/K
 aenus)                         g)
                                Average          NA      NA
                                Price/unit
 Green Lobster                                                8,500   8,340   5,000   5,000   5,500
                                (FCFA/K
                                g)
(Source: Implementation and Completion Report)
                                                      40

BETENTY
 Species    Indicator     2005       2006       2007       2008        2009      2010      2011       2012    2013
 Coastal    Quantity of   365,700    336,200    340,700    328,900     296,900   237,200   229,400    272,800 295,700
 Shrimp     catches
            (kg)

 Coastal Average          400        550        600        600         700       900       800        NA      NA
 Shrimp Price/unit
            (FCFA/Kg)

 Coastal    Shrimp        226        179        184        175         144       138       141        NA      NA
 Shrimp     count/Kg
 Coastal    Total         5,626      5,698      5,495      6,206       5,209     4,651     3,888      NA      NA
 Shrimp     harvest
            per vessel
            (kg/small
            scale
            vessel)
(Sources: 2005-2011 Implementation Completion Report; 2012-2013 CLP)


Additional information provided to IEG from Betenty
 Species     Indicator   2005 2006 2007 2008                     2009     2010    2011     2012      2013
 Coastal     CPUE        2.50 2.55 2.67 2.80                     2.90     3.13    2.78     2.69      2.81
 Shrimp      (kg/Hour)

 Coastal      Percentage 48.30 45.20 41.70 42.00 23.70 18.10 22.40 21.65 21.17
 Shrimp       of small
              shrimp
                                                    41

FOUNDIOUGNE
 Specie    Indicator    200    2006    2007        2008        2009      2010      2011      2012      2013
 s                      5
 Coastal   Quantity     NA     NA      343,370     287,190     362,835   274,232   431,625   309,390   550,00
 Shrimp    of                                                                                          0
           catches
           (kg)
 Coastal   Av.          NA     NA         600         600        550       500       750       700      660
 Shrimp    Price/unit
           at
           landing
           FCFA/kg
 Coastal   Number       NA     NA         178         96          92       88        115       NA       NA
 Shrimp    Shrimp /
           kg
 Coastal   Total        NA     NA        2,704       2,393      2,555     1,714     1,429      NA       NA
 Shrimp    harvest
           per
           vessel
           (kg/small
           scale
           vessel)
(Sources: 2005-2011 Implementation Completion Report; 2012-2013 CLP)


2.67 Two issues were considered in assessing the plausibility that the co-management
measures are responsible for the observed the outcomes: the time between treatment and
the expected result, and a consideration of other factors that could have influenced the
outcome. On the first issue, fisheries management specialists interviewed indicated that
the life span of the targeted species is short enough that the implemented measures could
have had an impact quickly after implementation of the management measures. The
second issue is more difficult. Fish stocks are impacted by a number of factors and it is
difficult to control for them. Although control data is not available to determine the
extent that the positive outcomes are the result of co-management measures versus other
factors (such as environmental conditions), technical experts consulted by IEG noted it is
reasonable to assume that at least some of the change in the condition of the stock is due
to the management measures.

2.68 In summary, in spite of the project management shortcomings at central level, the
project made considerable progress implementing co-management measures at the local
level. While not all planned activities were completed, the project succeeded in piloting a
co-management system between government and communities. By project closure the
communities had implemented most of the activities specified in the agreements. There is
some (albeit limited) data that shows positive effects on the targeted fish stocks, in terms
of catch volume and size of individuals, since communities started implementing their
co-management measures, though there is insufficient information to determine the
extent to which this is due to co-management initiatives versus other factors. Although
the pilot communities all had some sort of tradition of managing natural resources prior
to the project, they were legally prohibited from imposing restrictions or regulations.
Under the 1998 fisheries code the sea is considered “national heritage” and belong to the
                                                          42


Senegalese People as a whole (Sarr 2012) and the State is its custodian.19 Past efforts of
private citizen to impose regulations were viewed by the courts as illegal. By establishing
legally backed agreements, that are signed by the Ministry the project has empowered
communities with regulation rights that they did not have before. This is the first step in a
longer term process of designating access rights. This model is now in the process of
being institutionalized. The IEG mission was informed that based on the project
experience, the government has recognized co-management as an official tool for
implementing its fisheries policy. The model is being further strengthened and replicated
in additional sites, with continued support of the West Africa Regional Fisheries Project.
Based on the above, IEG concludes that the communities in the pilot sites are managing
the exploitation of resources in a more responsible manner than prior to entering into the
co-management agreement.

2.69       Achievement of this objective is rated substantial.

Sub-objective 2 – Assist the communities within the Recipient’s territory in achieving
sustainable management of coastal and marine resources by ensuring protection of
ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment

2.70 This objective was pursued by enhancing the Department of National Park’s
capacity to carry out ecosystem management through the network of national parks with
greater participation of local communities. The project funded two sets of activities: (i)
ecosystem management activities to be carried out within and around select parks with
local communities; and, (ii) national level activities aimed at strengthening the DNPs
capacity for biodiversity management. The outputs of both sets of activities are discussed
below followed by a combined assessment of resulting outcomes.

Outputs

Activities implemented at park sites:

2.71 The project focused on strengthening management of 10 national parks or
community reserves under the DNP’s management in three coastal areas.

2.72 Biosphere Reserves. The project aimed to support the establishment of three
UNESCO Biosphere Reserves, one in each pilot area. The purpose of supporting
Biosphere Reserves was to consolidate existing protected areas, serve as anchor sites for
ecosystem management activities and contribute to the preparation of ecosystem
management plans. By project closure Biosphere Reserves designation had been
completed in two of three pilot areas.20 Although the project did not succeed in

19 “the right to fish in waters under Senegalese jurisdiction belongs to the State which may grant this right to physical
or moral persons of Senegalese or foreign nationality. The management of fish resources is the prerogative of the State.
For this purpose, the State defines a policy to protect and conserve these resources, and to ensure their sustainable use
in order to preserve the marine ecosystem.”
20
   In the third site, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, the processes for submitting the necessary documentation to UNESCO for
the Biosphere Reserve program took longer than expected due to the numerous stakeholders involved. Establishment of
the Cap-Vert Biosphere Reserve was removed the project at the MTR when it became apparent that it was not feasible
to complete before the end of the Project. The Implementation Completion and Results Report noted that the DNP
planned to submit the application for the Cap-Vert Peninsula in April of 2013, the MAB Biosphere Reserve program
                                                          43


establishing the third Biosphere Reserve, it supported the management of the individual
parks that were to be incorporate in that Reserve.

2.73 Ecosystem Management Planning. The project attempted to put in place a new
mechanism to carry out ecosystem-based co-management in each pilot area, through the
establishment of Ecosystem Management Committees (EMC), but was not successful.
EMCs were intended to foster co-management from the multiple protected areas in each
Biosphere and their respective stakeholders. The EMC was to oversee the preparation
ecosystem management plans that would consolidate individual management plans of the
various national parks within each biosphere reserve. Three EMCs were established but
they were dropped from the project at the mid-term review. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report indicates that EMCs had difficulty managing at the
regional scale because they were established under the DNP and it did not have legal
jurisdiction outside the park’s boundaries. None of the EMCs that were created were
operational beyond the project’s closure.

2.74 Local ecosystem management plans. Following the MTR ecosystem management
responsibilities were transferred from the EMC to local project sites, without regional
committee oversight. By project closure, local ecosystem management plans were
prepared for eight out of the ten parks receiving project support, covering the period
2009-2014. Most of the management plans were already under preparation before the
Project intervened but the project facilitated their completion. IEG interviews indicate
that implementation of the management plan activities was constrained by insufficient
financing. The DNP indicated that some of the activities that were not completed will be
transferred to a new set of plans under preparation. Coordination of the local management
plans into the larger UNESCO Biosphere Reserve model was not done as had been
originally envisioned due to the dissolution of the EMCs.

2.75 Strengthening community engagement in park management. The project
funded two sets of activities with local communities aimed at building ownership of local
populations in protected area management initiatives: the national Ecoguards program
and Local Management Committees. The Ecoguards program was established by the
government before the project intervened but was not very active. Project financing
reinvigorated the program, allowing Ecoguard activities to be carried out on a regular
basis. Ecoguards are volunteers who provide park maintenance and surveillance activities
ranging from park surveillance and biological monitoring, to tour guide and ecolodge
operations, to restoration activities. Through the Project, many of the Ecoguard groups at
the pilot sites obtained legal status which provides them with access to bank accounts and
loans, and the ability to receive payments for services. During the project there was an
increase in the number of paid tasks that the DNP was able to offer to the Ecoguards. The
IEG mission was informed that since project closure participation in the Ecoguards has
dropped because the DNP does not have the operating budget to conduct these activities
on a regular basis.



only accepts applications for new reserves in April of each year. The IEG mission was informed that this did not
happen.
                                                          44


2.76 Local management committees were established or strengthened in each park.
The project supported the committees with training in how to conduct meetings, paid for
transportation, and maintaining a meeting space, and providing food for meetings.
Equipment was also provided to aide aid in monitoring and park surveillance (binoculars
and GPS units). Communities reported to the IEG that project funds facilitated in
mobilizing people for meetings, and enabled more frequent supervision. While the
equipment is still in use they noted that they are unable to conduct supervision patrols as
often because they have limited means to cover the costs of gas. The IEG mission was
also informed that the project financed alternative revenue generating subprojects for the
local management committees in each park, this was not reported in the Implementation
Completion and Results Report. IEG interviews indicate that subproject performance was
mixed. In one site visited by the mission, the project funded tourist cabanas and a store
that sells propane. The local management committee reported anecdotally that both
activities are profitable and were still in operation. In a second site three subprojects were
financed with mixed results. A small scale agriculture project failed after the first year.
Construction of a restaurant was started but not completed due to procurement issues.
Materials were purchased for a handicraft shop that was reported to be profitable and
continues to operate. The mission was unable to obtain data on the percent of
management committee operating expensed covered by subproject profits, or the number
of parks in which subproject activities remain profitable.

2.77 The capacity for local management of biodiversity conservation and protected
areas was also supported through the rehabilitation of infrastructure, construction of work
stations and office space for park rangers, observation towers and parks operation
equipment. But the Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that this
activity was impacted by financial mismanagement in the PIU. In four of the Project sites
construction of buildings were either incomplete or never started by the end of the
project. In addition, in one site a concrete pier, an observation tower, and a DNP patrol
boat financed by the project were destroyed owing to the escalation of a conflict between
the DNP and a neighboring fishing community.

National Activities

2.78 The project supported revisions to the National Biodiversity framework to help
narrow the gap between the government’s de facto policy of co-management and
biodiversity conservation in protected areas and the top down approach emphasized in
actual legislation.21 A Biodiversity Conservation Framework Law was drafted and



21
   According to the project appraisal document, while the Government has promoted the establishment of community-
based protected areas and aimed to increase the protected area. Actual legislation works against this goal. Current
legislation emphasizes top down methods and increasing tourism. It makes no mention of biodiversity or the possible
involvement of stakeholders in its co-management. Moreover, although the Department of National Parks is designated
as the national biodiversity focal point in the context of Senegal’s ratification of the UN Biodiversity Convention, its
mandate was never adjusted to include biodiversity or co-management. The Biodiversity and Protected Area Act, was
to set national biodiversity management objectives and incorporate obligations under international conventions and
treaties that Senegal has signed. It would also define different types of protected areas, their objectives and
management principles, adopt co-management as a driving principle and set co-management guidelines. It would also
redefine the mandate of DPN, and define the mandate of the National Biodiversity Committee and its link to the DPN.
                                                          45


submitted to the Government for approval prior to the project’s closure but as of the IEG
assessment mission, in June 2014, its approval by parliament was still pending.22

2.79 The project supported the establishment of a National Biodiversity Committee
(NBC) to help Senegal meet its commitments to the Convention on Biodiversity and
prepare annual State of Biodiversity Reports. The NBC was established in 2006 but by
2010 it stopped meeting and was not sustained beyond the projects closure. The
Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that it suffered from poor
management and the Committee consisted of too many stakeholders to function
efficiently. In addition, while the DNP served as the permanent secretary for the NBC,
the committee was headed by the Agriculture and Environment advisor to the prime
minister who was too busy to lead and had limited incentives to promote biodiversity
conservation. The annual State of Biodiversity reports were not provided on an annual
basis as planned because the DNP did not have sufficient staff or capacity in its
monitoring unit.23 Update reports were produced in 2005, 2007, and 2010. A fourth
report was expected to be completed by the end of 2012, but was not done.

2.80 National Action Plans for two iconic fauna were completed as planned. A national
action plan for African manatees was completed in 2008 and a national action plan for
marine turtles was completed for 2012. National action plans serve as internal strategy
documents within DNP to coordinated conservation efforts and monitoring of the species.

2.81 A feasibility study on the establishment of a trust fund for biodiversity
conservation in Senegal was completed in April of 2007, providing suggestions and
outlining next steps. But no action was taken to follow up on the studies
recommendations.24 By project closure a trust fund for biodiversity conservation had not
been established. As of the IEG assessment mission there had been no further action on
this front.

Outcomes

2.82 The key performance indicators selected for the project development objective did
not explicitly asses the ecosystem management part of the objective. A single indicator
was used to measure the project’s global environment objective: effective management of
biodiversity in the three pilot areas increased by at least 50 percent by end of project. The
World Bank/WWF Protected Areas Management Effectiveness Tool was used as a proxy
for measuring this indicator at appraisal. In 2009 it was replaced with the Rapid
Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management methodology (RAPPAM),



22
   Part of the delay is attributed to the fact that a new parliament took power in July 2012. The IEG mission was
informed that there is a backlog of proposed legislation awaiting approval.
23 According to the Implementation Completion and Results Report, the DNP unit charged with monitoring was not
sufficiently resourced to carry out the yearly reporting. The unit had a staff of three to cover the entire country, and
from 2010 until 2012, two of the three staff members were not permanently located in Senegal. Only 25 percent of their
time was dedicated to the Project and updating the State of Biodiversity reports.
24
   The study suggested that Senegal establish a foundation to manage a trust fund, following similar approaches of
other African francophone countries.
                                                         46


a similar tool that gives more information for habitat and species evaluation than the tool
used in 2006.25

2.83 The Implementation Completion and Results Report states that the mean
management effectiveness score for all project sites increased from 46 percent in 2006 to
61 percent in 2011. Falling short of the targeted increase of at least 50 percent, a final
score of 69 percent would be needed to reach a 50 percent change. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report also presented a table that shows disaggregated scores for
the eight parks for which local management plans were prepared. It is reproduced as table
5 below. The total score for each park is presented as percentages. Individual scores are
also presented, as raw numbers, for five of 15 total questions: Q9 Staffing; Q12 Funding;
Q13 Management planning; Q15 Research, monitoring, and planning. There is no
explanation of why these five questions were singled out.




25
   The project reports that this tool is designed to measure management effectiveness over time, in line with project
capacity-building objectives. The methodology uses a rapid, site level assessment based on a score-card questionnaire
which includes the six elements of management effectiveness identified in the international Union for Conservation of
Nature / World Commission on Protected Framework: context, planning, inputs, process, outputs and outcomes.
Planning includes protected area objectives, legal security, and protected area site design (questions 6–8). Inputs
include staff, communication, infrastructure, and finances (questions 9 –12). Processes include management planning,
management practices, and research, monitoring, and evaluation (questions 13–15). It enables park managers and
donors to identify needs, constraints and priority actions. The tool is used as a cost-effective proxy to determining
impact.

The Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Areas Management (RAPPAM) methodology is based on the
WCPA/Protected Areas Management Effectiveness (WCPA PAME) Framework. It was developed by the WWF and is
designed to identify management strengths and weaknesses, analyze the scope, severity, prevalence and distribution of
threats and pressures; identify areas of high ecological and social importance and vulnerability; indicate areas of
urgency and conservation priority; and help develop appropriate policy interventions and follow-up actions to improve
protected areas management. It is similar to the WWF/World Bank tool above but provides additional information on
habitat and species evaluation. The methodology is implemented through interactive workshops with policy makers,
PA managers, and relevant stakeholders.
                                                            47


Table 5: Select indicator results from the Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of
Protected Areas
Management Tracking Tool for Protected Area Sites




The table reports results of five of the assessment’s fifteen total questions. The maximum score for each
question was 25. (Source: WB 2012)

2.84 The Management Effectiveness rating is insufficient for demonstrating
achievement of the ecosystem part of the project objective for several reasons. First, it is
unclear to what extent the projects activities are responsible for the change in the scores.
The Implementation Completion and Results Report does not explicitly identify which
project activities would be expected to impact the areas measured by the tracking tool.
The project supported the completion of local management plans for these parks to be
implemented over the 2009-2014 timeframe, but both IEG interviews and the
Implementation Completion and Results Report indicate that there were insufficient
funds to fully implement the activities in the plan.26 In addition, it is not possible to assess
if the increases in ratings have been sustained beyond the project because the assessment
has not been repeated since the project’s closure.

2.85 Second, the project does not define what is considered to be an acceptable
threshold for management of the parks to be considered effective. Many of the individual
questions were scored at the low end of possible range of points in 2011 (10 or below)
and improvements were not was not uniformly observed across all areas. Five parks had

26The Implementation Completion and Results Report (pg.65) notes that “the difference of rate between the
achievements and the targets is due to the lack of financial resources to implement the activities identified in the
established management plans for these protected areas.”
                                             48


areas for which there was no change in score and two had areas were the score decreased
over time.

2.86 More important, the IEG mission did not find any evidence that the project
brought about any permanent changes in the DNP’s capacity to manage its parks.
Anecdotal reports suggest that the project funds provided a temporary boost in the DNPs
and local communities’ capacity to manage the parks but few activities have been
sustained beyond the project’s closure. Interviews with Implementing Agency staff
indicate that the project did not bring any new tools to the DNP, rather it facilitated
implementation of tools that were already available but for which the DNP lacked funds
to implement. They noted that DNP had conducted similar activities in the past with the
support of other donors. However, a key difference was that the GIRMAC carried out
activities on a larger scale and focused on the entire ecosystem. Since project funds are
no longer available the tools promoted under the project are no longer being implemented
to the same extent. Implementing agency staff noted, “We still have tools that GIRMAC
introduced but don’t have the money to use them.” Local Management Committees
reported that since the project’s closure they lack funds to carry out surveillance on a
regular basis. In addition national level activities were not completed that were critical for
enhancing the enabling environment and the DNPs long term capacity for biodiversity
management. The Biodiversity Framework Law which aimed to bring legislation in line
with the DNPs de facto shift in objective from maximizing tourism revenue for the State
to biodiversity conservation via co-management, has not been approved. Strengthening
the DNPs capacity for biodiversity monitoring was not achieved and a trust fund to
contribute to long term funding needs was not created.

2.87   Achievement of this objective is rated modest.

Efficiency
2.88 There are two elements of the efficiency assessment: (1) traditional measures of
efficiency (such as net present value, economic rate of return, cost effectiveness, unit
rate norms, service standards, least cost analysis and comparisons, and financial rate of
return); and, (2) aspects of design and implementation that either contributed to or
reduced efficiency.

2.89 The analysis of efficiency by the project team was based on a descriptive cost-
benefit analysis. At appraisal an ERR/IRR was not calculated instead the project
appraisal document presented a description of the likely costs and benefits as its
economic analysis. Three potential economic benefits were identified: (i) increase in
fisheries rents some years after the project implementation as a consequence of stock
recovery and reduced fishing effort, (ii) increased recreational/ecotourism rent, and (iii)
better preservation of marine and bird biodiversity. A proxy for the benefits of
biodiversity conservation in the three Biosphere Reserves arising from the project was the
likely additional payments made from the international community to the Senegalese
network of protected areas. The PAD was candid in noting that weaknesses in available
data limited the ability to make ex-ante estimates of benefits. Further effort would be
needed during project implementation to collect data and monitor the impact of the
project on the short term opportunity cost for local population, the biophysical
                                             49


relationship between better protection of nursery ground and stock recovery and the
amount of rent generated by well regulated fisheries. Despite data limitations, it was
assumed that the likely benefits generated by the project would outweigh the costs of the
project as well as the opportunity costs of implementing co-management measures, the
foregone revenue necessary to reduce fishing effort. The opportunity cost to fishers was
considered to be low because total yield and production had been in decline and was
expected to continue to decline in the absence of intervention.

2.90 At project closure, the project team repeated the cost benefit approach used at
appraisal and concluded that the economic benefits generated by the project exceeded its
costs, but there are a number of weaknesses in their assumptions and calculations. The
costs of implementing the project were US$13.25 million (80 percent of the appraisal
cost estimate). No data was available on opportunity costs related to fisheries
management but this was assumed to be low since rent from fishery had dissipated as a
result of the overexploited status of the resource. Fisheries benefits were demonstrated in
each of the four pilot sites in terms of increases in catch per unit effort and the size of
individuals. Ecotourism benefits were based on the additional number of visitors over
time and the economic rent captured from the additional visitors. The project calculated
that approximately 44,172 additional Eco tourists visited the parks and reserves receiving
project support, generating US$ 96,532 in additional revenue during the project
implementation period (2006-2010). IEG questions the plausibility that project activities
were responsible for the increase in tourist visits. The selection of a tourist destination
can be influenced by a host of different factors, such as changes in the consumer’s
disposable income, increased awareness of the site, ease of access, or the relative appeal
of alternative options (which can be affected as much by negative factors alternatives as
positive factors of the destination selected). Counting the entire additional tourist revenue
as a project generated benefit is tenuous without evidence to show that the increase in
tourist visits is the result of the project having improved conditions at the site.

2.91 Benefits were also assumed to have accrued from better preservation of marine
and bird biodiversity. This assumption as based on the increase in the score for the rate
of effectiveness of management in all three targeted zones and the increased score for the
rate of participatory involvement of local communities in the management of
biodiversity. However, as noted in the discussion of the achievement of objectives, it is
unclear to what extent project activities are responsible for the increase in the
management effectiveness score, and it is likely that the management effectiveness has
dropped since project closure as there are insufficient funds to continue implementing
many activities. The proxy for this benefit identified in the project appraisal document
was the likely additional payments made from the international community to the
Senegalese network of protected areas. No evidence is provided in the implementation
completion and results report to indicate that additional payments from the international
community have materialized. Finally, the cost assessment does not take into account
recurrent costs. The project appraisal document noted that both co-management and
biosphere reserves would incur recurrent costs. The recurrent costs for area based co-
management was expected to be met by higher fisheries incomes expected to accrue once
stocks recovered. Recurrent costs of Biosphere Reserves could potentially be met by
setting up a trust fund, but it was noted that in the absence of a sizeable endowment it
would not be sufficient to cover all recurrent costs. It was suggested that greater attention
                                                         50


would need to be paid to capturing tourism rents to offset the remaining costs. Neither of
the suggested measures to meet the recurrent cost of Biosphere Reserves have been
implemented. A trust fund was not established and there is no evidence that any efforts
were made to enhance the capture of tourism rents.

2.92 A second dimension of the assessment of project efficiency is an analysis of
project management efficiencies. The project incurred a host of inefficiencies in this area.
The project’s original institutional arrangements generated a higher cost than anticipated
without the intended coordination benefits. The project coordination unit absorbed much
of the project’s resources in the first half of project implementation and, as noted in para
2.34, prior to the mid-term review disbursements for project management component
while disbursements for the technical components was behind schedule, and results on
the ground were minimal. PCU expenditures went over budget and consisted mostly of
workshops and staff allowances. Some project activities were also more costly than
anticipated, though this was a consequence of poor budget estimates as opposed to true
cost overruns. Dual procurement procedures and centralized administrative clearances
caused significant implementation disruptions, culminating in two years being added to
the project closure date. Contracting delays resulted in some activities not being complete
by closure. Some activities were started and then dropped. In addition, ineligible
expenses were incurred by the PCU and both implementing agencies that had to be
returned to the Bank, representing a waste of project resources.

2.93     Overall efficiency is assessed as negligible.

Ratings
OUTCOME

2.94 The project outcome is rated unsatisfactory. 27 This is based on high relevance of
objectives; modest relevance of design; substantial achievement of the objective to ensure
sustainable exploitation of coastal and marine resources, the modest achievement of the
objective to ensure protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical for the
replenishment of marine resources and negligible efficiency.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

2.95     There are several risks to project gains.

2.96 With respect to fisheries management, the surveillance and enforcement capacity
in the co-management pilots needs to be strengthened. The mission found that there is
sufficient capacity to enforce co-management regulations within the pilot communities
but greater capacity is needed to address compliance by outsiders. Co-management
communities do not have the right to enforce or sanction offenders. When violations of
co-management regulations occur communities can inform the offender of the violation
but only the local DPM agent has the authority to issue sanctions. The DPM is

27
  According to the OPCS/IEG harmonized rating criteria, a project is rated unsatisfactory when there are a major
shortcomings in any one of the following three categories: relevance, achievement of objectives, or efficiency.
                                              51


understaffed, however. In most sites there is only one agent. Some of the community
surveillance committees and local DPM staff reported to the IEG mission that they are
often outrun by fishers from outside of their community who have boats with higher
powered engines. There have been cases when confrontations with illegal fishers has
become violent and CLP members have been injured. The Implementation Completion
and Results Report notes that law enforcement and prosecution of offenders by the DPM
is weak and inconsistently applied across the country. This is an area that needs more
attention going forward.

2.97 More attention is also needed to find ways to meet the operating expenses of
implementing co-management. Alternative revenue generating activities are covering
some costs but communities reported to the IEG mission that the revenue is insufficient
to cover all the costs. Under the ongoing West Africa Regional Fisheries Program there
are plans to carry out study to get a more accurate assessment of operational costs
required. Once that is achieved the project will also need to ensure that implementation of
revenue generating activities receives sufficient attention.

2.98 Finally, for the model to become truly sustainable, there is a need to address the
fundamental constraint of open access to the resources. Going forward the legal and
institutional framework will need to provide local users and associations not just the
authority to manage and regulate the targeted fisheries but also to limit access. Without
control of access to the fishing grounds, the success achieved through improved
management, improved fisheries and higher catches, will only attract more fishers from
neighboring waters and overall exploitation will increase. Communities expressed
concern over this in a number of pilot sites. Creating and allocating the right to manage
targeted fisheries under this project was a first step. Allocation of access rights is the next
step for progress to be maintained. The revised Fisheries Code will provide legal backing
for this to happen but is still pending approval of parliament. In the long run a wider
regional approach is needed for sustainable impact. The ongoing West Africa Regional
Fisheries Program is supporting.

2.99 The gains from the ecosystem management activities have not been sustained
beyond the project’s closure, due to insufficient funding.

2.100 The risk to development outcome is rated high.

BANK PERFORMANCE

QUALITY AT ENTRY

2.101 The project was prepared by a team of experienced staff with both environment
and fisheries sector expertise and its technical design was sound. Design was
underpinned by analytical work and drew lessons from best practices examples in the
sector and similar Bank-funded operations involving community-based management of
fisheries resources. Project preparation carried out with active government engagement
and broad based consultation with fishing communities, NGOs and other donors. But a
stronger institutional analysis at preparation was needed to ensure ownership and
commitment at the highest levels of Government. The Implementation Completion and
                                            52


Results Report notes that the Bank underestimated the cooperation needed from the
Ministries to establish functional institutional arrangements.

2.102 There was mixed performance in the identification of risks. Most key risks to
community level fisheries activities were identified and adequately mitigated. But the risk
that collaboration with the Social Investment fund would not materialize was overlooked.
Other key risks were not identified, such as the risk of ministerial interference in project
activities, poor management of PCU, and ineffective coordination between ministries.
The Implementation Completion and Results Report notes that the project team initially
considered two PCUs but this was opposed by procurement unit within the World Bank.

2.103 Project design was overambitious given the project’s timeframe, the complexity
of the issues addressed, and the capacity of the implementing. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report notes that the Bank underestimated the time to induce
behavior change in ministries, the political economy challenges of shifting the Ministry
of Environment from top down to participatory, and the time and resources required to
accomplish the objectives. In addition the successful implementation of project activities
required operating budgets and resources which the implementing agencies did not have
and which the project's limited resources could not provide. Targets were unrealistic and
more attention was needed to establish a functional monitoring and evaluation system.

2.104 Quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

2.105 Efforts were made during supervision to address some of the quality at entry
shortcomings, respond to implementation problems, and make appropriate transition
arrangements to transfer activities that were not completed to another project.
Supervision missions were conducted at regular intervals throughout implementation.
The project was restructured to revise the poorly functioning institutional arrangements
and reset targets to a more realistic level but it was carried out late. Supervision reports
indicate that the Bank team identified problems with the project’s institutional
arrangements and proposed dissolution of the PCU within six months of project start-up
but the idea was initially opposed by the Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources.
In the end the project was four years into implementation with little results on the ground
before reaching an agreement to restructure. The Bank team was proactive in taking
advantage of additional GEF funds that became available in 2006 to strengthen the
project’s fisheries management activities by designing a complementary project that was
implemented in parallel. The new project supported the co-management pilot
communities with alternative revenue activities and marketing of fisheries products, and
put in place a fund to compensate for negative impacts caused by the introduction of
resource management measures when the arrangement for another Bank project to
administer this fund for GIRMAC did not work out as planned (see para. 2.43). This was
critical for meeting the social safeguards policies. At the end of the project the team
arranged to transfer the fisheries management activities that were not completed to the
World Bank Financed West Africa Regional Fisheries Program. The team was also
proactive in collecting additional outcome data for the fisheries management activities,
beyond what the indicators called for and in spite of the weak M&E system.
                                           53


2.106 However, there were also several supervision shortcomings. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report indicates that while the resources and skills mix during
the project preparation phase were adequate, resources were lacking for supervision to
properly monitor progress after project restructuring, particularly for the ecosystem
management activities. The supervision team had adequate skills to provide technical
input for fisheries management when needed and a fisheries specialist on the team was
based in the country office which aided in follow up. But the team lacked sufficient
expertise to adequately address ecosystems and biodiversity conservation issues.
Supervision reports also indicate that safeguards specialists were not always part of the
mission teams. Fiduciary supervision was effective but was late in identifying the issues.
The Bank team issued firm recommendations for financial management issues that arose
and was diligent in following them up. But there were lags in reporting fiduciary
management issues in supervision reports because the fiduciary review missions were not
carried out at the same time as Bank supervision missions. There was also a need for
greater attention and follow-up to M&E. The Implementation Completion and Results
Report notes that “the respective Ministries never conducted the work necessary to
sufficiently monitor and evaluate project progress, despite multiple Aide Memoires
recording agreement to do so.” Finally, the Implementation Completion and Results
Report indicates that there was scope for Bank Management to provide greater support to
the project team. The report notes that supervision resources were modest for such a
complex operation that was also a GEF blended project. It also notes that the mission
teams could have received more guidance from management in handling some of the
more difficult issues of coordination and collaboration between the ministries. Moreover,
maintaining Government commitment through turnover in the ministries required a
higher level policy dialogue in the context of poverty alleviation strategies and sector
reviews.

2.107 Quality of Supervision is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

2.108 Overall Bank Performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory, based on
moderately unsatisfactory quality of entry and moderately unsatisfactory supervision.

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

2.109 Government commitment to the project was initially high as demonstrated by
active participation in project preparation but weakened over the course of
implementation. The project was prepared with full support of both Ministry of Fisheries
and the Ministry of Environment. The Ministry of fisheries took a lead role in mobilizing
donors around a common agenda during project preparation. Positive aspects of
Government commitment were its updating of the Letter of Sector Policy in 2008, and
revisions to national legislation (Fisheries Law and the Biodiversity Framework Law)
that were submitted to parliament for approval in a timely manner. The government also
attempt to salvage the project by formally requesting dissolution of the PCU.
Government performance in terms of ensuring positive performance of national
coordination bodies to support the project was mixed. The government was slow to
establish functional steering committees and there was a decline in government
                                              54


commitment to maintaining committee’s structure and supporting their mandate. The
National Biodiversity Committee, which had oversight of biodiversity monitoring and
reporting the U.N. Convention on Biological Diversity, was not effective and played a
passive role in promoting biodiversity monitoring called for by the project. The
Operational Coordination Committee (OCC) played an important role in coordinating
with the Ministry of Environment on the transmission of the Biodiversity and Protected
Areas Act to parliament for approval. In addition, project implementation was adversely
affected by the high turnover of ministers and interference in project activities.
Government commitment improved somewhat in the last year of the project, when a
newly elected Government promptly took action and removed the second Project
Coordinator from the Como-Peche following allegations of misappropriation of project
funds.

2.110 Government performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE

2.111 This section assesses the performance of the original project coordination unit as
well as the two technical implementing units in the Department of Fisheries Management
(within the Ministry of Fisheries) and the Department of National Parks (within the
Ministry of Environment). At preparation, the project coordination unit within the
Ministry of Environment, actively engaged in the preparation of the Project. It organized
a national workshop in April 2003 to outline a management plan for fisheries and the
selection of project activities and held public hearings to consult stakeholders at the three
project areas with regards to environmental safeguards. However, project files indicate
that as project implementation progressed, the PCU’s location within the Ministry of
Environment exposed it to pressure and interference and seriously affected its ability to
implement the project activities effectively. Project management suffered from
noncompliance with project procedures with regards to use of project vehicle and fuel,
the PCU interfered with technical decisions made by the Ministry of Fisheries, key
consultancies were derailed, and ineligible expenditures were incurred.

2.112 The technical implementation units’ performance was satisfactory in terms of
setting up appropriate support for the implementation of local level activities but was
unsatisfactory at the Central level. The implementing agencies successfully employed
consultation and negotiations methods and recruited qualified and experienced
individuals to work with communities as facilitators, co-management experts, national
parks personnel, and technical consultants. However, performance at the central level was
weak. While project restructuring improved the technical implementation units’
performance in terms of increasing ownership of their respective components, the
capacity of each agency to manage the range of monitoring and follow-up activities
across multiple project sites was limited. With the dissolution of the PCU, project
coordination and monitoring activities were to be continued through the two technical
implementing agencies. But these were carried out sporadically by both agencies and as a
result there was insufficient data that made it difficult to assess consistently final results.
The Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that there was a lack of
commitment to M&E and annual reporting of progress in general. Procurement activities
were significantly behind schedule throughout implementation and the process of
                                                           55


clearances was slow. As a result of these implementation delays several tasks were
unfinished before project closure. Project management performance for the fisheries
component also deteriorated in the final year of implementation when the coordinator in
the COMO-Peche refusal to implement project activities or communicate with the Bank.
Finally, financial management performance of all three implementing entities was weak.

2.113 Implementing Agency performance is rated unsatisfactory.

2.114 Overall Borrower Performance is rated unsatisfactory. Based on the moderately
unsatisfactory government performance and the unsatisfactory implementing agency
performance.28

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

2.115 Provisions for project M&E were included in project design under Component 3,
and M&E procedures were spelled out in the Project Implementation manual. The PCU
prepared the original monitoring plan based on a system that was already in use by the
various agencies involved with the project. The M&E plan called for quarterly
monitoring reports and annual progress reports. The technical implementing units were
responsible for tracking implementation progress and project milestones for their
respective components, and relaying this information to the PCU through Quarterly
Progress Reports. The PCU was responsible for overall M&E, monitoring inputs from the
technical units, compiling the annual progress reports and conducting annual workshops
with key stakeholders.

2.116 Performance indicators (both key performance and intermediate outcome
indicators) were identified at appraisal but some were difficult to implement because they
were either difficult to measure within the project time period or insufficient data was
available to provide a viable baseline. Some of the targets were also unrealistic. New
indicators were established at the MTR, which were considered to be more measurable
and focused on what could realistically be achieved in the project time frame. The
associated key indicator for the GEO was also reformulated. However, the revised
indicators are not sufficiently outcome oriented to demonstrate achievement of the
project’s objectives and the proxy’s measured for the GEO are not clearly linked to the
activities that the project funded.

2.117 M&E implementation was weak. After the PCU was dissolved, responsibility for
maintaining the M&E system was transferred to two separate technical agencies, both of
which lacked qualified staff, and M&E oversight for the project as a whole was lost. The
Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that “the respective Ministries
never conducted the work necessary to sufficiently monitor and evaluate project progress,
despite multiple Aide Memoires recording agreements to do so.” Data was not collected
on a regular basis and trimestral and annual progress reports were not submitted. Follow
up of community level monitoring was piecemeal. The Center for Oceanography

28
  In accordance with the IEG/OPCS harmonized rating criteria, when one dimension of Borrower Performance is
moderately unsatisfactory and one is fully unsatisfactory, the overall borrower performance rating is the lower of the
two.
                                            56


Research of Dakar (CRODT) was contracted to carry out participatory monitoring with
communities to enhance their capacity for monitoring the impacts of co-management
measures. CRODT began work on biological monitoring with the local fisher committees
but there was insufficient follow up by the implementing agency to ensure that a
participatory approach was followed as intended or that the data collected was validated.
The Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that the data collected by
the local fisher committees was of limited use for project management decisions and
evaluating the final impact of the project because it was not validated or aggregated at the
central level.

2.118 The Quality of Monitoring and Evaluation is rated negligible.



3. Sustainable Management of Fish Resources Project
3.1     In 2006, additional funds became available through the GEF Strategic Partnership
for Fisheries in Africa. At that time the GIRMAC pilots for local management of
fisheries were already showing strong community ownership and demand. The Bank
team took advantage of this opportunity to design a new project as a complement to the
ongoing GIRMAC project, the Sustainable Management of Fisheries Resources Project
(GDRH). The GDRH Project aimed to deepen support for the co-management model and
replicate it in neighboring communities.

OBJECTIVES

3.2    This was a fully blended GEF / IDA financed project. It had a single combined
development objective and global environment objective.

3.3    The project objectives stated in both the IDA Credit Agreement (pg. 6) and the
GEF Grant Agreement (pg. 7) were: “to empower the communities to reduce fishing
pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the
Cape Vert peninsula to the Saloum River delta)."

3.4     A similar statement of objectives is presented in the Project Appraisal Document
(pg. 7): "(t)he combined development objective/global objective of the project is to
empower communities to reduce fishing pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central
coastal fisheries of Senegal (from the Cap Vert Peninsula to the Saloum River Delta), by
(i) promoting co-management of the coastal fisheries, (ii) contributing to the
rehabilitation of the essential ecosystems for the coastal fisheries, and (iii) supporting
alternative livelihoods and accompanying poverty reduction measures in targeted poor
fishing communities."

3.5     This review uses the formulation of objectives in the lending agreement as the
basis of assessment as that is the legally binding document.

3.6    The key performance indicators for the project were:
                                             57


 • An increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-management
 sites;
 • A reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-management sites;
 • Eight new co-management sub-project proposals are approved as legal agreements
 with the Government and successfully implemented by end-of-project (EOP);
 • 70 percent of community members surveyed in participating communities are
 satisfied with project activities to rehabilitate coastal fish stocks (Zone de Pêches
 Protégées (ZPPs), artificial reefs, ecolabelling);
 • Each community targeted by the project has access to a system of micro-credit, and
 project-supported poverty reduction measures are implemented in at least the four
 initial pilot sites, by EOP.

3.7     The project objective key performance indicators remained the same throughout
the project timeframe.

RELEVANCE OF THE OBJECTIVES

3.8    The objectives of the project were and continue to be highly relevant to country
conditions and the sector priorities set forth in Senegal’s government strategy documents
and the World Bank’s country partnership strategies.

3.9    As with the GIRMAC project, this project’s objectives support the need to shift
the approach towards the sector from a focus on sector development to the sustainable
management of fish resources, as identified in the 2001 Strategy for Sustainable Fisheries
and Aquaculture. The objectives also support the Government’s 2008 Letter of Sector
Policy which calls for the sustainable management of fish resources through collaborative
or co-management for the coastal fisheries. The project’s objectives are also relevant to
helping Senegal meet its commitments to The United Nations Convention on the Law of
the Sea.

3.10 The project objectives are aligned with the growth and wealth creation pillar in
the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy for Senegal in place at project appraisal
(2007-2010). This pillar explicitly identifies addressing the unregulated access to
fisheries by artisanal sector as a means to promote sustainable development and
management of natural resources. Improved sustainable management of fishery resources
is a key outcome expected under the pillar for Accelerating Growth and Generating
Employment in the more recent FY2013-2017 Country Partnership Strategy.

3.11   Relevance of objectives is rated high.

DESIGN

Components

3.12   The project had the following four components and subcomponents:
                                             58


3.13 Component 1: Co-management of Coastal Fisheries (appraisal estimate US$
2.8 million, actual costs US$ 0.71 million)

       Subcomponent 1 - Promotion of Local Co-Management Initiatives in the 4
       initial Pilot Sites. This sub-component would continue to support co-
       management in the four initial pilot sites to identify and formulate additional
       management measures, local level monitoring control and surveillance to ensure
       compliance with measures included in co-management agreements, and
       participatory monitoring of fish catches.

      Subcomponent 2 - Consolidation and Strengthening of Coastal Fisheries Co-
       management. This sub-component supports replication of co-management
       initiatives to neighboring communities. This includes confirmation of the pre-
       selection of the eight project sites, and awareness-raising with their communities
       in order to replicate the co-management model tested in the four initial Pilot Sites.
       This includes appointment of facilitators, establishment of Local Fishers’
       Committees (CLPs) and Local Artisanal Fishers’ Councils (CLPAs) and provision
       of support for the identification, formulation, implementation and evaluation of
       CLP subprojects.

      Subcomponent 3 - Institutional Support for a System of Local Fisheries
       Governance. This sub-component would strengthen the capacity for consultation
       and decision-making mechanisms between different participatory communities to
       move away from individual co-management plans to larger multi-community
       agreements around a shared fishery.

3.14 Component 2: Rehabilitation of Ecosystems Essential for Coastal Fisheries
(appraisal estimate US$ 2.8 million, actual costs US$ 0.48 million). This component
supported the rehabilitation of ecosystems essential to the coastal fisheries.

3.15 This includes establishing Co-Managed Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs) and
artificial reefs to help regenerate the natural resources; registering small-scale vessels and
in pilot cases introducing access rights; and, by creating market mechanisms to encourage
sustainable management of the ecosystems. It included the following four sub-
components:

      Subcomponent one – Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs). This subcomponent
       supports the establishment of Co-Managed Protected Fishing Zones (ZPPs) to
       protect critical habitats, nursery areas and spawning grounds for coastal demersal
       species. This includes identification and designation of the ZPPs; carrying out
       awareness campaigns on the management and benefits of ZPPs; building capacity
       of stakeholders for the co-management of the ZPPs; and conducting baseline
       evaluations of sites and assessments of fish resources and fishing practices.
       Preparation and implementation of management plans for ZPPs. Feasibility
       studies on sustainable financing mechanisms for ZPPs. Capacity-building
       activities aimed at strengthening the capacity of stakeholders and decision makers
       to replicate ZPPs. Development of standards and instruments for monitoring,
       evaluation and surveillance of the ZPPs.
                                              59


      Subcomponent two - Artificial Reefs. This sub-component supports the
       immersion of artificial reefs in targeted project areas to help regenerate the
       fisheries resource. Activities to be financed included feasibility studies for the
       selection of sites for immersion of artificial reefs and based on the findings of
       such studies and their inclusion in the Co- Management Agreements of the ZPP
       Management Plans, immersion and management of the artificial reefs in the ZPPs.
       Provision of technical assistance to the Ministry in charge of fisheries for
       implementation of the national artificial reef immersion program. Conducting
       feasibility studies on sustainable financing mechanisms for artificial reefs.
       Strengthening community-based management of artificial reefs through the
       development and implementation of management and surveillance plans.
       Development and implementation of protocols and instruments for participatory
       monitoring and evaluation of artificial reefs.

      Subcomponent three - Introduction of Access Rights and Associated
       Management Instruments. This sub-component would test the creation and
       allocation of access rights to areas and resources in appropriate sites such as the
       ZPPs. At the larger scale the sub-component would provide continued support to
       the registration of small scale fishing vessels as a necessary basis for management
       and development of access rights, through the Government’s National
       Registration Program.

      Subcomponent four - Market Incentives for Sustainable Management for
       Targeted Fisheries. This sub-component would create the necessary conditions
       for eco-certification of one co-managed coastal fishery, according to the criteria
       of the Marine Stewardship Council, the internationally recognized sustainable
       fisheries certification body. This includes validation and pre-evaluation of
       selected fisheries; carrying out of a study on the prerequisites for access to eco
       certification markets; implementation, monitoring and coordination of action
       plans for eco-certification of targeted fisheries and restructuring of the sector; and
       certification and promotion of the targeted fisheries.

3.16 Component 3: Poverty Alleviation Measures for Fishing Communities and
Alternative Livelihoods for Fishers, Fish Processors, and Fish transporters
(appraisal estimate US$ 4.03 million, actual costs US$ 0.85 million) This component
supported activities to offset negative socio-economic impacts for targeted fishing
communities resulting from co-management initiatives or management plans (including
the introduction of instruments such as ZPPs, artificial reefs, eco-labels, etc.). It included
the following sub-components:

      Subcomponent one - Poverty Alleviation Initiatives in Project-Targeted
       Communities. Piloting of initiatives designed to alleviate and reduce poverty in
       targeted fishing communities and compensation for the negative impacts caused
       by local co-management initiatives or initiatives for rehabilitation of ecosystems,
       through the provision of sub-grants to targeted fishing communities to develop
       activities to increase revenues by improving the quality of fish products. Sub-
       grants to members of the targeted fishing communities for development activities
       designed to expand alternative income-generating activities. Provision of Micro-
                                                      60


         Credits to women, through the Micro-Finance Institution, aimed at encouraging
         small business development and expanded local product development.

         Subcomponent Two- Support for Alternative Livelihoods to Fishing for
         Fishers, Fish Processors and Fish transporters. This included: (i) The
         provision of Micro-Credits through the Micro-Finance Institution, to develop
         activities to support fishers, women fish processors and fish transporters in
         finding alternative income-generating activities outside the fishing sector,
         including provision of training and technical support in identifying and
         implementing such activities. (ii) Provision of technical assistance through the
         Technical Support Institution aimed at developing basic skills and small business
         management training for the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries. (iii) Carrying out of a
         program of activities through the Technical Support Institution aimed at providing
         on-going support to the Micro-Credit Beneficiaries, including support on
         organization skills, life-management skills and conflict management skills.


3.17 Component 4: Institutional Strengthening for Fisheries Management, Project
Management and Monitoring and Evaluation (appraisal estimate US$ 1.03 million,
actual costs US$ 0.80 million). This component financed activities to support the
Ministry of Maritime Economy with project management and implementation and
activities to monitor and evaluate results. It included the following sub-components:

        Subcomponent one - Development of a marine fisheries code and support for
         implementation of the national fisheries management plans. This includes
         support for technical assistance and consultations for Government to develop a
         new Fisheries Code to be passed into Law by the end of the project.

        Subcomponent two - Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
         Provision of goods, technical assistance and allocation for operating costs to the
         DPM, and carrying out of works, for Project coordination and management,
         monitoring and evaluation of the Project.

        Subcomponent three - Replication of Project Activities at the Sub-Regional
         and Regional Level. Provision of technical assistance to support the replication at
         the regional and sub-regional level of Project activities.

IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS

3.18 The Directorate of Marine Fisheries, within the Ministry of Maritime Economy,
was responsible for overall project implementation. The project implementation unit
already charged with implementing the fisheries management component under the
GIRMAC project (the COMO-Peche) was expanded to implement both projects
together.29 The Como-peche was assisted by community level facilitators for
implementation of co-management activities. The World Wildlife Fund was recruited to

29
  The PIU also managed the Senegal component of the World Bank financed West Africa Regional Fisheries Program,
approved by the Board in 2010.
                                                        61


implement the ZPPs, artificial reefs, access rights and eco-labelling activities under
component two. A Micro-Finance Institution and a Technical Support Institution were
hired for implementation of The Alternative Livelihoods to Fishing and Poverty
Reduction Fund under component three.

RELEVANCE OF DESIGN

3.19 Designed as a complement to the GIRMAC project’s fisheries management
activities, the GDHR project was prepared to deepen the co-management pilot experience
and scale it up to additional communities. The project’s objectives were clearly stated in
a single combined development objective and global environment objective: to empower
communities to reduce fishing pressure on the fish stocks supporting the central coastal
fisheries of Senegal.

3.20 The link between the various activities supported by the project components and
the project objectives was clear. Pressure on fish stocks would be reduced through
multiple measures. The co-management model would be expanded to eight neighboring
communities, and the impact of individual co-management agreements would be
leveraged by expanding their geographic coverage through the preparation of
consolidated local fisheries management covering multiple co-management sites in a
given area. Communities in all co-management sites (4 original and 8 new) would be
supported with measures to replenish fisheries stocks by piloting new tools to protect
critical ecosystems within their co-management zones. Alternative livelihoods
subprojects and a microcredit fund would generate revenue to support the operating costs
of co-management, and encourage greater compliance with co-management measures by
compensating for any negative socio-economic impacts incurred due to co-management
restrictions, and encourage fishers to obtain skills to pursue alternative employment. In
addition the project would contribute to completion of the national registry of small
fishing vessels as a first step to limiting the number of artisanal fishing boats.

3.21 A key shortcoming in the project’s design was its three-year timeframe. The
design and scope of project activities were overly ambitious for such a short timeline and
should have been reduced to a more realistic level. This was a significant shortcoming
given that the GIRMAC experience had already shown that endorsement of co-
management takes longer than originally envisaged.30 It was unlikely that the project
activities would be implemented within the planned timeframe given that the difficulties
in meeting the dual procurement procedures, which were already affecting the GIRMAC
project, had not been solved. Finally, the meeting the project’s objective would require
sustained longer term support.

3.22     Relevance of design is rated modest.




30
  The GIRMAC project planned to implement co-management agreements within the first 18 months. The community
proposals were prepared in the first year but it took close to two years for sub-projects to be approved through the
administrative procedures of the Government and the Bank.
                                                         62


Implementation

Changes to the timing and scope of activities
3.23 The projects objectives, key performance indicators and components remained
unchanged throughout implementation. The project was approved in December 2008,
became effective in November 2009, and was originally scheduled to close March 31,
2011. During implementation the project timeframe proved to be overambitious and an
18 month extension to the original closing date was considered to give the project time to
reach its PDO. However, project files indicate that as of August 2011 implementation
progress slowed considerably, coming to a virtual standstill by December 2011, due to an
impasse between the project coordinator and the Bank over unacceptable clauses in a
contract for consultants in the PCU. The coordinator eventually stopped communicating
with the Bank team, consequently the mid-term review, scheduled for November 2011,
was not carried out and the 18 month extension that had been envisaged was no longer
possible. Ultimately the original closing date was extended by three months to allow for
completion of ongoing contracts for community facilitators and the technical assistance
firms implementing the ecosystem management activities and alternative livelihoods
fund. The extension was also used to ensure that adequate transition arrangements were
in place to transfer some of the activities that were not completed to the World Bank
Financed West Africa Regional Fisheries Program.

Planned versus Actual Disbursements
3.24 Total project costs estimated at appraisal were US$10.85 million. At completion
actual costs were US$ 2.84 million, an underrun of 76 percent. Costs by component are
shown below in table 6.

3.25 The project was expected to be financed by a US$3.5 million IDA credit, US$6.0
million GEF grant and US$1.53 million counterpart contribution from the Government of
Senegal. At closure US $ 0.76 million of the IDA credit and US $ 2.07 million of the
GEF grant disbursed. US$ .07 million of the counterpart commitment was disbursed.31
US$ 2.79 million of the IDA credit and US$ 3.93 million of the GEF grant were
cancelled. The unused funds were canceled or reallocated to other projects within the
portfolio.




31
   As with the GIRMAC project, IEG could not find any information in the project documents on why the full amount
of the government counterpart commitment did not disburse. Financial management staff in the implementing agency
informed IEG that this was in part due delays in budget disbursement in the initial years of project implementation,
coupled with Government budget rules that do not allow for budget to be allocated retroactively.
                                                      63


 Table 6: Project Cost by Component (in USD million equivalent)
 Components                                       Appraisal        Actual/Latest   Percentage
                                                  Estimate           Estimate      of Appraisal
                                                (USD millions)    (USD millions)
 Project Component 1: Co-                            2.8               0.71
 management                                                                           25%
 Project Component 2: Rehabilitation                   2.8             0.48
 of Ecosystems                                                                        17%
 Project Component 3: Alternative                      4.03            0.85
 livelihoods and Accompanying Social
 Measures                                                                             21%
 Project Component 4: Institutional                    1.03            0.80
 Strengthening                                                                        78%
 Total project costs                                  10.85*           2.84           26%
Source: World Bank 2013.
*total includes .19 in contingencies.


 Table 7: Project Financing by Source (in USD million equivalent)
 Source of Funds                        Appraisal Estimate        Actual/Latest     Percentage of
                                         (USD millions)          Estimate (USD        Appraisal
                                                                    millions)
 IDA                                          3.50                   0.76                22

 Global Environment Facility                  6.00                   2.07                35
 (GEF)
 Government of Senegal                        1.35                    0.07               52

 Total:                                       10.85                   2.84               26

Source: World Bank 2013



Implementation Experience
3.26       Project implementation was hampered by the following factors:

3.27 The centralized procurement processes and weak procurement capacity in
the implementing agency delayed the implementation of several activities.
Procurement delays had a considerable impact on the implementation of component two
and three. Project files indicate that processing of key contracts for ecosystem
rehabilitation and alternative livelihoods was particularly protracted due to non-
compliance with the country’s Procurement Code. It took one year for the contracts to
reach the signature stage, at which point both were cancelled by the national procurement
agency because the implementing agency missed a step in country procurement
procedure. Re-launching the contracting process added an additional 8 months to the
process. The activities in both components were not completed by the end of project.
                                            64


3.28 Weaknesses in the budgeting and quality control function of centralized
procurement impacted income generating subprojects. In Betenty, the budget for an
ecotourism subproject was underestimated. The higher cost of transporting materials to
the remote project site was not taken into account. As a result the budget was insufficient
to cover the full construction costs. Materials were procured that were not appropriate for
environmental conditions at the site. The bungalows that were constructed were in dire
need of repair by the time of the IEG assessment mission. In Foundiougne the IEG
mission was informed that the initial inventory procured for the housewares store
established to compensate women for revenue from activities prohibited by the co-
management measures, was purchased as a cost that is higher than what it could sell for
on the local market. The Bank subsequently agreed to allow the women to purchase their
own inventory directly. The IEG mission was also informed that the project’s financial
procedures have created difficulties in the reimbursement of expenditures from the more
remote sites. The communities noted that they are required to travel to Dakar in order to
be reimbursed for expenses incurred from hosting management meetings. This was
reported to be a problem for the communities located in estuaries where the remote
location adds time and cost to the reimbursement process. Implementing agency staff also
informed the IEG mission that the operating costs of co-management is higher in estuary
sites than in the coastal sites, because the population that needs to be mobilized for co
management meetings and surveillance is spread over a larger area. Going forward, there
is a need to consider revising the budget allocated for operating expenses depending on
the location of the co-management site.

3.29 Project mismanagement at the central level. As noted above implementation
problems arose in the final year of the project due to a disagreement between Bank and
Project Coordinator over unacceptable clauses in consultant contracts in the PCU.

ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL IMPACTS

3.30 The Project was classified as “Category B” under the World Bank’s
Environmental and Social Safeguards. The following safeguards policies were triggered
at appraisal: OP 4.01 Environmental Assessment, 4.04 Natural Habitats and 4.12
Involuntary Resettlement.

3.31 The project built upon the Environmental Management Framework prepared for
the GIRMAC project. An Environmental Assessment (EA) was also conducted to
identify safeguards that could be triggered by new activities introduced under the project
that were not included in the earlier project. As with the GIRMAC project, the
Involuntary Resettlement policy was triggered because of the potential restriction of
traditional access to coastal and fish resources that might be introduced by management
measures needed to rebuild the fisheries stocks. The fisheries reconversion fund under
component three was established as an instrument to address such risks. The
Environmental Management Plan, prepared as part of the EA, would be used to screen all
subprojects financed by the reconversion fund would be screened for any potential
impacts under the natural habitats safeguard.

3.32 The reconversion fund was established as expected and it funded alternative
revenue generating activities for the women impacted by co-management restrictions in
                                           65


the pilot sites established under the GIRMAC project. Alternative revenue activities were
not developed for the eight additional co-management sites targeted by this project,
because the co-management agreements had not reached a stage were sub-projects could
be implemented. No other safeguards issues were mentioned in the project files.
Safeguards were consistently rated satisfactory in supervision reports throughout
implementation. The project’s completion report does not mention safeguard compliance.

FIDUCIARY PERFORMANCE

Financial Management

3.33 Overall financial management performance for the project was unsatisfactory.
Although financial management reports were received in a timely manner and of
satisfactory quality, there were several financial management transgressions. Ineligible
expenditures were incurred amounting to CFAF 8.7 m and an additional CFAF 68 million
in expenses lacked sufficient documentation. Personnel were hired that were not
budgeted under the project and without the Bank’s approval. Monthly supplements to the
Project Coordinators salary, amounting to CFAF 1 million, were charged to the project
which were ineligible as he was civil service post. Operating costs exceeded 13 percent
of the budget limit set for the project implementation period, despite delays in
implementation of project activities. In addition, the equivalent of US $ 1 million in
project funds were deposited with Crédit Mutuel du Sénégal, the project’s financial
intermediary, for over a year without activity, owing to delays in the implementation of
micro credit operations.

3.34 A preliminary financial management review of the project, carried out in August
2011, detected the ineligible expenses. The Implementation Completion and Results
Report notes that after the Bank’s attempts to discuss and resolve the issues with the
project coordinator were ignored, the Government agreed to close the Project, reimburse
the bank for ineligible expenditures, return the remaining undisbursed funds for the
unutilized line of credit, provide a justification for expenses, and transfer incomplete
activities and reallocate the remaining IDA funds to the ongoing West Africa Regional
Fisheries Program.


Procurement

3.35 The pace of procurement was slow throughout project implementation, owing to
the requirement to follow dual procurement procedures and limited procurement capacity
in the implementing agency. As with the GIRMAC project, the implementing agency was
required to comply with both National and Bank procurement procedures. The burden of
compliance with two procurement procedures was compounded by the absence of a full-
time procurement specialist. During the first year of implementation the project was
staffed with a part-time procurement specialist, a deliberate decision by the Bank and
Government aimed at reducing operating costs. Procurement staff were soon
overwhelmed by the volume of procurement needed during the first year of
implementation and the complexity of some contracts.
                                             66


3.36 The Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that procurement
picked up in early 2011 when a full time procurement specialist came on board, only to
slow again in August 2011 due to project management issues in the PCU. At the end of
the project disbursements were 52 percent of total funding for the IDA credit and 32
percent for the GEF grant.

Achievement of the Objectives
Objective 1 -Empower the communities to reduce fishing pressure on the fish stocks
supporting the central coastal fisheries of Senegal.

3.37 This objective was to be achieved by scaling up the co-management model to
additional communities and strengthening co-management efforts in the original four
pilot sites. Specifically the project would expand co-management agreements to
neighboring communities, prepare consolidated local management plans, pilot the use of
conservation tools to support rehabilitation of ecosystem in co-management, support
alternative revenue generating activities and provide communities with access to a
microcredit fund. The project also provided some funds that were pooled with the
GIRMAC project, to complete the National Registry of Small Fishing Vessels. The
output and outcomes of each activity are discussed below.

3.38 Expansion of Co-Management Agreements. By project closure, co-
management agreements were prepared with 8 new communities and submitted to local
authorities but had not been approved. The Implementation Completion and Results
Report notes that the project timeline was too short to allow for full replication to the
eight additional sites due to delays in the start of some activities and the project
management issues that derailed the project. Local fisher committees were legally
established and subproject documents were prepared and submitted to local and central
level authorities for validation and were awaiting approval. This activity was transferred
to the West Africa Regional Fisheries Project to support formalization of the agreements
and implementation of the communities’ subprojects once the management agreements
were signed. As of the IEG assessment mission in June 2014, the co-management
agreements had not yet been signed. There was a delay of approximately one year
between the end of the GDRH project and resumption of activities under the WARFP. In
the interim, many of the CLPs stopped meeting and some of their members lost interest,
due to lack of project activity. The CLP’s had reformed by the time of the assessment
mission and were meeting on a regular basis. CLP members expressed to the IEG mission
that they were eager for activities to begin anew. But both communities and local staff
expressed how the implementation disruptions had demoralized many community
members. They expressed that the project had raised their expectations and then nothing
materialized.

3.39 Conservation Measures. None of the envisaged measures to rehabilitate critical
ecosystems (establishment of ZPPs, immersion of artificial reefs, and obtaining eco-
certification for certain fisheries species) were completed by the end of the project due to
the delayed procurement of the consulting firm responsible for providing technical
assistance to these activities. By the time the firm was recruited in February 2011, it was
only able to carry out activities for 12 months out of a 30 month contract awarded on the
                                                          67


premise that the Project would be extended. Information activities to increase the
awareness of communities on issues of marine ecosystems rehabilitation had been carried
out and the remaining actives in the contract were transferred to the West Africa Regional
Fisheries Project. As of the IEG assessment mission, activities had resumed but
implementation was behind schedule. Work to obtain eco-certification was begun but
could not be completed due to legal technicalities.32

3.40 Consolidated local fisheries management plans. Developing multi-CLP
consolidated management plans around shared fisheries was not completed because it
depended on the ZPPs and artificial reefs were to be created first.

3.41 Alternative revenue generation activities. The project supported three distinct
alternative income generating activities: (1) poverty alleviation support to compensate
individuals affected by co-management restrictions as a social safeguard measure; (2)
support for marketing and commercialization of fish products intended to contribute to
the expenses of the CLPS and provide value added measures to increase the selling price
of fish products, and (3) a microcredit fund.

3.42 Poverty alleviation support was provided to women’s groups in two of the
original pilot sites who were affected by co-management restrictions on harvesting
juvenile shrimp, as a measure to comply with social safeguards (see para. 2.44).

3.43 Marketing and commercialization subprojects were carried out by CLPs in
each of the 4 pilot sites. The Project funded the construction of stores for fishing gear and
supplies (at Ngaparou and Foundiougne); the purchase of a refrigerated truck to enable
women to travel to Dakar to sell fish at a higher price than at their local market
(Ngaparou); a poultry farm (Ouakam); and a tourist camp at Betenty. The
Implementation Completion and Results Report noted that each of the subprojects was
operation by 2010 but an analysis of their profitability had not been carried out by the
project’s closure. In two sites a portion of the revenue from the CLP income generating
activities has been used as a “social fund” to encourage compliance with co-management
measures and generate greater cohesion in the community. In Foundiougne, the CLP
distributes essential food items (rice and sugar) to families during imposed biological rest
periods. The CLP in Ngaparou funds several social activities for their communities
(assistance for the sick, payment of school fees for families in need, assistance for
baptisms and funerals).

3.44 As of the IEG assessment mission, all the alternative revenue generating activities
were still in operation. In three of the four sites, the CLPs reported to the IEG mission
that the income generating activities generated a small profit but that it was not sufficient
to cover all of the CLPs operating expenses. In the fourth site, Betenty, the income
generating project was not yet profitable. The community’s “project” was to run an

32
  Certification can only be obtained for species harvested by an official approved fishing method. The IEG mission
was informed that the targeted species, Spiny Lobster and Seagul Lobster, cannot be certified because diving is the
method used to harvest them and under current legislation scuba diving is classified as a recreational activity not a
commercial activity. Eco-certification of these species would essentially be at odds with the fisheries code because it
would recognize a “recreational activity” as a commercial harvesting method. The project team informed IEG that they
had lobbied for scuba diving to be included as an accepted method under the new code but they were not successful.
                                                           68


ecotourism camp. Cabanas had been constructed but they were of poor quality. The
project had not been completed as planned because the budget had been underestimated.
The mission observed that the cabana doors were damaged by termites and needed to be
replaced and although bathrooms were constructed they were not functional because the
budget for the project was not sufficient to cover the cost of installing a water system.
The community noted that in the past year only two groups of tourists had visited and
neither stayed more than one night. Interviews with procurement staff indicate that the
budget was insufficient because they had not factored in the higher cost for transporting
materials to this remote island site.

3.45 Income-generating activities were also proposed by the fishing communities in
the eight new co-management sites. Seven of the eight proposals were approved by the
Bank on August 2011 but they could not be implemented by project closure due to the
Project management problems which stalled project implementation at that time. These
activities were subsequently transferred to the West Africa Regional Fisheries Project. As
of the IEG assessment mission implementation of these activities had not yet resumed.

3.46 Microcredit Fund. Due to procurement issues the project did not sign a contract
with the technical agency to implement this activity until July 3, 2011. By project closure
1839 proposals had been prepared by individuals the targeted fishing communities. 1690
of the proposals were approved by the project’s screening committee: 1430 women, 260
men. 42 of the approved proposals were developed into Business Plans that were
submitted to CMS, the financial intermediary, for financing. However, none of the loans
were approved because there was insufficient time for repayment before the project
closed. Following the project’s closure this activity was transferred to the West Africa
Regional Fisheries Project and their implementation had resumed by the time of the IEG
assessment mission. Going forward there is a need to assess whether the size of the loans
provided by the microcredit fund are sufficient to generate enough revenue from
alternative activities to reduce the recipients’ dependence on fishing, the ultimate goal of
this activity.

3.47 In summary, while the project made some progress in supporting the original four
pilot sites with alternative revenue generating activities and advancing the PNI program
(see results under GIRMAC project paras 2.57 - 2.60), the project achieved much less
than intended within its short timeframe, due to the procurement and project management
difficulties. Many of activities were not completed by project closure and most had not
reached a stage where they could generate the expected outcomes. None the key
performance indicators were met. The values for both of the outcome indicators33 are
shown as N/A in the implementation and completion results report.

3.48      Progress towards achieving the project objective is rated negligible.




33
   Reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-management sites; and Increase in the average size
of fish caught for targeted species in co-management sites.
                                                        69


Efficiency
3.49 A quantified measure of efficiency was not calculated at appraisal or at closure
because of data insufficiencies. At appraisal an indicative cost-benefit analysis was
described in qualitative terms based on similar activities that had been carried out under
GIRMAC, since the majority of investments were to be determined by communities
during implementation. Benefits were expected to accrue from increased prices resulting
from larger catches once fish stocks recovered. The project appraisal document also cited
rates of return from another WB project in Indonesia but acknowledged that the
conditions and assumptions behind those rates are different from Senegal. The project did
not repeat a cost benefit analysis at closure because insufficient progress had been made
to generate concrete data needed for such analysis.

3.50 Project efficiency suffered from a number of project management shortfalls. In
addition, the many procurement delays coupled with the project coordinator’s refusal to
implement project activities in 2011 meant that some activities had to be cancelled or
were not completed by project closure. The poor quality of materials procured reduced
the benefits from some income generating projects. Mismanagement of project funds also
resulted in resources being wasted on ineligible expenditures that had to be returned to
the Bank. By project closure only 26 percent of committed funds were utilized and most
activities had not reached a stage that they could generate expected benefits.

3.51     Efficiency is assessed as negligible.

Ratings
OUTCOME

3.52 The project outcome is rated highly unsatisfactory.34 This is based on high
relevance of objectives but modest relevance of design; negligible achievement of its
objective and negligible efficiency.

RISK TO DEVELOPMENT OUTCOME

3.53 The fisheries sector is risky and difficult to regulate. While the project contributed
to strengthening the foundation for co-management, support over a longer timeframe is
required for the reforms and interventions to take hold. Challenges remain in terms of
securing sustainable funding for co-management operating costs, and promotion of
alternative livelihoods to alleviate overfishing and poverty. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report indicates that at project closure, most of the pilot sites,
except for Ngaparou, have not generated sufficient operating funds to maintain such
operations over the long term, and have not sufficiently explored alternative
arrangements. This was still the case as of the IEG assessment mission. Monitoring and
Surveillance capacity also needs further strengthening. In addition the institutional
capacity within the Ministry is weak. Implementing similar projects to cover the

34
   According to the OPCS/IEG Harmonized rating criteria, the project outcome rating is highly unsatisfactory when
there are severe shortcomings in the achievement of its objectives, in its efficiency, or in its relevance.
                                                              70


geographical territory required to expand the co-management model in numerous
communities along the coast will require resources, both in terms of personnel and
budget. The West Africa Regional Fisheries Program continues to provide support to co-
management and provides an opportunity to address some of these needs.

3.54 As with the GIRMAC project, a key risk to the gains in co-management is the
need to address the constraint of open access to the resource. Creating and allocating the
right to manage targeted fisheries has been a very successful first step, but the country
will need to take the next step to create and allocate rights to access the fisheries, in order
for this progress to be maintained. Approval of the revised Fisheries Code will be critical
in this respect.

3.55 Finally, a wider regional approach is needed for sustainable impact in the sector in
the long run. Community level efforts must be accompanied by regional or international
initiatives. This issue is starting to be addressed through the ongoing West Africa
Regional Fisheries Program, which aims to develop synergies and the maximum impact
of fisheries sector reforms at both the country and regional level.

3.56        The risk to development outcome is high.

BANK PERFORMANCE

QUALITY AT ENTRY

3.57 Project design was backed by solid analytical work and drew on lessons from
global best practices generated by the experience of other donor and Bank operations in
the sector, including the experience of the GIRMAC project which was ongoing at the
time. The project preparation process was carried out with active input from the
Government team and close collaboration of other donors and local communities. The
Project was designed to be part of a larger program of donor interventions35 in the
fisheries sector in order to respond to the Government’s 2008 Letter of Sector Policy, and
to be consistent with the Government’s sector strategy. It also took into account synergies
with other programs of the Bank in the country (GIRMAC, WAFRP). Design was
efficient in that it used an existing institutional structure, the fisheries implementation
unit of the GIRMAC project, to avoid creating or involving additional implementing
agencies. Project design reflected learning form the GIRMAC experience with respect to
the infeasibility of coordinating complementary agendas through two ministries, opting
instead to incorporate both sustainable exploitation and conservation measures through
the fisheries agenda.

3.58 However, a significant shortcoming in the project’s quality at entry was the Bank
and Government’s decision to package the proposed scope of activities into a three-year
implementation timeframe. This decision was taken even though the experience from the
GIRMAC pilots had already shown that the process of establishing co-management
initiatives and getting sub-projects approved, along with the supporting structure for the
pilots sites took two years on average from the time the local fishermen committees were

35
     Other donors are supporting reforms of the industrial fisheries sector.
                                            71


created to the time sub-projects are approved and validated by the authorities at the local
and central levels. Project files indicate that the project was intentionally designed to
coincide with the timeframe of the GIRMAC project, and possibly an EU project which
was to be implemented over a 36-month period beginning in December 2008. The Bank
team originally proposed a more realistic four-year implementation time frame but
decided to accommodate the Government’s request for a shorter period because of
concern over additional counterpart funding for operating costs should the project extend
beyond the GIRMAC time frame. The final decision for the shorter timeframe was made
on the premise that the Project could be extended if needed. An additional shortcoming in
quality at entry was the decision to delay hiring full time procurement specialist,
contributing to the project’s poor procurement performance and slow start up. Finally,
while many critical risks were identified and appropriately mitigated, the Project did not
identify the fiduciary risks (mismanagement of funds and slow procurement due to lack
of capacity), nor did it anticipate project mismanagement which stalled project
implementation.

3.59 Quality at entry is rated moderately unsatisfactory, largely due to designing a
project with a timeframe that was completely unrealistic.

QUALITY OF SUPERVISION

3.60 Supervision missions were carried out at every six months and fielded by teams
with an adequate mix of skills. However, although safeguards issues were appropriately
managed, environmental and social safeguards specialists were not systematically
included in supervision missions. A local fisheries specialist was also placed full-time in
the country office to provide implementation support. The Bank team attempted to rectify
the overambitious implementation timeframe by considering an extension to the closing
date, until the downturn in project management in the PCU precluded this option.
Documentation and reporting of supervision issues were of good quality. Supervision of
fiduciary issues was also adequate but, as with the GIRMAC project, financial
management missions were carried out separately from regular supervision missions and
this created a lag in reporting in supervision reports. The Bank team was proactive in
attempting to resolve the mismanagement issues that arose in the PCU and closed the
project when their efforts yielded no results. The project closing date was appropriately
extended by three months to allow for completion of local level consulting contracts, and
to hold discussions to ensure that adequate arrangements were in place after the Project
closed to transfer remaining activities to the West Africa Regional Fisheries Program.

3.61 Supervision could have been stronger in terms of providing timely guidance and
expertise on M&E, which had already been shown to be a weak under the GIRMAC
project. Even through an M&E specialist had been recruited for the project, the system
was collecting data in a piecemeal manner. Guidance was needed on how to
operationalize a system to track both Bank and other donor interventions. Finally, the
Implementation Completion and Results Report indicates that while the Bank could not
have predicted the level of ministerial interference in project activities or sudden
downturn in the project’s management, these issues should have been be escalated to the
higher levels of dialogue between Bank management and Government once the team
attempted to resolve the problems without success.
                                                        72


3.62     Quality of Supervision is rated moderately satisfactory.

3.63 Overall Bank Performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory. This reflects the
moderately unsatisfactory quality at entry rating, the moderately satisfactory supervision
and the unsatisfactory outcome rating.36

BORROWER PERFORMANCE

GOVERNMENT PERFORMANCE

3.64 The Government took a leadership role in project preparation and the project’s
launch. Substantial input was provided from the fisheries specialists on the Government
preparation team. The government team was active in deciding the content and scope of
the project design, selection of target sites, timeline, the scope of project activities, and
number of agencies involved in implementation, and organized a three day launch
workshop. The Government also provided a conducive environment for implementing the
sectoral reforms and initiatives promoted by the project through the 2008 Letter of Sector
Policy. Government performance was also positive in terms of ensuring that the National
Registry of Small Scale Vessels was carried out. However, a significant factor in the
project not achieving its objective was the government’s decision to design the project
with only a three year timeframe to reduce counterpart funding for operating costs. In
addition, the demands of the National Procurement Code placed a significant burden on
day to day implementation of the project. The Implementation Completion and Results
Report notes that delays in key contracts could have been avoided by ensuring that
National and Bank procurement systems were harmonized before requiring the project
team to comply with both. Moreover, the Government shares responsibility with the Bank
for the decision to staff the implementing agency with a temporary rather than full time
procurement specialists during the first year of implementation to reduce operating costs.
The high volume of procurement in the first year of implementation overwhelmed the
implementing agency and contributed to delays. The Implementation Completion and
Results Report also indicates that Ministerial interference in project implementation was
also a problem. Government commitment improved somewhat in the last year of the
project, when a newly elected Government promptly took action and removed the Project
Coordinator from the implementing agency following allegations of misappropriation of
project funds.

3.65     Government performance is rated moderately unsatisfactory.

IMPLEMENTING AGENCY PERFORMANCE

3.66 Implementing agency performance was satisfactory at the local level but
unsatisfactory at the central level. Local level implementing agency staff performed well
in providing the necessary support to the communities to submit sub-project proposals
through the proper recruitment and placement of qualified facilitators at project sites to
enable them to work productively with the newly formed Local Fishermen Councils. The

36According to IEG/OPCS harmonized rating criteria, when one dimension of Bank Performance is in the satisfactory
range and the other is in the unsatisfactory range the overall Bank Performance rating is determined by the project
outcome rating.
                                                          73


department of fisheries management supervised the completion of studies and research
works and mobilized support of local authorities for the validation process for sub-projects.
Project management at the Central Level was however was problematic. The implementation
unit lacked a full-time procurement specialist to assist with procurement contracts and the
project experienced long start-up delays, due to the need to re-launch the procurement
process for contracting two important consulting firms. The final year of implementation
suffered from the disruption of poor project management when the project coordinator
refused to implement project activities or communicate with the Bank. Consequently, project
implementation stalled and the mismanagement eliminated the possibility of extending the
closing date which could have made a difference in outcome. There was a lack of attention to
M&E implementation, even after a specialist was recruited, an operational system was never
designed. Annual reporting of progress was also overlooked. Moreover, there were
significant financial management issues, including misuse of project funds. The
Implementation Completion and Results Report notes that “actions which derailed the
Project were within the control of the Ministry and the implementing agency and detracted
from the efforts (technical and operational) and results achieved in the field.”

3.67     Overall the Implementing Agency’s performance is rated unsatisfactory.

3.68 Overall Borrower Performance is rated unsatisfactory, taking into account the
moderately unsatisfactory government performance rating and the unsatisfactory
implementing agency performance rating.37

MONITORING AND EVALUATION

3.69 An M&E plan was prepared during project preparation and outlined in the project
appraisal document. The plan identified M&E responsibilities and specified data
collection and reporting intervals. Key performance indicators were identified for the
objective as well as intermediate indicators for each component. The five were a mix of
outcome, outputs and process indicators: two were true outcome level indicators, three
were process level indicators. No targets were defined for the outcome indicators, only a
direction of change.38 The feasibility of measuring or achieving some of the indicators
within a three-year period is questionable. Initial baselines were to be collected once the
targeted fisheries and landing sites for each of the eight sites were identified. Data for the
outcome indicators was to be collected by the project’s local level facilitators. The
monitoring system was also intended to serve as a feedback mechanism to communities.
Summaries of trimestral data collected at each co-management site were expected to be
sent back to community facilitators, who would present them to the CLPs and the
community at large.

3.70 The project implementation unit issued an initial report on baseline values for
monitoring the key performance indicators and outlined training to be conducted in the

37According to the IEG/OPCS harmonized rating criteria, when one dimension of borrower rating is moderately
unsatisfactory and one is fully unsatisfactory, the overall borrower performance rating is the lower of the two.
38 The outcome indicators were an increase in the average size of fish caught for targeted species in co-management
sites and a reduction in the level of fishing effort for targeted species in co-management sites. Without a target to
specify how much of an increase or reduction is expected it would not be possible to assess whether the indicator had
been met.
                                               74


field, data collection techniques, and sample data collection sheets to be distributed at the
local levels. But an operational M&E system was never established. The Department of
Fisheries Management was inadequately staffed with qualified personnel for M&E, despite
recruiting an M&E specialist for the Project. Data was not collected on a regular basis for it
to be consolidated into the trimester reports needed for monitoring project results. Oversight
of M&E for the Project was carried out in a piecemeal manner and there was a lack of follow
up monitoring at the community level. Some data was collected locally and officially
validated by the Ministry at the regional and central levels, but continued support was needed
to sustain the effort. Supervision documents indicate that the project’s M&E system did
not provide the required data to serve as a tool for management and decision making.

3.71      The Quality of Monitoring and Evaluation is rated Negligible.



4. Lessons
4.1       The experience of the two projects yields the following lessons:

         Reforming the fisheries sector is politically sensitive and a long term pursuit,
          best suited to a phased programmatic approach in which sustained support is
          ensured over a series of operations. The timeframe for each stage needs to be set
          taking into account the capacity of the implementing agencies and the complexity
          of activities financed. In this case, the Bank maintained continuity in support
          across several operations but this was not designed upfront. Consequently,
          implementation was disrupted in the transfer of activities from one project to the
          next, as activities were put on hold while the restructuring process was carried
          out.

         Operationalizing co-management requires actions at both local and national
          level, lack of synchronization between the two can disrupt implementation and
          the motivation of key actors. In both cases implementation progress at the local
          level was bottlenecked by slow clearances at the central level, as well as delays
          for centrally procured materials and in processing contracts for experts to support
          critical activities. This slowed momentum and has frustrated local level actors.
          The lack of synchronization can be particularly disruptive to seasonal activities.

         Supporting Alternative Revenue Generating Activities can potentially reduce
          the poverty-conservation tradeoff by making up for lost income or subsistence
          opportunities that stem from reduced resource access caused by project
          activities. But realizing this potential requires more rigorous feasibility studies to
          ensure that the proposed activity has the potential to generate profits that are equal
          to revenues forgone and that adequate budgets are provided to cover the full
          investment costs of the alternative activity. A sustainable system to support
          alternative revenue generating activities beyond the project timeframe is also
          needed.

EPILOGUE
                                                           75



4.2      The Bank has continued to support Senegal in reforming its fisheries sector
beyond the close of the projects though the West Africa Regional Fisheries Program
(WARFP).39 Under the WARFP the Bank aimed to widen its support to the sector from a
focus on addressing open access issues in specific pilot sites, to addressing these
constraints at the national and regional level. The WARFP was approved for Senegal in
October 2009 and became effective 2010. In December 2012, the WARFP was
restructured to take on several of the uncompleted fisheries management activities from
the GIRMAC and GDRH projects. In addition to supporting activities that were not
complete and further strengthening the capacity of the CLPs in all 12 co-management
sites, the WARFP is also expanding access rights.

4.3     There was a delay of approximately one year between the end of the GRIMAC
and GDRH projects and the resumption of activities under the WARFP. In the interim,
many of the newly formed CLPs in the 8 sites supported by the GDRH project stopped
meeting and some of their members lost interest, due to lack of project activity. At the
time of the IEG assessment mission in June 2014, all of the CLP’s had reformed and
were meeting on a regular basis. The CLP members expressed to the IEG mission that
they were eager for activities to begin anew but the implementation disruptions had
demoralized many community members. The CLPs in the 4 original pilot sites continued
to implement co-management activities on their own during the transition. Additional
progress was reported to the IEG mission on implementation of microcredit activities and
the national registration of small scale vessels..40




39 The WARFP is a series of overlapping adaptable program loans (APLs) that include national investments to
strengthen the capacity of the countries to collaborate around the management of the fish resources and greater value
addition locally. It also provides a regional coordination mechanism. It provides support to nine West African
countries.
40 •Microcredit activities resumed in July 2013. From July 2013 – March 2014, 500 business plans had been prepared
and submitted to CMS for financing and 248 loans had been approved (213 women, 35 men). The technical firm
reported anecdotally that all of the loans issued to date are being paid back as agreed. Some beneficiaries that received
6 to 8 month loan terms have completed their initial loan terms and have requested new loans. It was too soon to assess
the results of the microcredit loans.
•As of April 2014, the number of boats registered had increased to 23,453, and 16,333 had been marked with the
registration number.
                                                   76


References
Ervin, J. 2003 WWF: Rapid Assessment and Prioritization of Protected Area Management (RAPPAM)
          Methodology WWF
Sarr, Mare. 2012. Fisheries Governance Reforms in Senegal.
Sverdrup-Jensen, Sten and Jesper Raakjaer Nielsen. 1998. Co-management in small-scale fisheries: A
        synthesis of Southern and West African experiences.
USAID. 2011. Evaluation of the Legal and the Institutional Capacity of Local Artisanal Fishing Counsels
       in Senegal.
Watanuki, Naohiko. 2008. Community-based fisheries co-management in Senegal.
World Bank, 2003. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Senegal for the Period FY03 to FY05.
       Report No. 25498-SE
World Bank, 2004. Project Appraisal Document for the Senegal Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources
       Management Project. Report. No. 30291
World Bank, 2007. Country Assistance Strategy for the Republic of Senegal for the Period FY07 to FY10.
       Report No: 36608-SN
World Bank, 2008. Project Appraisal Document for the Senegal Sustainable Management of Fish
       Resources Project. Report No. 45462-SN
World Bank, 2009. Project Appraisal Document for the First Phase of APL in Support of the West Africa
       Regional Fisheries Program Report No: 48965
World Bank, 2011. Proposed Project Restructuring of the Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources
       Management Project. Report No: 64976-SN
World Bank, 2012. Implementation and Completion Results Report on the Senegal Integrated Marine and
       Coastal Resources Management Project. Report No: ICR2377
World Bank, 2012 A. Proposed Project Restructuring West Africa Regional Fisheries Program To the
       Republic of Senegal. Report No: 74617
World Bank, 2013. Implementation and Completion Results Report on the Senegal Sustainable
       Management of Fish Resources Project. Report No: ICR2459
World Bank, 2013A. Country Partnership Strategy for FY2013-2017 The Republic of Senegal. Report No.
       73478-SN
                                                  77                                            ANNEX A


Annex A. Basic Data Sheet
INTEGRATED MARINE AND COASTAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT PROJECT
CREDIT NO. 3998-SE

Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                             Appraisal               Actual or         Actual as % of
                                             estimate             current estimate    appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           17.31                    13.32                81%
Loan amount                                   10.47                    9.01                 86%
GEF grant                                          5.0                 3.62                 72%
Government counterpart                            1.49                 0.69                 46%
Cancellation IDA                                  NA                   1.46                    NA
Cancellation GEF                                  NA                   1.38                    NA


Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                      FY05     FY06     FY07              FY08       FY09     FY10     FY11         FY12
Appraisal             1.0       3.0         5.5            8.0        9.0      10.0     10.0        10.0
estimate (US$M)
Actual (US$M)         1.14     2.52         4.01           6.10       7.15     8.90     9.33        9.01
Actual as % of
appraisal              114%      84%         73%            76%        79%      89%       93%        90%
Date of final disbursement: June 14, 2012


Project Dates
                                                     Original                           Actual
Initiating memorandum                               10/15/2003                        12/18/2003
Negotiations                                         4/30/2004                        4/16/2004
Board approval                                       8/31/2004                        11/11/2004
Signing                                              1/28/2004                         1/4/2005
Effectiveness                                        4/15/2005                        4/15/2005
Closing date                                             6/1/2010                      5/1/2012
ANNEX A                      78


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)
                    79   ANNEX A


Task Team Members
ANNEX A                                    80




Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Direction for Maritime Fisheries, Ministry of Maritime Economy
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                  Credit no.   Amount           Board date
                                                        (US$ million)
West Africa Regional Fisheries Program     4662-SE      15.0             October 20, 2009
                                               81                                       ANNEX A


SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT OF FISH RESOURCES PROJECT CREDIT NO.
4545-SE
Key Project Data (amounts in US$ million)
                                             Appraisal       Actual or          Actual as % of
                                             estimate     current estimate     appraisal estimate
Total project costs                           10.85             2.84                 26%
Loan amount                                    3.50             .76                  22%
GEF grant amount                                6.0             2.07                 35%
Government Counterpart                         1.35             .07*                  5%
Cancellation IDA Credit                        NA               2.79                  NA
 Cancellation GEF Grant                       NA              3.93                 NA
*This amount supplied to IEG directly by the implementing agency. The Implementation
Completion and Results Report did not report on the government counterpart contribution.

Cumulative Estimated and Actual Disbursements
                                     FY09                FY10            FY11               FY12
Appraisal estimate (US$M)             0.25               1.25                2.25           3.50
Actual (US$M)                          0                 .44                 1.98           .76
Actual as % of appraisal              0%                 35%                 88%            22%
Date of final disbursement: January 10, 2012


Project Dates
                                                   Original                       Actual
Concept Review                                    3/26/2007                     7/24/2006
Negotiations                                      5/22/2007                    10/22/2008
Board approval                                    7/03/2007                    12/16/2008
Signing                                           9/12/2009                     9/12/2009
Effectiveness                                    11/12/2009                    11/06/2009
Closing date                                      3/31/2012                     6/30/2012
ANNEX A                      82


Staff Inputs (staff weeks)




Task Team Members
                                           83                                    ANNEX A



Other Project Data
Borrower/Executing Agency: Direction for Maritime Fisheries, Ministry of Maritime Economy
Follow-on Operations
Operation                                   Credit no.    Amount           Board date
                                                          (US$ million)
West Africa Regional Fisheries Program      4662-SE       15.0             September 18,
                                                                           2009
ANNEX B                                    84


Annex B. List of Persons Interviewed
World Bank
Demba Balde, Senior Social Development Specialist
Radonirina Ioniarilala, Fisheries Specialist
Asberr Mendy, Fisheries Specialist ETC
Yves Prevost, Environmental Advisor, TTL
Berengere Prince, Senior Natural Resources Management Specialist, TTL West Africa
Regional Fisheries Program
Vera Songwe, Country Director
Lucie Tran, ICR Primary Author
Cheick Traore, Procurement Specialist
John Virdin, Senior Natural Resources Management Specialist, TTL

Government
Abdoulay Dieng, Direction of Economic and Financial Cooperation, Ministry of the
Economy and Finance
Mariama Dalanda Barry, Direction for Maritime Fisheries, National Coordinator, West
Africa Region Fisheries Program
Malick Guibril Ndiaye, Procurement Specialist, West Africa Region Fisheries Program
Malick Diange, Direction for Maritime Fisheries, West Africa Region Fisheries Program
Djiby Thiam, Direction for Maritime Fisheries, Fisheries Co management Specialist, West
Africa Regional Fisheries Program
Papa Birame Diop, Administrative and financial responsible, West Africa Regional Fisheries
Program
Adama Diop, Coordinator of the National Program of Small Fishing Vessels, Direction for
Maritime Fisheries
Modu Thiam, Fisheries Management Specialist, West Africa Regional Fisheries Program
Sidiya Diouf, Deputy Director of Marine Fisheries and Artisanal Fisheries Division, Ministry
of Fisheries and Aquaculture
Mamadou Konate, Ministry of Environment
Amadou Lamine Diagne, Director of Green Finance, Ministry of Environment
Ndeye Mariyama Diallo, Ministry of Environment
Ibra Sounkarou Ndiaye, Self-Evaluation, Ministry of Environment
Mamadou Sidibe, Chief of the Division of Self Evaluation, Direction of National Parks
Amirata Badji, Sociologist, Direction of National Parks
Mamadou Faye, Direction of National Parks

Consultant NGOs affiliated with project
Mor Thiam, Consultant Expert in Evaluation of Microfinance Projects, Sen Ingenierie
Consult, l'Institut D'appui Technique
Mouhamadou Lamine Boye, Consultant Rural Economics, Sen Ingenierie Consult, l'Institut
D'appui Technique
Dr. Mamadou Diallo, Manager of Species and Habitat Program, WWF WAMER
Dr. Ibrahima Niamadio, Sustainable Fisheries Program Manager, WWF WAMER
                                        85                               ANNEX B


Beneficiary Communities of:
Ouakam
Ngaparou
Foundiougne
Betenty
Yenne
Ndangane
Popenguine
Somone

Other Donors
Makoto Ikeda, Technical Advisor, JICA
Nassirou Gueye, Junior Fisheries Expert, USAID/COMFISH Project
Vaque Ndiaye, Fisheries Expert, USAID/COMFISH Project
Jim Tobey, University of Rhode Island, USAID/COMFISH Project
Najih Lazar, Department of Fisheries, University of Rhode Island, USAID/COMFISH
Project
