 IEG
                                                                                                  Report Number: ICRR14619

                   ICR Review
                   Independent Evaluation Group




        1. Project Data:                                        Date Posted: 04/23/2015

               Country: Senegal
             Project ID: P086480                                                      Appraisal               Actual
         Project Name: Integrated Marine And          Project Costs (US$M):                       16.49                13.25
                         Coastal Resources
                         Management Project
  L/C Number:            C3998                          Loan/Credit (US$M):                        10.0                 8.81
      Sector Board:      Agriculture and Rural          Cofinancing (US$M):
                         Development
           Cofinanciers:                                Board Approval Date :                               11/11/2004
                                                                Closing Date:             06/01/2010        05/01/2012
           Sector(s):      General agriculture fishing and forestry sector (70%); Central government administration
                           (25%); Other social services (5%)
          Theme(s):        Other environment and natural resources management (25% - P); Biodiversity (25% - P);
                           Rural non-farm income generation (24% - P); Environmental policies and institutions (13% -
                           S); Participation and civic engagement (13% - S)

Prepared by:               Reviewed by:             ICR Review                  Group:
                                                    Coordinator:
April Connelly             Christopher David        Christopher David           IEGPS1
                           Nelson                   Nelson

2. Project Objectives and Components:

 a. Objectives:
  This is a fully blended GEF / IDA financed project which had both project development objectives and global
environment objectives. The project development objective is used as the benchmark for assessing the projects
outcome rating as the project development objective alone is reflected in the financing agreements.

According to both the IDA credit agreement (pg. 21) and the GEF grant agreement (pg. 20), the project’s development
objectives were "to assist the communities within the Recipient’s territory in achieving sustainable management of the
Recipient’s coastal and marine resources, including ensuring responsible exploitation of resources combined with
protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment."

According to the Project Appraisal Document (pg. 3) to project's development objectives were to "increase sustainable
management of coastal and marine resources in 3 pilot areas by communities and the Government of Senegal."

The project development objective remained consistent throughout implementation but the project was restructured in
November 2008, at which point its key performance indicators were revised.

Although there were changes to the key performance indicators, a split rating methodology has not been applied in
this case because this was a pilot project to test a new management system. While revised indicators reduced the
scale of the project in terms of the number of project sites, the scale of the project is less important than testing and
learning. Four pilot sites were sufficient to test establishing the model and to generate learning for scaling up.

b.Were the project objectives/key associated outcome targets revised during implementation?
Yes
 If yes, did the Board approve the revised objectives/key associated outcome targets?
Yes
 Date of Board Approval: 10/21/2008

c. Components:
As originally designed, the project comprised the following components and sub components:

Component 1: Management of Sustainable Fisheries (appraisal estimate US $6.53 million, actual costs US$ 5.67
million). This component aimed to increase the sustainability of fisheries through the use of area-based
co-management, a partnership system in which fishermen and the Government share both the power and
accountability for making management decisions regarding a geographically localized fish stock. It included three sub
components.

    Sub-Component 1.1: National level activities to enable the implementation of co-management initiatives. The
    project funded TA, consultants, studies and equipment required for:
       Evaluation of fisheries sector policy options for Senegal to help orient the decisions expected from the
         Special Commission.
       The design and implementation of fisheries management plans for two groups of species, an annual
         evaluation of the implementation of each plan, and annual adjustments in light of evaluation results.
       Support to the National Consultative Council for Marine Fisheries to enhance its capacity to function as the
         primary negotiation and consensus-building forum among stakeholders for each of the key fisheries
         management plans, including Local Artisanal Fisheries Councils and Local Fisher Committees.
       Awareness Building through the development of an information, education and communication plan to
         increase awareness and understanding regarding the principles and benefits of co-management systems
         promoted by the Project.
       Development of an incremental program of fisheries research, targeted at defining the life cycles of key
         demersal species.
       Development and implementation of a nationwide system of registration of small scale fishing vessels.

    Sub-component 1.2: Promotion and coordination of government efforts to test local co-management initiatives in
    three pilot areas, Senegal River Delta, the Cap-Vert Peninsula, and the Saloum River Delta, including:
       Selection of Initial Pilot Sites. The project would fund the process of selecting pilot communities based on a
         criteria of initiatives that are most likely to succeed, and baseline studies for each selected pilot site to
         identify and minimize the risks that might be associated with the implementation of the proposed
         co-management initiative.
       Identification of Local Co-management Initiatives. The project would finance the cost of facilitators for each
         pilot site who would to assist communities with the preparation of local co-management subprojects, help
         communities define realistic management objectives, and submit their final proposals to relevant Local
         Councils for approval. The project would also fund the construction of “Fishermen’s Houses” that includes
         office space for the facilitator and common space for the fisher community. Project funding would cover
         training, TA, local construction, equipment, and operating support to facilitators and Local Fisher
         Committees.
       Local Level Monitoring, Control, and Surveillance measures required to ensure that fishing activities within
         the geographic footprint of the co-management initiative comply with fisheries regulations. Project funds
         would cover boats, equipment and operating support to Local Fisher Committees.
       Participatory Fish Stock Evaluation Programs implemented by CRODT scientists with participation of local
         fishers. The program would ensure coordination local research efforts with national level research efforts
         targeting demersal fish stocks, funded by the Project. Project funds would cover TA, support for Local Fisher
         Committees, and research equipment adapted to shallow waters.
       Support to Local Fisheries Councils for the development of legal statutes to define parameters for the Local
         Fisheries Councils, the preparation of annual management plans by the Councils, and fund independent
         evaluations of the implementation of the annual management plans. Project funds would cover TA,
         equipment and operating costs.
       Support for the preparation of a system to monitor the performance of co-management initiatives, including
         the development of indicators for each pilot site and co-management initiative in partnership with the
         concerned Local Fisher Committees. Project funds cover TA and operating costs.
       Evaluation of the Performance of Co-management Initiatives, including funding for an independent
         evaluation of the implementation of co-management initiatives at the four initial pilot sites and incorporate
         the recommendations of the evaluation into the design of co-management initiatives, as a trigger for adding
         eight additional pilot sites. A second evaluation would be conducted on all 12 pilot sties to identify
         adjustments that need to be made to the legal, regulatory and institutional framework for fisheries
         management, to better support co-management initiatives and to incorporate them into the national fisheries
         management system. Project funds would cover TA and operating costs.

    Sub-Component 1.3: Institutional strengthening and capacity building to oversee, support and monitor the
    implementation of co-management initiatives. The following activities would be supported:
    Support to the establishment of a technical implementation unit in the Ministry of Marine Economy to manage
    implementation of component 1. Strengthening Capacity of the Ministry of Marine Economy and CRODT in
    Designing Participatory Research Programs for Co-management Initiatives. Capacity Building in the Design and
    Implementation of Co-management Initiatives, through a program to inform and train representatives of
    professional organizations about the potential benefits and constraints of co-management experiences in
    Senegal and abroad.

Component 2: Conservation of Critical Habitats and Species (appraisal estimate US $6.02 million, actual cost US$
4.35 million) This component aimed to improve the long-term management of Senegal’s network of coastal protected
areas by developing and implementing management plans for these areas, according to an ecosystem approach, and
restructuring the biodiversity management framework. It included the following subcomponents:
Sub-Component 2.1: Managing ecosystems in three pilot areas by supporting the National Man in Biosphere
Committee in the establishment or redesign of Biosphere Reserves in the three pilot areas. Project funds would
support the establishment of Ecosystem Management Committees with in each site that would oversee the
preparation and monitor the implementation of an ecosystem management plan for each of the pilot areas. Project
funds would also support implementation of the ecosystem management plans until Project completion, and interim
measures for each of the three pilot areas, which include expenditures and activities in the annual work plans of
protected areas that have remained unfunded, as well as measures to increase the involvement of neighboring
populations in the sustainable management of marine and coastal resources, such as ecotourism, participatory
biodiversity assessments and local surveillance committees.
Sub-Component 2.2: Strengthening the Biodiversity Conservation Framework by preparing a Biodiversity and
Protected Area Act, strengthening institutions, and preparing the establishment of a Trust Fund. This sub-component
would support Government efforts to update the framework for biological diversity, including a thorough revision of the
legal framework, the institutional framework, and the governance mechanism, and the establishment of a mechanism
to ensure long-term sustainability. This would include the preparation of a Biodiversity and Protected Area Act and
support for the reorganization of the DPN according to the new mandate spelled out in the Biodiversity and Protected
Area Act.
The sub-component would also support the National Biodiversity Committee to monitor and evaluate the state of
biodiversity in Senegal, to prepare a State of Biodiversity Report with annual updates, and to disclose the Report and
updates to the general public. The sub-component would also fund a feasibility study and consultations regarding the
Establishment of a Trust Fund for Biodiversity Conservation in Senegal.

Component 3: Program management, M&E and Communication (appraisal estimate US $3.94 million, actual Costs
US$ 3.23 million). This component aimed to ensure optimal implementation of Project activities through the following
sub-components:
Sub-Component 3.1: Monitoring and Evaluation. Project funds would support the PCU in managing aid from donors
and partners, ensure efficient implementation and procurement, monitor implementation against indicators, and
commission periodic independent evaluations.
Sub-Component 3.2: Coordination. This subcomponent would support the Integrated Marine and Coastal Resources
Management Steering Committee and the Advisory Scientific and Technical Committee. It would also support
cross-sectoral structures necessary in the pilot intervention areas to ensure coordination among various implementing
agencies, including joint sessions between the National Advisory Council on Marine Fisheries and the National
Biodiversity Committee.
Sub-component 3.3: Communication. The project would fund the design and implementation of a communication plan
to ensure the flow of necessary information to and from stakeholders on project activities.
Sub-component 3.4: Sub-regional Coordination. The project would support a partnerships at sub-regional level
between the PCU and institutions or structures of other countries involved in activities similar as those being
implemented under the Project.

 d. Comments on Project Cost, Financing, Borrower Contribution, and Dates:
 Project cost. Total costs estimated at appraisal were US$16.49 million. At completion actual costs were US$ 13.26
million, 20 percent below the appraisal estimate. This was largely due to implementation delays which resulted in
some activities that could not be completed by the end of the project.

Financing and Borrower Contribution . The project was expected to be financed through an IDA credit of US$ 10
million US dollar equivalent, a GEF grant of US$5 million USD equivalent and Government contribution of US$1.49.
At closure US$8.8 million of the IDA credit and US$3.7 of the GEF grant disbursed. US$1.46 of the IDA credit and
USD 1.38 of the GEF grant were cancelled. The government contribution was US$ 0.69, approximately 54 percent
below the planned contribution. The ICR does not explain why the government’s contribution was so much lower then
what it had committed to at project appraisal. Staff in the implementing agency informed IEG that there were delays in
some disbursements and the government budgeting system did not allow for retroactive financing to cover the years
when disbursement did not happen.
Dates. The original closing date of June 1, 2010 was extended twice by a total of 23 months. The first extension,
approved in May of 2010 in conjunction with the project’s restructuring, added 18 months to the original closing date.
The revised closing date of December 1, 2011 was subsequently extended until May 1st, 2012, to allow the project to
complete the two national fisheries management plans that had been delayed because the lead technical specialist
contracted for the work fell ill and had to be replaced.

Loan Amendments. There were three amendments to the loan agreement impacting the projects implementation
arrangements, the global environment objective, and scope. The first was a third tier restructuring approved by the
country director on May 19, 2008, that modified the project’s implementation arrangements. The project coordination
unit was closed and project management responsibilities and the remaining funds from the PCU’s operation were
reallocated to each of the technical Ministries’ implementation units for project management of their respective
components. The second revision, a first-order project restructuring approved by the Board in October 2008, modified
the Global Environment Objective, revised the results framework, and modified the scope of activities. 2.31 The third
amendment, approved November 2011, reflected the final six month extension of the closing date.

3. Relevance of Objectives & Design:

a. Relevance of Objectives:
The relevance of design is rated High.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

b. Relevance of Design:
The relevance of design is rated Modest.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

4. Achievement of Objectives (Efficacy):
  The project development objective comprised two parts which were assessed as two separate sub-objectives.

Objective A – Assist the communities within the Recipient’s territory in achieving sustainable management of coastal
and marine resources by ensuring responsible exploitation of resources.

Achievement of Objective A is rated Substantial.

Objective B – Assist the communities within the Recipient’s territory in achieving sustainable management of coastal
and marine resources by ensuring protection of ecosystems and ecological processes critical for their replenishment.

Achievement of Objective B is rated Modest.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

5. Efficiency:
 Efficiency is rated Negligible.

Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

 a. If available, enter the Economic Rate of Return (ERR)/Financial Rate of Return (FRR) at appraisal and the
    re-estimated value at evaluation :

                                   Rate Available?                         Point Value                        Coverage/Scope*

    Appraisal                          No
    ICR estimate                       No
                                         * Refers to percent of total project cost for which ERR/FRR was calculated.



6. Outcome:
  Relevance of objectives is high but relevance of design to achieving the objectives is modest. Achievement of the
first objective of attaining responsible resource exploitation was substantial. Achievement of the second objective -
protection of ecosystems and ecological processed for replenishment - was modest. Efficiency rated negligible due to
implementation delays misuse of funds.
  a. Outcome Rating: Unsatisfactory


7. Rationale for Risk to Development Outcome Rating:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

   a. Risk to Development Outcome Rating : High

8. Assessment of Bank Performance:

a. Quality at entry:
   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

   Quality-at-Entry Rating:                      Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Quality of supervision:
   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


   Quality of Supervision Rating :               Moderately Unsatisfactory

   Overall Bank Performance Rating :             Moderately Unsatisfactory


9. Assessment of Borrower Performance:

a. Government Performance:
   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

   Government Performance Rating                              Moderately Unsatisfactory

b. Implementing Agency Performance:
   Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.


   Implementing Agency Performance Rating :                   Unsatisfactory

   Overall Borrower Performance Rating :                      Unsatisfactory



10. M&E Design, Implementation, & Utilization:

a. M&E Design:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

b. M&E Implementation:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

c. M&E Utilization:
  Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

M&E Quality Rating: Negligible
11. Other Issues

a. Safeguards:
Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

b. Fiduciary Compliance:
Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel for more information.

c. Unintended Impacts (positive or negative):


d. Other:



12. Ratings:                               ICR                     IEG Review                Reason for
                                                                                      Disagreement/Comments
                      Outcome: Moderately                   Unsatisfactory      Please see the detailed PPAR
                               Satisfactory                                     evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                                for more information.
          Risk to Development High                          High                Please see the detailed PPAR
                     Outcome:                                                   evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                                for more information.
            Bank Performance: Moderately                    Moderately          Please see the detailed PPAR
                              Unsatisfactory                Unsatisfactory      evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                                for more information.
       Borrower Performance : Moderately                    Unsatisfactory      Please see the detailed PPAR
                              Unsatisfactory                                    evaluation carried out by IEG in parallel
                                                                                for more information.
                Quality of ICR:                             Satisfactory

NOTES:
- When insufficient information is provided by the Bank
  for IEG to arrive at a clear rating, IEG will downgrade
  the relevant ratings as warranted beginning July 1,
  2006.
- The "Reason for Disagreement/Comments" column
  could cross-reference other sections of the ICR
  Review, as appropriate.

13. Lessons:
 Please see the detailed PPAR evaluation being done by IEG in parallel for more information.

14. Assessment Recommended?                  Yes      No

Why? This ICRR reflects a Project Performance Assessment that was carried out for this project in June 2014 and
published in the report cited below: IEG. 2015. Project Performance Assessment Report Senegal - Integrated Marine
And Coastal Resources Management Project. Washington, DC ; World Bank Group Report No. 95315




15. Comments on Quality of ICR:

Overall the quality of the ICR is satisfactory. It is sufficiently outcome driven, it provides a thorough and candid
discussion of implementation challenges and draws operationally relevant lessons from the implementation
experience. But there were some shortcomings:
   The ICR does not analyze and rate each of the individual dimensions of project performance that made up the
     overall outcome rating: relevance (of objectives and design), efficacy and efficiency. Relevance of objectives is
     discussed but not rated, relevance of design is neither discussed nor rated, and efficiency is discussed but is not
   rated.
  Although the discussion of Financial Management is extensive, it does not comment on audit qualifications and
   how they were resolved.
  The discussion of safeguards does not state which safeguards were triggered and there is no clear statement to
   indicate whether safeguards were complied or not. Instead there is reference to some problem in the
   implementation of safeguards and an overall moderately satisfactory rating but without an explanation of what the
   Moderately Satisfactory rating means and how it was derived.
  There are inconsistencies in the project cost and financing amounts reported in different tables in annex 1.
a.Quality of ICR Rating : Satisfactory
