Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 20201
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(LOAN 20017; 20018; 20016; 37960; 37961; 21483; 37950)
ON A
SINGLE CURRENCY AND CURRENCY POOL LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 10 MILLION, DM 8.5, AND US$ 20 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
FOR
AN ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
MARCH 14, 2000
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective February 28, 2000)
Currency Unit = Latvian Lat (Ls)
Ls 0.59= US$ 1.0
US$ 1.68 = Ls 1.0
FISCAL YEAR
January I -  December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BOL                  Bank Of Latvia
LPA                  Latvia Privatization Agency
LOC                  Line Of Credit
PFI                  Participating Financial Intermediary
PMU                  Project Management Unit
QAE                  Quality at Entry
SAR                  Staff Appraisal Report
SCL                  Single Currency Loan
TU                   Technical Unit
Vice President:   Johannes Linn
Country Manager/Director:    Basil Kavalsky
Sector Manager/Director:   Paul Siegelbaum
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Alexander Fleming



FOR OFCUL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
LATVIA
ENTERPRISE AND FINANCIAL SECTOR RESTRUCTURING PROJECT
CONTENTS
Page No
1. Project Data                                                                            1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                           1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry                 1
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                                    5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                                     10
6. Sustainability                                                                         11
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                          11
8. Lessons Learned                                                                        14
9. Partner Comments                                                                       14
10. Additional Information                                                                19
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                                      20
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                                      21
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                                      24
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                                      25
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components                      27
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                         28
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                                     29
This document has a restricted distribution and may be Used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed vsiou
World Bank authoizaton.






Project ID: P008529                                      Project Name: ENTERP. FINANC. SECT
Team Leader: Alexander E. Fleming                       TL Unit: ECSPF
ICR Type: Core ICR                                       Report Date: Febnrary 25, 2000
1. Project Data
Name: ENTERP. FINANC. SECT                            LIC Number: 20017; 20018; 20016;
37960; 37961; 21483;
37950
Country/Department: LATVIA                                             Region: Europe and Central
Asia Region
Sector/subsector: FS - Financial Sector Development
KEY DATES
Original           Revised/Actual
PCD:  07/09/93                               Effective:                   04/10/95
Appraisal:  03/19/94                                MTR: 06/01/96              07/01/96
Approval:  09/20/94                               Closing: 06/30/98           06/30/99
Borrower/lImplementing Agency: GOVT. OF LATVIA/MINISTRY OF FINANCE
Other Partners:  CANADIAN, SWEDISH AND DANISH GOVERNMENTS
STAFF               Current                                   At Appraisal
Vice President:     Johannes Linn                             Wilfried Thalwitz
Country Manager:    Basil Kavalsky                            Adil Kanaan
Sector Afanager:     Paul Siegelbaum                          Basil Kavalsky
Team Leader at ICR:   Alex Fleming
ICR Primary Author:   David Phillips
2. Principal Performance Ratings
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: HS
Sustainability: HL
Institutional Development HS
Impact:
Bank Performance: HS
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)       ICR
Quality at Entry: S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
3.1 Original Objective:
The project objectives were stated in the SAR as follows: "to support the Government's reforms in
the enterprise and financial sector, focusing on enterprise privatization and bank restructuring. These



reforms will pave the way for improved intermediation through the banking sector specifically to newly
privatized and other emerging private enterprises. The credit component of the loan will act as an incentive
to the development of intermediation at the medium- and long-term end of the maturity spectrun and will
encourage new investment in the emerging private sector."
Building on the reforms already under way, the project aimed at the coordinated reform of both
banking and enterprise development. It was geared to assist in reforming the remnant of the Soviet banking
system into a market-based one, to provide financing to the emerging private sector, and to act as a catalyst
in accelerating privatization.
Assessment. The objectives were realistic and were in accordance with the Bank's CAS objectives
and Latvia's needs. The original concept of the project was relatively complex and demanding of Latvian
Government capacity but this was understandable because it was one of the first sector investment loans to
Latvia. The project was directly responsive to Borrower circumstances since privatization, investment in
the private sector, and strengthening of the banking system were regarded as priorities by the Borrower.The
project faced risks in the political instability associated with a series of fragile coalition Governments, and
the possibilitiy of economic destabilization and resurgence of inflation, and systemic weakness in the
banking sector. Some of the latter problems arose but in the final analysis the objectives were sound and
attainable.
3.2 Revised Objective:
Following the Latvian banking crisis of 1995, the project's objectives were amended to include the
objective of "safeguarding the liquidity of the private sector at a time of major financial disruption of the
economy". This amendment was consistent with the project's original objective of providing critical
financing of privatized and private enterprises. In addition, the evolution of the project resulted in some de
facto amendment to the implicit objectives, with less emphasis on financial infrastructure, as a result of the
elimination of the payments systems and the debt management component. Privatization remained central
but the program was (as planned) largely taken over by outside donor assistance agencies. Bank institution
building and enterprise investment correspondingly became the focus of the Bank's efforts. Nevertheless the
components that were not financed by the Bank were implemented with outside resources, so that the
original overall thrust of the project remained unchanged.
3.3 Original Components:
Originally, the project (total cost of IBRD financing US$35.0 million) comprised the following
components:
PART A; this consisted of a credit line of US$29.6 million equivalent (in Lats, US Dollars and
German Marks) to finance medium to long term loans to private enterprises, intermediated through
Participating Financial Institutions. Initially the credit line was subdivided into (1) a US$10 million fnmd
available for 18 months for newly privatized enterprises designed to create a synergy with the privatization
support component; (2) a US$2 million set-aside for providing credits to match equity injections from a
Swedish Government capital fund designed to strengthen selected bank capital, and; (3) the remaining
US$ 17.6 to provide medium to long term financing to private enterprises. Part of the credit line would be
channeled through Unibank (a bank recently created with IBRD assistance to consolidate a number of
previous State-owned bank branches) for the purpose of replacing non-negotiable long term Government
bonds on the Unibank books (the counterpart of an earlier recapitalization) with more liquid assets in the
form of subloans. While strengthening the banks this mechanism also allowed the Government to assume a
- 2 -



longer maturity World Bank liability;
PART B; this consisted of an institutional development component of USS3.42 million for
technical assistance in privatization and credit line management. This was to include: (1) assistance to the
Latvia Privatization Agency to accelerate the privatization process according to privatization targets, and;
(2) support for the Project Management Unit, and the establishment and operation of a semi-autonomous
Technical Unit (TU) reporting to the Ministry of Finance, for selecting and monitoring the PFIs,
authorizing the use of the credit line for financing particular sub-projects, and, managing this and future
credit lines.
PART C; this consisted of a financial infrastructure component of US$2.0 million to upgrade the
bank payments and clearing system, paper-based payment instruments and direct debit facilities. This
component was to be reallocated to the Credit Line if donor or other alternative financing became available.
In addition to the formal components of the project, very considerable preparatory work was
carried out by the Bank within a comprehensive donor support effort. In the banking sector, this included
assistance to the Bank of Latvia on payments and supervision regulations, appraisals of the banks and
pipeline (especially as this project was a SCL pilot), collaboration with Swedfund over the establishment of
the Swedish Capital Fund, the establishment of Unibank using a PHRD grant and other donor resources,
assistance to the Savings Bank, the preparation of a strategy for privatization and a pilot privatization
program also funded by a PHRD grant, and donor funded bank restructuring work. Preparatory work in
privatization assistance included the design of capacity to prepare enterprises for privatization, auction
systems, and share sales.
In the case of Unibank detailed assistance was provided to help develop a 'stable core' within the
banking sector, by restructuring the loan portfolio through replacement of nonperforming loans with
Govenment bonds. This assistance was then linked to the project itself through a Government bond
redemption mechanism, which allowed bonds to be replaced by subloans. The role of the Swedish Capital
fund was to supplement this same process by directly strengthening the capital base of selected banks. The
development of the institutional and regulatory system was addressed through donor parallel cofinancing,
and the project included dated covenants to this effect, on the submission of laws for secured transactions,
loan and collateral, and on implemenation of the laws and the establishment of a land registry system to
secure property rights.
Assessment of the Original Project Design
The components were directly related to the achievement of objectives. The lessons learned from
experience within the region were taken into account regarding in particular the need to pursue enterprise
and finance sector reform in tandem, the need to put considerable emphasis on institutional development,
and the need for robust credit line procedures to ensure management autonomy and accountability, and
effective PFI and subloan decisions.
The banking institution building part of the project was more strongly supported than enterprise
assistance, which was represented by support to privatization (for which the Bank also arranged donor
cofinancing). Accepting that the project had a major challenge in developing the banking sector, in
retrospect further emphasis on specific support to enterprises might have been justified. Nevertheless,
enterprise privatization was successfully pursued through the Latvia Privatization Agency using donor
funds and its own generated resources.
The design of the Credit Line responded to a number of specific reform needs perceived during
- 3 -



preparation, and funding set-asides were included to meet those needs. For example, the Swedish Capital
Fund set-aside was included as a feature that might speed up disbursement by making the credit line more
attractive to the participating banks. In the event the Capital Fund did not work as planned and turned out
not to be necessary to the objectives of the project. In retrospect a more open credit line, with less
compartmentalization and easier access to working capital might in fact have speeded up early
disbursement. However, one of the positive stories of the project is precisely that successful course
corrections were made to adapt the credit line conditions.
The main risks to the project as set out in the SAR were macroeconomic in character. They
stemmed from the fragility of the Government coalition, the likely high budgetary costs of reform and
possible price destabilization. Some micro-risks were mentioned - such as the high profits of commodity
trading which could limit interest in long term borrowing, and the potential volatility of LIBOR based
subloans. However, some of the project-related risks (such as the financial strength of the individual
participating banks) could have been highlighted more, and risk management could probably have been
addressed more explicitly in the SAR. It should be noted that the formal project was considerably
broadened by the extensive upfront bank and privatization institution-building preparatory work that was
carried out. The project was in this sense a part of an extensive ongoing institutional development effort in
which the Bank had a major role, and should be assessed in this context.
3.4 Revised Components:
The original components were modified through a number of amendments to the loan agreement..
The main amendments were as follows:
On January 22. 1996. an amendment provided for: Under PART A; elimination of (3), the Swedish
Capital Fund credit set-aside; addition of (4), an Enterprise Liquidity Replenishment Facility consisting of
a short term credit line for the financing of free-standing working capital (other than salaries) required by
eligible enterprises affected by the loss of liquidity during the 1995 banking crisis. Under PART B;
elimination of the Latvia Privatization Agency assistance. Under PART C; the provision for upgrading of
the clearing and payments system was eliminated and replaced by the financing of computer software and
hardware for the Debt Management Unit of the Ministry of Finance. On November 27. 1996, an
amendment provided for: Under PART A; elimination of (1); credit to newly privatized enterprises. Under
PART C; elimination of provision of software and hardware for the Debt Management Unit of the Ministry
of Finance. On August 5, 1998, an amendment provided for: Under PART A; schedule 5 of the Loan
Agreement (Principal Terms and Conditions of Subsidiary Loan Agreement) was amended to include
'Terms and Conditions of Lease Transactions'. Other amendments applied to the completion date,
procurement and disbursement guidelines, and reallocations of the proceeds of the loan.
The revisions to the project did not amount to a major restructuring and thus were not reported to
the Board. They did not alter the main thrust of the project but adapted its design. The introduction of
working capital loans resulted from the liquidity crisis of 1995 and reduction in term lending. The provision
of lease finance was part of the diversification of financial instruments and also compensated for reduced
term lending. The cancellation of the financial infrastructure component was the result of post facto lack of
Bank of Latvia interest in borrowing for the payments system and debt management. The elimination of
the Swedish Capital Fund allocation took place because the equity injections were not occurring at a
sufficient pace to match Bank financed subloans, and it was necessary to free up the Bank's credit line.
(The Capital Fund nevertheless went ahead independently).
The PMU was set up to administer the loans and monitor the operations of the three components of
-4 -



the overall project. As a result of the reallocation of the Bank's contribution to institution building in the
LPA, and cancellation of the financial infrastructure component, the coordinating role of the PMU and
staffing were reduced. The TU acted as defacto the principal management agency, responsible for
selecting and monitoring the PFIs, implementing the LOC and supervising compliance, and authorizing the
use of the LOC for subloans.
The final configuration of IBRD expenditure for the project included two components, with
resources from the cancelled components reallocated into the credit fuids.
Rating       Component                          Sector        Cost US$
HS           CREDIT LINE                        FS            34,600,000.00
S            INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT  FS                       400,000.00
3.5 Quiality at Entry:
At the time of appraisal the QAE assessment system was not in place. The project was assessed
within the regular IEPS/SAR system. If the project design is examined retrospectively, using the criteria
currently established for QAE, then some areas of improvement could probably be identified. For example
in terms of design, there was a tendency to over-compartmentalize the credit line which could have reduced
project flexibility. However, this was partly deliberate since there was felt to be a need to signal support to
specific objectives such as privatization, and to coordinate with the Swedish Capital Fund. The financial
infrastructure component was not central to the project's main focus and simplification of the project could
have eliminated this component. However, the original design anticipated the possibility of donor funds
replacing Bank's resources in this and other areas. More could have been said in the SAR about benefits
and risks, especially direct project-related risks, and risk management. However, the overall concept was
satisfactory since it clearly addressed priorities for development and was within the CAS program. A
flexible application of the original design was, in any case, intended. Procedures were put in place for
environmental assessment under OP 4.01, and the conditionality set for the project was satisfactorily linked
to effective implementation. Main stakeholder interests were clearly taken into account through detailed
discussions with the Government, cofinanciers, and banks.
The project is therefore rated Satisfactory (S) in terms of design and QAE criteria.
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The key objective of the project was to assist reform of the enterprise and financial sector, by
providing a credit line for newly privatized and private enterprises and technical assistance for the
privatization process. Other objectives included improving banking efficiency and increasing the
Government's capacity for debt management.
Within the broad institutional development program that the Bank was supporting in Latvia, the
principal objectives of the project itself were achieved very satisfactorily, i.e. in particular in terms of the
full disbursement of and flexible utilization of the credit line, and the success of the Technical Unit in
developing expertise in bank analysis and providing assistance especially to Unibank. The institution
building and the technology transferred is almost certain to be sustainable given the rapid development of
- 5 -



the banking system since the start of the project. Specific arrangements such as the subloan-for-bond
redemption scheme worked well. The Swedish Capital Fund credit set-aside was cancelled as it was not
working as intended. However its cancellation did not prevent the main objectives of enterprise finance and
bank strengthening being achieved, and the Capital Fund itself proved to be a successful pilot for the
development of equity investment in Latvia. The Latvia Privatization Agency assistance component was
cancelled when donor grant financing became available, in line with initial plans. Up front privatization
assistance was effective and it continued under donor support during the project life.
The fulfillment of the two loan covenants was satisfactory. The plan of action for the
administrative procedures for bankruptcy legislation and public access to registers, titles and rights of
comrnmercial entities was fulfilled on time. The covenant for provision of a banking regulatory framework to
include a law on collateral and loan security was delayed, but was finally submitted in March 1998 after
extensions of the deadline requested by the Government.
The cancellations of the privatization component, the financial infrastructure component and the
credit set-aside for the Swedish Capital Fund were envisaged in the original design of the project.
Nevertheless it is arguable that too many components of the project were outside the management control of
the implementing agency. This is a design issue worth noting for the future. Nevertheless, the amendments
reflected the planned evolution of the project and were not as a result of design weakness. Thus the
performance rating is based on the final configuration of the project after amendment.
The results in terms of upgrading of the financial sector may be regarded as one of the greatest
strengths of this operation. Overall, on the basis of the comments in the following sections the project is
rated highly satisfactory.
4.2 Outputs by components:
GENERAL ISSUES
Prearator Institution Building
As stated in section 3, extensive preparatory work was carried out for this operation, including
assistance to the Bank of Latvia on payment systems and supervision regulations, the establishment of the
Swedish Capital Fund, the establishment and development of Unibank, preparation of a strategy for
privatization, and bank restructuring work. The detailed assistance to Unibank was integral to the
strengthening of the Banking system and Unibank later became strong enough to attract a private sector
takeover. The credit line was itself used in an innovative way as a bank restructuring tool, strengthening the
Unibank's asset portfolio by replacing the Govenment bonds, which had been inserted on the balance sheet
in the first restructuring phase, by subloans under the project. The critical need to develop the institutional
and regulatory system was addressed through preparatory work by the Bank and through donor parallel
cofinancing. The project included dated covenants to this effect on the submission of laws for regulation of
the banks including arrangements for secured transactions, loan and collateral, and on implementation of
the laws and the establishment of a system of registers of property to provide security for lending.
Performance indicators
The performance indicators drafted in the SAR for judging the achievement of objectives/outcome
of the project were as follows:
-6 -



- number of PFls and other banks appraised for PFI status
- removal of side agreements made to condition PFIs continuing eligibility on improving
weaknesses identified
- increased medium to long term credit availability
- improved technical capacity to evaluate and process long term credit
- establishment of the TU and Unibank
While these indicators were appropriate for this project they could probably have been clarified
further to include end-product outputs, e.g. regarding credit line perfomance (e.g. the number of enterprises
financed, amount of employment created) in order to permit judgements about enterprise impact. They
could also have been more effectively expressed in terms of quantitative and time-bound targets where
possible. However, in practice the project successfully fulfilled the range of objectives, reaching nearly 400
enterprises through subloans.
Impact On Sector Policies
The project (both during preparation and within its operating period) made a significant
contribution to financial and enterprise sector policy through strengthening of Central Bank (BOL)
supervision, strengthening of the banking system through restructuring and asset workout, and mobilization
of the banks participating in the credit line to achieve and sustain adherence to banking regulations.
Support to the development of financial services outside commercial banking was provided through the
development of the Swedish capital fund (providing equity to selected banks), and the introduction of
leasing and mortgage finance, the latter provided through a pilot project using credit line reflows.
Considerable support to the formulation of privatization strategy was also provided, and the project also
promoted institutional development through the legislation on secured transactions, loans and collateral,
and the property registry system.
IMPACT OF ORIGINAL COMPONENTS
PART A: credit line for financing medium to long term loans to private enterprises:
Overall assessment.
Both Currency Pool Loan and the Single Currency Loan funds were fully disbursed ($35 million
equivalent) by October 1999. The project had experienced some minor disbursement lag over 1995-96,
reaching a more significant level of 37% in early 1998, but full disbursement was achieved within twelve
months from the original completion date of December 31, 1998. The disbursements ultimately went
through seven accredited banks, of which Unibank accounted for over 40%. Unibank used the loan
proceeds for enterprise subloans with and without bond redemption. The average subloan maturity was
about three years. The main subsectors financed were manufacturing, food and timber processing. The
food industry benefited particularly from the working capital facility. Lease financing accounted for 15%
of the total credit line. Other avenues of diversification were a small business loan facility, and housing
finance facility. Of total disbursements about 61% were for project financing and 39% for working capital.
A significant proportion of the credit funds was used for free-standing working capital finance
because of lack of demand for long term finance initially. This was important especially during the 1995-96
liquidity crisis. Then, as the economy stabilized and interest rates fell, reduced bank borrowing costs
- 7 -



affected the competitiveness of the Bank line of credit, which accounted for the disbursement slowdown in
early 1998. With the Russia crisis credit demand for project term finance was however restored.
Management decisions were taken by the TU in a timely way to diversify the use of the credit line into lease
finance, small business loans and mortgage lending, and these decisions resulted in its full utilization. This
represents an impressive performance given the weak disbursement in some other similar projects in the
region.
(1) credit line for newly privatized enterprises (18 month credit window)
Assessment. this portion of the credit line was closed as planned when it became clear that these
enterprises did not need further special credit support and the credit line was disbursing more slowly than
expected. An additional reason for its closure was to reduce the compartmentalization of the credit line.
Thus the funds were reallocated according to the Loan Agreement amendment of November 1996.
(2) credit to Unibank for the purpose of replacing Government bonds with subloans, the
redemption of the bonds permitting the assumption by Unibank of more liquid assets and assumption by
the Government of a longer maturity World Bank liability.
Assessment. About US$8.7 million of bonds in Unibank's portfolio were redeemed through the
replacement mechanism. Government repurchases and scheduled servicing depleted the remainder. This
innovative concept was thus successfully executed, and facilitated the sale of Unibank to a private investor
at a significant capital gain.
(3) Swedish Government capital fund (US$ 10 million) to strengthen bank capital by providing
equity finance to match the proceeds (US$2 million) of the credit line to provide medium to long term
financing to private enterprises.
Assessment. This facility was successful in its objective of strengthening the banks, but the timing
of equity injections was delayed in relation to the timing of subloan disbursements, which prevented the
matching of equity and loans as originally planned. To free up the funds into the general credit line it was
decided to cancel the matching component in the loan agreement amendmnent of January 1996. While the
SCF was an innovative and replicable idea, its implementation was more difficult than expected.
Nevertheless, the SCF independently became very successful as a fund holding Latvian bank equity, and
thus in terms of wider economic development it may be regarded as a successful spinoff from the Bank's
project.
PART B: institutional development in privatization and credit line management;
(1) provision of assistance to the Latvia Privatization Agency to privatize selected enterprises;
Assessment. This component remained nominally a part of the project but when donor funding
became available, as planned, the Bank's financing was reallocated to the line of credit. Using CIDA
assistance for a privatization adviser, arranged under the project, the agency achieved good results.
(2) establishment of a semi-autonomous Technical Unit (TU) for: selection, monitoring, and
providing technical assistance to, the PFIs; authorizing the use of the credit line for financing particular
sub-projects; managing this and other future credit line and technical assistance projects.
-8 -



Assessment This component may be rated a considerable success. With Bank funds supplemented
by generous donor funds (from the Governments of Denmark and Sweden) for the services of foreign
advisers, good local staff, and revenue generated from its lending spread, the TU established itself as an
effective and cost-covering agency for bank monitoring and loan processing, and also provided more
general financial sector advisory services including the staging of a seminar on capital markets. It
established such a good reputation that it is to be retained by the Ministry of Finance as a project
coordination and management
agency.
PART C: infrastructure investment to upgrade the payment and clearing system of the banks.
Assessment This component did not go ahead as planned using project funds because the Bank of
Latvia had alternative sources of funding which it used to carry out the agreed objectives of the project.
The funds were reallocated to the credit line.
IMPA CT OF PROJECT COMPONENTS ADDED DURING IMPLEMENTA TION (under
amendment of January 22, 1996)
PART A: Enterprise Liquiditv Replenishment Facility.
Assessment. This facility was made available up to a maximum of US$2 million per enterprise, as
a part of the credit line, to provide short-term credit for financing of free-standing working capital. It was
designed for eligible enterprises that were affected by the loss of liquidity during the 1995 banking crisis.
After disbursing very effectively over 18 months it was closed when the banking sector stabilized and the
general lending environment imnproved. About US$14.2 million equivalent were disbursed under this
facility.
PART C assistance for provision for computer software and hardware for the Debt Management Unit of
the Ministry of Finance.
Assessment. This provision initially replaced the banking payment systems assistance under the
financial infrastructure component. However, it too did not get off the ground because of lack of Ministry
of Finance commitment, and so finally the component was cancelled.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
This measure is not calculated for this type of project because of the inherent difficulties of
estimating benefits. Similarly, in the absence of an output measure cost per unit of output cannot be
calculated. However, the perception is that the project was cost-effective. This is supported by the nunber
of subprojects (384) assisted (at an average of about US$95,000 per subloan, including packaged small
business subloans) and approved for lending, and the number of banks assisted and accredited for
participation. More detailed output indicators and data would have assisted the assessment of benefits.
4.4 Financial rate of return:
As for 4.3.
-9-



4.5 Institutional development impact:
As stated, there was a very considerable institutional development benefit generated through the
work done for the preparation of the project, both in the banking sector and in the privatization effort. In
particular assistance to establish Unibank was important in developing a 'stable core' for the banking
system, which was vital during the banking crisis of 1995. The project itself has a number of contingent
success stories, which also included assistance to the GOL at the time of the banking crisis. The Technical
Unit added considerable value both as credit line manager and through building capacity in the banking
system in areas such as lease finance, and the bond redemption scheme, and in the general restructuring of
the banks. The Swedish Capital Fund (despite its formal cancellation as part of the project) went on to
achieve considerable success in restructuring of the banking system, investing a total of US$8.0 million in
four banks. The Unibank was taken over recently by Svenska bank of Sweden, reflecting the extent to
which it had developed into a marketable institution.
On the basis of the above evaluation the project is rated HS in terms of output effectiveness.
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Some components of the project were relatively difficult for the Government implementing agency
to control. These included: the Swedish Capital Fund equity disbursements to the banks, and the role of the
Bank of Latvia in decisions about the upgrading of clearing systems within the commercial banks. This did
not in the event materially affect the project performance, but made it less predictable. Applications for
loans by enterprises were also outside implementing agency control, but this is always an unknown of this
type of project. The flow of subloans was slowed down by some lack of comnmunication between LOA in
the Bank and the TU on disbursement procedures. Complex World Bank disbursement procedures tended
to raise transaction costs for participating banks and subloan applicants. Lack of understanding of these
procedures by the Technical Unit (e.g. on how to replenish trust fund accounts), also caused some problems
in the replenishment of the special account and consultant payments. However these problems should be
seen in the context of the full disbursement of the credit.
5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:
The Govemment department responsible for the project was the Ministry of Finance. Out of the
project's main components, the Govemment retained control over the conclusion of subsidiary loan
agreements with, and authorization of subsidiary loan disbursements through the project accounts to the
participating banks; it also retained control of the establishment of the TU and through advisers, its
operation; these components were effectively executed. The Govemment also controlled disbursements to
the LPA, and the implementation of the debt management system and, as stated, decided that these should
not go ahead.
5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
The implementation agencies were: the Ministry of Finance, Technical Unit, the participating
banks and the Latvia Privatization Agency. Activities subject to implementing agency control included
appraisal and monitoring of banks, appraisal, authorization and to some degree disbursement of subloans;
and privatization of State enterprises. As stated earlier, good performance was achieved in these areas. In
- 10 -



particular the Technical Unit was effective in monitoring the participating banks and managing the credit
line to ensure full disbursement. The amendments to the project and the changes in utilization of the line of
credit reflected close monitoring of the progress of the project.
5.4 Costs andfinancing:
There were no changes in project costing. However the components were amended as explained in
section 3 and as a result there were changes in the structure of the costs and financing. The main change
was the adoption of the cost of LPA assistance by donor agencies, and the reallocation from the cancelled
financial infrastructure component. There were no major delays as compared with planned outcome, but the
completion date was extended from June 1998 to June 1999. From identification to effectiveness the
elapsed time was two years which is satisfactory in comparison with other Bank projects screened by the
QAG. and especially considering the extensive preparation work that went into the loan.
6. Sustainability
6.1 Rationale for sustainability ratinig:
In this project the key issues in potential sustainability included the level of Govemment
commitment, the policy environment, the effectiveness of institutional management, and the incentives for
the participants to sustain the project. Overall these factors were well recognized and addressed. The
sustainability of the project as originally designed was affected because the original credit line concept was
a little inflexible. However, the final configuration, as shown in part 3, in particular through the
diversification of credit line usage and the performance of the Technical Unit, seems to have produced clear
benefits in terms of sustainability. This is a good example of how creative management of a project during
supervision can significantly enhance its value. In particular the TU has developed into a semi-autonomous
project administration unit and a think-tank, and the assistance to Unibank helped to strengthen the banking
system. The Swedish Capital Fund also proved to be a marketable component. The 384 enterprises
financed under the credit line were appraised as viable, and therefore would be expected to be sustainable.
But the major impact in the long term will be the strengthening of the capital base and lending capacity of
the banks.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The transition arrangements are a function of capacity established, management, and sector
policies. As stated, the TU performed well enough to become a longer term project management agency of
the Ministry of Finance (currently managing the Bank's Rural Development Project). The steady
strengthening and diversification of the financial sector as a whole will ensure that there is no capacity and
funding gap created by closure of the project.
Future monitoring and evaluation would benefit from clearer output performance indicators. A
follow-up Bank credit line project may not be feasible because the stabilization of the Latvian capital
market and liberal supply of loanable funds has resulted in interest rates falling to low levels. However,
Bank inputs to support specialized financial institutions such as leasing and insurance companies may be
feasible. The Bank started under this project, using the TU, to provide support to establish housing finance
through an international seminar and strategy paper, and is assisting in the area of pensions and social
security refonn.
The rating for sustainability is HS.
- 1 1-



7. Bank and Borrower Performance
Bank
7.1 Lending:
Identification and Preparation assistance; as stated, there was extensive assistance to the financial
sector, and to the Latvia Privatization Agency, during preparation. The project was a part of an ongoing
process of institution building. A number of studies were made of the banks and enterprises that fed into the
design of the project. The project management structure, including procurement arrangernents, proved to be
very satisfactory. Environmental safeguards were addressed adequately through a mechanism put in place
for environmental screening of subprojects. The preparation team was noted for its continuity and
dedication over the whole life of the project.
Appraisal; the appraisal of the project was carried out with relatively intensive staff inputs and
good working links with both the Government and cofinancing donor agencies. There was considerable
interest in the project, being one of the first investment projects in Latvia, so that effective Government
ownership was achieved in all areas. Implementing agency capability was appraised through analyses of the
banks and the capacity needs of the Government, which led to the establishment of a PMU and TU. An
enterprise pipeline study was carried out for newly privatized and for emerging private enterprises, taking
into account the expected availability of foreign credits from alternative sources during the period, which
showed efficient demand of over $100 million.
While the risks surrounding the project were fully understood, the delineation of risks and key
variables in the SAR could probably have been strengthened. Key macro variables such as systemic risk in
the banking system were cited, but a fuller account of project risks such as individual bank viability would
have strengthened this part of the appraisal report.
Multi/bilateral relations during appraisal of the project were excellent, including parallel
cofinancing with several major donors, including CIDA, DANIDA, EC-PHARE, SIDA, USAID and the
Swiss Aid Agency..
The SAR implementation plan set out separate time-lines for privatization, credit line
implementation and the financial infrastructure investment component. However, neither the privatization
program nor the financial infrastructure component materialized as part of the Bank's project, while the
core of the project, the credit line, did not receive special emphasis in the plan. In retrospect, a more
detailed plan for implementation of the credit line would have been useful. The performance indicators
could also have been strengthened within the appraisal by establishing timed and quantified output
indicators for enterprise sub-borrower performance (although these were not formally required at the time
of the SAR). The SAR's use of lessons learnt from previous projects, especially the need to focus on
institution building and a strong credit line management structure, was good.
7.2 Supervision:
The initial supervision of the project was relatively intense, with three missions between appraisal
and effectiveness. Subsequently, two missions a year took place which was the statutory requirement, and
progress was relatively closely monitored from HQ, greatly assisted by the presence of responsive specialist
staff in the TU, both local and those funded under the donor assistance programs, and good ongoing
interaction between HQ and the TU. As stated, the result of this was that fine-tuning occurred which
- 12-



ensured that the credit line was fully disbursed. The decision to permit free-standing working capital loans
eliminated a disbursement slowdown in 1997, and the introduction of lease financing assisted in eliminating
a slowdown that occurred as market interest rates dropped. The project was rated 'S' from 1995 to 1996 for
both implementation progress and achievement of development objectives. The rating for achievement of
development objectives was raised to 'HS' over 1997 to 1999. The rating was raised because of the
acceleration in disbursements in early 1997 following the introduction of working capital loans, combined
with good progress on institution building, especially Unibank, and good work by the TU. This rating was
maintained later despite disbursement rate fluctuations because of the progress in diversifying the credit
line, and continued strong institution-building. One proviso is the delay in fulfillment of the loan covenant
on provision of security and collateral regulations, which was extended from the original date of December
31, 1995 until June 30, 1998. The legislation was finally submitted in March 1998.
An issue to be considered concerned disbursement procedures. Difficulties in communication
between LOA and the technical unit did occur as a result of the TU's lack of understanding of the Bank
disbursement rules, particularly with regard to the submission of SOEs for special account replenishment.
But these difficulties were generic to many projects and not specific to this one.
Taking into account all the above factors the supervision ratings appear to have been realistic.
7.3 Overall Bank performance:
On the basis of the above evaluation, notwithstanding some room for strengthening the SAR,
preparation and appraisal is rated highly satisfactory - HS.
Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
Having had some difficulties with previous project financing, the Government had a clear
understanding of the need for robust institutional arrangements and realistic market-based pricing for the
credit line funds, avoiding political interference in credit decisions and avoiding subsidies except in the case
of donor financed technical support. They also saw Bank support as transitional towards a fully market
driven credit sector. With these parameters the Govermment worked closely with the Bank to finalize
project design. Satisfactory commitment was shown by the Government and the Bank of Latvia, ensuring
the fiduciary obligations attached to the project. The Government fulfilled on time all committnents during
appraisal and negotiations.
7.5 Government implementation performance:
Implementation performance was satisfactory and continuous despite Government changes, assisted
greatly by the continuity of the Technical Unit which maintained its autonomy and also had the resources to
advise the Ministry of Finance during periods of financial crisis. Government macroeconomic management,
which had been regarded as a risk, was supportive during the implementation period, providing the price
and exchange rate stability so important to the development of term lending. The Government also
performed satisfactorily in the execution of several trust funds supporting project implementation.
The commitment to and adequacy of macroeconomic and sector policies in support of the project reduced
the main project risk perceived at the time of entry.
- 13 -



7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the TU was highly satisfactory. The Bank of Latvia provided financial agency
services for the Government facilitating the channelling of the credit line. A PMU was created but its fall
staffing was not necessary when the two Bank financed components (privatization support and financial
institutions assistance) were cancelled. Accounts and agreed audits were by and large provided on time,
after some intial delay.The only item that was delayed significantly was the covenant on secured
transactions, loan and collateral regulations.
7.7 Overall Borrowerperformance:
The overall performance of the Borrower is considered to have been satisfactory, despite some
discontinuities in Government. All incoming Government authorities were fully cooperative in supporting
the ongoing project.
8. Lessons Learned
This section considers the most significant lessons of the project which have general applicability.
The project as a whole is rated HS. This is because of its successful design and execution, and the
creative course correction achieved during its implementation which resulted in full disbursement, which is
in itself an important aspect of good management. Notwithstanding the overall success of the project
lessons can be learned
It is hard to overemphasize the need to put in place good management and a good management
structure in complex institution-building projects. In this project this was greatly assisted because of the
considerable donor funding of consultants combined with good local staff, especially in the Technical Unit,
who helped to strengthen project management, and the continuity of implementation.
This project and credit line projects in general suffered from misunderstanding of complex Bank
disbursement procedures, for example in the case of replenishment of the special account. These added to
the transaction costs of the credit line and slowed down the lending process. Both disbursement and
procurement procedures need to be simplified as far as possible.
In terms of project design, initially there was a degree of overengineering. For example the credit line
was segmented and restricted in use, which itself led to slow disbursement. On the other hand the flexible
way in which it was managed itself provided the solution to the rigidity problem, and accelerated
disbursements. The need for flexible management of such projects and willingness to find solutions by
refining the design, are important lesson of experience for this and all FIL projects.
The course corrections came as a result of good quality supervision which in turn benefited from
continuity, with the same project management team members in place throughout the project life. It is a
feature of institution building projects such as FILs that intensive continuous supervision is essential.
A different issue affecting the credit line was the speed at which the Latvian economy stabilized so that
- 14 -



internal interest rates fell to western market levels by 1997 prior to the Russia crisis, undercutting the
Bank's loan rate. The lesson here is that the intervention of the Bank may not be feasible in a highly
competitive financial market. The 'window of opportunity' for the Bank needs to be carefully judged, and
speed is needed to take advantage of it. In this case the window was satisfactory, especially because of the
liquidity problems created by the Russia crisis.
A final point concems the financing of working capital. The finance of free standing working capital is
often discouraged. However, the lesson of this project is that where working capital finance is an integral
part of an enterprise's investment/expansion program (rather than simply replacement inventory), or where
it performs a critical maintenance function (as in a liquidity crisis), it should be regarded as performing the
same function as fixed capital.
9. Partner Comments
(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The following is the summary Implementation Completion Report prepared by the Government of Latvia.
The Governmenfts full report is in the annex.
Government of Latvia - Implementation Competion Report
Project Background
The Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project was launched in 1994 to support the
Government of Latvia in implementing its comprehensive program of structural reform aimed at
establishing a market economy. The total amount of the loans was US$35 million, comprising a
currency pool loan of US$20 million equivalent and a single currency loan with tranches of
US$10 million equivalent and DM 8.5 million (US$5 million) equivalent. The most of the amount
has been disbursed by June 30, 1999 when the Project was closed, six month later than originally
projected.
The project comprised three components: (I) a credit line component (US$ 29.6 million)
provided resources for commercial banks to make medium- and long-term loans to recently
privatized and other private sector Latvian enterprises for investment and related permanent
working capital needs; (ii) an institutional development component (US$3.4 million) supported
the the Latvian Privatization Agency by financing an acceleration of the privatization transaction
process, and also supported the development of a Project Management Unit and a Technical Unit;
(iii) a financial infrastructure investment component (US$2 million) helped to prepare the banking
system for its future, enhanced role in domestic intermediation. As the Latvian Privatization
Agency and the Bank of Latvia received technical assistance before the implementation of project
started then the components II and III were challenged to the component I.
The component I of the project was disbursement of a US$ 35,000,000 World Bank loan to the
Republic of Latvia, for on lending to eligible sub-projects through Participating Financial
Institutions (PFI) for deployment of funds to the private sector. In total 36.354,716 has been
disbursed for the sub-loans to the PFIs and US$ 400,000 have been disbursed to the Technical
Unit as incremental costs for the Credit Line operation. This objective may be considered fully
- 15 -



achieved.
The PFI's use of the Credit Line has been very different in the life of the project. Initially, most
approved loans were disbursed to Unibanka to be used in the bond redemption mechanism, where
the bond issued by Latvian Government to Unibanka was redeemed through funding of eligible
sub-projects from the Credit Line. Later in 1995/1996, most loans were disbursed under the
temporary working capital. Since the beginning of 1997 most loans have been approved for the
project financing to private entities.
There have been two significant demands for the Credit Line. The first, in 1995/96 banking crisis
and sequential liquidity squeeze. The second was after the Russian crisis, when the banks turned
to the local market for the project financing and the World Bank Credit line had a significant role
to finance small-medium size entities and growing leasing business.
Unibanka's utilisation of the Credit Line is not a surprise as the Credit Line has been established
to assist the Latvian Government to redeem the bond, issued as compensation, for the portfolio of
bad loan inherited by the private structure Unibanka from the state entity Unibanka. Also
Mortgage and Land Bank and Parex Bank have been large clients to the Credit Line.
Project sustainability
The project achievements to date are likely to be sustainable. The government is firmly
committed to its economic and sectoral reform program including banking and corporate sector
reforms.
The demonstrated positive results of the Project have encouraged commercial banks to start
extending the long-term credits to the private enterprises. PFIs are comnitted to continue to
finance viable projects for private enterprises. Through the Rural Development Project, the Bank
will continue its dialogue with the Government on further developments in private and banking
sectors in Latvia.
The sustainability of the Project is ensured by the transfer of knowledge and know-how from the
experienced Western European bankers to the employees of the Technical Unit, local commercial
banks through the technical assistance and on-job training in loan appraisal and monitoring.
Project provided significant assistance to Universal Bank of Latvia in its privatisation process by
both technical assistance in management as well as provision of funding. This has contributed to
the creation of the basis of the largest bank in Latvia having developed sound banking operations.
Lastly, future development of the sector and the sustainability of the Project will also depend on
the Government's ability to co-ordinate multilateral and bilateral technical assistance to ensure
that such resources are well focused and directed to the country's priority needs with significant
transfer of know-how to Latvia.
- 16 -



Assessment of outcome from borrower's prospective
The overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory considering that the Project provided a
credit line operation at a time of a relatively underdeveloped banking system that was not able to
provide long-term funding to the borrowers.
Initially the Project was one of the very few sources of long-term funds for the banking sector in
Latvia and, hence, the Credit Line assisted the development of long-term lending market, which
has increased from 12% of the total loan portfolio in 1994 to approximately 60% in 1999.
Currently the disbursements made under the Project Credit Lines represent close to 10% of the
banking system's term lending (loan maturity exceeding one year).
The Project had a substantial impact on the growth and development of the private sector with a
specific attention to recently privatised enterprises by providing the necessary working capital for
continuation of operations as well as long-term funds for investments.
Availability of short-term working capital facility through the credit line proved to be very useful
during the period after the banking crisis in 1995 - 1996, when many companies as well as banks
experienced significant liquidity problems.
The knowledge and experience of the local banks in loan appraisal and monitoring was rather
limited. The Project provided assistance to the commercial banks in project appraisal, evaluation
and monitoring, developing and implementing financial evaluation methods and worked closely
with them in identifying sound lending opportunities with due adherence to World Bank
Environmental and Procurement Guidelines. The project introduced loan appraisal techniques
and trained loan officer of the Technical Unit and the banks.
Foreign banking experts within the framework of technical assistance contributed to the
establishment of currently one of the largest leasing companies in Latvia - Unilizing (leasing
subsidiary of Unibanka) and funding for leasing operations from the Credit Line contributed to the
growth of this market segment.
Assistance provided by the banking experts contributed to the recovery of the banking sector after
the banking crisis in 1995 and crisis in Russia in 1998 by advising PFIs on different banking issues
such as handling of problem loans, new product development, credit, project finance and
management issues.
The high quality of technical assistance was appreciated by the entire banking sector and provided
a sound foundation for the development of this market segment in Latvia.
Western European bankers contracted under the Project provided assistance also in preparing
government proposal for the country's subsequent participation in EU Phare Catch Up Facility,
the integration of IFC, the Danish - Latvian Mortgage Project and the WB Rural Project into the
Technical Unit, thus, achieving economies of scale and maintenance of office structure and
experience.
- 17-



The project also had significant impact on institutional development. Within the framework of the
technical assistance experts also initiated and enhanced the government action in reviewing the
need for expanding and centralising supervision of financial sector. In June 1998 the Cabinet of
Ministers decided in principle to centralise Financial Supervision under a new government agency
with draft law currently being finalised for presentation to the Parliament in the autumn of 1999.
SIDA and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority are expected to continue supporting this
development with World Bank assistance in conjunction with a new Structural Adjustment Loan
in 1999.
Key lessons learned
The main lessons from the Project, which may also have more general relevance for other Projects
are the following:
Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful outcome.
Additionally, frequent changes of Government make building local ownership difficult and
requires increased efforts in public relations.
It is important to have effective project management and supervision capacity in the client
country to be performed by the Government as well as the Bank. It is also very important to have
a close dialogue with the Project Task Manager.
A relatively high degree of continuity during Project implementation, both on the Bank
task team and the Latvia PMU, has largely compensated for frequent changes in the Government
and was able to provide a degree of stability to the Project.
Project start-up normally takes longer than anticipated, especially, when creating a new
institution.
The technical assistance is successful, when it is provided over a longer period of time and
where there is continuity and sufficient time to build mutual trust.
For the success of the Project it is very important to know and to be able to adapt to the
local environment and commercial practice.
The World Bank procedures are rather cumbersome and bureaucratic for lending to the
private sector, particularly disbursement services. Procedures are rather slow and cumbersome
that significantly reduces the attractiveness of the Credit Line facility.
(b) Cofinanciers:
The following are highlights of cofinanciers reports. The cofinanciers full reports are in the
annex.
Danish Agency Completion report on the Technical Unit (TF 020016)
The agency provided funds for the operations director of the Technical Unit whose role was to
select and monitor the participating banks, manage the credit line, and set up the project accounts and
reporting system. The report states that the full disbursement of the credit line is an indicator of the overall
success of the project. The Bank's loan provided about 10% of the medium-to-long term lending of the
entire banking system, assisting the total of term lending to increase from 12% to 60% of bank credit. The
- 18 -



use of the credit line evolved successfully from bond redemption to finance of short term working capital,
leasing and project finance.
SIDA (Sweden) completion report on the Technical Unit (TF 020017/021483
The agency provided funds for the banking director of the Technical Unit who was in charge of
PFI selection, negotiation of subsidiary loan agreements, compliance, audit and evaluation. The report
reiterates that the project succeeded, based on the achievement of full credit line commitment.
CIDA - Support to the Latvia Privatization Agencv (TF 020018'
The report states that the project was instrumental in initiating, developing, funding and
implementing the marketing of companies, assisted by an internet website. The results achieved by this
component included advice to a large number of companies on stock exchange listing, public offerings,
restructuring, methods of privatization, international marketing, investor selection, and negotiation.
(c) Otherpartners (NGO.s/private sector):
Not applicable
10. Additional Information
See annex 7.
- 19-



Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome I Impact Indicators:
Improved technical capacity to evaluate and  The TU provided credit advisers and  Lending capacity and skills have been
process long term credit              successfully introduced several tools to  successfully introduced by the project.
improve credit and financial services skills,
including new instruments such as mortgage
lending and leasing, and developed a credit
procedures manual.
Output Indicators:
Establishment of Technical Unit and Unibank Unibank was established and strengthened  The TU has continued to successfully
to become a core bank.The technical unrit   perform the role of advice, assistance and
was established which provided advice to the appraisal. The assessment is as for the last
MOF, bank institutional assistance and  PSR.
monitoring, subproject appraisal, and new
instrument development (mortgage and
leasing). It has also assumed responsibility
for management of other projects.
The number of participating financial  The TU qualified eight banks as PFls,  Action completed as under last PSR.
intermediaries and other banks appraised for accounting for 61% of total bank assets and
PFI status                            evaluated a further three.
Fulfillment of side agreements on     The side agreements were fulfilled in the    Action completed as per last PSR
improvement of performance as condition of case of all eight participating banks.
PFI's eligibilty
Increased medium/long term credit     The credit line was fully disbursed in the  The final subloan commitment to reach this
availability                          amount of US$34.6 million.             target was made within the revised closing
date.
End of project
- 20 -



Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Credit fumds                                            35.58          34.74         97.6
Equity funds                                             2.20           8.50       386.36
Enterprise preparation (privatization TA)                4.00           0.65         16.25
LPA (enterprise auction TA)                              1.80            1.10       61.11
Bank restructuring                                       4.24           2.00        47.16
Bank recapitalization                                   53.00          56.50         106.6
Project management unit                                  0.46           0.02         4.35
Technical Unit                                           2.95           2.93        99.32
Environment TA and misc                                  0.28           0.00            0
Financial infrastructure - equipment                     2.20           0.00            0
Financial Infrastructure - TA                            6.90           0.00            0
Total Baseline Cost                                    113.61          106.44
Total Project Costs               113.61          106.44
Total Financing Required                113.61         106.44
-21 -



Proiect Costs by Procurement Arranzements (in US$ million equivalent)
Project component              Procurement Method                 Procurement Method
Appraisal Estimate               Actual/Latest Estimate
ICB   OTHER   TOTAL    ICB   OTHER  TOTAL
Credit Funds
Credit Funds                        35.58      35.58                34.74       34.74
Equity Funds                         2.20       2.20                 8.5         8.5
Institutional Development
Enterprise Preparation                   4.00       4.00                 0.65        0.65
(Privatization)
Auction System Development &                 1.80        1.80                1.10        1.10
Strengthening LPA
Bank Restructuring                     4.24        4.24                2.00        2.00
Bank Recapitalization                  53.00       53.00               56.50       56.50
Project Management Unit                   0.46        0.46                0.02        0.02
Technical Unit                        2.95       2.95                2.93        2.93
Environmental TA                       0.18        0.18
Miscellaneous                        0.10        0.10
Financial Infrastructure
Investment
Hardware and Software                    2.20        2.20
Technical Assistance                    6.90        6.90
TOTAL PROJECT COST                       113.60      113.60               106.44      106.44
* Includes NCB and other procurement methods including not bank financed
-22 -



Proiect Cost By Component and Financine Source (in US$ million equivalent)
Project          Appraisal Estimate            Actual Estimate       Actual as % of Appraisal
Component
Bank   Govern- Cofinancier  Bank   Govern- Cofinancier  Bank   Govern- Cofinancie
ment                        ment                        ment       r
Credit and Equity
Funds
Credit Funds   29.58    0.0    6.0        34.74    0.0      0.0       117.44   0.0      0.0
Equity Funds   0.0     0.0     2.2        0.0      0.0      8.5       0.0      0.0      386.3
Institutional
Development
Enterprise    2.3     0.3     1.4        0.0      0.0     0.65       0.0      0.0      46.43
Preparation
(Privatization)
Auction System   0.7    0.0     1.1        0.0      0.0      1.1        0.0     0.0      100.0
Development &
LPA
Bank Restructuring 0.0   0.0      4.24       0.0      0.0     2.0        0.0      0.0     47.17
Bank       0.0     45       8.0        0.0      56.5    0.0        0.0      125.56   0.0
Recapitalization
Project    0.02     0.1      0.34       0.0     0.02     0.0        0.0      20.0    0.0
Management Unit
Technical Unit  0.4    0.3      2.25       0.4      0.6     1.93       100.0   200.0   85.78
Environmental TA 0.0     0.0      0.18       0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0
Miscellaneous   0.0    0.0      0.1        0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0
Financial
Infrastructure
Investment
Hardware and   2.0     0.0      0.2        0.0     0.0      0.0        0.0     0.0      0.0
Software
Technical    0.0     0.8      6.1        0.0      0.0     0.0        0.0      0.0     0.0
Assistance
TOTAL       35.0    46.5    32.11       35.14    57.12    14.18      100.4   122.84   44.16
PROJECT COST
- 23 -



Annex 3: Economic Costs and Benefits
The project appraisal did not contain an economic cost benefit analysis. There was however a section on
benefits and risks. In the SAR the project was expected to generate benefits largely from institution
building - in particular strengthening of the financial sector through assistance in reforming the banking
system and upgrading of the payments system, and supporting the Latvia Privatization Agency and
enterprises to accelerate privatization. The credit line was expected to create new investment in the
emerging enterprise sector. The SCL would reduce intermediation costs by reducing currency risk.
In practice most of the intended institutional building benefits have been effectively achieved, as well as
additional benefits. Some others such as support to the payments system and debt management did not
materialize. Direct financing of a large number of enterprises which were assessed to be economically
profitable created net economic benefits.
On balance there is solid evidence to suggest that this project had a positive economic benefit/ cost ratio,
through its success in institution building in the financial sector, long-term credit management capacity, and
the full disbursement of a flexibly applied credit line to enterprises.
- 24 -



Annex 4. Bank Inputs
(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle               No. of Persons and Specialty              Performance Rating
(e.g. 2 Economists, I FMS, etc.)    Implementation     Development
Month/Year    Count        Specialty                        Progress          Objective
Identification/Preparation         9    1 Economist, 1 Privatization
02/07-02/19/1993              Spec., 2 Private Business
Establishment/Enterprise Spec.,
I Bank Restructuring Spec., I
Payments System Spec., I Bank
Supervision Spec., 2 Industry
Specialist
03/29-04/02/1993         2    1 Economist, I Bank
Restructuring Spec.
07/19-07/30/1993         5    1 Economist, I Bank
Restructuring Spec., 1
Intermediation Spec., I
Privatization Spec., I Legal
Framework Spec.
09/20-02/29/1993         6    1 Economist, I Financial Sector
Spec., I Intermediation Spec., 2
Privatization Spec., I Bank
Restructuring Spec.
Appraisal/Negotiation
12/07-12/17/1993         7   1 Economist, I Privatization
Spec., I Financial Sector
Spec., 4 Consultants
02/28-03/19/1994         9   2 Economist, 2 Financial Sector
Spec., 2 Privatization Spec., 1
Legal Spec., I Enterprise
Development Spec., I
Implementation Spec.
05/16-05/27/1994         4    1 Economist, I Privatization
Spec., I Financial Sector Spec.,
I Implementation Spec.
12/06-12/10/1994        8    1 Economist, 2 Financial Sector
Spec., 2 Intermediation Spec., 3
Privatization Spec.
04/04-04/11/1995         4    1 Economist, I Enterprise
Development Spec., I Financial
Sector Spec., I Implementation
Spec.
Supervision
12/5-12/15/1995          4   1 Economist, I Capital                S                 S
Market Spec., I Banking
System Spec., I
Implementation Spec.
06/25-07/02/1996         3   1 Economist, I Implementation         S                 S
Spec., I Consultant
- 25 -



12/16-12/20/1996         1  1 Consultant
02/17-02125/1997         3   1 Economist, I Implementation        HS                 HS
Spec., I Consultant
10113-1011711997         3   1 Economist, I Implementation        HS                HS
Spec., I Consultant
05/04-05/08/1998         3   1 Economist, I Implementation         S                 HS
Spec., I Consultant
12/07-12/12/1998         3   1 Economist, I Implementation        S                 HS
Spec., I Consultant
OS/24-06104/1999         2   1 Economist, I Implementation        HS                 HS
Spec.
ICR
11/29/1999 -             2    1 economist, I consultant
12/5/1999
(b) Staff.
Stage f roj'ectCycle                      Acul/aest Estimate
--No.  Staf weks             USS (A)O0)
Identification/Preparation                76.5                       245.8
Appraisal/Negotiation                     46.1                       155.4
Supervision                              129.2                       433.3
ICR                                        4.0                        14.0
Total                                    255.8                       848.5
-26-



Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
Rating
FMacro policies                            O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
3Sector Policies                               rH  OSUOM  O N  O NA
F Physical                                 O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
[3 Financial                               O H  *SUOM  O N  O NA
FS Institutional Development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
Z Environmental                            O H  OSUOM  O N  * NA
Social
E Poverty Reduction                 O H  OSUOM  O N  O NA
EGender                             O H OSUOM O N * NA
O Other (Please specify)
2 Private sector development               0 H  O SU O M  0 N  0 NA
i Public sector management                 0 H  0 SU O M  0 N  0 NA
O Other (Please specify)
- 27 -



Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)
6.1 Bank performance                                Rating
OI Lending                                          OHS Os  OU  OHU
CD Supervision                                      OHS OS  OU  OHU
OI Overall                                          OHS OS  O U  O HU
6.2 Borrower performance                            Rating
O Preparation                                       OHS OS  O U  O HU
 Government implementation performance             O HS O S  0  U  0 HU
O Implementation agency performance                 OHS OS  O  U  O HU
O Overall                                           OHS OS  O U  O HU
-28 -



Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents
Government of Latvia's completion report
Cofinanciers completion reports (SIDA, CIDA, DANIDA)
- 29 -






Annex 1
Borrower Contribution to the
Implementation Completion Report






Implementation completion report
LATVIA
Enterprise and financial sector restructuring project
Contents
1. Background
2. Project objectives
3. Project implementation
3.1 Project co-ordination and Management
3.2 Participating Financial Institutions
3.3 Disbursements
3.4 Procurement
3.5 Technical assistance
3.5.1 TA to Unibank
3.5.2 TA to RKB
3.5.3 Bank of Latvia
3.5.4 Miscellaneous TA
4. Project sustainability
5.Assesment of outcome
6. Future operations
7. Key lessons learned






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project (LV 37950, LV 37960)
I.Project Background
The Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project was launched in 1994 to
support the Government of Latvia in implementing its comprehensive program of
structural reform aimed at establishing a market economy. The total amount of the loans
was US$35 million, comprising a currency pool loan of US$20 million equivalent and a
single currency loan with tranches of US$10 million equivalent and DM 8.5 million (US$5
million) equivalent. The most of the amount has been disbursed by June 30, 1999 when
the Project was closed, six month later than originally projected.
Enterprise and financial sector restructuring was at the heart of the Govemment's
economic strategy. Given the close linkages between the two sectors, a coordinated
approach to reform was vital. While the Government had a commitment to the
restructuring of the enterprise and financial sectors, the challenge it faced was
significant. However, there was considerable international goodwill and tangible support
for Latvia's reform program. Against this background the World Bank was asked to
assist in coordinating the support for reform in both the enterprise and financial sectors.
The proposed project represented, therefore, the culmination of a significant technical
assistance effort involving a wide range of institutions and a multiplicity of funding
sources.
2. Project Objectives and Design
The principal objective of the project was to support the Government's reforms in the
enterprise and financial sectors, focussing, in particular, on enterprise privatization and
bank restructuring. An important aspect of the project was the design and
implementation of a coordinated strategy of reform for both sectors. These reforms
paved the way for improved intermediation through the banking sector. The project
comprised three components: (I) a credit line component (US$ 29.6 million) provided
resources for commercial banks to make medium- and long-term loans to recently
privatized and other private sector Latvian enterprises for investment and related
permanent working capital needs; (ii) an institutional development component (US$3.4
million) supported the the Latvian Privatization Agency by financing an acceleration of
the privatization transaction process, and also supported the development of a Project
Management Unit and a Technical Unit; (iii) a financial infrastructure investment
component (US$2 million) helped to prepare the banking system for its future, enhanced
role in domestic intermediation.
3. Project Implementation
3.1 Project Coordination and Management
The Executing Agency for the Borrower was the Ministry of Finance where a Project
Management Unit (PMU) was set up to oversee and coordinate overall project
implementation. Besides keeping records and administering the two Bank loans, the



PMU monitored the operations of the participating government agencies and
coordinated problem solving for the three components of the project. For the purpose of
credit line management the Ministry of Finanace established the Technical Unit (TU) that
had three main functions: (I) a selection of PFIs and monitoring of their continued
eligibility for the intermediation of the credit line; (ii) implementation of the credit line
guidelines and supervision of their compliance by participating banks and final
borrowers, and (iii) authorization of the use of the credit line by PFIs for the financing of
specific subprojects.
3.2 Participating Financial Institutions
Participating Financial Institutions (PFIs) are commercial banks and other financial
institutions established and operating according to the applicable rules of the BoL and
approved by the WB for participation in the Project. In order to be a PFI, commercial
banks and leasing companies had to meet at all times a set of stringent financial and
management criteria and had signed a Subsidiary Loan Agreement with the TU.
Potential PFI were individually appraised by the TU, with particular attention given to
their overall lending capabilities and financial and portfolio performance. The same
standards were used to evaluate the continued eligibility of current PFI. The evaluation
focused on: (i) capital adequacy; (ii) asset quality; (iii) management effectiveness; (iv)
earnings performance; and (v) liquidity.
The TU based its recommendation for action on a comprehensive assessment of the
credit-worthiness of potential and current PFI, and the report to the Credit Committee
included an evaluation of the following items:
i) The bank must undergo an annual audit that is conducted in accordance with
international accounting and auditing standards;
ii) The bank is in compliance with all banking laws and regulations or if not, the bank:
a) has entered into a time bound agreement with the BoL to come into compliance with
each infraction; or b) is in the process of reaching such agreement to the satisfaction of
the BoL;
iii) The bank is operating pursuant to investment and regulatory requirements and
procedures which the WB and the BoL have judged acceptable, and has undertaken to
maintain said policies and practices; and
iv) The bank has a satisfactory financial and management structure, determined inter
alia, on the basis of a satisfactory risk-based capital adequacy, acceptable asset quality
and lending performance, liquidity and management effectiveness, and the organization,
management, technical staff and other resources required for the efficient carrying out of
its operations.
The TU appraisal procedures were designed in order to ensure that:
i) The bank's Board of Directors sets overall bank policy and performs appropriate
oversight of the bank's operations;
ii) The bank has a sound business plan and has appropriate budgeting procedures;



iii) The bank has sound lending policies and procedures;
iv) The bank has satisfactory internal controls and audit procedures;
v) The bank is not exposed to undue interest rate risk;
vi) The bank's management information system provides sufficient information to those
employees responsible for managing the bank's risks and performance.
vii) The bank has established a unit for term-lending and has designated a capable
employee, trained in project lending, to act as the counterpart to the TU.
Given that the Latvian economy in general, and its banking system in particular, was in a
state of transition and consolidation, the TU initially relaxed the eligibility criteria stated
above for those banks that showed potential and that were willing to enter into a special
performance and monitoring agreement with the TU. The agreed program with each
bank determined specific targets to be achieved over time, making its continued
participation in the intermediation of the Credit Line conditional on its timely compliance
with the programmed improvements in its performance. For each bank, the agreed
adjustment program and its timetable for implementation was annexed as a Side
Agreement to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement signed with the TU.
The TU staff educated and held various seminars for potential PFI candidates in the use,
qualification and process of becoming user of the World Bank Loan.
The TU conducted full due diligence and passed approval of 7 PFI's: Unibanka,
Investment Bank of Latvia (now Merita-Nordbanken), Zemes Banka (merged with
Hansabank-Latvia), Rigas Komercbanka, Parex Bank, Baltic Transit Bank, Mortgage &
Land Bank. The process of achieving qualification for PFI status enabled the TU to
instigate appropriate changes and amendments to the bank's development plans.
Another 10-15 banks were reviewed for possible PFI status. Most of these banks did not
qualify and have since either ceased operations or merged with other banks.
In order to perform close monitoring of PFI's, the TU developed and implemented
financial analysis system which included PFI monthly financial monitoring system
(numerical) based on Bank of Latvia returns and annual review of Side Agreements with
particular attention to achievements and adherence to specific individual PFI
requirements
During monitoring of PFI's on-lending, the TU assisted PFI's in developing and
implementing financial evaluation methods and worked closely with them in identifying
sound lending opportunities with due adherence to World Bank Environmental and
Procurement Guidelines.
As a result the TU passed approval of 97 Sub Loans. To continue monitoring of
approved projects the TU developed and implemented systems for subsequent review of
Free and Non-Free Limit Sub-Loans extended by the PFI's.
During the project implementation the TU successfully restructured the World Bank Loan
to include availability of working capital (due to the liquidity squeeze in the banking
system in the aftermath of the banking crisis in 1995/1996) and the subsequent



availability for funding of the fast growing PFI's leasing operations and designed small
loan facility (1998).
The TU staff advised PFI's on multiple banking issues including problem loan handling,
product development, credit, project finance and management issues (this was on a
continuous basis but particularly frequent in the post 1995/1996 banking crises and in
the aftermath of the Russian crisis in 1998).
3.3 Disbursement
The main component of the project was disbursement of a US$ 35,000,000 World Bank
loan to the Republic of Latvia, for on lending to eligible sub-projects through Participating
Financial Institutions (PFI) for deployment of funds to the private sector. In total
36.354,716 has been disbursed for the sub-loans to the PFIs and US$ 400,000 have
been disbursed to the Technical Unit as incremental costs for the Credit Line operation.
This objective may be considered fully achieved, as the full amount has been committed,
of which US$ 32.1 million have been disbursed to date and the remaining balance will be
disbursed during the grace period.
The PFI's use of the Credit Line has been very different in the life of the project. Initially,
most approved loans were disbursed to Unibanka to be used in the bond redemption
mechanism, where the bond issued by Latvian Government to Unibanka was redeemed
through funding of eligible sub-projects from the Credit Line. Later in 1995/1996, most
loans were disbursed under the temporary working capital. Since the beginning of 1997
most loans have been approved for the project financing to private entities.
The disbursements in terms of time is shown in the Figure No.1



Figure 1. Approved and disbursed loans by quarters (thousands LVL)
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
ElApproved    29  601    1767   2733   5087    814  O  O      644    - O      293    1654   4515       O     2050      O      O
0Disbused    29  74    1591   2217T2247   3603    269    1001 1471  1142  1285  11552 11746   18                      139      26     1359
6



As can be seen form the Figure No. 1, there have been two significant demands for the
Credit Line. The first, in 1995/96 banking crisis and sequential liquidity squeeze. The
second was after the Russian crisis, when the banks tumed to the local market for the
project financing and the World Bank Credit line had a significant role to finance small-
medium size entities and growing leasing business.
The disbursement to the PFI's is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Disbursement of the Credit Line
CPL                                       SCL
LVL      (in %/6)   USD      (in %)     USD        (in %)    DEM        (in %)
(in usd)                          .   .
Unibanka
Bond redemption                          8,895,877   46.9%   1,565,000  100.0%      300,000    2.8%    4,363,415   51.4%
Subsidary Loan Agreement                 3.025,099   16.0%                                     0.0%A     914.237   10.8%
Total for Unibanka                        11,920,976   62.9%Ai  1,565,000  100.0%     300,000    2.8%    5,277,652   62.1/
Parex                                      1,255,988    6.6%                        2,929,916   27.0%    2,119,681   24.90o
not yet disbursed to Parex                 841.963    4.4%                         1.629.284   15.0%A                0.0%
Total for Parex                            2,105,988   11.1%          0             4,559,200   42.1%    2,119,681   24.9%
Riga komerc Banka                           410,882    2.2%                           300,000    2.8%                 0.0%
Baltic Transit Bank                         414,775    2.2%                                      0.0%                 0.0%
Merita Nord Banken                          481,517    2.5%                         2,350,000   21.7%Ai   1,100,000   12.9%
Zemes Bank                                 1,041,315    5.5%                        1,600,000   14.8%                 0.0%
Mortgage and Land Bank                     2,575,469   13.6%                        1,732,624   16.00/o               0.0%A
Gross amount utilised for lending activity  18,950,921   100.0%   1,565,000  100.0%   10,841,825  100.0%    8,497,333  100.0%
Use of reflows                              912.748                                   841.967
Net furnds utilised for
Credit Line disbursement                  18,038,173                                9,999,858            8,497,333
Incremental Cost for
The Technical Unit                          400,000
CPL disbursed in USD                       1 565.000
'Balance                                  20,003.173             _
As it can be seen from table 1 then Unibanka has been the largest client. In total
43,8% of the funding available has been allocated for Unibanka. On the
individual World Bank loans, then Unibanka utilisation of the currency pool loan,
in total 65.7% of the World Bank Loan, has been significant.
Unibanka's utilisation of the Credit Line is not a surprise as the Credit Line has
been established to assist the Latvian Government to redeem the bond, issued
as compensation, for the portfolio of bad loan inherited by the private structure
Unibanka from the state entity Unibankal. Also Mortgage and Land Bank and
Parex Bank have been large clients to the Credit Line.
The maturity profile of the issued loans is shown in figure 2a. Figure 2a shows
that 39% of all loans disbursed had maturity on 2 years or lower, while 45% had
maturity between 2 and 5 years and 16% above 5 years of maturity.
l The state entity Unibanka was created by the amalgamation of the small banks that the Latvian State
"inherited" in the aftermath of the independence.
7



Figure 2a. Loan issued in maturity segments
Approved loans by maturity
More than 5 years
16%
(-~~~~c 1:zIz~~~~~~ 0 - 2 years (inci.)
39%
2-5 years
45%
In figure 2b is presented the different sectors that have been financed by the
proceeds from the Credit Line.
Figure 2b. Loan issued in business segments
Approved loans by type of business
El WholesaSeelavices/printing      0 Manufacturing
8%       8%                       15%
E3Leasmng        E                            Woodprocessing
15%                                            15%
E Mortgage
MA"gculture
8% 0 Construction             1Food industry
9%                        21%
8



The Credit Line has services many segments of business in Latvia. The largest segment
serviced is the Food Industry. This segment received most funding when the
workingcapital segment was opened and the most of the credit went for short term
working capital loans to the grain industry.
3.4. Procurement
Procurement procedures have been done according to the Guidelines for procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits and the Loan Agreements (37950 LV, 37960 LV)
between Republic of Latvia and IBRD dated with November 9, 1994. During the project
implementation the threshold for the International Competitive Bidding has not been
exceeded, therefore the procedures of the Commercial Practices of Beneficiaries, Local
Competitive Bidding and International Shopping were used. The procurement
procedures and requirements were adopted by the number of banks and included in
their internal credit procedures.
3.5.1. Technical Assistance
During the project implementation, TA was provided in the following fields:
1) TAto Unibank
2) TA to Riga Commercial bank
3) Bank of Latvia
4) Banking crisis
5) Miscellaneous Technical Assistance
4.Project sustainability
The project achievements to date are likely to be sustainable. The government is firmly
committed to its economic and sectoral reform program including banking and corporate
sector reforms.
Part of the re-flows of the Project credit lines are being actively on-lent while maintaining
the high quality of loan portfolio and repayment performance.
The demonstrated positive results of the Project have encouraged commercial banks to
start extending the long-term credits to the private enterprises. PFIs are committed to
continue to finance viable projects for private enterprises. Through the Rural
Development Project, the Bank will continue its dialogue with the Government on further
developments in private and banking sectors in Latvia.
The sustainability of the Project is ensured by the transfer of knowledge and know-how
from the experienced Western European bankers to the employees of the Technical
Unit, local commercial banks through the technical assistance and on-job training in loan
appraisal and monitoring.
Project provided significant assistance to Universal Bank of Latvia in its
privatisation process by both technical assistance in management as well as
provision of funding. This has contributed to the creation of the basis of the
largest bank in Latvia having developed sound banking operations.
9



Lastly, future development of the sector and the sustainability of the Project will also
depend on the Government's ability to co-ordinate multilateral and bilateral technical
assistance to ensure that such resources are well focused and directed to the country's
priority needs with significant transfer of know-how to Latvia.
5.Assessment of outcome
The overall project outcome is assessed as satisfactory considering that the Project
provided a credit line operation at a time of a relatively underdeveloped banking system
that was not able to provide long-term funding to the borrowers.
Initially the Project was one of the very few sources of long-term funds for the banking
sector in Latvia and, hence, the Credit Line assisted the development of long-term
lending market, which has increased from 12% of the total loan portfolio in 1994 to
approximately 60% in 19992. Currently the disbursements made under the Project
Credit Lines represent close to 10% of the banking system's term lending (loan maturity
exceeding one year) 2
The Project had a substantial impact on the growth and development of the private
sector with a specific attention to recently privatised enterprises by providing the
necessary working capital for continuation of operations as well as long-term funds for
investments.
Availability of short-term working capital facility through the credit line proved to be very
useful during the period after the banking crisis in 1995 - 1996, when many companies
as well as banks experienced significant liquidity problems.
The knowledge and experience of the local banks in loan appraisal and monitoring was
rather limited. The Project provided assistance to the commercial banks in project
appraisal, evaluation and monitoring, developing and implementing financial evaluation
methods and worked closely with them in identifying sound lending opportunities with
due adherence to World Bank Environmental and Procurement Guidelines. The project
introduced loan appraisal techniques and trained loan officer of the Technical Unit and
the banks.
Foreign banking experts within the framework of technical assistance contributed to the
establishment of currently one of the largest leasing companies in Latvia - Unilizing
(leasing subsidiary of Unibanka) and funding for leasing operations from the Credit Line
contributed to the growth of this market segment.
Assistance provided by the banking experts contributed to the recovery of the banking
sector after the banking crisis in 1995 and crisis in Russia in 1998 by advising PFIs on
different banking issues such as handling of problem loans, new product development,
credit, project finance and management issues.
2 2 Roger Handberg Completion Report on assistance to the Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance Republic
of Latvia being provided jointly through the World Bank and SIDA, Sweden for the period December 1994
to June, 1999 (inclusive); August 1999
10



The high quality of technical assistance was appreciated by the entire banking sector
and provided a sound foundation for the development of this market segment in Latvia.
Western European bankers contracted under the Project provided assistance also in
preparing government proposal for the country's subsequent participation in EU Phare
Catch Up Facility, the integration of IFC, the Danish - Latvian Mortgage Project and the
WB Rural Project into the Technical Unit, thus, achieving economies of scale and
maintenance of office structure and experience.
Institutional building
The project also had significant impact on institutional development. Within the
framework of the technical assistance experts also initiated and enhanced the
govemment action in reviewing the need for expanding and centralising supervision of
financial sector. In June 1998 the Cabinet of Ministers decided in principle to centralise
Financial Supervision under a new govemment agency with draft law currently being
finalised for presentation to the Parliament in the autumn of 19993. SIDA and the
Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority are expected to continue supporting this
development with World Bank assistance in conjunction with a new Structural
Adjustment Loan in 1999.
6. Future operations
SIDA and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority are expected to continue
supporting the development of centralised financial sector supervision together with the
World Bank assistance in conjunction with a new Structural Adjustment Loan in 1999.
The World Bank Rural Development Project.
Key lessons learned
The main lessons from the Project, which may also have more general relevance for
other Projects are the following:
* Ownership of a project by the borrower is an essential element for successful
outcome. Additionally, frequent changes of Govemment make building local
ownership difficult and requires increased efforts in public relations.
* It is important to have effective project management and supervision capacity in the
client country to be performed by the Government as well as the Bank. It is also very
important to have a close dialogue with the Project Task Manager.
* A relatively high degree of continuity during Project implementation, both on the
Bank task team and the Latvia PMU, has largely compensated for frequent changes
in the Govemment and was able to provide a degree of stability to the Project.
* Project start-up normally takes longer than anticipated, especially, when creating a
new institution.
* A credit line operating in a transitional economy must be accompanies by
complementary reforms in
3Roger Handberg Completion Report on assistance to the Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance Republic of
Latvia being provided jointly through the World Bank and SIDA, Sweden for the period December 1994 to
June, 1999 (inclusive); August 1999
11



*  The technical assistance is successful, when it is provided over a longer period of
time and where there is continuity and sufficient time to build mutual trust.
*  For the success of the Project it is very important to know and to be able to adapt to
the local environment and commercial practice.
*  The World Bank procedures are rather cumbersome and bureaucratic for lending to
the private sector, particularly disbursement services. Procedures are rather slow
and cumbersome that significantly reduces the attractiveness of the Credit Line
facility.
12






Annex 2
Final Report
on assistance to Latvian Privatization Agency
Provided jointly through the
World Bank
And
CIDA






CONFIDENTIL4
FINAL REPORT
on Assistance to Latvian Privatization Agency
being provided jointly through the
WORLD BANK
and
CIDA
(CENTRAL AND EASTERN EUROPE BRANCH)
for the period
April, 1995 to June, 1999 (inclusive)
(EFSR Canadian Trust Fund - Grant CBAE 20018-LV)
Agnar Johanson                                                      June 30,1999






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pa2e
1.0 INTRODUCTION ...................1
2.0  ANALYSIS OF ACTIVITIES ....................2
3.0  RESULTS ACHIEVED ...................3
4.0  FINANCIAL SUMMARY ...................5
Attachments:
ANNEX A - "Key Companies Worked On and Nature of Work Undertaken"
ANNEX B - "Actual Expenditures April, 1995 to June, 1999 inclusive Compared to
Budget"






&porUo Ike World Bank and CJZ?A                                              I1
1.0 Introduction
This final report covers activities for the full period of this project: April, 1995 to June,
1999, inclusive.
The basic objective of the project was to advise, work with, and support the Latvian
Privatization Agency (LPA) in its mandate to privatizatize all state owned enterprises in the
most effective way and in the shortest possible time frame. This objective may be considered
to have been achieved as only the three largest companies remain to be privatized, but are well
on their way (Latvian Shipping Company - new regulations being prepared; Latvenergo -
"unbundling" has been started; Lattelekom - 49% private, negotiations with private owner at
tentative agreement stage)
This objective was also supported by assistance from the German Government, from the
EU-Phare (2 projects), USAID and some minor other assistance. The German program had an
average staff of 4-6, the USAID (public offerings program) 5-7, the EU-Phare 4-8 and the
subject WB project 1 in the position of Chief Advisor.
Based on the project's three terms of reference (original and two extensions), the main
objectives/responsibilities were:
* advise the Director General of the LPA on key strategic, organisational and operational
issues (being flexible as the demands on the position were dependent on the emerging needs
of the LPA and its Director General);
* assistance with public share offering program (key during first half of project),
* advisory duties associated with assisting the LPA staff and foreign consultants involved in
such very signif cantprivatizations as Latvenergo, Latvian Shipping Company, Lattelekom,
and other major companies (key during second half of project);
* helping tofindfinancing from bilateral and multilateral sources;
* being the contact person for other institutions, such as the World Bank, to ensure their
effective input and understanding of events. Also advice in areas where potential problems
can emerge in intergovernmental and external relations of the LPA.
* advice on re-structuring issues and on control of enterprises prior to their privatization;
* international marketing efforts - meet, make presentations to and assist foreign investors
and interested parties.
Agniir _okanson                                                      30106199



2.0 Analysis ofActivities
The following represents a brief description of some of the activities undertaken by the
project relative to each of the objectives/responsibilities, with an indication of results achieved:
*  advise the Director General
* provided advice and assistance on a wide range of issues;
* worked very closely with the DG on many major privatizations;
* for first three years, attended all board meetings. Also attended every morning, eight
o'clock briefing and weekly operations committee meetings.
* public share offering program
*  the project help support the program in its infancy and had to work very effectively to
counter the German project which had obtained a mandate to privatized many of the
most interesting companies, but was not favorably disposed toward public participation,
favoring instead sale to a single investor;
* first half of the project concentrated on assisting in the establishment of the system for
public offerings;
* the ultimate achievement was to gain acceptance by the LPA of a list of remaining state
owned companies (some 50), which would be included in the program.
X very significant privatizations
* in the case of Latvenergo, the electricity utility, was key advisor and liaison for the
EBRD and its consultants (ran project for LPA) in the very lengthy review of the
company's structure, valuation, re-structuring plans, technical assessment and
privatization alternatives determination. Continued to monitor and advise the
privatization team in determining how the company should be re-structured prior to
privatization ("unbundled");
* for Latvian Shipping Company was instrumental in reviewing its operations and results,
advising and organizing management changes, finding potential investors and
negotiating with them, developing privatization models and regulations, and briefing
most senior Government officials;
* Lattelekom (the telephone company) took up a large part of activity in the later stages of
the project. Senior level expertise and leadership were required in order to negotiate the
elimination of the original shareholders' agreement so as to allow an 11 year reduction
in the exclusivity provision (to end 2002) and eliminate and change the very significant
other provisions requiring change prior to privatization of the Government's shares. A
final provisional agreement was reached just at the end of the project.
* this activity (leading and working on major privatizations) was most intense during the
second half of the project as the most important companies were left to be privatized
last.
AI   r I, t  .hpo                                                       3M.J:6 1.^  9.9S,As>0ft00ik,    0$RpSE2Dt     LS .C0



Rep- to the Wotrld Rak a'idCaDA                                             3
* find financing
* the DG assigned co-ordination of foreign advice to the project, a role played until the
end of the project;
* key achievements were assisting the DG in bringing the 2 EU-Phare projects to the
LPA, involving contracting, negotiations, bid assessments, etc.
* contact person
* during the course of the project, provided briefings, reports and met on many occasions
with representatives of organizations such as the World Bank, CIDA, IFC, EBRD, major
investors, investment bankers, etc.;
* special attention was given to Canadian interests given that CIDA funded the project.
* re-structuring
* assisted and advised the EU-Phare project working specifically in re-structuring of
companies awaiting privatization.
* international marketing
- met and advised many potential investors and specifically sent out solicitations for
expression of interest in a number of cases;
* was instrumental in initiating the International Marketing Group at the agency and on
use of the internet in marketing LPA's privatizations.
3.0 Results Achieved
The attached ANNEX A, provides a listing of some of the major privatizations the project
concentrated on. As can be seen, the activities undertaken and the number of companies for
which each activity was undertaken is presented below:
Advice on public offering - review in advance - value potential  23
Work on re-structuring/providing management advice           17
Organize/review potential for international offering          5
Visit/assess privatization potential and methods             19
International marketing undertaken                           15
Assist in developing privatization regulations               23
Participate in investor selection Committee                   2
Negotiations with potential investors                        20
Review company for other institutions                         3
Lead privatization team                                       7
Total companies with significant involvement                 46
A| far Johoan/son16/9                                                           i



t Reprtf< to t: Work! Rank  d (A                                           4 - --
The assistance to the public offerings program was quite successful. Not only was the
agency convinced that the program was worthwhile, but the LPA eventually agreed to a list of
companies which had to be considered for the program. This was contrary to advice received
elsewhere. The results and the importance of the LPA's efforts are reflected below:
Riga Stock Exchange listing                 LPA *  Other  TOTAL
Official list (most important - stringent     8       2        10
reporting)
Second list (also important - lesser          15      1        16
requirements)
Free list (less important - minimal reporting)  42     1      43
Privatized - awaiting listing **              5       0        5
TOTAL                                         70      4        74
* direct result of the privatization process.
* estimated
The project was instrumental in initiating, developing, funding and implementing the
International Marketing Group at the LPA. The LPA's internet sight, which greatly assisted
this initiative, was devised and championed by the project. The project originally began
sending out targeted letters to potential investors inviting them to participate in particular
privatizations. This was very time consuming and not feasible for a one consultant operation.
However, given the success achieved, the project developed a plan and solicited assistance
programs such as SIDA, USAID and EU-Phare to consider funding the initiative. The group
was finally funded by the EU-Phare and was organised around one foreign marketing expert
with four local hires to assist. It is difficult to judge results, however all agree that many
foreign investors would not even have considered Latvia, if this program had not attracted
them. The project provided on-going advice and mentoring to the program's activities.
Another important achievement of the project was in providing co-ordination for the
DG of the assistance programs working at any one time at the LPA. This was valuable to the
DG as it ensured a smoother flow and allocation of projects and responsibilities to the many
consultants involved. It also provided the DG with invaluable assistance with finding donors
and the consulting team selection process.
Another major effort for the second half of the project was to lead the team assigned to
the Lattelekom privatization. This was accomplished while still working simultaneously on
many other projects. The team included one full-time EU-Phare consultant, one LPA employee
and a Director from Lattelekom working almost full-time. The project not only led the
negotiations with TILTS Communications (49% owner of Lattelekom), but also initiated the
development of a new sector policy (to reflect privatization) and assisted the Transport
Ministry in developing the policy (advised and obtained EU-Phare funding), reviews and
assistance with the LPA's management of Lattelekom, and advising and organising the process
for the resolution of operational issues between the players in the sector and the Ministry.
|gffra?Johanson                                                    3tJJU6000000 C-ff9Stld,... j0SNi' t lCCii = ..2i



Report to the WoYid Bank and CIDA                                          5
The project provided especially valuable assistance to the DG being his negotiator and key
strategist. The negotiations, which were extremely complicated, were concluded to the draft
agreement stage by the end of the project.
The other two largest privatizations, Latvian Shipping (also included initiation and
assistance with new sector policy development) and Latvenergo, have not been completed.
However, much progress was achieved towards improving their operations and preparing them
for privatization.
4. 0 Financial Summary
Attached as ANNEX B is a comparison of the actual versus budgeted expenses for
the project. The project consisted of three parts:
Contract              Term (inclusive)           Budgeted amount
Original              April, 1995 to March, 1998    US$ 480,420.00
First extension       April, 1998 to March, 1999    US$ 177,497.00
No cost extension     April, 1999 to June, 1999   US$      0
The following statistics summarise the actual versus budget figures shown in
ANNEX B. The under spent budget lines allowed the contract to be extended for the final
three months, with no increase in budget.
Totals:                                                    US$
*  Total budget (original + extension)            657,917.00
*  Total expenses                                 650,997.76
*  Under spent                                     - 6,919.24
Main Over Spending:
*  "Salary and benefits" over spent owing to three  31,906.81
unbudgeted months
*  "Medical, life, disability insurance" over spent but  2,521.29
agreed by World Bank to take from "Contingencies"
Main Under Spending:
*  "Contingency" funds not used as budgeted      - 16,136.00
*  "Support materials ..." as all equipment foreseen  - 13,230.07
was not bought (used LPA facilities)
*  "Staff support" under spent as support only hired  - 7,961.00
for short period as LPA support used
Agnar Johanson                                                    3,(fl#       1






Annex 3
Completion Report
on assistance to the Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance
Republic of Latvia
Provided jointly through the
World Bank
and
Danish Agency for Trade and Industry and
Ministry of Economic Affairs






Con.ftdential
COMPLETION REPORT
on assistance to The Tecnical Unit, Ministry of Finance
Republic of Latvia
being provided jointly through the
World Bank
and
Danish Agency for Trade and Industry and
Ministry of Economic Affairs
for the period
December, 1994 to May, 1999
Danish Trust fund TF 020016
Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project, LV 3795/6
Peter Munch Eriksen                                          September 1999
Operation Manager






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Paae
1. Introduction and objectives ......................................3
2.  Analysis of activities and  results ......................................4
3. Financial Data .......................................7
4.  Statistic on the  PFI's utilisation  of the Credit Line .................................9
5.  Appendix  1 A  list over all approved  projects ..................................... 11
Completion Report - September 1999                                                                                              2
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia






1.0 Introduction
This final report covers activities for the full period of this project: December 1994
to June 30, 1999.
The basic objective of the project was to assist, advise and support the Technical
Unit, a separate legal entity within the Ministry of Finance, to administrate it's
participation in the World Bank's Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring
Project. The main component of the project included the Technical Unit's
administration and disbursement of a US$ 35.000.000 World Bank Loan to the
Republic of Latvia, for on lending to eligible Latvian Commercial Banks
(Participating Financial Institutions, "PFI's") for deployment to the private sector. In
total UD$ 36,354,7161 has been disbursed for sub loans to the PFIs and US$
400,000 has been disbursed to the Technical Unit as incremental cost for the
Credit Line operation. This objective may be considered to have been fully
achieved as the full amount has been committed through 7 PFI's, of which $ 32.1
million have been disbursed to date and the remaining balance will be disbursed
during Q3 of 1999. The World Bank Loan has thus assisted the market with long
term funding and in fact the disbursements made represents close to 10% of the
banking systems term lending i.e. with maturities exceeding one year. In 1994,
banks total lending in this category only accounted for 12% of total loans whereas
today the corresponding amount is approx. 60%. Of total disbursements, 61% was
for Project Finance purposes with the balance, 39%, for working capital purposes.
34.1% of disbursements were made in US$, 13.8% in DM and 52.1% in Lats (with
the Latvian government assuming the FX risk $ viz. Lat).
The Technical Unit has on average employed 10-12 Latvian staff, trained and
supported by the two Scandinavian advisors.
The objective was also supported by the assistance from the EU Phare (2 projects,
one for technical assistance and one for banking advisory), further assistance from
DATI, Swedfund and the British Know-How Fund (covering credit and
management assistance to three of the largest PFI's) and SIDA (for financial
supervision development).
Based on the project's terms of reference (original and multiple extensions) for the
DATI financed Danish Operations Manager to the Technical Unit, the main
objectives/responsibilities were:
* Advise the Director of the Technical Unit on key strategic, organisational and
operational issues;
* Establishment of the Technical Unit, its accounting, budget and management
systems and internal procedures for the unit's operation;
The difference between the original loan from the World Bank in amount of US$ 35,000,000 and actual
disbursed amount is because the Technical Unit, in the beginning of the administration of the Credit Line, has
used incoming reflows for disbursement to new clients. This procedure was created to limit the cost of the
Latvian Government in the case where early repayment of the loan took place.
Completion Report - September 1999                                        3
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



* Development of a in-house banking system to allow for a smooth disbursement
and billing procedures for the approved sub-loans to the approved PFI's;
* Creation of operational procedures for the PFI's when utilising the World Bank
Credit Line, including design of credit procedures, credit manual and forms to
be used by the PFls;
* Preparing Financial statements for both the World bank Credit Line and the
Technical Unit's own operations;
* Approval of loan application from the PFIs for the individual projects (the non
free limit loan element) and close monitoring of the PFI's on-lending activities to
private industry that were funded from the World Bank Loan (free limit loan
element);
* Extend financial and management advisory to the Ministry of Finance, PFl's
and other participants in the financial market
* Assist and support Latvian financial institutional building and product
development
2.0 Analysis of Activities & Results
The following represents a brief description of some of the activities
undertaken by the project relative to each of the objectives/responsibilities,
with an indication of results achieved:
* Advice the Director of the Technical Unit
* Assisted the Director in establishing the Technical Unit, including hiring
of local staff, establishing office routines and implementing accounting,
billing, banking and financial analysis systems and instigating quarterly
reporting routines to the World Bank, SIDA and DATI
* Educated the Director and the primary assistants in a broad array of
banking and Project Finance work with joint calls on banks, corporate
clients and regulatory entities, including Bank of Latvia
* Arranged and participated (during first year) in the Technical Unit
Committee and participated in all weekly TU staff meetings which
included training and seminars for the local staff
* Assisted the Director in preparing government proposal for subsequent
participation in EU Phare Catch Up Facility, the integration of IFC,
Danish mortgage and the WB Rural projects into the Technical Unit,
thus achieving economies of scale and maintenance of office structure
and experience.
Completion Report - September 1999                                    4
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



* Select and negotiate Subsidiary Loan Agreements with PFI's
* Educated and held various seminars for PFI candidates in the use,
qualification and process of becoming user of the World Bank Loan
* Conducted full due diligence and passed approval of 7 PFI's (Unibanka,
Investment Bank of Latvia (now Merita-Nordbanken), Zemes Banka
(merged with Hansabank-Latvia), Rigas Komercbanka, Parex Bank,
Baltic Transit Bank, Mortgage & Land Bank). The process of achieving
qualification for PFI status enabled the TU to instigate appropriate
changes and amendments to the bank's development plans
* Reviewed another 10-15 banks for possible PFI status. Most of these
banks did not qualify and have since either ceased operations or merged
with other banks
* Close Monitoring of PFI's
- Developed and implemented financial analysis system
* Developed and implemented PFI monthly financial monitoring system
(numerical) based on Bank of Latvia returns
- Developed and implemented Side-Agreements with each PFI with
annual review of achievements and adherence to specific individual PFI
requirements
* Close monitoring of PFI's on-lending
v Assisted PFI's in developing and implementing financial evaluation
methods and worked closely with them in identifying sound lending
opportunities with due adherence to World Bank Environmental and
Procurement Guidelines;
* Passed TU approval of 93 Sub Loans;
* The 93 Sub Loans represent a total of 303 commercial loans to the
clients of the different PFIs;
* Rejected 53 loan application;
* Registered more than 50 companies willing to supply their products to
the clients of the Technical unit;
* Supported several client in using international shopping;
* Developed and implemented systems for review of Free and Non-Free
Limit Sub-Loans extended by the PFI's;
Completion Report - September 1999                                   5
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



* Restructured the World Bank Loan to include availability of working
capital (due to the liquidity squeeze in the banking system in the
aftermath of the banking crisis in 1995/1996) and the subsequent
availability for funding of the fast growing PFI's leasing operations (1998)
and a small test study for Housing Finance (1998);
* Assisted Unibanka and Rigas Komercbanka in employing Swedfund and
DATI financed Credit & Management consultants (the Unibanka
consultant subsequently became Chairman of the Board in the bank
whereas the Rigas Komercbanka advisor was retained for 24 months);
* Extend financial and management advisory
* Closely advised and co-operated with the Ministry of Finance and Bank
of Latvia during the banking crisis in 1995/1996 (the banking systems
Total Assets diminished by over 30%);
* Advised PFI's on multiple banking issues including problem loan
handling, product development, credit, project finance and management
issues (this was on a continuous basis but particularly frequent in the
post 1995/1996 banking crises and in the aftermath of the Russian crisis
in 1998);
* Authored a number of white papers and participated in a number of
interviews on a variety of financial, leasing and banking business, some
of which were publicised in Latvian and Scandinavian press;
* Assist institutional building
* Assisted Swedfund International with its equity investments in Unibanka,
Zemes Banka and Rigas Komercbanka totalling approx. US$ 10 million;
* Initiated review and modernisation of the Latvian leasing market and
participated in a NOPEF financed feasibility study (with Den Norske
Bank, DNB) of the Latvian leasing industry (infrastructure, laws and
regulations). This subsequently resulted in the establishment of a local
joint venture (Unibanka and DNB) leasing company, Unlizings, and a
Direct Foreign Investment of US$ 3 million from DNB and the
subsequent amendment by the Bank of Latvia of it's regulations to
include financial supervision of majority bank-owned leasing entities.
Unilizings subsequently became a borrower under the World Bank Loan
through Unibanka;
* Together with the World arranged and facilitated Mortgage Work shops
in both Riga and Vilnius. The cost for the conferences was covered by
DATI. The result of these conferences were that a new project was
initiated in Latvia, which main purpose is to create the legal environment
to facilitate modern mortgage lending in Latvia and to create a self
Completion Report- September 1999                                    6
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



sustainable mortgage bank. A similar project is under development in
Lithuania. Both projects were initial financed by DATI but both projects
are now under the budget and supervision by the Danish Ministry of
Economic Affairs;
* The Operations Manager has been appointed by the Prime Minister and
The minister of Finance to the inter ministerial Latvian Working Group
for development of Mortgage Lending in Latvia. A law on Mortgage
bonds was developed and implemented on April 14, 1998. This law,
besides the regulation for issuing of mortgage bonds, also included the
design of the mortgage entity to be established in Latvia;
* In conjunction with above, initiated government action in reviewing the
need for expanding and centralising financial supervision (currently
conducted by the Bank of Latvia, the Insurance Supervision Authority
and the Securities Market Board). The Senior Bank Manager has been a
member of the Cabinet of Ministers appointed Working Group and, with
the assistance of SIDA, arranged a Roundtable discussion in Riga with
participation from, and on-site visits to, the Financial Supervisory
Authorities in the UK, Germany, Sweden and Denmark and the retention
of an advisor from the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In June
1998, a cabinet decision in principle was taken to centralise Financial
Supervision under a new government agency with draft law currently
being finalised for presentation to the Parliament in the autumn of 1999.
SIDA and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority are expected to
continue supporting this development with World Bank assistance in
conjunction with a new Structural Adjustment Loan in 1999.
3.0 Financial Data
The Latvian banking system has been affected by several major and minor crises
during the period 1994-1999. The severest blows to the system were encountered
in 1) the spring of 1995 when 4 of the 10 largest banks, including the largest bank
in the Baltic's at the time, Banka Baltija, collapsed and in 2) autumn of 1998 when
the Russian crisis effected the value of Latvian bank's portfolio investments in
Russian Securities and indirectly through lending to Russian exposed clients. The
first crisis resulted from a combination of poor lending practices and outright fraud.
The second crisis resulted from too excessive investments by a number of Latvian
banks in high yielding Russian and CIS securities, fuelled by a strong growth of
deposits, diminishing yields on Latvian Government Bonds (against at fast drop in
inflation). In summary, the banking system's profitable consolidation period 1995-
1997 (Net Earnings of the banking system amounted to Lat. 81 million for the
period) enabled it to bolster the equity position and thus managing to cope with the
Russian crisis in 1998 without widespread systemic impact.
Bank of Latvia has subsequently tightened and restricted its regulations on bank's
securities investments by increasing risk weightings for a number of CIS countries
and by introducing max. investments in any single country as a percentage of
Equity.
Completion Report- September 1999                                   7
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



Condensed Consolidated Financials of Latvian Commercial Banks:
Latmillions                    1994   1995   1996   1997   1998 June 1999*
Cash & BoL claims                81      86     97    142    159    143
Claims on Fin. Institutions    265    251    381    490    317    357
Gov. Bonds & T-Bills            101    134    194    300    186         72
Loans                           489    249    288    501    732    934
Other Securities                  9      11      61     126    118    125
Fixed Assets & other Assets      156   104    116    131    173    134
Total Assets                   1.101   835   1.137   1.690   1.685   1.765
Liab. to BoL and Credit Inst.    132    37       89    187    280    275
Deposits                        625   530       685  1.080   1.042   1.041
Other liabilities                146   110      159    158    107      226
Provisions                       71    55        55     46      59      92
Equity                          127   103       149    220     197    131
Total Equity & Liabilities     1.101   835   1.137  1.691   1.685   1.765
* preliminary and un-audited
The number of banks operating in Latvia has been reduced from 62 at the end of
1994 to 26 in June 1999. A further reduction of the number of banks is highly likely
due to 1) increased competition, 2) further direct foreign investments from
particularly Sweden, Norway, France and Germany in the financial sector, 3)
adherence to EU min. capital requirements in 2000 (ECU 5 million) and 4) the
continued domino effects of the Russian crisis and the resulting pressure to
consolidate and achieve better efficiency.
Completion Report - September 1999
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia                               8



4. Statistic on the PFI's utilisation of the Credit Line.
The PFI's use of the Credit Line has been very different in the life of the project.
Initially, most approved loans were to Unibanka to be used in the bond redemption
mechanism, where the bond issued by Latvian Government to Unibanka was
redeemed through funding from the Credit Line. Later on in the process, in the
aftermath of the banking crisis in 1995/96, most loans were disbursed under the
temporary working capital facility. Since the beginning of 1997 most loan have
been approved for project financing to private entities.
The disbursement to the PFI's is shown in Table 1.
Table 1. Disbursement of the Credit Line
CPL                I               ScL
LVL    (in %)   USD    (in %)    USD    (in %)   DEM    (in %)
(in usdl
Unibanka
Bondredemption                     8,698,802  45.9%  1,565,000 100.0%    300,001   2.8% 4,363,415  51.4%
Subsidary Loan Agreement           3.222.174  17.0%                               0.0%   914.237  10.8%
Total for Unibanka                 11,920,976  62.9%  1,565,000 100.0%    300,001   2.8%  5,277,652  62.1%
Parex                               1,255,988   6.6%                   2,474,194  22.8% 2,119,681  24.9%
not disbursed to Parex              850.000   4.5%                    2.085.006  19.2%             .
TotalforParex                       2,105,988  11.1%         0         4,559,200  42.1% 2,119,681  24.9%
Riga komerc Banka                     410,882   2.2%                     300,000   2.8%             0.0%
Baltic Transit Bank                   414,775   2.2%                               0.0%             0.0%
Menta Nord Banken                     481,517   2.5%                   2,350,000  21.7%  1,100,000  12.9%
Zemes Bank                          1,041,315   5.5%                    1,600,000  14.8%            0.0%
Mortgage and Land Bank              2,575,469  13.6%                    1,732,624  16.0%            0.0%
Gross amount utilised for lending activity 18,950,921 100.0% 1,565,000 100.0%  10,841,825 100.0%  8,497,333 100.0%
Use of reflows                        912.748                            841.967
Net funds utilised for
Credit Line disbursement           18,038,173                           9,999,858
Incremental Cost for
The Technical Unit                    400,000
CPL disbursed in USD                1,565,000
Balance                            20,003,173         _                                 1                1
As it can be seen from table 1 then Unibanka has been the largest client. In total
43,8% of the funding available has been allocated for Unibanka. On the individual
World Bank loans, then Unibank utilisation of the currency pool loan, in total 65.7%
of the World Bank Loan, has been significant.
Unibanks utilisation of the Credit Line is not a surprise as the Credit Line has been
established to assist the Latvian Government to redeem the bond, issued as
compensation, for the portfolio of bad loan inherited by the private structure
Unibanka from the state entity Unibanka 2. Also Mortgage and Land Bank and
Parex Bank have been large clients to the Credit Line.
The maturity profile of the issued loans is showed in figure 1.
2 The state entity Unibanka was created by the amalgamation of the small banks that the Latvian State
"inherited" in the aftermath of the independence.
Completion Report - September 1999
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia                                         9



The figure 1 shows that 39% of all loans disbursed had maturity on 2 years or
lower, while 45% had maturity between 2 and 5 years and 16% above 5 years of
maturity. Figure 1. Loan issued in maturity segments.
.Approved loans by maturity
More than 5 years
16%
0 - 2 years (incl.)
39%
2 - 5years
45%
In figure 2 is presented the different sectors that have been financed by the
proceeds from the Credit Line.
Approved loans by type of business
E] W11oe[,yyces/printing       C Manufacturing
8%      8%                    15%
ID Leasing   *.f0-.:~~Y:y.~              Woodprocessing
15%                                       15%
o Mortgage
E3ApKculture                   E Food industry
8%  Construction               21%
9%
Figure 2. Loan issued in business segments.
Completion Report - September 1999                                                   10
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



The Credit Line has services many segments of business in Latvia. The largest
segment serviced is the Food Industry. This segment received most funding when
the working capital segment was open and the most of the credit went for short
term working capital loans to the grain industry.
The leasing segment is a small number of large loans to Unibanka and Parex
Bank. Under these few loans are financed a large number of small leasing
contracts for all types of production equipment and moveable assets.
Completion Report - September 1999                                      11
DATI/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



Loans approved by the Technical Unit.                                                       Appendix 1.
ProJ-ct    Loan  |     Bank                  Clint               Disbursed    Currency   Disbursed
No.       No.                                                 In orrig. curr.             In LVL
1995.01.      .Umbgnka                                                           LVLU i92
199601      2    LIB             SIA AGA                            265,090.00    LVL        265,090 00
1996.02     3    Zemes Banka    SIA Ingars                          120,000.00    LVL        120,000.00
1996.03     4    Unibanka        AiS Rigas Ozirnavnieks             216,000.00   LVL         216,000.00
1996.04     5    Zemes Banka    SIA Lex-U                           1co0.000.00   LVL        100 O.000O
1996.05     6    Unibanka        AVS Rigascdzirnavmeks              467,836.39    LVL        467.836.39
1996.06     7    LIB             SIA Viator                         200,000.00   US$         108,000.00
1996 .7     8    Zemes Banke    SIA Udele                           400,000.00   US$
1996.08     9    Unibanka        SIA Gulbenes Degvie!a              200,000.00    LVL        200.000.00
1996.09     10   Unibanka        SIA A    e                          35,000.00    LVL         3S.000.00
1996.10     11    Unibanka       SIA Ryijenas co-operabve             8,000.00   LVL           8,000.00
, 1996. 1 12 LIB.LToua.airy.00US..0
1996 12     13   Zemes Banka    SlAAugstceltne                      400000.00    US$         216,000.00
1996.13     14    Unibanka       AS 8ordJa                          105,900.00    LVL        105,900.00
1996.14     15  Umibaka,          S!D Autocantrs                     25,000.00    LVL         25,000.00
1998 1S     16   Unibanks        Lanatex                             70.000|00    LVL         709009.00
1996 16     17   U.ibanka         Gamma Ltd.                         35,000.00    LVL         35.000.00
1996 17     18    Unibanka        VIA Ltd                            19,999.94    LVL         19.999.94
1996 18 . . .  Unibanka          Sal .  ...                          25,000.00    LVL         25.000.00
1996.19     20   Zemes Banka    Ulara SIA                            60.000.00    LVL         50,00.0oo
1996.20     21    Jnibanka       Konstcnta-SL USD                   20.o000.00   US$  .      108,00000
1996 21     22    Unibanka       SIA Sels fasesanas rupnica          14,000.00   LVL          14,000.00
1996,22     23    Unibanka       Tale Ltd,                           11.00000    LVL          11,000 .0
1996 23     24    Zremes Banke    Kan Komerc                         S0,000.00   LVL          50,000.00
1996.24     25    Unibanka       Kronis Ltd                          186000.00   LVL          16.000.00
1996 25     26    Unibanke       Graeze                              92,250.00   LVL          92,250.00
1996.26     27    Unibanka        BaltPak Ltd.                       80Q99P99    LVL~         8.009999
1996.27     28    Unibanka       BaltPak Ltd.                        40.00g 0    US$          21,600.00
1996 28     29   Unibanka        A Dzinas AC                         25,000.00   LVL          25,000.00
1996.29 |30   Zemes Banka    A'S Kvadrats                    ,      400000.00   US$          216,00- 00
1996.30     31    Unibanka       Daugavpils Maiznieks               100e000.00    LVL        100,000.00
1996.31     32   Unibanka       . uvna Ltd.                           s.eoooo   LVL            5,000.00
1996.32     33    Unibanka       Dru,'as Unguri Ltd.                100,000.00    LVL        100.000,_00
1996 33     34    Unibanks       Kauss Ltd                           35.0o0.00    LVL         35,000.00
1996 34     35   Unibanka        Kuldigas Co-operabve                63,370.00    LVL         63,370.00
1996 35     36   Unibankg        Berzkalni                           10,000.00    LVL         10,000.00
1996 36     37   Unibanka        Neiss Ltd.                         400.000.00   US$         216.000,00
1996 37     38   LIS             inter Source Baltic. SIA         1,90,000.00   US$        1,026,000.00
1996 38     39   Unibanka        Jaunpagasts Ltd.                   300.000.00    US$        162 000.00
1996 39     40   Zemes Banka    A'S Diena                           150,000.00    LVL        150,000.00
1996.40     41   Zemes Banka    SIA Dinaburgs Centrs                100,0.9i  LVL .          1oo.o0 0.o
1996841     42    Unibanka       A'S Saidus Labiba                   60,000.00   LVL          80,000.00
199642      43   Zemes Banka    Transbuvserv.ss                     400,00900   US$          216000 00
1996.43     44    RKB            Latrek                             300.000.00   US$         162.000.00
1996 44     45    RKB            Unifeks                            216,000.00   LVL         216,000.0
1996.45     46    Unibanka       NeIss SIA                          600,000.00   US$         324,000.00
1996.46     47    Unibanka       Daugavpils zirnavnieks           1.000.000.00    LVL      1.000,000.00
1996.47     48    Unibanka       Straume                            500,000.00    LVL        500.000.00
1996.48     49    Unibanka       Latzunds Ltd                        25s000.00   US$          13.500.00
1996.49     50   Unibanka        Dobeles Ozimavnieks              1.009.00000   LVL        1.009.0900.00
1996 50     51    Unibanka       Nelss Ltd                          613,000.00   DEM         202,290.00
1996.51     52   Unibanka                                         4,376,650i24 |  DEM 1s4442948 E
1997.01     53    Unbanka        Kamene Ltd                          27,750.00    LVL         27,750.00
1997.02     54    Unibenka       Agde.d49 00,00    LVL                                       60.00.00
1997.03     55   Unibanka        Konstanta-SL                       300,000.00    US$        162,000.00
1997.04     56    Unibanka       Limbazu Co-operative                45,00000    LVL          45,000.00
1997.05     57    Unibanka       Rigas Kombinptas Lopbanbas r       150,000.00    LVL        150,009.00
1997.06     58    Unibanka       Vydzemes Labiba                     76.444.14   LVL          76,444.14
1997.07     59    Unirbanka      Valmleras Co-Operative              50,000.00   LVL          50O,O.00
1997 12     60    Umbanka        Latinfarm                           93,000.00   LVL          93.000.00
1997 13     61    Unibanka       Taniss                             288,000.00   DEM          95.040.00
1997 14     62    Unibanka       Bauskas piens                       55.000,00   LVL          55,000.00
1997.17     63    Perex          SIA Una                            852,940.00   DEM         281,470.20
1997.18     64    LIB            Amber Furniture                  1,100,000.00   DEM         363,000.00
M1998.01     65   RKB             Arnis Veisbardis .6,120.00   LVL                              6,120.00
M1998.02    66    MLB            . Mortg9ae package                  172,080.00    LVL        172,080.00
M1998.23    67    RKB             Janis Blumbergs                      4,000.00   LVL           4,000.
M1ss8-24    68    Unibanka        Raina Lacberge                       9,000.00   LVL           9,000.00
M1998.25    69    Unibanka        Modra Sorina                         5,500.00    LVL         5S500.00
M1998.26    70    Unbanka         Dace Jansone                         3,000.00   LVL           3,000.00
M1998.27    71    Unibanka        Llgija Pogomirskg                    49000900   LVL           4.000,00
M1998.28    72    Unibanka        Andris Ramans                        4.0.00G    LVL           4,000.00
1999.43     73    MLB            Lielme2otne                         85,727.27   LVL          85,727.27
1998944     74    MLB            Kurande                            169,443.83  LUS$          91,499.67
1998.45     75    MLB            Package No.3                       279,134.31   LVL         279.134.31
1998.46     76   MLB             Package Noe2                       733,3S181|LVL   ,          381.17
1998.48     77    MLB            Package No 1                     1,018.142.41    US$        549,796.90
199849      78   Parex           RTgas Tas ometru parks           1,266.741 90   DEM         418,024.83
1998.50     79   Parex           RTgas Taksom5tru parks             521,469.99    LVL        521,469.99
1998.51     80   MLB             Package No.4                       16S,509.98    LVL        165,509.98
1998 92     81   MLB             Package No 5                        80.387.87   LVL          80,387.87
1998 53     82   BTB             Werhaus                             99.945.77   LVL          99.945.77
1998 54     83   MLB             Package No 6                       264,578 60   US$         142,872.44
199855     64   ..B             Kristbergs                         135,00.00    LVL         136,000.00
199856.85.  par,e.Prd.3660
..... .. . ...........    rd..                             ..      57550          S           903 96
1998657     86    Unibanka       Unilizings                       1,708,770.79    LyL      1,708,770.79
1998668    87   Parex            Gandrs..                           200000.00   LVL          2009000.00
199859      88    MLB            Package Ng.7                       280458.47    US$         151 447.S7      12
199860      89    Parex          Leasing facilities 1             1.112.970 33   US$         601,003.98
1999.01     90   Parex           LSa sing facilities 2              523,557.79   US$         444.721 21
: 1999 e2 a)    91    Parex        Rigas PirmM Garaza               495,600.00    LVL         495,600.00
1999 02 b)    92    Pare-          Rigas Pirmg Garaza              1,400000       US$         756000.00
1999.03     93    Parex          Leasing facilities 3              685,005.78    US$         369.903.12



Annex 4
Completion Report
on assistance to the Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance
Republic of Latvia
Provided jointly through the
World Bank
and
SIDA, Sweden






Confidential
COMPLETION REPORT
on assistance to The Tecnical Unit, Ministry of Finance
Republic of Latvia
being provided jointly through the
World Bank
and
SIDA, Sweden
for the period
December, 1994 to June, 1999 (inclusive)
Swedish Trust Funds TF 020017/021483
Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project, LV 3795/6
Roger Handberg                                                  August 1999
Senior Bank Manager
1






TABLE OF CONTENTS
Pane
1.0   INTRODUCTION & OBJECTIVES ......................................                                                            3
2.0    ANALYSIS OF ACTIVITIES & RESULTS .................................... 4 - 6
3.0    FINANCIAL DATA ......................................                                                                    7 -13
including
Consolidated Balance Sheet for Latvian banks 1994 - 1999 ....................................   7
Projects completed by the Technical Unit .............................................8 - 10
Approved Loans by maturity ............................................                                                11
Approved Loans by Industries ............................................                                              12
Approved Loans by Participating Financial Institutions ..........................................    13
1.0 Introduction
Completion Report - August 1999                                                                                                               2
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia






This final report covers activities for the full period of this project: December 1994 to
June 30, 1999.
The basic objective of the project was to assist, advise and support the Technical Unit,
a separate legal entity within the Ministry of Finance, to administrate it's participation in
the World Bank's Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring Project. The main
component of the project included the Technical Unit's administration and disbursement of
a US$ 35.000.000,- World Bank Loan to the Republic of Latvia, for on-lending to eligible
Latvian Commercial Banks (Participating Financial Institutions, "PFI's") for deployment to
the private sector. This objective may be considered to have been fully achieved as the full
amount has been committed through 5 PFI's, of which $ 31.6 million have been disbursed
to date and the remaining balance will be disbursed during Q3 of 1999. The World Bank
Loan has thus assisted the market with long term funding and in fact the disbursements
made represents close to 10% of the banking systems term lending i.e. with maturities
exceeding one year. In 1994, banks total lending in this category only accounted for 12% of
total loans whereas today the corresponding amount is approx. 60%. Of total disbursements,
61% was for Project Finance purposes with the balance, 39%, for working capital purposes.
37% of disbursements were made in US$, 14% in DM and 49% in Lats (with the Latvian
government assuming the FX risk $ viz. Lat).
The Technical Unit has on average employed 10-12 Latvian staff, trained and
supported by the two Scandinavian advisors.
The objective was also supported by the assistance from the EU Phare (2 projects, one
for technical assistance and one for banking advisory), further assistance from SIDA (for
financial supervision development) and from Swedfund, DATI and the British Know-How
Fund (covering credit and management assistance to three of the largest PFI's).
Based on the project's terms of reference (original and multiple extensions) for the
SIDA financed Swedish Banking Manager Advisor to the Technical Unit, the main
objectives/responsibilities were:
* Advise the Director of the Technical Unit on key strategic, organisational and
operational issues.
*  Select and negotiate Subsidiary Loan Agreements and Side-Agreements with PFI's
*  Close monitoring of the financial and operational performance of approved PFI's
*  Close monitoring of the PFI's on-lending activities to private industry that were funded
from the World Bank Loan
*  Extend financial and management advisory to the Ministry of Finance, PFI's and other
participants in the financial market
* Assist and support Latvian financial institutional building and product development
Completion Report - August 1999                                             3
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



2.0 Analysis ofActivities & Results
The following represents a brief description of some of the activities undertaken by the
project relative to each of the objectives/responsibilities, with an indication of results
achieved:
* Advice the Director of the Technical Unit
* Assisted the Director in establishing the Technical Unit, including hiring of local
staff, establishing office routines and implementing accounting, billing, banking
and financial analysis systems and instigating quarterly reporting routines to the
World Bank, SIDA and DATI
* Educated the Director and the primary assistants in a broad array of banking and
Project Finance work with joint calls on banks, corporate clients and regulatory
entities, including Bank of Latvia
 Arranged and participated (during first year) in the Technical Unit Committee
and participated in all weekly TU staff meetings which included training and
seminars for the local staff
*  Assisted the Director in preparing government proposal for subsequent
participation in EU Phare Catch Up Facility, the integration of IFC, Danish
mortgage and the WB Rural projects into the Technical Unit, thus achieving
economies of scale and maintenance of office structure and experience.
* Select and negotiate Subsidiary Loan Agreements with PFI's
* Educated and held various seminars for PFI candidates in the use, qualification
and process of becoming user of the World Bank Loan
* Conducted full due diligence and passed approval of 7 PFI's (Unibanka,
Investment Bank of Latvia (now Merita-Nordbanken), Zemes Banka (merged
with Hansabank-Latvia), Rigas Komercbanka, Parex Bank, Baltic Transit Bank,
Mortgage & Land Bank). The process of achieving qualification for PFI status
enabled the TU to instigate appropriate changes and amendments to the bank's
development plans
* Reviewed another 10-15 banks for possible PFI status. Most ofthese banks did
not qualify and have since either ceased operations or merged with other banks
* Close Monitoring of PFI's
* Developed and implemented financial analysis system
Completion Report - August 1999                                             4
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



* Developed and implemented PFI monthly financial monitoring system
(numerical) based on Bank of Latvia returns
* Developed and implemented Side-Agreements with each PFI with annual review
of achievements and adherence to specific individual PFI requirements
* Close monitoring of PFI's on-lending
*  Assisted PFI's in developing and implementing financial evaluation methods
and worked closely with them in identifying sound lending opportunities with
due adherence to World Bank Environmental and Procurement Guidelines
*  Passed TU approval of 97 Sub Loans
*  Developed and implemented systems for review of Free and Non-Free Limit
Sub-Loans extended by the PFI's
e  Restructured the World Bank Loan to include availability of working capital
(due to the liquidity squeeze in the banking system in the aftermath of the
banking crisis in 1995/1996) and the subsequent availability for finding of the
fast growing PFI's leasing operations (1998)
-  Assisted Unibanka and Rigas Komercbanka in employing Swedfund and DATI
financed Credit & Management consultants (the Unibanka consultant
subsequently became Chairman of the Board in the bank whereas the Rigas
Komercbanka advisor was retained for 24 months)
* Extendfinancial and management advisory
*  Closely advised and co-operated with the Ministry of Finance and Bank of
Latvia during the banking crisis in 1995/1996 (the banking systems Total Assets
diminished by over 30%)
*  Advised PFI's on multiple banking issues including problem loan handling,
product development, credit, project finance and management issues (this was
on a continuous basis but particularly frequent in the post 1995/1996 banking
crises and in the aftermath of the Russian crisis in 1998)
*  Authored a number of white papers and participated in a number of interviews
on a variety of financial, leasing and banking business, some of which were
publicized in Latvian and Scandinavian press
* Assist institutional building
* Assisted Swedfund International with its equity investments in Unibanka, Zemes
Banka and Rigas Komercbanka totalling approx. US$ 10 million
Completion Report - August 1999                                           5
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



* Initiated review and modernization of the Latvian leasing market and
participated in a NOPEF financed feasibility study (with Den Norske Bank,
DNB) of the Latvian leasing industry (infrastructure, laws and regulations). This
subsequently resulted in the establishment of a local joint venture (Unibanka and
DNB) leasing company, Unlizings, and a Direct Foreign Investment of US$ 3
million from DNB and the subsequent amendment by the Bank of Latvia of it's
regulations to include financial supervision of majority bank-owned leasing
entities. Unilizings subsequently became a borrower under the World Bank Loan
through Unibanka
* In conjunction with above, initiated government action in reviewing the need for
expanding and centralizing financial supervision (currently conducted by the
Bank of Latvia, the Insurance Supervision Authortiy and the Securities Market
Board). Participated in a Cabinet of Ministers appointed Working Group and,
with the assistance of SIDA, arranged a Roundtable discussion in Riga with
participation from, and on-site visits to, the Financial Supervisory Authorities in
the UK, Germany, Sweden and Denmark and the retention of an advisor from
the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority. In June 1998, a cabinet decision in
principle was taken to centralize Financial Supervision under a new government
agency with draft law currently being finalized for presentation to the Parliament
in the autumn of 1999. SIDA and the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority
are expected to continue supporting this development with World Bank
assistance in conjunction with a new Structural Adjustment Loan in 1999.
Completion Report - August 1999                                           6
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



3.0 Financial Data
The Latvian banking system has been affected by several major and minor crises during the
period 1994-1999. The severest blows to the system were encountered in 1) the spring of
1995 when 4 of the 10 largest banks, including the largest bank in the Baltic's at the time,
Banka Baltija, collapsed and in 2) autumn of 1998 when the Russian crisis effected the
value of Latvian bank's portfolio investments in Russian Securities and indirectly through
lending to Russian exposed clients. The first crisis resulted from a combination of poor
lending practices and outright fraud. The second crisis resulted from too excessive
investments by a number of Latvian banks in high yielding Russian and CIS securities,
fueled by a strong growth of deposits, diminishing yields on Latvian Government Bonds
(against at fast drop in inflation). In summary, the banking system's profitable consolidation
period 1995-1997 (Net Earnings of the banking system amounted to Lat. 81 million for the
period) enabled it to bolster the equity position and thus managing to cope with the Russian
crisis in 1998 without widespread systemic impact.
Bank of Latvia has subsequently tightened and restricted its regulations on bank's securities
investments by increasing risk weightings for a number of CIS countries and by introducing
max. investments in any single country as a percentage of Equity.
Condensed Consolidated Financials of Latvian Commercial Banks:
Lat millions                1994   1995   1996   1997   1998 June 1999*
Cash & BoL claims              81    86      97    142    159    143
Claims onFin. Institutions   265    251    381   490    317    357
Gov. Bonds & T-Bills          101   134    194    300    186    72
Loans                         489   249    288    501    732   934
Other Securities                9    11      61    126    118   125
FixedAssets&otherAssets       156   104    116    131    173   134
Total Assets                1.101   835  1.137  1.690  1.685  1.765
Liab. to BoL and Credit Inst.  132    37     89   187    280    275
Deposits                      625   530    685  1.080  1.042  1.041
Other liabilities             146   110    159   158    107    226
Provisions                     71    55      55    46      59      92
Equity                        127   103    149   220    197    131
Total Equity & Liabilities   1.101   835   1.137  1.691  1.685  1.765
* preliminary and un-audited
The number of banks operating in Latvia has been reduced from 62 at the end of 1994 to 26
in June 1999. A further reduction of the number of banks is highly likely due to 1) increased
competition, 2) further direct foreign investments from particularly Sweden, Norway,
France and Germany in the financial sector, 3) adherence to EU min. capital requirements
Completion Report - August 1999                                             7
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



in 2000 (ECU 5 million) and 4) the continued domino effects of the Russian crisis and the
resulting pressure to consolidate and achieve better efficiency.
I              | I Projects acceRted
_  _  __     _ _  .v U               ,__    _  _  _     _  _  _  _  _  _  _  _
Appr. No.         PFI               Amount            Beneficiaiy                Currency
1995.01   1  Unibanka                    29,159.20 SIA Jurgele              LVL
1996.01   2 _ LIB                       265,090.00 SIA AGA                  LVL
1996.02   3 _Zemes Banka                120,000.00 SIA Ingars               LVL
1996.03  4 _ Unibanka                   216,000.00 A/S Rigas Dzirnavnieks   LVL
1996.04   5  Zemes Banka                100,000.00 SIA Lex-U                LVL
1996.05   6  Unibanka                  467,836.39 A/S Rigas dzirnavnieks    LVL
1996.06  7  LIB                        200,000.00 SIA Viator                USD
1996.07  8  Zemes Banka                400,000.00 SIA Udele                 USD
1996.08  9  Unibanka                   200,000.00 SIA Gulbenes Degviela     LVL
1996.09  10 _ Unibanka                   35,000.00 SIA Apgade               LVL
1996.10  11 _ Unibanka                    8,000.00 SIA Rujienas co-operative    LVL
1996.11 12  LIB                         250,000.00 Tukuma Dairy             USD
1996.12  13  Zemes Banka               400,000.00 SIA Augstceltne           USD
1996.13  14 _ Unibanka                  105,900.00 A/S Bolderaja            LVL
1996.14  15  LUnibanka                  25,000.00 SID Autocentrs            LVL
1996.15  16 _ Unibanka                  70,000.00 Lanatex                   LVL
1996.16  17 _Unibanka                    35,000.00 Gamma Ltd.               LVL
1996.17  18  Unibanka                    19,999.94 VIA Ltd.                 LVL
1996.18  19 _ Unibanka                   25,000.00 Salacgriva Ltd.          LVL
1996.19 20  Zemes Banka                  50,000.00 Ulara SIA                LVL
1996.20 21   Unibanka                   200,000.00 Konstanta-SL USD         USD
1996.21 22 _ Unibanka                    14,000.00 SIA Sals fasesanas rupnica   LVL
1996.22 23  Unibanka                     11,000.00 Tale Ltd.                LVL
1996.23 24 _ Zemes Banka                 50,000.00 Kan Komerc               LVL
1996.24 25  Unibanka                     18,000.00 Kronis Ltd.              LVL
1996.25 26   Unibanka                   92,250.00 Grieze                    LVL
1996.26  27  Unibanka                   80,000.00 BaltPak Ltd.              LVL
1996.27 28 _Unibanka                    40,000.00 BaltPak Ltd.              USD
1996.28 29 _Unibanka                     25,000.00 A Dzirnas AC             LVL
1996.29 30j_ Zemes Banka               400,000.00 A/S Kvadrats              USD
1996.30 311  Unibanka                   100,000.00 Daugavpils Maiznieks     LVL
1996.31  32  Unibanka                     5,000.00 Ruvena Ltd.              LVL
1996.32 33  Unibanka                    100,000.00 Druvas Unguri Ltd.       LVL
1996.33 34  Unibanka                    35,000.00 Kauss Ltd.                LVL
1996.34 35  Unibanka                    63,370.00 Kuldigas Co-operative     LVL
1996.35 36  Unibanka                     10,000.00 Berzkalni                LVL
1996.36 371_ Unibanka                  400,000.00 Nelss Ltd.                USD
1996.37 38  LIB                       1,900,000.00 Inter Source Baltic, SIA  USD
1996.38 39  Unibanka                    300,000.00 Jaunpagasts Ltd.         USD
1996.39 40  Zemes Banka                 150,000.00 A/S Diena    _LVL
Completion Report - August 1999                                            8
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



1996.40 41 _ Zemes Banka               100,000.00 SIA Dinaburgas Centrs    LVL
1996.41 42 _ Unibanka                   80,000.00 A/S Saldus Labiba        LVL
1996.42 43  Zemes Banka                400,000.00 Transbuvserviss          USD
1996.43 44  RKB                        300,000.00 Latrek                   USD
1996.44 45 _ RKB                       216,000.00 Unifeks                  LVL
1996.45 46  Unibanka                   600,000.00 Nelss SIA                USD
1996.46 47 _Unibanka                  1,000,000.00 Daugavpils Dzirnavnieks  LVL
1996.47 48  Unibanka                   500,000.00 Straume                  LVL
1996.48 49 _ Unibanka                   25,000.00 Latzunds Ltd.            USD
1996.49 50  Unibanka                  1,009,000.00 Dobeles Dzirnavnieks    LVL
1996.50 51 _ Unibanka                  613,000.00 Nelss Ltd.               DEM
1996.51 52 _Unibanka                 4,376,650.24 Latvijas Finieris        DEM
1997.01  53 _Unibanka                   27,750.00 Kamene Ltd.              LVL
1997.02 54 _Unibanka                    60,000.00 Apgade Ltd.              LVL
1997.03 55  Unibanka                   300,000.00 Konstanta-SL             USD
1997.04 56  Unibanka                    45,000.00 Limbazu Co-operative     LVL
1997.05 57  Unibanka                   150,000.00 Rigas Kombinetas Lopbaribas LVL
___________________________  __________________________   r.
1997.06 58 _ Unibanka                   76,444.14 Vidzemes Labiba          LVL
1997.07 59 _ Unibanka                   50,000.00 Valmieras Co-operative   LVL
1997.08 60  Unibanka                         0.00 Preilu Siers             LVL
1997.09 61 _ Unibanka                        0.00 Rasas                    LVL
1997.10 62  Unibanka                         0.00 Rigas Zile               USD
1997.11  62  Unibanka                        0.00 Rigas Zile               USD
1997.12 64  Unibanka                    93,000.00 Latinfarm                LVL
1997.13 65 _ Unibanka                  288,000.00 Taniss                   DEM
1997.14 66  Unibanka                    55,000.00 Bauskas piens            LVL
1997.15 67  Unibanka                         0.00 Agroserviss              LVL
1997.16 68 _ LIB                             0.00 AGM AGRO Eksports        USD
1997.17 69 _ Parex                     852,940.00 SIA Una                  DEM
1998.18 70 _ LIB                     1,100,000.00 Amber Furniture          DEM
M1998.1     71  RKB                          6,120.00 Arnis Veisbardis         LVL
M1998.2     72 3 MLB                       172,080.00 Mortgage package         LVL
M1998.23    73  RKB                          4,000.00 Janis Blumbergs          LVL
M1998.24    74 _ Unibanka                    9,000.00 Raina Lacberga           LVL
M1998.25    75 _ Unibanka                    5,500.00 Modra Sorina             LVL
M1998.26    76 _ Unibanka                    3,000.00 Dace Jansone             LVL
M1998.27    77 _ Unibanka                    4,000.00 Ligija Pogomirska        LVL
M1998.28    78  Unibanka                     4,000.00 Andris Ramans            LVL
1998.43 79  MLB                         85,727.27 Lielmezotne              LVL
1998.44 80 _ MLB                       169,443.83 Kurlande                 USD
1998.45 81 5 MLB                       279,134.31 Package No.3             LVL
1998.46 82 3 MLB                       733,381.17 Package No.2             LVL
2                                                   .
1998.48 83 2 MLB                      1,018,142.41 Package No.1            USD
1998.49 84 _ Parex                    1,266,741.90 Rigas Taksometru parks  DEM
Completion Report - August 1999                                           9
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



1998.50 84 _ Parex                     521,469.99 Rigas Taksometru parks   LVL
1998.51 85 1 MLB                       165,509.98 Package No.4             LVL
0
1998.52 86 2 MLB                        80,387.87 Package No.5             LVL
1998.53 87  I BTB                       99,945.77 Werhaus                  LVL
1998.54 88 7 MLB                       264,578.60 Package No.6             USD
1998.55 89  BTB                        135,000.00 Kristbergs               LVL
1998.56 90 _ Parex                     537,666.00 Prid                     USD
1998.57 91 8 Unibanka                 1,708,770.79 Unilizings              LVL
0
1998.58 92_ Parex                      200,000.00 Gandrs                   LVL
1998.59 93 5 MLB                       280,458.47 Package No.7             USD
1998.60 94 7 Parex                    1,112,970.33 Leasing facilities 1    USD
1999.01 95 6 Parex                     823,557.79 Leasing facilities 2     USD
1999.2 96 _ Parex                     495,600.00 Rigas Pirmi Garaza       LVL
1999.2 96  Parex                     1,400,000.00 Rigas Pirmr  Garaza     USD
1999.3 97 7 Parex                     685,005.78 Leasing facilities 3     USD
_ _                    0   31,604,582.17 _USD
Completion Report - August 1999                                          10
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



Loan maturity
(USD)
O - 2 years (incl.)    14,666,541   39.20
2 - 5 years      16,710,310      44.66
More than 5       6,039,546       16.14
ears
100.00
Total amount includes usage of re-flows.
Approved loans by maturity
More than 5 years
16%
0 -2 years (inc.)
39%
2-5years
45%
Completion Report - August 1999                                                       11
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



Loans by type of business (USD)
Manufacturing           5,600,787  14.97%
Wood processing          5,644,542  15.09%
Food industry           7,752,834  20.72%
Construction            3,224,220  8.62%
Agriculture              3,077,112  8.22%
Mortgage                  384,630  1.03%
Leasing                 5,785,924  15.46%
Wholesale/retail         3,140,150  8.39%
Services/printing        2,806,198  7.50%
- 1                    - _     5 100.00%
Approved loans by type of business
13QWhOlesagre[p1ces1prining    0 Manufacturing
8%      8%                    15%
r3 Leasing                             M Wood processing
0 Mortgage
V3Agp4ultr                     E Food inditstry
8% g Construction              21d
Completion Report - August 1999                                                       12
SIDA/World Bank - Technical Unit, Ministry of Finance, Riga, Latvia



Approved
LIB                            1,897,090
Parex Banka                   4,378,533
RKB                             388,120
Unibanka                       9,419,705
BTB                             234,946
MLB                           2,451,837
Zemes Banka                    1,434,000
TOTAL                        20,204,231
Structure of approved loans by PF's as of June 30,,1999
Zemes Banka                  LIB
7%                        90/0
BTB      12%         __.
.............                                                        Parex  Banka
..s_._                                                                22%
RKB
2%
Unibanka
47%
13



