Page  1
March 17, 1997
His Excellency
Robert Zile
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
1 Smilsu Street
Riga, LV1919
Latvia
Re:
Swedish Grant for Enterprise and Financial Sector Restructuring 
Project
Grant No. TF021483                                                                                  
Excellency:
I am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and 
Development (the Bank) to indicate the Bank’s agreement, as administrator of grant 
funds provided by Swedish International Development Agency (SIDA) to make a grant in 
an amount not exceeding one million two hundred thousand Swedish Kronor (SEK 
1,200,000) (the Grant) to the Republic of Latvia (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient’s request for financial 
assistance and to supplement an existing grant made by SIDA for the same Project which 
was passed-on by the Bank to the Recipient under the Swedish Grant Agreement (the 
Previous Agreement) dated January 6, 1995.  The Grant is made for the purposes and on 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement. The 
Recipient further represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the 
purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in said Annex.
Please confirm your agreement to foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement. Upon 
receipt by the Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this 
Letter Agreement will become effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Basil G. Kavalsky
Director
Country Department IV
Europe and Central Asia Region
AGREED:
REPUBLIC OF LATVIA
By /s/ Andris Skele
Prime Minister Acting as Minister of Finance
Date: April 8, 1997
ANNEX
A.
Description of the Activities to be financed from the Grant
The objective of the technical assistance Activities (the Activities) for the 
implementation of which the Grant is given are as described in Schedule 2 to the 
Previous Agreement.
B.
Terms and Condition for the Carrying out of the Activities
1.
Implementation Generally
Page  2
1.1.
The Activities shall be carried out by the Recipient with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial banking and administrative 
practice.
2.
Procurement
2.1.
Consultants’ services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Grant shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines 
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing 
Agency", published by the Bank in August 1981  (the Consultant Guidelines).  For 
complex, time-based assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form of 
contract for consultants’ services issued by the Bank, with such modifications thereto 
as shall have been agreed by the Bank.  Where no relevant standard contract documents 
have been issued by the Bank, other standard forms acceptable to the Bank shall be 
used.
3.
Withdrawal of Grant Proceeds
3.1.
The amount of the Grant allocated to finance the Activities referred to in 
paragraph 1 of this Attachment shall be credited to an account opened by the Bank on 
its books in the name of the Recipient (the Grant Account), and may be withdrawn 
therefrom by the Recipient for expenditures in respect of 100% of the reasonable cost 
of consultants’ services required under the Activities.
3.2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3.1 above no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of payments for any taxes levied by or in the territory of the 
Recipient; (b) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country which is 
not a member of the Bank or for services supplied from such territories; (c) for the 
purpose of any payment to persons or entities if such payment, to the Bank’s 
knowledge, is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken 
under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; or (d) after July 1, 1998 or 
such later date as the Bank shall establish by written notice to the Recipient (the 
Closing Date), except that withdrawals may be made for expenditures incurred prior to 
the Closing Date and received by the Bank within four months after the Closing Date, 
after which time any amount of the Grant remaining unwithdrawn from the Grant Account 
shall be cancelled.
3.3.
When the Recipient shall desire to withdraw any amount from the Grant Account, 
it shall deliver to the Bank a written application for withdrawal of such amount in 
the form specified by the Bank.  Withdrawal applications shall be: (a) signed on 
behalf of the Recipient by authorized official of the Council; and (b) be accompanied 
by such evidence in support of the application as the Bank shall reasonably request.  
Authenticated specimen signatures of the person authorized to sign withdrawal 
applications shall be provided with the first application bearing his or her 
signature.  Each withdrawal application for an amount of the Grant and its supporting 
evidence must be sufficient in form and substance to satisfy the Bank that the 
Recipient is entitled to withdraw such amount from the Grant Account and that such 
amount is to be used in the carrying out of the Activities.  The Bank shall pay the 
amounts withdrawn by the Recipient from the Grant Account only to or on the order of 
the Recipient.
3.4.
The Recipient hereby confirms, unless may otherwise be subsequently indicated in 
writing by the Recipient, that officials authorized for purposes of withdrawal under 
the Previous Agreement are hereby designated as the Recipient’s authorized officials 
for purposes of withdrawal of the Grant.
3.5.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Grant Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) services of consulting firms 
costing less than $100,000 equivalent; and (b) services of individual consultants 
costing less than $50,000 equivalent.
3.6.
Withdrawals of the proceeds of the Grant shall be made in the currency of the 
Grant.  The Bank, at the Recipient’s request and acting as an agent of the Recipient, 
shall purchase with the currency of the Grant withdrawn from the Grant Account such 
currencies as shall be required to pay for expenditures to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant.  Whenever it shall be necessary, for the purposes of this 
Letter Agreement, to determine the value of one currency in terms of another, such 
value shall be as reasonably determined by the Bank.
3.7.
To facilitate the carrying out of the Activities, the Recipient may open and 
maintain in dollars a special deposit account (the Special Account) in a commercial 
bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including appropriate 
Page  3
protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits into, and payments out 
of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of the 
schedule attached hereto.
4.
Accounts and Audits
4.1.
(a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and accounts 
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the operations, 
resources and expenditures in respect of the Activities of the departments or agencies 
of the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Activities or any part thereof.
(b) The Recipient shall: (i) have the records and accounts referred to in 
subparagraph (a) above and the records and accounts for the Special Account for each 
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Bank; (ii) furnish to the Bank as 
soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after the end of each 
such year, the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the Bank shall have reasonably requested; and (iii) furnish to the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time reasonably request.
(c) For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Grant 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall: (i) 
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with subparagraph (a) above, records 
and accounts reflecting such expenditures; (ii) retain, until at least one year after 
the Bank has received the audit report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, 
bills, receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures; (iii) enable the 
Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and (iv) ensure that such records and 
accounts are included in the annual audit referred to in subparagraph (b) above and 
that the report of such audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together with 
the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon 
to support the related withdrawals.
5.
Suspension and Cancellation
5.1.
The Bank may at any time, by notice to the Recipient, suspend the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account if any of the following 
events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to comply with any 
of its obligations herein specified; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other 
entity to which the Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make 
withdrawals under any loan agreement with the Bank shall have been suspended.
5.2.
The Bank may, by written notice to the Recipient, terminate the right of the 
Recipient to make further withdrawals from the Grant Account: (a) at any time after 
the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the Grant Account shall have been 
suspended pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5.1 above; or (b) if the Recipient 
shall have failed to take action, satisfactory to the Bank, within six months after 
the effective date hereof, to carry out the Activities.
SCHEDULE
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of services required for the Activities and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Grant; and
(b)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $50,000 to 
be withdrawn from the Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 3 (a) of this Attachment.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
Page  4
(a)
The Recipient shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a 
deposit into the Special Account of an amount or amounts which do not exceed the 
aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts out of the proceeds of the 
Grant as the Recipient shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account 
at such intervals as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which replenishment is requested.  On the 
basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Recipient, withdraw from the Grant Account and deposit into the 
Special Account such amount as the Recipient shall have requested 
and as shall have been shown by said documents and other evidence 
to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the Grant Account in the respective equivalent amounts, as 
shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient 
shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule the Bank shall 
not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Recipient directly from the Grant;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the 
period of time specified in paragraph 4.1 (b) (ii) of Attachment 2 to the Annex to 
this Letter Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the 
Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its 
intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make 
withdrawals from the Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of paragraph 5.1 of 
Attachment 2 to this Annex to this Letter Agreement; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Grant shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawals from the Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of 
the Grant shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the 
Recipient.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that 
the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the 
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for 
eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished 
to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such 
additional evidence as the Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account 
(or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount 
of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible or justified.  Unless the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall 
be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, 
as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  5
