Report No. 394a-BT                                                                     FILE I(                       |i
Appraisal of
Botswana Development Corporation
(BDC)
June 6, 1974
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
Document of the international Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use oriy by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



EQUIVALETS
Currency
1 Rand   =    us$1.49
1 US$          o.67 Rand



Report No. 394a-BT
Appraisal of
Botswana Development Corporation
(BDC)
June 6, 1974
Development Finance Companies Department
Not for Public Use
he ubshe4   t-j 4d t                   -I  -



IQUIVALENTS
Curreacy
1 Rand          us$1.49
1 US$     =     0.67 Rand



APPRAISAL
OF
THE BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Table of Contents
Page No.
BASIC DATA
SUMMARY ........ ..  **................. i
I.   INTRODUCTION .....................................   1
II. ENVIRONMENT ........................................   t
The EcOnomy . . . ............ . . . . . . . . . . . .. . ..... . ..   1
Customs Union Agreement .. ........ .....  .. ...... .. 6...*  2
Mining Developments ... ......................       .    2
The Manufacturing Sector    . ............................  3
Government's Industrial Policy ........................    3
The Botswana Enterprises Development Program .....         4
Financial Environment ......       ............. * .  5
III. THE COMPANY          ................      ............   5
Memorandum and Articles of Association ....... .........  6
Share Capital .........................................   7
Policy  Statement   ........ .   ... ........  *.,. .........  7
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk .............      8
Board of Directors ....................... .........       8
Organization, and Staff ....... ........... ........   9
Operating Procedures ..........................  10
IV.  OPERATIONS AND FINANCE .        .... . ..     .     .     10
Past Operations .............. . .......... . ... ...  10
Portfolio   ..................  0 ...........             13
Profitability ... ... . .........,....   14
Financial Position .... .... .... . ..... .... ...... 14
V.   PROSPECTS   .................                 ...... 15
Operational Forecasts .................................  15
Resource Requirements    ....... ............. . *     .  17
Financial Projections ....... .......                     17
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS       ,     .             18
This report was prepared by Mr. Philippe Nouvel on the basis of his
mission to Botswana in October 1973.



LIST OF ANNEX
Annex
The Customs Agreement                                1
Proposed Policy Statement                            2
Board of Directors                                    3
Organization Chart                                   4
Projects ready to be Implemented or
under Consideration                                5
Investment Portfolio as of June 30,1973              6
Income Stateents: 1971 -1972-1973                    7
Balance Sheets:   1971-1972-1973                     8
Consolidated Income Statements: 1971-1972-1973       9
Consolidated Balance Sheets: 1971-1972-1973         10
Assumptions for Financial Projections :1973-1978   11
Projected Income Statements: 1973-1978              12
projected Balance Sheets: 1973-1978                  13
Projected Uses and Resources: 1973-1978              14
Financial Ratios: 1971-1978                         15
Estimated Disbursement schedule: 1974-1976          16



Basic Data
on
Botswana Development Corporation (ItBDc"')
Year of Establishment:        1970
Ownership (as of March 1974)
(par value of shares = R1)
Issued
and
Share capital (in Rands):                Authorized     Paid-in
ordinary shares                       2,100,000       1,945,462
8% cumulative preference shares         300 3000
All shares are owned by the Botswana Government.
Historical Operational Data (ROOO as of June 30):
1971      1972    1973        3-31-1974
Loan and Equity Portfolio                71        76    1,762         2,352
Total assets                           838      1,316    2,729         6,051
Equity                                 505      1,143    2,484         2,908
Net profit                             464        384      525           422
Net profit/average networth %            82        45        29           11
Interest Rates:
8-10%; most loans are extended at 9%.
No commitment f'ee






SUMMARY
i.        The Botswana Development Corporation (BDC) was established in April
1970 as a Government-owned company to act mainly as a promoter, identifying
investment opportunities in the industrial and tourism sectors, and associat-
ing with experienced foreign partners for the implementation of projects. It
is the principal vehicle through which Botswana is taking a stake in new
industrial and commercial undertakings in the country. In 1972 it also took
charge of the commercial development of the new town of Selebi-Pikwe at the
request of the Government.
ii.       During its first three years of activity, BDC has developed a com-
petent professional staff, almost totally expatriate; prospects for nation-
alization of staff are limited, due to an actual and projected shortage of
Botswana university graduates. BDC has developed a strong equity base,
through revenues originating from the sugar import trade which was granted to
BDC by the Government.
iii.      Due to Botswana's small market, prospects for BDC's operations in
the industrial sector are not numerous. However, BDC has identified invest-
ment opportunities for several projects that it is actively promoting. BDC
also became deeply involved in tourism development, with the Government
passing to BDC its assets in this sector. Given the lack of local entrepren-
eurs, BDC, unlike most DFCs, has had to undertake a basic promotional role
and has developed many of its operations through subsidiaries, for which it
endeavors to find experienced external management.
iv.       BDC's current small portfoolio of R 2.3 million (March 31, 1974) is
scattered among a number of companies which it has set up alone or with exper-
ienced partners. BDC's operations should increase substantially in the next
five years, as a consequence of its investments in tourism and industry and
of its involvement in the commercial property development in Selebi-Pikwe.
During FY75 and FY76 BDC's investments should total R 5.5 million, of vh'ch
R 1.6 million would be for commercial property development. A Bank loan of $4
million would meet a substantial part of BDC's foreign resource requirements
through FY76; it is proposed that up to $80O,000 may be used to finance the
foreign exchange component of BDC's investments in the commercial development
of Selebi-Pikwe. The balance would essentially be used for industrial and
tourism projects.
v.        The terms of the proposed loan should be those normally applied
to development finance companies. Since BDC is a young institution, it is
recommended that BDC be granted concessional treatment on commitment charges.
A free limit of $75,000 is recommended, with an aggregate limite of $800,000.
It is proposed that BDC's disbursements on account of loans or investments
approved after Februaryl, 1974 be eligible for Bank reimbursement subject
to their being consistent with the terms of the loan, and to the Bank's prior
approval of related projects: it is recommended that such retroactive finan-
cing be limited to $300,000 (see para. 5.05).






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Botswana Development Corporation (BDC), a Government-owned
company, was established in April 1970 following a feasibility study under-
taken by British consultants for the Government of Botswana. An exploratory
mission which visited BDC briefly in March 1973 concluded that BDC was like-
ly to meet the Bank's requirements for lending to DFCs, and the Government
sent an application for Bank assistance in July 1973.
1.02      An appraisal mission visited BDC during October 1973.  This report
reviews BDC's performance and outlook and recommends a Bank loan of $4
million.
II. ENVIRONMENT
The Economy
2.01      The economv of Botswana is described in "Memorandum on Recent
Economic Development and Prospects of Botswana" (AE-18, June 16, 1971). A
special Bank mission to review creditworthiness issues visited Botswana in
February 1974 and a basic economic mission began work in the country in May.
What follows is brief description of the environment in which BDC works.
2.02      Botswana, which became independent in 1966, is a land-locked coun-
try in southern Africa slightly larger than France with a resident popula-
tion of 640,000, increasing at an estimated rate of 2% per year. The climate
is arid with annual rainfall varying from 12 to 25 inches. Botswana's popula-
tion has been deriving its livelihood mainly from raising cattle for which
climate, vegetation and soils are particularly well-suited. The population
is unevenly distributed and about 75% live in the eastern 10% of the country
near the North-South road and the parallel railway line.
2.03      Botswana has long depended on annual grants from the United King-
dome to balance its recurrent budget. The need for such grants ceased in
FY73 as a result of (1) the signing in December 1969 of a new Customs Agree-
ment with South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland (see para. 2.05), (ii) the
emergency of an important mining industry in the country (see para. 2.06),
and (iii) the substantial expansion of livestock production and meat exports.
The average GlqP per capita grew from $110 in FY68 to about $300 in FY74 -
about 20 percent a year.
2.04      Botswana has had development plans since before independence.  The
most recent plan covers the period FY74 to FY78. Its main objective will be
to achieve over the five-year period an 18% p.a. real rate of growth through
(a) returns from intensive investments in mining and other industries main-
ly aimed at export markets, and (b) reinvesting the revenue from these invest-
ments in education and training, promoting of agriculture and manufacturing



-2-
activities and improvement of services in rural areas. Government revenues
would substantially increase, enabling the Government to set aside over the
next five years $200 million of domestically-generated funds to meet the
capital costs of the development program. The most serious bottleneck to
this ambitious development plan remains the shortage of educated and exper-
ienced Botswana; the country during the next five years will remain crtically
dependent on foreign technical assistance.
Customs Union Agreement
2.05      Botswana is joined to Lesotho, Swaziland and South Africa in a
Customs Union Agreement which provides for free circulation of goods between
the member countries. Under the previous Customs Agreement of 1910, Botswana
received a fixed percentage (0.31%) of the Custom's Area customs and excise
revenues. A new agreement signed in 1969 provides that South Africa compensate
Botswana for revenues collected on its behalf according to a formula based
mainly on the size of Botswana's imports. The total income to Botswana from
the common revenue pool is equivalent to about 20% of the country's imports
valued at their border price (which includes transportation charges to the
border and eventually duties paid in Southern Africa), regardless of their
origin, and is paid to Botswana with a time-lag of two years. The formula for
sharing revenues is favorable to Botswana in that its share of revenues is
based on 142% of Botswana's actual imports. At the same time, however, this
specific arrangement discourages Botswana from implementing import substitu-
tion projects because of the negative effect any such project would have on
Government revenues. An exception to this, because of the nature of the
sharing formula, is for projects producing goods which-pay excise taxes,
such as beverages. The revenue-sharing formula is shown at Annex 1. This
arrangement resulted in a considerable increase in the revenue from customs
and excise duties from $ 1.4 million in FY69 to $25 million in FY73.
Mining Developments
2.06      Intensive mineral prospecting during the last decade brought a
number of important discoveries which are now leading to the large-scale
development of a mining industry. Production of diamonds by de Beers start-
ed at Orapa in 1971, and production of copper and nickel at Selebi-Pikwe by
a company sponsored by American Metal Climax (AMAX) and Anglo-American
Corporation began recently. The World Bank provided $40 million to finance
the infrastructure facilities of the Selebi-Pikwe mine. In both cases, the
Government has received a 15% equity participation in the mining company.
As a result of this development, the mineral exports have increased from nil
in FY65 to an estimated $150 million in FY75 and are projected to exceed
$450 million in FY85. Botswana also benefited by receiving revenues on goods
imported for these projects under the Customs Union Agreement.



-3-
The Manufacturing Sector
2e07      The only modern large-scale enterprise in the manufacturing sector
is the Government-owned Botswana Meat Commission (BMC) which operates a large
meat packing plant in Lobatse and employs 1,200 persons; the contribution of
the manufacturing sector of GDP was 8.8% in FY72, i.e. R 7.7 million (of
which R 6.2 million for BMC). Another indication of the infancy of this
sector is the very small number of enterprises (28) employing over nine
workers that are registered under the Industrial Licensing Act. Total
employment in the manufacturing sector (excluding the Botswana Meat Com-
mission) was about 1,500 persons in 1972.
2.08      A small local market, the lack of entrepreneurial initiative and
of skilled manpower, an unfavorable communications system and competition
from South Africa are indeed obstacles to rapid development of manufacturing
in Botswana, although it is imperative that those opportunities that do exist
be exploited to help in diversifying the economy. It is expected that the
rapid development of the mining industry and revenues derived from it will
result in an increased demand for consumer goods. There is also scope for
the creation of industries linked to mineral production, such as a jewellery
industry for the production of industrial abrasives and semi-precious gemstones,
or chemical industries based on the brine deposits in the Makarikari region.
The United Nations Industrial Development Organization has been asked to assist
in planning for a group of industries to use known resources of clay, gypsum,
limestone and silicacious earths. The agricultural sector also offers some
opportunities for investments, particularly to process the by-products of the
meat industry. The Development Plan's target of a 20% p.a. growth rate in
manufacturing is not unreasonable, given the very low level of manufacturing
output at present. BDC has carefully explored some investment opportunities
which is prepared to exploit, acting as promoter and associating with exper-
ienced foreign partners. Under the Customs Union Agreement, Botswana. may,
after consultation with the other parties, grant protection to infant i-Tdus-
tries, through levying additional duties, for a maximum period of eight years.
Given this envirorment private investment in the man faec -ring seetcr i
anticipated to amount to R 12 million over the period 1973-78.
2.09      The tourism sector will also offer some investment opporturitifees;
the annual number of foreign visitors is expected to increase from an, estimated
57,000 at present to 100,000 in 1977. The northern and north-eastern part
of the country have substantial attractions (game viewing, fishing, hunting),
which could lead to several tourism developments. There is also an acute
shortage of good accommodation in the south-eastern part of the country.
BDC has recently sponsored a feasibility study on tourism possibilities and
the Government is also planning to set up a development scheme for tourism.
Five-hundred additional beds are presently planned for the period 1973-78,
for a total investment cost of R 3.5 million.
Government's Industrial Policy
2.10      The development of industry is given high priority by the Government
as a means of creating employment. The Government has made considerable



- 4 -
efforts in creating the necessary infrastructure, establishing the requisite
institutional framework and providing incentives to attract and induce invest-
ments. Given the lack of domestic enterpreneurs, the Goverment created BDC
in 1970 to identify and promote productive enterprises and to locate
foreign investors interested in establishing joint ventures with BDC.
Botswana is a signatory to the International Convention on the Settlement
of Investment Disputes (ICSID).  It has entered into an investment guarantee
agreement with the U.S., and is currently negotiating similar agreements with
other countries. While Government has generally welcomed foreign investment
in productive enterprises, it wants to minimize foreign ownership of trade,
real estate, and agricultural land. One means by which Government hopes to
encourage private investment is by setting aside land for industrial use. One
hundred and thirty-four hectares are to be provided during the uext Plan in
Gaborone, Lobatse, Francistown and Selebi-Pikwe. Government also provides
tax incentives to prospective investors. The normal rate of corporate tax is
30%, the lowest in Southern Africa. Repatriation of profits is not subject
to any restrictions, after payment of a 15% tax on dividends paid to non-
residents. Under the Income Tax Act of 1973, the cost of plant and machinery
may be written off immediately and tax losses carried forward. Besides, in
the case of new hotel and industrial businesses, 25% of the costs of equip-
ment, and 15% of the buildings costs are tax-deductible. In addition, 125%
of local citizens' training costs may be deducted from taxable income. These
provisions are essentially automatic under the law. Additional tax incentives
may also be granted selectively under Development Approval Orders for projects
whatever their szope, providing substantial employment or participation of
citzens. In practice, this is rare. Howaver, im  thre ra-fe of industrial or
commarclial projects considered of great lmportarce Ito the economic development
of Botswana, the Government may also draw up a special tax agreement as was
done for the Selebi-Pikwe mining venture.   All these measures seem to be
sensible given the special conditions existing in Botswana. Nevertheless,
there is now need to formulate a more precise strategy for industrial develop-
ment and the Bank's economic mission will endeavor to provide guidance for
this area. One result of Bank assistance to BDC will be a substantial up-
grading of how BDC examines projects in terms of economic cost benefit
analysis,
RhBotswana Enter rie
2.t"?.    To provide assistance for the development of enterprises owned and
managed by local entrepreneurs in the commercial and industrial sectors, the
Government has created the "Botswana Enterprises Development Unit" (BEDU)
with in the Ministry of Commerce and Industry.  The unit will have a staff of
aine expatriate experts, plus volunteers from the Peace Corps and other
orgarizations, who will train local counterparts to assist Botswana enter-
prises. Tghe Un-it is under the directiotn of the Commissioner for Inidustry
who was appointed in 1972 after establishing a similar project in Swaziland.
During the first two years the program will concentrate on the creation of
enterprises in the fields of building and construction, ready-made clothing,
wood and metal working, and processing of semi-precious stones. The initial
phase of the program will be financed through SIDA and UNDP grants (totalling
about $1 million). Most of the funds will be to provide technical assistance



-5-
but, under the SIDA agreement, about $250,000 has been allocated for three
small industrial estates, and $110,000 put aside for loans to Botswana enter-
prises. It is expected that the National Development Bank (see para. 2.14)
will make loans to the enterprises assisted.
Financial Environment
2.12      Botswana, together with Swaziland, Lesotho and South Africa, is a
member country of the Rand currency area. It thus has no Central Bank of its
own. Under this arrangement, Botswana benefits from belonging to a strong
currency area. Balance of payments disequilibria are automatically eliminated
through contraction or expansion of the money supply. However, Botswana is
dependent on monetary and credit policies over which it has very limited con-
trol.
2.13      There are two commercial banks operating in Botswana:  Barclays
Bank and Standard Bank, both with headquarters in London.  They maintain
ten branches in Botswana and thirty other agencies, mainly mobile units.
Deposits with the commercial banks increased from R 13 million in 1969 to
R 22 million in 1972, whereas advances only increased from R 7 million to
R 13 million during the same period, which seems to indicate that part of
those funds are sent outside Botswana. Considering the integration of
Botswana into the Rand currency area and the current absence of national
banking legislation, a control of these funds is difficult. Since, in addi-
tion, most of them are short-term funds - in particular the accounts of
the mining companies - these funds cannot be used to finance a substantial
amount of long-term investments. BDC, however, intends to raise in the
future some local resources from these banks through an association with
them in a financial company (see para. 4.06).
2.14      The National Development Bank (NDB) was established in May 1964,
mainly to lend for the development of agriculture, livestock and housing.
Between its inception and the end of 1972, NDB granted approximately 3)000
individual loans.  The amount outstanding at end 1972 was R1.3 millioI.  Its
role will expand during the next Plan period, since it will administer orn
behalf of the Government the loans to farmers to be made under the IDA-SIDA
Livestock Development Project (No. PA-1Ola), and since the Government's
policy of rural development envisages the injection of increased amouats of
credit into the agricultural sector. Finally, NDB will be used as a vehicle
for financial assistance directed to Botswana entrepreneurs under the BEDU
program.  NDB will have adequate resources to fund this program. NDB had
in 1968 and 1969, before the establishment of BDC, granted loans totalling
R250,000 to small business entrepreneurs in commerce and industry, but has
focussed on lending related to agriculture and housing since BDCs creation.
The respective roles of NDB and BDC are de facto clearly defined; there
might be some overlap in the future when the BEDU program develops butt. cons4-
dering the excellent relations between the two publicly-owned institut-ions,
this is not viewed as a problem.  NDB has mainly received its resources from
the Government and from the United Kingdom. Loans are made at 8% for a
maximum of 10 years.



- 6 -
2.15      The structure of interest rates in Botswana is naturally dependent
to a great extent on the structure in South Africa where the Central Bank
discount rate is presently 6.5% and the commercial banks' prime rate is 8%.
Interest paid on deposits is a maximum of 8% for one year deposits. In
Botswana lending rates by commercial banks range between 9% and 11%, depending
on the size and duration of the loan, and the creditworthiness of the
applicant. Most loans are extended to cattlemen, on a fluctuating overdraft
basis, at 10%. BDC's interest rate for most of its loans has been 9%O until
now. Assurances have been given to the Bank that in the future DBC's normal
interest rate would be 10%, which is compatible with prevailing market rates
(see para. 3.05).
III. THE COMPANY
3.01      Following the recommendations of a feasibility study undertaken
in 1969 for the Government of Botswana by British consultants and financed
by British aid, the Botswana Development Corporation Limited (BDC) was in-
corporated on April 15, 1970, as a wholly Government-owned limited liability
company, with the general objective to "promote and facilitate the economic
development of Botswana, to identify opportunities for development of
new and existing industrial, commercial and agricultural business under-
takings" and to establish and provide such undertakings with appropriate
assistance including financial and managerial support. BDC differs from many
other DFCs in that, given its environment, it by necessity performs a basic
entrepreneurial role in conceiving and developing projects. It is the
principal instrument of the Government for accelerating the development of
commercial business enterprises in a variety of sectors.
Memorandum and Articles of Association
3.02      BDC's Memorandum of Association does not define any definite limit
to its field of activity and operations; it is stated that BDC "shall
conduct its business affairs upon a commercial basis, and in a prompt, ef-
ficient and economic manner. It shall exercise special care and give due
regard to the economic and commercial merits of any undertaking it promotes,
assists, finances or manages, so that, taking one year with another, it shall
riot be allowed to operate at a loss; however, though each such undertaking
shoud. be evaluated strictly on its merits, nevertheless such evaluation should
include consideration of the overall, long-term economic interests and bene-
fits to Botswana." The Articles of Association specify that the Corporation
is nanaged by a Board of seven to twelve Directors including the Chairman
and the Managing Director, all nominated by the Government.  The Board may
delegate any of its power to committees consisting of Directors, or to the
Managing Director.



-7-
Share Capital
3.03      The Government contributed mainly to BDC's initial resources by
entrusting to it the sugar import trade into Botswana (see para. 4.11); re-
venue before taxation originating from this trade amounted to about R 2 mil-
lion between BDC's establishment and June 1973, and allowed BDC to develop
an equity base which now totals nearly R 2.9 million. BDC's initial authorized
share capital of R 1 million was raised to R 2.4 million in February 1973.
The amount issued - R 1,945,462 in ordinary shares all belonging to the Gov-
ernment - corresponds to subscription in cash (R 281,365), transfer to Gov-
ernment assets mainly in tourism (R 820,002) and incorporation of reserves
obtained previously from sugar revenues (R 844,095).
Policy Statement
3.04      In April 1972, BDC's Board adopted a policy statement which speci-
fied a few limits to BDC's involvement. Basic features are that BDC will not
normally:
-    invest more than 15% of its net worth in any
single project;
-    invest more funds in any one project than the
total of funds invested by the other ordinary
shareholders.
The mission discussed the usefulness of a fuller statement of policy with
the Managing Director; BDC has now agreed that, prior to Loan Signing it will
adopt a modified, enlarged Policy Statement (see Annex 2) which provides
for specific limits to BDC's commitments but takes into account BDC's parti-
cular role and major involvement in the promotion of enterprises and itn
property development on behalf of the Government (see para. 4.04). The salient
new provisions are:
(i) BDC will not normally invest more than 25% of its net
worth in the form of loans or share capital in any one
project, and will not, except in the case of subsidiary
companies, finance more than 50% of the project's
capital cost;
(ii) BDC will not normally manage enterprises; although
it will take special care to ensure sound management
arrangements for the projects it finances;
(iii) BDC's aggregate equity investments will not exceed
its net worth;
(iv) BDC shall protect itself against foreign exchange
risk and charge lending rates compatible with the
market rates, enabling it to earn a reasonable
return.



-8-
Interest Rate and Foreign Exchange Risk
3.05      To date, BDC has charged 9% interest on most of its loans.  In
accordance with its proposed Policy Statement, BDC has agreed to raise its
normal lending rate to 10%, which is in line with the current cost of commer-
cial funds in the country. On the Bank loan, assurances have been given
that sub-borrowers will normally assume the foreign exchange risk, except for
small loans (below $75,000) which are typically made to small businessmen
who may be reluctant to deal in foreign exchange. In such cases, the
Government has indicated its intention to cover the exchange risk (and
benefit from any exchange gains). This does not represent a significant
concessional element in the arrangement given the strength of the Rand. The
only exception to these principles is that BDC has established a fund, limited
to 10% of its net worth, from which it can make loans on softer terms for
projects of economic importance, but which cannot service BDC's conventional
terms.
Board of Directors
3.06      The BDC's Board comprises eleven members (see Annex 3), all selected
by the Government and nominated by the Ministry of Finance and Development
Planning. Six are Government officials representing the Ministries of Fi-
nance and Development Planning (the Permanent Secretary of which is BDC's
chairman), Commerce and Industry, Agriculture, Local Government and Lands,
and the Office of the President. The remaining five directors include two
farmers, a South African merchant barnker, a South African businessman who
9arLi.i ated in 1969 in the feasibility study which led to the creation of
BDC, and the Managing Director of BDC, who is a U.S. citizen. Since the
arrival of the current Managing Director in 1972, the Board has delegated
all its operational responsibilities to an Executive Committee of four
directors comprising BDC's Chairman, its Managing Director, the representa-
tive of the Ministry of Commerce and Industry, and the South African merchant
banker. The Executive Committee is empowered to take any decision related
to BDC's operations and management but has to report to the Board. It met
about every two months in 1972 and 1973, whereas the Board met four times
in 1972 and three times in 1973. Both Board and Executive Committee are
active bodies and both seem to be working well.
3,07      Since 1972 BDC's Managing Director has been Mr. R. Stephens, a 37-
year old American.  He has held senior positions with an American corporation
and  ith a venture capital firm.  An able manager, Mr. Stephens has been very
successful in recruiting young and qualified staff, developing the institu-
tlon, and gaining the confidence of Botswana authorities. He was recruited
earl,- in 1972 for a two-year period and agreed recently to stay with BDC for
another two years. His responsibilities are to carry out BDC's day-to-day
operations, to prepare the annual budget and keep the Board informed of
project developments; he is empowered to take decisions on projects in which
BDC invests up to R 20,000 and is responsible for all personnel matters.



-9-.
Organization and Staff
3.08      As of March 1974, BDC's staff totalled 35 of whom 11 were pro-
fessionals, including three young Botswana university graduates. There are
nine expatriate professionals who are mainly young British and Americarn gra-
duates of economics who came to Botswana as Overseas Development Institute
Fellows or Peace Corps volunteers and then joined BDC on a 2 - to 3-year
contract basis. They are highly dedicated and motivated by their interest
in working with BDC rather than by salaries which are low, averaging $8,000
The senior investment officer, who had 5 years' experience with Chase Man-
hattan Bank, leads this team with efficiency. Most professionals were
recruited in 1972 when Mr. Stephens joined BDC; although they are young and
with little experience their performance is impressive.
3.09      BDC plans to localize its staff by 1982; however, in view of the
shortage of Botswana university graduates and of the demand for them, par-
ticularly in the administrative field where most technical positions are at
present held by expatriate advisors, it will be difficult. BDC has es-
tablished a scholarship program at the University of Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland (UBLS) and at present is sponsoring three students.
3.10      BDC's current organizational chart is depicted in Annex 4.  The
heart of the organization is the Investments department which has five in-
vestment officers and is headed by a senior investment officer. It is re-
sponsible for all of BDC's promotional and appraisal work. It is BDC's
intention to progressively move towards an organization with sector divi-
sions (agro-industry, transport, finance, tourism and property) under the
direction of a Management Committee comprising the Managing Director, the
Chief Accountant, the Administration Officer and two senior Investment
Officers. The first sector division to be established is the Property
Development and Management Department which was created recently to take
into account BDC's particular role in the commercial property development
in Selebi-Pikwe (see para. 4.04). Its head is an Englishman who has ex-
perience in property management. This projected sector organization may
suit BDC when its business has developed, but it appears too elaborate for
BDC's current level of activity, although it might have merits in terms
of deconcentration and delegation of responsibilities. The Investment
Management Department will be responsible for supervision when BDC's port-
folio has developed. At present this Department is operated on a part-
time basis by the Head of the Investments Department, given BDC's limited
portfolio.
3.11      The Accounting Department is headed by a former Peace Corps volunteer
with 14 years' experience in accounting, who will leave BBC soon and be
replaced by another experienced accountant. Accounting procedures are
adequate. BDC has its and its subsidiaries' accounts audited by Coopers and
Lybrand, a well-established and reputable firm. Audits are of high quality.
BDC agreed to make the few improvements necessary to conform to the Bank's
requirements regarding audits for DFCs. A procedure of systematic quarterly
reporting to the Bank was discussed with BDC and agreed upon.



- 10 -
Operating Procedures
3.12      Given BDC's promotional nature, its project processing procedures
are as follows. BDC usually has feasibility studies made by experts - most
of whom are paid under foreign technical assistance - or by foreign sponsoring
firms. It then reviews the feasibility studies and prepares for the Executive
Committee memoranda scrutinizing the alternatives and the financial and
economic merits of project proposals and stating the developments as the projects
progress, so that the Executive Committee is informed of the evolution of each
project and takes decisions on how and when to make the next step.
3.13      BDC's financial analysis of projects is well done; the economic
analysis has been less developed. BDC's Board therefore decided in 1973
that all projects should be the subject of a thorough cost benefit analysis,
including economic rate of return analysis. It is thus BDC's intention to
develop its economic assessment of projects, and during the appraisal mis-
sion discussions were held with BDC staff on the Bank's techniques and methods
related to the economic justification of projects. On the technical side,
BDC has relied on foreign consultants, either to make feasibility studies
or to check technical studies submitted by the foreign sponsors BDC associates
with. Given BDC's size and prominent role in promotion, this procedure
appears appropriate for BDC's present activity. BDC has been informed that
the Bank would need full appraisal reports on each project to be financed out
of our loan, and it has agreed to prepare such reports.
3.14      Legal, Procurement and Disbursement Procedures. Most BDC loans are
loans on demand made to subsidiary companies, with no formal contract. These
arrangements are now being formalized. BDC made only three loans for a total
of R 46,500 to non-subsidiary companies, and has special loan agreements for
each loan. BDC has given assurances that, prior to its first submission of a
project to the Bank, it will submit for approval a draft standard loan agree-
ment. BDC's procurement policies, which also apply to its subsidiaries,
require that its clients submit quotations from several suppliers for the
equipment to be financed, and invite bids from several constructors for
construction works. Disbursements are made on the basis of invoices or of
architects' certificates. Procurement and disbursement procedures are
appropriate and administered satisfactoary.
IV. OPERATIONS AND FINANCE
Past    erations
4.01      Most of BDC's efforts, particularly since the arrival in early
1972 of its Managing Director, have been devoted to building up and organizing
the institution; however, BDC also achieved significant progress in three main
fields:



- t1 -
(i) it has identified several major investment opportuni-
ties in industry, conducted the basic studies and con-
tacted foreign sponsors for some projects now ready to
be implemented;
(ii) it became deeply involved in tourism development, with
Government passing to BDC its shareholdings in several
hotels, and
(iii)  at the request of the Government in 1972 it took charge
of the development of the commercial center of the new
town of Selebi-Pikwe.
Since BDC is a young institution and since the country's modern sector is
very small indeed, the results of BDC's actions must be seen in terms of
institution-building and promotional activity more than of volume of finance
extended; the total portfolio of BDC, as of March 1974, was only R 2.3 million.
4.02      Activity in the industrial sector.  Due to the lack of entrepreneurs
in Botswana, BDC is acting mainly as a promoter of new projects, although it
endeavors not to take a majority voting control in projects it identifies,
but instead tries to bring in foreign investors with managerial capacity. To
date, it has a 26% participation in a tyre retreading company in Francistown,
and a 55% share in a company which will start in 1974 the sorting of diamonds
extracted at Orapa. BDC also conducted the studies related to three sizeable
projects: a beverage project which will be implemented soon, a ceramics
project for which laboratory tests are being performed, and a tannery based
on cattle hides produced by the Botswana Meat Commission Abattoir in Lobatse.
Further summarized data on these projects are given in Annex 5.
4.03      Tourism.  During the fiscal year 1972-73, BDC took over the Govern-
ment's assets in this sector, consisting of 20% of the share capital of
Holiday Inn in Gaborone (a profitable hotel/casino with 2s6 beds which 1.as
been in business since August 1972), 100% of the share capital of the President
Hotel (which owns the only other Ist class hotel in Gaborone with 48 beds),
and 20% of the share capital of a company operating the Chobe game lodge in
Northern Botswana. BDC's other involvements in the tourism sector include
(i) the study and design of a 44-bed hotel in Selebi-Pikwe, the building of
which has just begun (see Annex 5), (ii) the preliminary studies for estab-
lishing a hotel in Francistown, and (iii) the commissioning of a study on
possible tourism developments in Botswana by a British consulting firm.
Regarding hotel projects, BDC endeavors to have joint ventures with experienced
partners; otherwise, it will build the hotel, as in Selebi-Pikwe, and lease
it to an operating company managed by an experienced firm.
4.04      Development of the commercial center of Selebi-Pikwe.  Primarily
to avoid having foreign investors controlling the commercial development of
Selebi-Pikwe and getting excessive returns from high rents, the Government
made BDC responsible in 1972 for the commercial development of the center
of this new town built close to the copper nickel mines and which has now



- 12 -
become Botswana's major town with about 22,000 residents.  A sumnary of this
commercial development is given in Annex 5.  BDC, through a subsidiary
established for the purpose, Commercial Holdings Limited, which has a token
share capital and receives funds from BDC, will build the shops and offices
and rent them. The initial phase of the project up to the end of 1975 includes
the construction of five large blocks containing shops and offices, two bank
buildings and a petrol station. The Government made available to BDC in
August 1973 a loan of R 2.5 million to be utilized mainly for this operation.
The loan would be for 25 years with an interest rate of 8% (2 years  grace
period of principal and interest).
4.05      Other activities.  BDC's activities in other sectors are numerous
but in many cases its investments are still very small. In the transport
sector BDC was responsible for the reorganization of Botswana's small air
transport industry; it subcontracted the flight operations of Air Botswana
(a 100% subsidiary of BDC) to established companies while maintaining the
general sales agency and ground handling operations. It also has a 42% interest
in a small plane maintenance company. In the cormercial agriculture sector
BDC purchased in September 1973, with the Government's funds, four adjoining
farms on the Limpopo River totalling 1,500 acres suitable for cultivation.
These farms had been largely unused for several years. Cotton, wheat and
groundnut are presently cultivated. BDC hired an experienced farmer to manage
the estate, on a renewable 3 year contract. BDC- has also taken over the
government's share holdings in a company owning irrigable land and water rights
west of Gaborone.  It is associated with two experienced farmers to develop
hosticulture plantings in the area. BDC has set up a subsidiary to build houses
(20% at present) rented to it and its subsidiary's personnel, and took 20% of
the share capital of a small secretarial company. It also erected in Gaborone
through a 100%o subsidiary a four-story office building of wnich BDC occupies
3,000 sq. ft., with the other premises rented to various Government agencies
and embassies. BDC has taken a 20% option on the shares of the construction
company which woQn the tender for the first two commercial blocks in Selebi-
Pikwe, and has a 51% share in a small engineering and construction company
recently established in Gaborone and which started operations recently.
4.06      In the financial sector BDC created a 100% subsidiary which handles
small equipment leasing operations and associated with an international firm
of insurance brokers in a small local insurance brokerage company. More
important is tee proposed creation by BDC of a financial company in associa-
Lion with the two commercial banks, the National Development Bank and the
Greek group established in Zambia (Saradanis).  This company, of which each
partner will hold 20%, would take over the leasing activities of BDC's
current subsidiary, and also provide hire purchase and loan finance. The
commercial banks - Standard and Barclays - would make loan finance available
to the projected company whose total resources are expected to initially
amount to R. 1 to R 1.5 million.  This project has merits, since it would
associate the two commercial banks with the development of Botswana 's economy,
and keep within the country financial resources which now are used outside.
However, it is not expected that this new institution will rapidly develop; at



- 13 -
the start, it will focus on hire purchase schemes for vehicles and provide
loans for construction of houses and buildings. There is, thus, no projected
overlapping between BDC and this new institution, at least for the near future.
Portfolio
4.07      As can be seen from the above, BDC's investments are spread over a
variety of sectors. However, most of its interests are small with the
exception of tourism and commercial property developments. As of March 1974,
BDC had invested in 21 companies (see Annex 6) which it either manages
directly or supervises closely. The high number of subsidiaries is a direct
consequence of BDC's basic promotional role in numerous sectors of the economy,
and of its desire to progressively give these subsidiaries more autonomy as
they develop, with BDC performing as a holding company.  This structure -
untypical for a DFC - results in a fairly heavy administrative burden become
more difficult on BDC, which is well met at the moment, but might become more
difficult later if the portfolio develops rapidly. Many subsidiaries,
in particular those for property developments, have been set up with a token
share capital and a disproportionate amount of loan on demand from BDC. BDC
has confirmed its intention to provide its subsidiaries - except for residential
property - with a reasonable level of equity and with loans having a fixed
amortization schedule. BDC has also given assurances that all projects submitted
to the Bank would be capitalized with an appropriate share capital and fixed
term loans.
4.08      As of March 31, 1974, BDC's portfolio totalled R 2.35 million
consisting of the following:
Loans Outstanding               Equity Investments
No.             Amount         No             Amount
Subsidiaries            7           R 2,061,828        13        R  92,724
Other Companies         5           R    67,450         8        R 130 20i
12          R 2,129,278        21         R 222,925
Operations for property developments (commercial, residential, office and
hotel property) account for about R 2 million, as follows:
commercial property      R   564,929
residential property    R   300,505
office building          R   585,000
President Hotel
building                R   500,000
R 1,950,434
4.09      BDC had no arrears on its loan portfolio as of March 31, I97<   All
the companies in which BDC has an interest are performing well, with tine
exception of Hotel Developments, which owns the President Hotel in Gaborone.



- 14 -
Because of the small size of this hotel (24 rooms), it operates at a loss;
BDC intends to transform the hotel into an office building.
Profitability
4.10      BDC's income statements and balance sheets are summarized in Annexes
7 and 8. The consolidated statements for BDC and its subsidiaries are given
in Annexes 9 and 10.
4.11      BDC's income until now has come mainly from the revenues related to
imports of sugar into Botswana; these revenues accounted for about R 2 million
during the past three fiscal years, i.e. 88% of BDC's total revenues. The
decision by Government in 1969 to negotiate with a single supplier a term
contract for the total sugar needs of Botswana and to select BDC as its agency
was a sensible one, since it resulted in reducing from R 100 to R 70 per ton
the import price for sugar, as well as allowing BDC, which received the price
differential, to develop a strong equity basis, in the absence of contribu-
tions by Government to its share capital. The first contract expired at the
end of 1973 and, BDC negotiated a new one. Because of the increase
in the world price of sugar between 1969 and 1973, it is expected that BDC's
revenue will substantially decrease from R 703,000 in FY1973 to about
R 130,000 in 1974 on. These revenues are equivalent to an annual grant from
the Government, the necessity of which will disappear in the future after
BDC's operations have expanded (see para. 5.07).
4.12      As can be seen from Annex 7, the income from financial operations
did not cover BDCts administrative expenses until FY73 when dividends received
from Holiday Inn and Air Botswana contributed 30% to revenues. The coverage
of administrative expenses, which represented 7% of average total assets in
FY73, will improve gradually due to BDC's increased level of operations.
Financial Position
4.13      As of March 31, 1974, BDC showed a strong financial situation with
a net worth amounting to R 2.9 million, term debts totalling R 2.9 million,
and an investment portfolio of R 2.3 million. Term debts included the
Government loan of R 2.5 million (25 years, 8%), and a loan received from
Commonwealth Development Corporation of i 265,000 (R 430,000, 9%, 12 years)
to help finance BDC its office building. Liquidities are invested in term
deposits in a building society, granting BDC a tax-free interest of 8%. BDC
can borrow from the building society up to 90% of the amount of deposits at
9%.  The Government also made available a loan for this building of R 160,000
at 8% for 25 years (see Annex 10 - Consolidated Balance Sheets for BDC and its
Subsidiaries).



- 15 -
V. PROSPECTS
Operational Forecasts
5.01      Apart from BDC's investments in the commercial development of Selebi-
Pikwe and the few large projects that are ready to be implemented, projecting
BDC's activity over the next few years is difficult; the country is in a very
early stage of development and, as explained in para. 2.08, opportunities for
investment are not numerous.
5.02      The projections of operations in Annex 11 are thus very tentative.
They are based more on assumptions of BDC's future involvement in various
sectors than on identification of specific projects. These assumptions are:
(i) BDC will continue being heavily involved in the commercial
development sector; however, the R 3.6 million investment
projected over the next five years, even if it is below
BDC's own estimates, might still be on the high side, since
the Government's policy to allocate space in commercial
buildings only to nationals might slow down BDC's activity
in that sector.
(ii) Investments in the industrial sector are assumed to amount
to R 3.9 million during the next five years, i.e. 30%
of total projected investments. This forecast is based on
the pipeline of identified projects for the period 1974-76,
and takes into account BDC's intention to offer in the
future industrial premises to potential investors, starting
in FY75 with an industrial estate close to Gaborone providing
general-purpose factory buildings of medium size (3,000 sq.ft.)
for lease or purchase.
(iii) although the Government clearly expressed its intention
to have BDC assume an active role in tourism development,
BDC's investment in this sector have been assumed to
decrease after the implementation of the two projects
identified in Selebi-Pikwe and Francistown. There is no
indication that Botswana is yet in a position to engage
in a large program of developing mass tourist accommodation
facilities. On the contrary, it intends to concentrate on
the expansion of high-cost safari operations in the northern
part of the country, with tourist bases in Maun and Kasane.
The 1973-78 Plan forecasts R 3.5 million investments in
the sector over the five-year period to provide 500 addi-
tional beds. It has been assumed that BDC, which is the
Government's agency for tourism development would during
the same period invest R 1.7 million (50%), perhaps an
underestimate, but reasonable when it is considered
that (a) a specific plan has not yet been developed for



- 16 -
the sector, (b) it is necessary to improve infrastruc-
ture, particularly roads, and (c) the proper legisla-
tion and institutional arrangements have yet to be
established.
(iv)  BDC's assistance to the commercial agricultural sector
has been projected at R 300,000 per year. BDC recently
entered this field at the request of the Government.
The assumption that BDC will invest R 1.5 million in
that sector over the five-year period is thus based
more on Governmentt s and BDC's intentions to play a
role in agriculture, particularly for the development
of commercial farming in irrigable areas, than on
specific projects.
(v) BDC's investments in the transport sector are projected
to be low (R 50,000/year). A first attempt by BDC
to develop the bus service along the railway line failed.
BDC plans to develop a national truck company which would,
in particular, be used for cattle transportation.
(vi)  Regarding the residential sector, it has been assumed
that as of 1975, BDC's activity in this sector, which
is limited to building houses for its personnel, and for
its subsidiaries staff, would be passed on to the
Botswana Housing Corporation, a public institution
created in 1971 to take charge of housing development.
5.03      The mission's projections for BDC's investments through FY 1976
are siumarized below.
FY74       FY75       FY76     Total
Property development          1,000       1,000      1,100     3,100
Productive enterprises           650      1,850      1_,550    4,050
Total Investments        1,650       2,850     2,650      7,150
The import component of building costs in Botswana is estimated at 70%,
a high figure, since even building materials have to be imported, and also
because a substantial part of skilled construction labor has to be brought
into Botswana from outside. Since BDC will not normally, except in the case
of subsidiary companies (property development in particular), finance more
than 50% of the projectts total capital cost, the import component of its
investments in productive enterprises will normally be 100%. BDC's investments
are estimated to consist of 70% loans and 30% equity.



- 17 -
Resource Requirements
5.04      For the first phase of the Selebi-Pikwe commercial center, BDC's
property subsidiary has obtained commitments for financing the bank build-
ings and the petrol station from the proposed tenants.  The first office/
shop block is nearing completion and is being financed with a Government
loan.  BDC requested the Bank to finance the foreign component of the new
office - block shops to be built in Selebi-Pikwe.  Given BDC's particular role
in the development of the commercial center of this new town, it is recommended
that the Bank finance the foreign component of the three next buildings - i.e.
$800,000. Including this, the foreign component of BDC's forecast investments
through FY 1976 would amount to about R 4.0 million. A Bank loan of $4 million
would finance about 70% of this import component. This would provide BDC with
the foreign resources to finance mainly its three major projects that are ready
to be implemented, namely the tannery, the beverage project and the hotel
in Selebi-Pikwe, in addition to three commercial buildings in Selebi-Pikwe.
Other requirements would be met by the Government which recently made available
to BDC a loan of R 2.5 million at 8% for 25 years, including a two-year grace
period of principal and interest.
5.05      Since a substantial part of the loan would finance projects that BDC
is actively promoting, the mission reviewed these projects and found that they
are expected to have satisfactory economic rates of return. It is proposed
that BDC disbursements for expenditures incurred after February 1,1974, be
eligible for Bank reimbursement. The related projects would be subject to the
prior approval of the Bank, and the amount of retroactive financing would be
limited to $300,000.
Financial Projections
5.06      Projected income statements, balance sheets and cash-flow state-
ments for the period FY74 to FY78 are given in Annexes 12 to 14. BDC's
income from sugar imports is forecast to be reduced from R 700,000 in FY73
to R 130,000/year. BDC is expected to obtain 9.33% on its loans outstand-
ing, and dividends are estimated at 10% on the average portfolio. Administra-
tive expenses are projected to increase by about 10% each year, and the average
cost of borrowings is projected at 8%. On the basis of this projection, profits
would represent 2.5% of average net worth in FY75, slowly increasing to 6.3%
in FY78, whereas administrative expenses would slowly decrease to 2.2% of
average total assets in FY78.
5.07      As noted earlier (para. 4.12), BDC had for the first time in FY73
met its recurrent administrative expenses through its operating revenues.
The revenues that BDC will get from sugar imports will in the future still
add to its profits, but their contribution will progressively decrease.
Sugar revenues will represent in FY76 16% of total income against 79% in
FY73.



- 18 -
5.08      According to these projections, BDC's portfolio would increase
to R 6.3 million in 1975 and R 11.3 million in 1978, as against R 1.8 mil-
lion in 1973. About 40% of this increase would result from BDC's involvement
in property development. To finance its investments, BDC or its subsidiaries
would have to borrow R 3 million over the period in addition to the Bank loan
of $2 million, raising its consolidated debt/equity ratio from nil in 1973 to
1:3:1 in 1975 and 2.3:1 in 1978. BDC has agreed on a maximum debt-equity ratio
of 3:1 as a borrowing limit.
VI.  CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMEDATIONS
6.01      Conceived as the key instrument of Botswana's tourism and indus-
trial development, BDC has been successful in identifying investment oppor-
tunities and promoting several projects now ready to be implemented. At the
Government's request, it has also started playing a major role in the com-
mercial development of Selebi-Pikwe. BDC has developed a professional staff
that is competent and highly dedicated, although its heavy reliance on ex-
patriate personnel on short contracts causes the potential dauger of a rapid
change in its staff position.
6.02      BDC's financial situation is sound; through revenues originating
from imports of sugar the institution has during its first three years of
activity developed a strong equity basis amounting now to R 2.9 million.
6.03      Botswana is at a very early stage of development, and prospects
for BDC's activity in the industrial sector are limited, due to the small
size of the domestic market. BDC has, however, identified some projects,
which are now ready to be implemented. Including BDC's involvement in the
commercial property sector, investments in FY75 and FY76 should amount to
R 5.5 million. The Government recently made available to BDC a loan of
R 2.5 million, and a Bank loan of $4 million would meet about 70% of BDC's
foreign resource requirements through FY76.
6.04      The terms and conditions of the proposed loan should be those uormal
for lirnes of credit to development finance companies. However, since BDC is
a young institution, it is recommended that BDC be granted concessional
treatment regarding the comnitment charge, i.e. 3/4% on the Bank funds only
from the date projects are approved or authorized by the Bank. It is recom-
meaded that the Bank require prior approval of each project using $75,000 or
mre of the proceeds of the proposed credit. An appropriate aggregate free
1i1it would be $800,000 (20% of the loan). The proposed Bank loan would
finance the c.i.f. cost (i.e. the price at Botswana's border) of imported
goods, the foreign exchange cost of ancillary services, and the foreign exchange
component of imported goods purchased locally through normal trade channels
and of civil works. It is proposed that the Bank agree to finance retroactively
from February 1, 1974, expenditures up to $300,000 made for the projects
submitted to the Bank by BDC.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
The Customs Agreement
Under the terms of the 1969 Agreement, Botswana, Swaziland, Lesotho and
South Africa agreed that legislation relating to customs, excise and sales duty
similar in all respects would be enacted in each country. South Africa acts as
the custodian of the common revenue pool which consists of the gross amounts of
customs, excise, sales and additional duties levied and collected on goods imported
into or produced in the common customs area.  Botswana, Lesotho and Swaziland re-
ceive each a share of the common revenue pool calculated as follows:
share=   i + p (C + E + S) x 1.42
I + P
where    i = total value at border price of goods imported into each country
p =             of dutiable goods produced and consumed in each country
I =   1         at CIF price of all imports into the Customs Area
P =   "         of dutiable goods produced and consumed in the Customs Area
C = total collection of customs duties within the Customs Area
E =   t"  It   of excise           if    "I t"
S =   It  it    I sales            t      "t    " 
(i, I, p, P are valued inclusive of duties)
Because of the unavoidable delay in finalising imports statistics, the revenue
transfer payment in any one year is based on total value of imports and of the
local production of dutiable goods relating to the year two years previous to
that year. The effect on Botswana ofthe operation of the formula has been that
about 20% of the value of goods imported into Botswana has been received as the
Botswana share of the common pool. Equipment and machinery are imported duty free
into the Customs Area.
It is expected that revenues from the common pool will amount to
R 99.6 million during the next five years, i.e. 42.6% of the projected Government
fecurrent Revenue. The table below shows this relationship to imports; decreases
in 1975/76 and 1976/77 reflect the termination of imports for the construction
phase of the Shashe project.



Al=1
(R million)
1/
ExDorts                    Imports       ?venues from
Livestocl   Minerals Other  Total                   the Conmon Pool
Actual                   Products
*
1971/72              17.0       11.7     2.3    31.0       62.7             n.a.
1972/73              21.0       19.0     2.7   42.7        85.1             n.a.
projected
1973/74              23.0       38.0     3.5   65.5        83.4             20.9
1974/75              24.4       85.0    4.1   113.5        85.9             22.8
1975/76              26.0       90.0     5.0   121.0        96.1            16.9
1976/77              27.4       95.0     7.1   129.5      lo6.5             17.3
1977/78              29.0      100.0   10.0  139.0         119.6            21.7
1/ at border prices, inclusive of customs, excise and sales duties
* at current prices
** at constant prices
Source: National Development Plan .1973-1978
DFCD
November 20, 1973



ANNTEX 2
Page 1
THE BOTSWANA DEVELOPMNT CORPORATION LMITED
INVESTKENT POLICY
Adopted by the Board on _
A.   The Botswana Development Corporationts objectives are:
(1) to create and/or
(2) to promote, in Botswana, comercially and economically
viable businesses which either:
(i)  because of the nature of their products or services or
(ii) because of the manner in which they are operated will
contribute to national goals as stated in the National
Development Plan.
The National Development Plan favours the establishment of enterprises
which will have potential for:
(1)  Generating significant employment
(2) Adding to the skills of Botswana nationals
(3)  Producing products which can be substituted for imports
(4)  Generating additional business opportunities
(5) Creating local entrepreneurs
(6)  Contributing to the rural economy
(7) Upgrading natural resources
(8) Creating new national assets
(9)  Diversifying the base of the economy, and
(10) Contributing to the creation of a nationally owned conmercial
and industrial sector.
B.   Applicants for assistance from the Botswana Development Corporation
will be asked to demonstrate how their projects will contribute to national
economic development including the effect that import substitution projects
will have on revenues accruing to Botswana, and will specifically be called
upon to present plans for training Botswana nationals to occupy, in due course,
posts at all levels in the proposed enterprise.
C.   The Botswana Development Corporation will provide lease or loan
finance to, or participate as an investor in, an enterprise when:
(1) Either its financial and managerial assistance is necessary
for the enterprise to be viable;
(2) The Botswana Development Corporation's active presence at a
policymaking level will constructively influence the enterprise with
respect to national goals; or
(3)  'When an investment is likely to generate additional resources
for reinvestment by the Corporation in accordance with its objectives.
D.   When investing its funds the Botswana Development Corporation will
seek to:
(1) secure its principal
(2)  structure its investment in such a way that the financial strength
of each assisted enterprise is increased, and
(3) arrange the terms of its investments so that when each assisted
enterprise is successful, the Botswana Development Corporation will have
the opportunity to realize a capital profit.



-2-
ANNEX 2
Page 2
For this purpose, the Botswana Development Corporation will seek
to retain the right to dispose of its shareholdings in an assisted
enterprise to third parties at commercial prices free of other shareholder
rights of first refusal. When disposing of an investment, the Botswana
Development Corporation will firstly seek Botswana nationals as buyers.
E.    The Botawana Development Corporation will not normally:
(1) Invest more than 15% of its net worth in the share capital
of any one project;
(2) Invest more than 25% of its net worth in the form of loans
and/or share capital in any one project;
(3) Eccept in the case of subsidiary companies, finance more than
50% of the project's total capital cost, including permanent working
capital;
(4i) Invest any funds in any project prior to signing agreements
which will provide the Botswana Development Corporation with the ability
to take remedial action should the value of its investmet become
endangered; and
(S) Invest any funds in any project prior to the completion of a
through feasibility study.
F.   Applicants for assistance from the Botsan  Development Corporation
will be asked to cooperate with, and assist in, the preparation of a
feasibility study, the undertaking of which will normally follow the
satisfactory completion of a preliminary questionnaire.
G.    The Botswana Development Corporation normally will seek to finance
or otherwise assist enterprises only where new productive assets are to
be created.
H.   The Botswana Development Corporation's operations will be guided by
sound commercial principles. The Botswana Development Corporation's
investment decisions will be based on sound appraisal methods, and will
particularly take into account the total financial requirements of the
project and the soundness of the resulting financial structure for the
enterprise.
I.    The Bets ma Development Corporation will finance only economically
sotuud, financiiLLy viable, technically-feasible projects and those which
have or wil have competen  management.
J.    The Botswana Development Corporation will not normally manage
enterprises, although it will use its beat endeavours to ensure the
acquisition of competent management. It will, hoever, notwithstanding
these lmimtations, take such action as it considers appropriate when, in
case a project supported by it is in jeopardy, it has to protect its
investment.
K.    In consideriAg -whether or not to take a controlling interest in the
voting securities of the projects in which it invests, the Botswana
Development Corporation will base its decision on relevant Government
policies, and; where no specific Government policy directives are
applicable, the Botsana Development Corporation Will seek to maximize
its commrcial advantage.



-3-                                 ANNEX 2
Page 3
L.   The Botswana Development Corporationts aggregate investmants in
share capital will not be allowed to exceed the Corporation's own net
worth.
M.    The Botswana Development Corporation will seek to protect itself
against the exchange risks of foreign borrovings.
N.   The Botswana Development Corporation will seek to diversify its
investments both geographically and by industrial sectors.
0.   The Botswana Development Corporation shall charge, except in the
case of fUnds loaned or invested by its "Special Projects Fund", for
its funds or services, interest rates, fees, or comissions which are
compatible with the prevailing market rates and/or which enable it to
earn a reasonable return on its operations.
P.   The Botswana Development Corporation will recruit qualified
personnel for its operations.
Q.   The Botswana Development Corporation will supervise its investments
to protect its interests and to enable it to assist its projects to the
-acimum extent possible.
DFCD
May 26, 1974






ANNEX 3
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Board of Directors
(as of March 31, 1974)
Chairman:      Mr. H,C,L. HERMANS (Botswana), Permanent Secretary,
Minister of Finance and Development Planning
Directors:     Messrs. A.JoL. CLARK (South Africa),
Managing Director Outwich Ltd0(Merchant Bank)
MAKOBOLE (Botswana),
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Local Government and Lands
S;To KHAMA (Botswana), Cattle Farmer
J  . LISLE (British), Financial and Legal Consultant,
Ministry of Finance and Development Planning
R.No XANNATHOKO (Botswana),
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Commerce and Industry
H.M. MacGREGOR (South Africa),
Chairman, Delta Metals Corporation
MADISA (Botswana),
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture
P.1M. SEBOTHO (Botswana), Farmer
P.L. STEBNKAMP (Botswana),
Administrative Secretary of the Office of the President
Managing Director: Mro 1.0. STEPHENS (U.S.)
DFCD
May 26, 1974



ANNEx 4
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Organization Chart
(as o' May 1973)
|BOARD      l
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
MANAGING DIRECTOR
(Mr. R, Stephens)
Investments   Investments        Property Development    Accounting         Administration
(Studies,      Management                and
Appraisals,_                          Management
Promotion)
1 Senior           1 Manager          1 General Manager      1 Chief           1 Administrative
Investment          (Mr. Hinchey)*    (Mr0 Bridgeland)*       Accountant*       Officer (B)
Officer
(Mr. Hinchey)*
5 Investment                          1 Accounts Clerk       1 Accounts        1 Assistant
Officers                             1 Supervisor            Clerk (B)         Administrative
(1 B; 4*)                             in Selebi-Pikwe                          Officer (B)
21 Non-
Professional
*  =  expatriate
B     Botswana national
DFCD
M4ay 26, 1974



ANNEX 5
Page 1
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projects ready to be implemented or under Consideration
A. The Commercial Development of the Center of Selebi-Pikwe
The population of this town, established two years ago in the
vicinity of the copper nickel mines of Selebi-Pikwe, is estimated to increase
from about 22,000 at present to 35,000 in the early 1980's,
On the basis of the projected population, employment and distri-
bution of income and expenditures on food and commodities, it has been
estimated that by 1980, the commercial area located in the center of the city
should extend over about 5 ha. It will include retail shops, offices, banks,
service stations, etc. BDC was made responsible for its development by Govern-
ment in 1972.
The current project envisages in the first stage (before the end of
1975) the initial construction of five large blocks containing shops and
offices, two bank buildings and a petrol station, for a total cost of about
R 2.5 million. Four other blocks and another petrol station are projected to
be added by 1978, raising the total cost to R 5 million. The first block
has been completed in early 1974, and has been financed by a Government loan.
Construction of the second block started recently. The petrol station and the
two bank buildings (Standard Bank and Barclays Bank) should be built during
1974, and be directly financed by their occupants.  The cost of-blocks 2, 3 and
4 is estimated at R 800,000 (foreign component about R 550,000). Rents charged
by BDC on the blocks have been projected at R 0.32 per-sq0 foot, giving an
internal rate of return of about 15% on the investment. Shops are to be
primarily offered to Botswana nationals who will get licenses from the Ministry
of Industry and Commerce.
B. The Beverage Project
Total capital cost                    = R 2,000,000
Foreign exchange component            =  R 1,450,000
BDC1s projected investment            =  R   450,000
The beverage project consists of setting-up a company to produce
malt beer and soft drinks, currently totally imported. The initial annual
production capacity-would be 35,000 hl of beer, and 20.,000 hl. of soft drinks,
in bottles and cans.
BDC had contacted a number of brewers,including UNIBRA (Belgium), The
Oetker Group (Germany), South African Brewers, Carlsberg and Allied Breweries (UK)
which submitted feasibility studies.  After discussion, proposals from South



ANNEX 5
Page 2
Africa Breweries and the Oetker Group were considered the best alternatives.
Both companies had incorporated in Botswana a subsidiary for the project
and the Oetker Group was recently selected as BDC's partner to implement
the project. The total capital cost of the project is estimated at R 2.0
million. The proposed selling price of beer (excise duty included) is R 49/hl.,
as compared to a current wholesale price of R 53/hl.
The capital cost is expected to be financed by R 750,000 of share
capital and a R 1,200,000 loan, BDC would hold 60% of the capital in the
form of 10% participating cumulative preferred shares which have one vote
each, and the Oetker Group hold 40% in ordinary shares with two votes each
and no dividend guaranteed. Comnercial banks would make two loans of
R 600,000 each (7 years-10%): the first loan would be guaranteed by BDC
and the Oetker Group, proportionately to their shares. The secured loan
would be secured by a mortgage on the companyWs assets. Employment created
totals 100. The preliminary financial projections indicated a return of
about 25% on share capital.  The project will, in addition, have a positive
effect on Government's receipts under the terms of the South African
Customs Union Agreement.
C. The Selebi-Pikwe Hotel
Total capital cost                    =   R   875,000
Foreign exchange component            =   R   600,ooo
BDC's projected investment            =   R   875,000
The project is to build an hotel/restaurant (22 double rooms) with,
as usual in the hotel industry in Botswana, a bottle store. No accommodation
is presently available in Selebi-Piwe.
The total capital cost of the project is estimated at R 875,ooo
including a central unit designed to permit the extension of the hotel to 44 and 66
rooms in years 3 and 6, at a cost of R 230,000 and R 350,000 respectively.
on the basis of a 60% occupancy rate, income statement is projected
as follows (RtOOO):
Revenue                          Hotel          Bottle Store          Total
Accommodation                      48
Bar                                55
Restalurant                        54
Bottle Store                        -
Cost of sales                      44
Gross margin                      113                  80              193
Departmental expenses              32                  10               42
Administrative expenses             -                   -               45
Earnings before interest,
taxes and depreciation                                              106



ANNEX 5
Page 3
The economic rate of return is estimated at about 15%.
3DC will build the hotel and lease it to an operating company in
which the manager will take the majority;  1DC has contacted several hotel
companies for the management.
De Other Projects
In the Industrial Sector
Tannery.    The tannery project consists of establishing a tannery based on
thecattle hides produced by the Botswana Meat Commission slaughter house in
Lobatse. The project is planned in three or four stages. During the first
stage - a pilot phase of one year - the company would tan 50,000 hides to
the "wet blue"? stage. In stage 2, the tannery would go into full production,
taking up to 200,000 hides/year.  In stages 3 and 4, unscheduled, the tanning
process would go further to "crust" and leather. Production would be exported
to South Africa and Europe.
The cost of stage 1 is estimated at about R 1,000,000.  BDC will
associate with an experienced tanner to implement the project; it has already
contacted several possible foreign partners.
Ceramics.   The project envisages production of glazed floor tiles from local
clay, primarily for export.  Total cost would be R 2.5 million, for an annual
output of 375,000 sq. meters.  BDC has contacted several promoters and in
particular a British group with interests in clay products in East Africa.
Tests are being performed to determine the exact suitability of the clay
deposits.  A decision will be taken in 1975.
Cement plant.
- Consumption of cement in Botswana is about 70,000 tons/year
presently. The project, which is at an early stage, consists of implementing
a cement plant with an annual production capacity of about 15Q0,000 tons.
British cement companies have shown interest in associating with EDC in this
venture. There is, however, little expectation that a decision be taken
before the end of 1975, since trends for consumption of cement in Botswana
and possibilities of exports have to be studied carefully.
Bicycle Assembly Plant.
As a result of a promotional effort by BDC, two companies have
applied for a license to assemble bicyles in Botswana; BDC will probably
not be initially an investor in the project but may take an option to
purchase shares.



ANE S
Page 4
Tapestry Weaving. 3DC will lend R 30,000 for this small project
consisting ofestablishing a tapestry weaving village industry which is also
sponsored by aid agencies.
The Botswana Tire Corporation. Intends to extend its operations to
rubber religning, and BDC plans to Invest R 60,000 in the project presently
under study.
In the Agro-Industrial Sector
Mogobame Dam Project. The Government has asked BDC to take over its
shareholc3iig 3n the Mogobamue Irrigation Co., a joint venture between the
Government and the Bamalete Tribe which has title-to over 100 ha. of irrigable
land and water rights of 300 million gallons/ear.  The project is to introduce
horticulture plantings in this area, offering employment to a minimum of 200
workers.  BDC might invest R 100,000 through 1976.
,Talana Farm. At the* request of the Government BDC purchased four
farms in he soutEh-eastern part of the country, on the Impopo River.  The
project-vis to develop cultivation of cotton, wheat and ground nut and cattle
cearing.- BDC has hired the services of an experienced farmer, under a 3-year
contract. BDC's invesments are projected at about R 450000 through FY 76.
Mochudi Tool Carrier. A small prodect, consisting of the establishment
of a compiny t manEtcure a multipurpose tool-carrier for farmers, invented
by a Canadian serving as a volunteer in Mochudi.
In the Tourism Sector
Francistown Hotel. A shortage of reasonable accommodation in this
town led SC to invest1gate the feasibility of a new hotel. Suitable partners
are being sought acid itJ is expected that final designs will be-prepared by the
end of 1974, so that the hotel (4O rooms) can open during 1976.
Maun Hotel.  Wun is the center of the north-western part of Botswana.
The proj e_  i=ibe to use Maun as the center of development for tourism
in the regio-ln  and progressively as a tourist and wild-life research complex,
starting with an hotel. Detailed plans will be made after the results of the
tourist study are available.
Gaborone Hotel, The project is to build a 50-room hotel in Gaborone,
for a total-cost of about R 1.3 million.  The hotel would be erected in 1976,
partly to replace the President Hotel, which BDC will transform into an
office building,
In the Financial Sector
Insurance Company.  The project is to form a full line insurance



NEX 5
Page 5
company in Botswana. EDC would hold 51% of the equity, and an insurance
broker the balance. Implementation of the project awaits the appropriate
insurance legislation to be adopted by the National Assembly.
Botswana Finance Company. BDC projects an association with Standard
Bank, Barclays Bank, the National Development Bank and the Sardanis Group
(Zambia) in a financial institution which would take over the leasing
activities of BDCts current subsidiary, and also offer hire purchase and
term loan finance.
The purpose is to set up a company which would offer hire purchases
schemes and make loans for construction of buildings and houses. Total
resources of the new company are expected to initially amount to R 1 to R 1.5
million. Each partner would have 20% of the share capital, and the two com-
mercial banks would make loans to the new company.
DFCD
June 3, 1974






HOTSWANA DEVELOJMEFt COtOPOORAT7O
Investns,nt Portfollo .s of M-ro, 31. 1974.
(in Rnd.)                              I
Date of             Proportiof of                                   ConpUnn  C                     *DC   1....                Ktority .nd Rate
Hose                      Aotiuir,                       nost.blshent           ahr. ..oitel   Aount                       Enuitv                              12!oaPlovesftt  qutetodin      of itotee.t                Obe.rystlo.e
Tr..s port
Air Bot vm~a           Air t..n.port                        1972                 1002              3                  72,090            30                                                                         S .  ...otrtetod -utl" ti.s.  Profitble.
Dilod.nd of R 24.000 in 7Y73.
Tourism  - Hotel.
Holid.y I.n.           LWs and op.r.to$
Ostotwna               HotsllCoriso in Gohorsess            1969                  207        100.000                 684,000           150 I                                                                       Profit.bls - Doid.od of Rt. 30.000
SouthrSn Svn           Opoerst.s hotel in Chebe             1972                  207               2                  u.a.             70                         -                            .tJority  harshold.r South Africon.  Sterted
C.e Lodge                                                                                                                                                                                                          operations Apri1 1973.
utotl Dv-lopnents    Ovno 24  bon. - hotel Au
Goboros..  (pr..id.st)               1973                IOZS               3                  (12)             70                  467,000                     Donusd 97 ..pr.fttb1..  The hotel  ill b. t.ouaformad
into QUite..s
CoyrnocinI - Toduetriel
Botw..no. Di.ood
Votwiog Company        Diotnod sorting                       1972                 552 37 500                          50000             1s I                                                                       D. ber. has 452. Will etfrt gorting op-r&tir*n.
St so  1974.  Preo.*tly  C.taf L. being teined L
I                                                                141.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~unA  and  sn.
Sotv-o  Trr
Corporati.o            Tyr rotreadig                         1971                 25.97.       14,389                  4,000            23                    24.00o                   6 y~o  9-                   Profitable.
30.000                   Ovenod 107.
C.boron  - Air.raft   Airoreft
1ntirpriisn            HOintenncO                            1971                 41.71 n         000                 14,000            10                     9,450                   5 yacr.  9H.                Profitoble.
booco                  Con.tr-otio,                          1973                 317           5,100                    ..*           200                   21,300                    Dend 101                    St.rted op.-tione erly 1974.  Znpa.ted to ho
Hydro                  Plu biog                              1974                 S17.          5,100                   n.e.            .                          .                                                  oroCions not yot terored.
xinn.toos Hoteun       Con.truotion                          1973                 201 (opdm         -                                  700.1000                                                                    S.heidiry of Soro..is A-nOriatos.
Oodi W000.0            Topsetry ....itg                      1973                  0.51            10                   u ..            32                     2,500                   8 years  8S                 Cott.gs indu-try.  Storted operation, in 1973.
Yionot I eviC
F.elo                  L-sing                                1972                 100l         50,000                35.000             -                    58,800                    DS_nd n.                    Wtil be tr.nsforerd intt  rinnnia ISerit*& of
HotroenO
minrt & Co.            Issurosce brok-r                      1971                  257          S,000                 10,000            10                         .                                               Profitoblo
HRysoro b Co.          E.tat* ogot                           1972                  36.42        4.000                  9,000             3                                                  .                      Profitfblo.
M.rco  Ltd.           Socrstirial Sereica                   1972                  201         IBOO                   0,700             3                                                                         Pr.fitabl.  Dividend of R 1.600 to HDC in 1973.
Mo.gob-o Torigotion   Co-eroiel TFreing                      1974                  60S                                                  23                                                  _                      Will start oprti:ton. nid 1974.
TIlrne F.or ,                                                1974                 1007.             I                   n.e.            so                    69 700                   Deand 9n                    ttrted oprttion corly 1974.
kg.tlo-g               Tool .orrier                          1974                           -                         -                                        1,500                   D aund 8%                   Strted oup . .tio    .on ly 1974.
!tgPettyflOflllnsOet
Itdu.triel Zototen    Sdoetrial let.tes                      1974                 1001              3                                                                                                              W Hill etart opretion end 1974.
Coosootclal Holdings   Con,retotal buildinss                 1973                 1O01              3                      -            -                    564,926                    D..nd 97.                 eOn-  sd tets cnetroial block. being built in
0o lolb-0Piko..
Devsio-np-t too.       OffMIe buildings                      1971                 100           5.000                 30,00                                  580.000                     nand 97                    odig is ocoopi.d by .OC and other  ib Le
ggonoise. Pro fiteble.
R..identil Holdings  Hotidintisl hnuse                      1972                 100%              3                (11,000)                                300.102                   bosad 9n                    rrsotly own  20 hosves ooepied by  DC's otr tto
gobeidiaries' eteff.
Helehbi-Ptik
Coesrcnil 0weelo nt
Corparttie                           1"n 1on0                                                       I                      .                                                                                       Dorunt coMP&p
80W'.             Totat              Lona
Squit,            zmoloyent           ottasndt,td
TotaL                             222.923           1398               2,129,275
ef 'Aioh nubhediori..
(anoe the. 301 uDO nmnd)          02,724            1798               2,061,828



I



ANNEX 7
BOTSWANA DEVELOPNENT CORPORATION
Income Statements
(R0OO)
April 15, 1970              1/              1/    July 1, 1973
June 30  1971        FY1972          FY1973        March 31L 1974
(audited)                t)         (audited)
INCO
Sugar trade                         733                607              703           530
Interest on time deposits            23                 59               75            59
Interest on loans                     2                  6               49           121
Dividends                              -                 -               54            30
Rent                                   2                 4                3             2
Other                                 -                  -                2             -
Total Income            760               67               o2
EXPENSES
Interest paid                         -                  -                -            32
fAdministrative expenses             78                 91              125
Auditors fees                         1                  1                4           100
Directors' fees                        3                 10              15
Depreciation                         14                 15               12             8
Other                                 -                  -                5
Total Expenses           96               117-             161           140
Profit before taxation                 664                559              725           602
Taxation                                200               175              200           180
Profit after taxation                  464                384              525           422
1/ Fiscal year July 1 - June 30.
DFaCD
May 28, 1974



ANNEX 8
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORFORATION
1/
Balance Sheets
(Rt 000)
March 31,
1971            1972           1973             1974
(audied)         (audied)        (=uIted)        (unau-dited
ASSETS
Current Assets
Cash and Deposits               12              3               1                62
Other                           61             83             186              135
Total Current Assets        T73W 6                                           197
Time Deposits at building
societies                   583           1,025             890             3677
(less borrowings)                 _              -             352              415
Net                            T -1o253Y
Investments
Loans                           46             45           1,609              2130
Equity investments              25             31             153              222
Total Investments            7i              76           1,762             7352
Fixed Assets (net)             111            129             242               240
Total Assets                  838           1,316           2,729             6051
LIABILITIES AND EQUITY
2
Current Liabilities              273.           173             245-              217
14/
Term borrowings                    -              -                              2926
Equity
Share capital              103             281           1,945             1945
Reserves                    462            862             539              963
Total Equity                  565          1,1143          2,4b4
Total Liabilities and        838           1,316           2,729             6051
Equity====-====_==
/ After allocation of profits, as of June 30
2/ Of which taxation due = 200
3/ Of which taxation due = 180
/ Of which Government loan: 2500 - CDC loan: 426
DFCD
May 26, 1974



ANNEX 9
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMET CORPORATION
Consolidated Income Statements
(R'000)
April 1, 1970 -
June 30, 1971
(15 months)         F11972          FY1973
(audited  -     (adiuad)        (audited-)
INCOME5
Sugar trade                                  729               607            703
Interest on time deposits                     23                59             75
t    it  loans                             2                  4             49
2~~~~     63 ~~~~~1214
Dividends                                     -                  -             54
Rent                                          2                  4              3
Other                                         _                  _              3
Total Income                              756               674            887
EXPENSE3
Administrative expenses                       78                91            125
Auditors' fee                                  1                  2             4
Directors' fees                                3                 10            15
Depreciation                                  11                15             12
Other                                         _                  -              5
Total Expenses                             93               118            161
Profit before taxation                         663                556           726
Tax                                            179                175           200
Profit after taxation                          484                381           526
DFCD
January 15, 1974



ANNEX 10
BOTSWANA DEVEL0P?     CORPORATION
Gonsolidated Balance Sheets
as of June 30
(R'0cq)
1971      1972       1973
ASSETS
Current Assets                                           78        93        409
Time Deposits                                           584     1,02%5       895
Equiit,y  nv.st"nts                                    20        21        125
Loans                                                  30        41         47
Total Investments                                   X                  T X
Fixed Assets (not)                                      128       309      1,976
Total Assets                                       840     1,489     3,452
LIABILITI]8 4N SUIT!
Current Liabilities                                     275       189        813
Borrow1jsga                                              -        160        16
Equity:
Share capital                                         103       281      1,945
Reserves                                              4~62      859        534
Total Equity                                       565     1,140      2,479
Total Liabilities and Eqiy840                              1 ,489     345
=
DFCD
J"u*47 15., 1974-



ANNEX 11
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Assumptions for financial projections
(amounts in R'000)
1.  BDC's projected investments are as follows (R'000):
F___         FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78
Sectors
Agricultural                   300           300        300          300        300
Transports                      50            50         50           50         50
Hotel-tourism                  100           600        600          200         200
Industrial                     200           600        600          600        600
Commercial property            800           800        800          600        600
Residential property           200           200         -            -           -
Industrial estates              -            300        300          300        300
Total                    1,650        2,850       2,650        2,050      2,050
(of which foreign
component)            1,110        2,120       1,980        1,660      1,660
2.  Investments are broken down into:
30% equity investment
70% loan (average maturity 12 years, including a 2-year grace period)
3. Average cost of borrowings: 8%
4.  Average interest on new loans: 10%
5. Return on equity investments: 10% on average portfolio
6.  Sales of shares: 100, 150 and 250 in FY76 to FY78
7.  Interest on deposits: 8% annually
8.  Provision for losses: 2% on annual  increase of loan and equity portfolio
9.  Annual depreciation is offset by investment in fixed assets



ANNEX 12
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Projected income statements
(ROO 0)
FY73      FY74       FY75      FY76      FY77        FY78
(actual)
Income
Sugar trade                 703        560       130        130      130         130
1/
Interest on deposit          75       101        100         -        -           -
Interest on loans            49        207       317        549      685         780
Dividends                    54         70       107        135      244         290
Others                        5          5         5          5        5           5
Total                 886       943        659       819      1064        1205
Expenses
Administrative expenses    156         175       191        210      230         252
(of which depreciation)   (12)        (12)      (12)       (12)     (12)        (12)
Interest on term
borrowings                -        116        280        392      514         607
Others                       5          -
Total               161        291        471       602       744         859
Profit before provisions
and taxes               725        652        188        217      320         346
Allocated to
Provision                     -           35       56          47        30         26
Taxes                        200         196       57          62       96         105
Net profit                   525         421       75         108      194         215
i  net of interest paid on short term borrowings from building societies
DFCD
May 26, 1974



ANNEX 13
BOTSWANA DEVELOPWET CORPORATION
Projected balance sheets
as of June 30
(R'OOO)
1973      1974       1975       1976     1977        1978
(actual)
ASSETS
Net current assets             (58)      96        .92         27       210        16
Time deposits net of
borrowings                538      2000        500         -        -          -
Investments
Loans                    1609      2864       4809       6499      7540        8475
Equity investments        153       648       1503       2198      2663        3028
1762     3512       6312        8697    10203       11503
(less provision)           -       (35)       (91)      (138)      (168)       (194)
Net                     1762      3477       6221        8559    10035       11309
Net fixed assets                  242       240       240         240       240         240
Total                   2484      5813      7053       8826      10485       11565
LIABILITIES AND EQUITIE
Borrowings
CDC                       -        408       373       338       303         268
Government/Aoans          -       2500      2500      2400      2300        2200
IBRD                      -         -       1200      2000      2600        2600
Others                    -         -         -       1000      2000        3000
0      290        7T       573       7203-        O6
Equity
Share capital         1945       1945       1945      1945      1945        1945
Reserves               539        960       1035      1143      1377        1552
24b4                 29  32905  30ti      32         3497
Total              2484       5813      7053       8826    10485        11565
DFCD  May 26, 1974



ANNEX 14
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATICN
Projected Uses and Resources
(in RIOOO)
FY 73        FY74         FY75        FY76        FY77        FY78
acal)                       -                 -          
Resources
Repayment of Loans        -            -            50         165        394           500
Increase in share
capital      1/        820           -             -           -          -             _
Cash generation-         525         456           131        155         224           241
Drawdown on borrowings:
- IBRD                  -            -        1,200         800         600            60
- CDC                   -          425             -          -           -             -
- Government loans      -       2,500              _-                     -
- Others (net)          -            -             -      1,000       1,000         1s000
Sale of shares                                                100         150           250
Total resources (a) l9345        3S3&         1,381       2,220       2,368         2,051
Uses
Fixed assets (net)       112         (2)
Disbursements on
- Loans              1 564         s255       1,995       1,855       1,435         1,475
- equity investment   127          495           855        795         615           615
Repayment of
Government loan          -           -             -        100         100           100
- IERD                               -             -          -           -            60
- CEO                    -          17            35         35          35            35
Total uses (b)        1,803       1,765        2,885       2,785       2,185         2s245
(a) - (b) =
Valuation of net
current assets and
time deposits          (458)       1,616        (1,509)       565         183         (194)
17 excluding depreciation
DFCD May 29, 1974



ANNEX 15
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Financial Ratios
(RtOOO)
FY/71   FY/2   FY/73       FY/74    FY1 5    FWt6    FY/77   FY/?8
(actual)                             (projected)
1. Income Statement Elements
as % of Average Total Assets
Gross income                  182      63     40         22.7     10.2    10.3      11.0    109
Less:  Financial expenses  -        -      -          2.7      4.4      4.9      5.3      5.5
Administrative
expenses         23      11      7          4.2       2.9     2.7       2.4     2.2
Gross profit                  159      52      33        15.8       2.9     2.7       33     3.2
Less   Provisions for loans
and investments      -      -       -         0.8       0.8     0.5       0,3     0.2
Tax                 48     16       9         4.7       0.8     0.7       0.9     0.9
Net Profit                    111      36     24         10.0       102     1.3       2.1     2.1
2.  Net Profit and Dividends
Net profit as % of year-
end share capital             450    137      27         21.6        3.8    5.6      9.9    11.1
Net profit as % of
average equity                 82      45     29         15.6        2.5    3.5       6.1     6.3
3. Debt to Equity Ratio
Long-term debt/equity            -      -       -         1/1        1.3/1  1.8/      2.2/1   2,3/1
4.  Debt Coverage
Interest and Principal
Coverage                    -       -      -          4.9/1      1.4/1  1.4/1    1.7/1   1.7/1
DFCD
June 4, 1974



ANNEX 16
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMET CORPORATION
Estimated Disbursement Schedule
($Oooo)
1974
Fourth quarter                                 800
1975
First quarter                                  500
Second quarter                                 500
Third quarter                                  300
Fourth quarter                                 300
1976
First quarter                                  300
Second quarter                                 300
Third quarter                                  300
Fourth quarter                                 300
1977
First quarter                                  200
Second quarter                                 100
Third quarter                                  100
DFCD
May 26, 1974



