Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4385
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA
BOTSWANA: BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BDC)
(LOAN 1019-BT)
March 16, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Industrial Development and Finance Division
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BDC)
(LOAN 1019-BT)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
Preface
Basic Data Sheet                                                   ii
Highlights                                                        iii
I.   Introduction                                                   1
II.  Macroeconomic, Industrial and Financial Objectives             2
III. The Institution                                                5
IV.  Allocation of the Loan                                        11
V.   Operational and Financial Performance                         14
VI.  Conclusions                                                   16
Annexes:
1.   List of Subprojects Financed under Loan 1019-BT               19
2.   Economic Characteristics of Subprojects Financed              20
under Loan 1019-BT
3.   Financial Characteristics of Subprojects Financed             21
under Loan 1019-BT
4.   Operations (1974-1981)                                        22
5.   Analysis of Portfolio                                         23
6.   Investment Performance of Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries           24
7.   Investment Performance of Joint-Venture Companies             25
as of June 30, 1981
8.   Comparison of Actual and Forecast Income Statements           26
(1974-1981)
9.   Comparison of Actual and Projected Balance Sheets (1974-81)   27
10. Comparison of Actual and Projected Sources and Uses
of Funds (1974-81)                                          28
11.  Comparison of Actual and Forecast Financial Ratios            29
12. Group Consolidated Balance Sheets (19 74-1981)                 30
13. Group Consolidated Income Statements (1974-1981)               31
14. Exchange Risk Protection Formula                               32
15. Sub-projects Financed under the Loan                           33
Attachments A & B:  Comments from the Borrower                     37
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.






PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BDC)
(LOAN 1019-BT)
PREFACE
This report presents an evaluation of Bank Loan 1019-BT made to
Botswana Development Corporation (BDC), which was established in 1970. The
loan was approved in June 1974,declared effective in December of the same
year and fully disbursed by March 1982.
The Bank's Eastern Africa Regional Office has prepared this
Project Completion Report (PCR) on the basis of information and data
supplied to a Bank mission in February 1982 by the Borrower. The report
presents a factual review of BDC's use of the loan proceeds and of its
institutional development over the last seven years.
The Ministry of Finance and Development Planning and BDC offered
a number of specific comments and clarifications; these have been taken
into account in finalizing the report and are reproduced as Attachments A
and B to the PCR. At BDC's request, the PCR has been updated, to the
extent possible, to reflect its operations and financial situation as at
the end of June, 1982.
This PCR has not been audited by the OED staff.






- ii -
BASIC DATA SHEET
BOTSWANA: BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BDC)
(LOAN 1019-BT)
PROJECT DATA
(US$ Million)
As of 12/31/82
Original   Disbursed    Cancelled    Repaid   Outstanding
Loan 1019-BT           4.0        4.0         --          $1.4        $2.6
CUMULATIVE LOAN DISBURSEMENT
FY74 FY75 FY76 FY77 FY78 FY79 FY80 FY81 FY82
(i) Planned                1.8   3.0   3.9   4.0
(ii) Actual                 0     1.8   2.3   2.5   2.5    2.6   2.6   4.0
(iii) (ii) as % of (i)       -     60    59    62    -      -     -     -
Original Loan Date(s)    Actual or Re-estimated
Board Approval                       6/25/74                  6/25/74
Loan Agreement                       6/27/74                  6/27/74
Effectiveness                          --                     9/12/74
Loan Closing                         6/30/79                 12/31/83
Physical Completion                  6/30/77                 12/31/81
Mission Data
No. of   No. of                Date of
Month/Year    Weeks    Persons   Manweeks   Report
Identification              3/73        0.4        2         0.8     4/23/73
Appraisal                  10/73        3.8        1         3.8     6/06/74
Supervision I               3/76        1.6        3         4.8     6/02/76
Supervision II             11/77        0.8        1         0.8    11/22/77
Supervision III             3/79        0.4       2          0.8     4/16/79
Supervision IV              3/80        1.4        1         1.4     6/18/80
Supervision V              11/80        1.0        1         1.0    12/15/80
Completion                  2/82        2.0        1         2.0     9/07/82






- iii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
BOTSWANA: BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION (BDC)
(LOAN 1019-BT)
HIGHLIGHTS
Bank Loan 1019-BT was the first World Bank operation with the
Botswana Development Corporation. It represents a departure from the
Bank's traditional DFC operation in as much as BDC is not a typical DFC but
a promotional institution. It was chosen to be the intermediary for
channeling funds for Botswana's economic development because, given the
lack of private entrepreneurs, it was the only institution taking
entrepreneurial initiatives in identifying and establishing projects in a
number of sectors through wholly-owned or joint venture (with foreign
investors) subsidiaries.
Organizationally and financially BDC has passed through a
difficult phase. Because of the lack of educated and experienced Botswana
citizens, its senior management, with one exception still consists of
expatriates. Although it has been trying right from its inception to
recruit Botswana citizens to its professional staff, only recently has it
been successful in attracting a few Botswana citizens to its professional
cadre. They will need several years of on-the-job training before they can
replace expatriates. On the financial side the poor performance of two of
its major subsidiaries adversely affected BDC's financial position in
mid-seventies but with a change in their management these subsidiaries have
since turned the corner. One of them presently is a source of great
financial strength to BDC.
BDC's slow progress in meeting the objectives of the Bank loan
was mainly due to its preoccupation with efforts to rehabilitate its two
ailing subsidiaries. Having been successful in improving their
performance, BDC is now taking steps to improve the financial structure of
most of its subsidiaries and to establish arms length relationship with
them by providing independent management wherever possible. BDC has also
recently taken a more aggressive role in project promotion by establishing
a separate department for this purpose and by initiating proposals for
providing assistance to small-scale enterprises in Botswana.
Other points of interest are:
- Delays in commitment and disbursement (PCR para 3.03).
- Protection provided to BDC by the Government against
foreign exchange risk (PCR para 3.07 (iii)).
- Inadequate progress of scheme for financial assistance
to SSE's (PCR para 4.05).
- Participation by IFC, DEG, and FMO in BDC's preference
shares and their representation on BDC Board (PCR
para 5.06).






I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      Following the recommendations of a feasibility study undertaken
in 1969 for the Government of Botswana by B-itish consultants, he Bitswana
Development Corporation (BDC) was establishud on April 15, 1970, as a
wholly Government-owned limited liability company with the general
objective to "promote and facilitate the economic development of Botswana,
to identify opportunities for development of new and existing industrial
commercial and agricultural business undertakings, to establish such
undertakings either on its own or in partnership with other local or
foreign investors and to provide them with appropriate assistance,
including financial and managerial support".
1.02      BDC's Memorandum of Association gives it considerable flexibility
in determining the scope of its operations and requires it to operate on
commercially sound lines. It states that BDC "shall conduct its business
affairs upon a commercial basis, and in a prompt, efficient and economic
manner.   It shall exercise special care and give due regard to the economic
and commercial merits of any undertaking it promotes, assists, finances or
manages, so that, (taking one year with another,) it shall not be allowed
to operate at a loss; however, though each such undertaking should be
evaluated on its strict merits, nevertheless such evaluation should include
consideration of the overall long-term economic interests in and benefits
to Botswana".
1.03      BDC requested WBG in July 1973 for assistance to finance the
import component of several projects it had in its pipeline, and a Bank
mission appraised BDC in October 1973. While the initial recommendation of
the mission was for a loan or a credit of $1.5 million, this figure was
raised to $4 million to accommodate a longer stream of sub-projects,
including financing as a special case the commercial property development
in Selebi-Phikwe for an amount not exceeding $800,000.
1.04      The loan was based on the appraisal report dated June 6, 1974
(Report No. 394a-BT) and was approved on June 25, 1974; it was signed on
June 27, 1974 and became effective on December 9, 1974. About 60% of the
loan was committed within a year of its effectiveness but the remaining 40%
took another 5+ years (June 1981) for commitment; the loan was fully
disbursed by end of March 1982. The original sub-project approval and
closing dates were June 30, 1977 and June 30, 1979 respectively but had to
be extended thrice to December 31, 1981 and December 31, 1983. The
important features of the loan included an aggregate free limit of $800,000
with an individual sub-project free limit of $75,000 and retro-active
financing of expenditures incurred after February 1, 1974, not exceeding
$300,000 to enable reimbursement of some expenditures incurred by BDC on
projects reviewed by the Bank at appraisal. It was agreed in the loan
agreement that BDC would take steps satisfactory to the Bank as shall be
necessary to protect itself from risks of loss resulting from changes in
rates of exchange between currencies used in its lending and borrowing
operations. It was understood during negotiations that BDC would pass on
the exchange risk to recipients of sub-loans. The Botswana Government also
confirmed that it would protect BDC from substantial net financial losses
resulting from exchange fluctuations. The foreign exchange risk relating
to equity investments was to be borne by BDC.



- 2 -
II. MACRO-ECONOMIC, INDUSTRIAL AND FINANCIAL OBJECTIVES
2.01      Botswana, a landlocked country which depends on South Africa for
its access to the sea and which has a population of about 941,000 people,
has moved quickly, after achieving independence in 1966, from a traditional
economy where cattle rearing provided the major source of income, to a more
open one where substantial resources were generated through exports of
beef, copper/nickel, and, most importantly, diamonds. This has resulted in
dramatic shifts in the pattern of domestic production and in the sources
and levels of income. Agriculture's contribution to GDP has steadily
declined from almost 42% in 1967/68 to an estimated 16% in 1979/80 whereas
value added in the industrial sector (comprising mining, manufacturing,
electricity and construction) has risen from 17% to 39% of GDP during the
same period. Mining sector value added, which rose from P1.2 million in
1967/68 to approximately P100 million in 1979/80, has been the driving
force of industrial growth. GNP per capita has risen in current prices
from around US$100 in 1968 to an estimated US$910 in 1980. Government's
recurrent budget surpluses in the recent past have financed over 50% of
capital expenditure. Net foreign exchange reserves by the end of 1980 had
accumulated to a level that could finance 5 months imports of goods and
services. Nevertheless, Botswana is still at an early stage of
development.
2.02       The broad objectives of Botswana's current national development
plan, NDP V (FY80-85) are the same as those of the earlier plans (NDP III
FY74-79 and NDP IV FY77-82) and include rapid economic growth, social
justice, economic independence and sustained development. The Government
continues to commit itself to active interventionist economic and social
policies within a market economy, in which the private sector is looked
upon to provide a substantial part of investment, particularly in mining
and manufacturing. The principal objective of the Government's strategy
has been to achieve large returns from the mining sector and to re-invest
those resources in productive sectors which could be expected to generate
both formal and informal sector employment.
2.03       Perhaps the most challenging task facing Botswana's policy makers
in this decade will be that of providing sufficient job opportunities for
the country's rapidly growing labour force. The number of those available
for work is estimated to have increased from about 289,000 in 1971 to
370,000 in 1979 or by approximately 10,000 a year. Employment creation in
the formal sector during this period averaged about 4,600 jobs per annum.
As at the end of 1979, formal sector employment amounted to 76,000. Rough
estimates of informal sector employment indicate that about 18,000 (or
about 5% of the active labour force) were engaged in informal activities.
Recognizing the magnitude of the employment problem, the Government has
given the highest priority to employment creation in NDP V and projected
new job creation at the rate of 10,000 a year, of which formal sector will
account for 6,700 jobs.
2.04       As part of the overall strategy to achieve substantial increases
in employment, to foster economic diversification and to reduce economic
dependence, particularly from the stronger economies of South Africa and
Zimbabwe, the Government has attached considerable importance to a forceful



- 3 -
development of the manufacturing sector.     Since the necessary capital,
techn. -.' a.d manpower resou-ces are not available locally, encouragement
of private foreign investment is an integral part of the Government's
strategy. In support of this strategy the Government has over the years
adopted a number of measures to create a climate favourable to private
investment. These include: creation of industrial infrastructure;
establishment of the requisite institutional framework for carrying out
industrial feasibility studies for small and medium scale industries and
their financing; international trade agreements (particularly with South
Africa, as a member of the South African Customs Union which allows duty
free movement of goods among member countries); liberal exchange control
policies; a comprehensive licensing system; and an attractive tax system.
2.05      However, the manufacturing sector in Botswana is quite small; it
employs about 7 percent of the labour force or some 6,000 people and
contributes about 8% of GDP. It is dominated by the Botswana Meat
Commission abattoir, producing meat and other animal by-products almost
entirely for exports, contributing around 50% to sector value added and
employing about one third of the industrial labour force. Apart from the
informal village industries producing mainly handicrafts and home-brewed
beer, there are about 100 modern manufacturing enterprises, most of them
small-scale, manufacturing meat products, beverages, textiles and garments,
metal production, furniture, building materials, chemicals and printing.
These are concentrated in four major urban areas of Gaborone, Francistown,
Lobatse and Selebi-Phikwe. About 63% are foreign owned. The development
of manufacturing on any significant scale is hampered by the small size of
the domestic market with limited potential for import substitution, by the
high cost of basic infrastructure, by Botswana's closeness and special
trade ties to South Africa, and by the shortage of local entrepreneurs and
local trained/skilled labour force.
2.06       In an effort to provide assistance for the development of
enterprises in commercial and industrial sectors, owned and managed by
local entrepreneurs, the Government set up in 1974, within the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry the "Botswana Enterprises Development Unit" (BEDU).
It provides the following services: building of industrial estates and
leasing of serviced land to small scale entrepreneurs at subsidized rates;
training and consultancy services; concessionary loans; bulk purchase of
imports; leasing of machinery; and marketing assistance. BEDU has a staff
of 60, including 28 expatriate management and technical advisors and has so
far promoted/provided assistance to about 80 small formal sector
businesses, mainly in urban areas. It has helped create about 1,000 jobs
of which about 450 were in construction and 550 in manufacturing. It has
so far obtained funding for its activities from the Government, SIDA and
UNDP. However, since BEDU has been a high cost operation, the range and
focus of its activities are likely to be reviewed in the near future. This
is so, particularly because a large number of beneficiaries of its
assistance find it difficult to graduate from its program of highly
subsidized assistance.
2.07       The World Bank has generally supported Botswana's development
objectives and strategies, particularly to maximize the number of
productive employment opportunities for citizens, to foster economic



- 4 -
independence and to diversify the economy.    This has been the major reason
for the Bank's support to BDC which was set up by the Government to
accomplish these objectives. Given the limitations of its environment
particularly the lack of private investors, BDC's broad mandate and its
operational flexibility has enabled it to take strong entrepreneurial
initiatives in identifying, promoting and even establishing projects in a
variety of sectors such as agriculture, industry, transportation, tourism,
etc. While the Government has generally welcomed foreign investment in
productive enterprises, it wants to minimize foreign ownership of trade,
real estate and agricultural land. (For lack of local initiatives in the
past, a considerable proportion of commercial property and trade continues
to be owned by foreigners). In pursuance of this particular objective BDC
has participated in a number of joint ventures and has acquired full
ownership, at the Government's request, in two agricultural operations and
in residential, industrial and commercial property development in Gaborone
and Selebi-Phikwe. BDC, of course, satisfied itself at the time that the
investments were in commercially viable and sound projects. BDC-assisted
projects have generated direct employment for about 2,200 people, at an
investment cost per job of about US$6,000.
2.08       The major objectives of the Bank in providing assistance to BDC
were to build up the institution and to provide it with resources for
investment in productive enterprises which would create employment
opportunities for the Botswana citizens. Institution building involved:
(a) adoption of a policy statement, setting out investment criteria and
policies; (b) staff development; (c) a more dynamic role in project
identification and promotion; and (d) providing subsidiaries with autonomy,
where appropriate, and with a reasonable financial structure. The progress
in achieving these objectives has been mixed and somewhat slow; it is
commented upon in the following chapters.
2.09      The financial sector in Botswana consists of the central bank,
three commercial banks (two locally incorporated subsidiaries of British
commercial banks and the third of a Middle East bank), the National
Development Bank (NDB), wholly-owned by the Government, a building society,
a hire-purchase and leasing company, two insurance companies and the
Botswana Development Corporation (BDC). Except during the last one year,
the commercial banks have traditionally been very liquid and met the
working capital as well as the term financing requirements of their
customers.
2.10      NDB, established by the Government in 1963 as a wholly
Government-owned institution to provide short-term and medium-term
financial assistance to undertakings in various sectors of the economy,
concentrated until two years ago on providing small loans to
agriculturalists. It has also been the channel for disbursing loans to
BEDU-assisted small scale enterprises. It is now expanding its operations
to cover financing needs in the commercial and industrial sectors.
Although its charter does not require it to do so, NDB in practice
restricts its assistance to Botswana-owned enterprises.
2.11      BDC has played an important role in the financial sector by
helping to set up the Botswana Insurance Company as a joint venture with a
foreign insurer and taking up 51% participation in its shares. It also set
up in 1972 the First Equipment Leasing Co. Ltd. to provide hire-purchase



- 5 -
and leasing finance. It was reorganized in 1974 with the changed name of
the Financial Services Co. of Botswana (Pty) Ltd. with BDC retaining only
30% ownership and other financial institutions (Barclays Bank and Standard
Bank 20% each and the National Development Bank 30%), taking up 70%. FSCB
has provided hire-purchase and leasing finance for automobiles,
construction equipment etc. BDC has also acted as a catalyst in mobilizing
resources from foreign investors in a number of projects in which it has
participated sometimes as a major shareholder. In 1979 it invited and
obtained the participation of IFC, FMO and DEG in its share capital, thus
opening up possibilities of these institutions participating in some
projects set up in the country.
2.12       Because of its proximity to South Africa and its membership in
the Southern Africa Customs Union, the trend of Botswana's interest rates
has closely followed that of South Africa; so has the rate of inflation.
Until about a year ago, because of the liquidity of the local commercial
banks, the prime bank rate was 9% although the cost of living index
increased by about 12% a year between 1975 and 1980. BDC has normally
charged prime plus 0-3% rate on its loans; the rate increased dramatically
from 9% in August 1981 to 14.5% by May 1982.
III. THE INSTITUTION
Management and Staff
3.01      BDC has all along had a highly motivated and competent
management.   Due to the very small number of educated and experienced
Botswana citizens, BDC has generally relied on expatriates for most of its
senior positions and for the management positions in some of its
subsidiaries. Since the approval of the Bank loan, BDC's management has
changed twice i.e., in 1976 and 1980. In the early years of its
establishment BDC sponsored a few young Botswana citizens, under a
scholarship program, to the then University of Botswana, Lesotho and
Swaziland but the program was not a great success. Whenever feasible it
has recruited young Botswana citizens in junior positions and tried to give
them both formal and on-the-job training. In recent years it has stepped
up the recruitment of young university graduates and hopes that as the
supply of educated citizens increases, it may be able to retain some of its
citizen staff for a longer term than was the case in the past. BDC has a
Botswana citizen as its Deputy General Manager.
Subsidiaries
3.02      BDC has been carrying out its promotional role through
subsidiaries whose number has grown from 20 in 1975 to 28 at the end of
June 1982, covering activities in agriculture, commerce, industry,
financial services, property management/development, transport, and
tourism/hotels. In addition, some subsidiaries had their own subsidiaries;
there were fourteen of the latter at that time, making a total of 40
companies. Due to the lack of management expertise in Botswana, BDC has
tried to find expatriate management for those subsidiaries whose nature of
activities and level of operations justified independent professional
management; in other cases it has directly controlled and managed them with



- 6 -
consist of BDC's own senior staff. Of the 25 subsidiaries, 7 are joint
venture companies, mostly with foreign investors who hold minority interest
but have management responsibility. Of the remaining 18 subsidiaries
(wholly-owned), 15 are managed directly by BDC who also provide accounting
and secretarial services. These include 9 property companies (including
hotel development) and 3 companies involved in farm development. The sheer
number of the subsidiaries directly managed by BDC has given rise to
suggestions from the Bank from time to time that BDC should consider
divesting itself of its mature investments either wholly or partly.      BDC
has done this whenever feasible. However, in view of Botswana's
sensitivities regarding ownership of agricultural farms and real estate,
BDC would like to divest itself of these investments by sales to Botswana
citizens only and opportunities for such sales are limited.
Project Implementation
3.03       Although during appraisal, it appeared that the total amount of
loan would be committed and disbursed by 1976, this expectation proved to
be too optimistic. The project got off to a good start with 60% of the
loan committed within a year of the loan effectiveness but thereafter
commitments virtually came to a standstill due to a number of reasons.
Some of the projects in BDC's pipeline which at the time of appraisal
appeared likely were on closer scrutiny found to be unviable. Because of
the lack of clear cut industrial policies and the introduction of
Botswana's own currency (Pula), the investment climate sagged somewhat.
Furthermore, Botswana was able to attract financial assistance from various
sources at more favourable rates than those of the Bank loan. Because of
the generally low interest rate regime in Southern Africa, the Bank's rate
of 7.25% p.a. was considered relatively high. The foreign exchange risks
on the then "hard" currencies (such as DM, Sw Fr and Yen) in which
disbursements of the Bank loan were generally made were also regarded as
unduly high.
3.04      In an effort to encourage further commitments under the loan and
to redirect a part of the loan towards labour intensive activities, the
Bank persuaded BDC to participate in a scheme for financing Batswana owned
small scale enterprises (SSEs) which was being operated by the local
Barclays Bank (on behalf of the London-based Barclays Development Fund).
After lengthy discussions with Barclays Bank and the Government, BDC agreed
to commit up to $1 million in a modified scheme, whereby Barclays would
expand its SSE scheme to cover operations hitherto considered too risky for
commercial bank financing. BDC would reimburse Barclays up to 70% of SSE
loans disbursed by it and, in addition, guarantee 50% of Barclays' losses
on these loans up to a maximum BDC liability of P100,000. It was expected
that the scheme would generate 390 loans and create about 975 jobs at an
average cost per job of $1,400. Although Barclays made 51 loans under the
scheme, only 16 SSEs were financed under the Bank loan, involving $107,000;
after the approval of these first 16 applications, snags developed
concerning the currencies in which the Bank would disburse the SSE portion
of the loan. These led to discontinuation of further commitments and
disbursements of the loan stopped. (See paragraph 4.05.)
3.05       The original objective of the SSE component i.e., to provide
financial assistance to small scale enterprises and help employment
creation at low cost, thus could not be achieved. The development of the
BDC/Barclays SSE scheme had received considerable support from the then



-7 -
Loan Manager of Barclays, who was very development-oriented and his
sympathetic Managing Director. About the time the currency disbursement
snags developed, these two officials had left Barclays (Botswana) and their
successors were not enthused about the scheme. Furthermore, as a result of
excess liquidity in the banking system, the Barclays Bank was not keen to
borrow 9.5% funds from BDC. Consequently the scheme virtually came to a
stop.
3.06       The remainder of the Bank loan (US$1.4 million) was used by BDC
only after it identified a project which could carry the foreign exchange
risk on the sub-loan and after the interest rate on the Bank loan (7.25%)
became competitive with the rates prevalent in Botswana. As a result of
these developments the commitment date for the loan had to be extended
thrice from 6/30/77 to 6/30/78, 12/31/79 and 12/31/81 and the closing date
similarly from 6/30/79 to 6/30/80, 12/31/81 and 12/31/83. The loan was
fully disbursed by March 31, 1982, three years later than the initial
closing date.
Major Issues
3.07       During the course of appraisal and loan negotiation, the
following issues were discussed with the DFC and the Botswana authorities:
(i) Amount of Loan/Credit. The appraisal mission
originally recommended a loan/credit of US$1.5 million;
this amount was increased to US$2 million at the
decision meeting and to US$4 million at the
negotiations after the Botswana delegation requested an
increase to enable BDC to finance a larger stream of
sub-projects in BDC's pipeline.
(ii) Sub-projects under the Loan. At the time of appraisal
BDC had a pipeline of 12 projects which it was
considering for financing out of the proposed line of
credit; of these three were relatively large projects,
the feasibility studies of which were reviewed by the
appraisal mission in the field and which were found to
be attractive as to their financial and economic rates
of return. In addition, BDC had been asked by the
Government of Botswana to finance commercial property
development in Selebi-Phikwe. The appraisal mission
did not recommend providing WBG funds for commercial
property development but the decision meeting agreed to
finance it up to a maximum of $300,000 in view of the
fact that Selebi-Phikwe township had been partially
financed by an earlier Bank loan for Shashe
Infrastructure Project (776-BT). This amount was
increased to $800,000 at the negotiations, but it was
decided that no further commercial property development
would be financed under the loan. (A review of the
sub-projects financed indicates that the Bank
authorized disbursement of about $1,035,000 for the
subsidiary responsible for commercial property
development. In fact what happened was that
disbursement for the commercial property development



-8
was made in the amount of US$652,100 but the same
subsidiary (Commercial Holdings) borrowed further
$382,800 for a restaurant, office accommodation and
reception areas for the Bosele Hotel in Selebi-Phikwe).
(iii) Policy Statement. BDC's Policy Statement adopted by
its Board in 1972 was found to be inadequate by the
appraisal mission. BDC management undertook to adopt,
prior to loan signing, a more comprehensive statement
which provided for specific limits to BDC's commitments
but took into account BDC's particular role and major
involvement in the promotion of enterprises and in
property development on behalf of the Government.
This was done in June, 1974. The new Policy Statement
required, among other things, that BDC will not
normally invest more than 25% of its net worth in any
one project or finance more than 50% of the project's
capital cost, except in case of its subsidiaries. It
also required that BDC will not normally manage
enterprises. Limitations were placed on BDC's
aggregate equity investments so that these do not
exceed BDC's net worth and BDC was also required to
protect itself against foreign exchange risk. BDC did
not adhere to its exposure limitation in two of its
projects and provided financial assistance in excess of
25% of its net worth to Prinz Brau (Kgalagadi
Breweries) and Commercial Holdings. This was
unavoidable in the former case because, following the
brewery's disastrous performance (which had serious
implications for BDC's own financial situation), BDC
had to inject substantial amounts in the company in a
massive effort to rehabilitate the project. This was a
prudent decision in an exceptional situation which was
partly responsible for the resurgence of the brewery.
Although BDC was required to protect itself against
risk of loss resulting from changes in exchange rates
between the currencies used in its lending and
borrowing operations, BDC bore the exchange risk in
final analysis because a major portion of the loan went
to its wholly-owned subsidiaries. This was unavoidable
considering the nature of BDC operations. Because of
the strength of the Pula, BDC made a net exchange gain
of P76,000 during 1978-1982.    In August 1980, however,
the Government provided BDC with partial protection
against exchange fluctuation risks, as outlined in
Annex 13, in accordance with the undertaking given by
it at loan negotiations.
(iv)  Management Responsibility for Subsidiaries.     While BDC
had agreed with the appraisal mission, as also in its
Policy Statement, not to assume management
responsibility for the projects it finances, it has
continued to be directly responsible for the management
of residential property subsidiaries. In other
subsidiaries, while it tries to recruit outside



- 9 -
competent managers and provides accounting and
secretarial services, it is difficult at times to draw
a line between situations where BDC assumes direct
management responsibility and those where it arranges
to obtain independent management. Sometimes it has to
appoint its own staff for a period to take care of the
subsidiaries' operations; this is not a happy situation
but is unavoidable because of the dearth of local
competent managers and the time lag between the
termination of the services of an expatriate manager
and his replacement by another expatriate.
(v) Financial Structure of Subsidiaries. BDC had set up a
number of subsidiaries, particularly property
companies, with a nominal paid-in capital and sizeable
amount of loans payable on demand. This was done to
(i) take advantage of the tax regulations in force at
the time; (ii) allow BDC flexibility in financial
management through centralization of liquid resources;
and (iii) to cut down on administrative costs during
the early stages of their development. However, BDC
declared its intention at the time of loan appraisal
and negotiations to provide these subsidiaries, except
residential property subsidiaries, with a reasonable
level of equity and with loans having fixed
amortization schedules. (For sub-projects financed out
of the Bank loan, BDC had stated that they would be
provided with appropriate share capital and fixed-term
loans from the beginning.) BDC was unable to translate
these intentions into reality until after June 1981
with the result that as at the end of FY81, there were
still 7 non-residential property subsidiaries (other
than those financed by the Bank) which had nominal
capital and demand loans. (Five other subsidiaries
also had demand loans). Only by the end of FY82 did
BDC complete arrangements for most of its subsidiaries
to capitalize accumulated profits and/or to convert
part of demand loans into equity investments and the
remaining portion of demand loans into term loans with
a fixed amortization schedule; three subsidiaries were
to be similarly recapitalized in FY83.
(vi)  Foreign Exchange Component of Locally Incurred
Expenditures. The appraisal mission made and the
Decision Meeting accepted the recommendation that for
purposes of the World Bank Group, the border prices of
goods imported into Botswana be treated as the foreign
component mainly because Botswana at that time was in
the Rand currency area and was a member of the South
African Customs Union and machinery and equipment
imported into the Rand area from outside attracted
virtually no import duties. At the negotiations the
Botswana delegation undertook to submit a study
providing a more refined estimate of foreign currency



- 10 -
component of (i) goods previously imported into
Botswana through normal trade channels and of (ii)
civil works and construction contracts. The
delegations agreed to review, and if necessary
amend,the agreed percentages, namely 80% for (i) and
70% for (ii) above. Based on a study carried out by
BDC with the assistance of a firm of quantity surveyors
these figures were revised as follows: 65% for goods
previously imported into Botswana; 44% for civil works
and; 55% for buildings.
(vii) Debt-Equity Ratio. Initially the Botswana delegation
considered the limitation of 3:1 for BDC's long-term
debt equity ratio as too restrictive but when the Bank
delegation explained at the negotiations that over time
this ratio is reviewed by the Bank taking into account
the soundness of the borrowers' policies, procedures,
portfolio and financial condition, the Botswana
delegation accepted the limitation. Debt equity ratio
is presently 0.5:1 and is much below the limit set in
the Loan Agreement.
(viii)  Botswanization of Staff.    The appraisal mission noted
that BDC's professional staff of 12 contained only 3
junior Batswana and discussed BDC's plans of
localization of staff. Although BDC management at the
time thought that it could localize its staff by 1982,
this appeared to be highly improbable because of the
shortage of educated Batswana. In an effort to
progressively localize the professional staff BDC's
previous managements tried to sponsor some Botswana
citizens to a scholarship program in a University, with
a view to their eventual recruitment in BDC, this
program did not make much progress. Under the present
management BDC has made good progress in recruiting
Batswana staff; of the present professional staff of
21, 11 are citizens of whom 1 is the Deputy General
Manager. BDC will still have to rely on expatriate
staff for a number of years because the junior Batswana
professional staff will need several years of
on-the-job training and experience before they could
take up senior positions in BDC.
(ix) Audited Financial Statements. BDC was required under
the provisions of the Loan Agreement to submit audited
financial statements for each fiscal year not later
than three months after the end of each year. While
the audit of the BDC accounts and those of its
subsidiaries is completed within three months of the
close of the fiscal year, BDC needs another 2-3 months
to consolidate these accounts and to submit them to its
Board for approval. The period of three months in the
Loan Agreement is thus considered unrealistic.



- 11 -
BDC's auditors have not been following the
"Illustrative Guidelines" of the Bank for preparation
of BDC accounts.   The following appear to be the
reasons for the Bank not insisting on compliance with
this requirement: (i) BDC was staffed at senior levels
by competent and dedicated expatriate staff who were
closely monitoring the financial performance of BDC and
its subsidiaries and submitting quarterly monitoring
reports to its Board; (ii) while the format of the
audit reports did not follow the guidelines, adequate
information was still provided therein and by BDC to
enable us to evaluate BDC's consolidated financial
position. (Unlike other DFCs, BDC was not required to
submit quarterly reports on operations and financial
situation because it was submitting to us copies of all
of its Board papers and progress reports on operations
which were quite thorough.)
3.08       Having overcome the financial difficulties which plagued it in
the mid-seventies and with the installation of the new management in
mid-1980, BDC has made further progress in achieving some of the
institutional objectives set at the time of the loan approval (para. 2.08)
by (i) creating a department which will devote its attention exclusively to
project identification and (ii) improving the financial structure of its
subsidiaries; these have been the two main issues which the Bank missions
have stressed repeatedly.
3.09       BDC has recently obtained the approval of its Board for an
investment program of about P95 million over the next five years covering
projects in agriculture, industry, tourism and hotels and industrial land
development.   To meet part of BDC's resource gap, the Government requested
the Bank in the 3rd week of June to consider a second credit line to BDC.
The Government has also requested the Bank for a loan to the National
Development Bank to support its increasing lending activities. Botswana
lending program has BDC II as an FY84R project and management decision on
including it in the active lending program is awaited. The Government's
intention seems to be quite clear that any new DFC operation in Botswana
should assist both BDC and NDB. With BDC now poised to take a more
aggressive stance in promoting projects, the Bank's leverage in effecting
improvements in its operational strategy and policies etc. should certainly
improve with a second line of credit.
IV. ALLOCATION OF THE LOAN
4.01       The Bank loan was utilized to finance (i) seven large and medium
size sub-projects, all above the free limit, covering agriculture,
industry, tourism, commercial and industrial property development and
(ii) sixteen small scale enterprises, under a scheme jointly operated by
BDC and the Barclays Bank, (paras. 3.04 and 4.05). Three sub-projects 1,
received two loans each. The loan drawn by one sub-project, a diamond
/ Unless a reference is specifically made to SSE sub-projects, all
references to sub-projects and sub-loans in this chapter relate to the
seven medium-sized sub-projects.



- 12 -
sorting and valuing company (owned 55% by BDC), was prepaid, as BDC
divested itself of the investment in February 1977.     In all, ten sub-loans
were made to the seven sub-projects referred to under (i) above.      The
tourism (hotels) sector received over 60% of the Bank loan.
4.02      The financial and economic characteristics of the sub-projects
are given in Annexes 2 and 3 respectively. All recipients of sub-loans
were BDC subsidiaries, two of which were joint ventures with foreign
investors who held minority interest (40% in each case) but provided the
management. Four sub-projects were new ventures. While BDC did not
calculate economic rates of return on most sub-projects at the time of
appraisal, the internal rates of return (which were calculated) were
satisfactory in all cases except Talana Farms. Of the six sub-projects
which still have sub-loans outstanding, three had already been identified
at the time of the loan appraisal. The implementation of most of the
sub-projects was on time but four experienced sizeable cost overruns. The
financial performance of four sub-projects as at the end of June 1982 was
better than that estimated at appraisal. Two of them (Commercial Holdings
and Talana Farms) have accumulated deficits but these are for modest
amounts and BDC has made adequate provisions for possible losses there-
against. The prospects of the other sub-projects in the medium term appear
good.
4.03      The economic impact of the sub-projects financed under the loan
is quite significant. The six sub-projects helped create 658 permanent
jobs at an average cost per job of slightly over $18,000. While 60-90% of
the output of one sub-project (Talana Farms) is exported, the two hotels
managed by Marakanelo earned foreign exchange from foreign
tourists/visitors estimated at $150,000 in 1982.     The foreign exchange
savings of the Kgalagadi Breweries on beer and soft drinks, although not
calculated, are substantial.
4.04       In line with its established practice BDC has charged interest at
the commercial banks' prime rate on its sub-loans; the rate was 9% p.a. at
the time most sub-loans were made. While BDC normally made loans to its
subsidiaries on demand basis, sub-loans out of the Bank's credit line had
amortization schedules related to the cash flow of the sub-projects.
Foreign exchange risk on the sub-loans to the final borrowers, had to be
ultimately borne by BDC itself as as a major portion of these sub-loans
went to its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Since the Pula has remained a
fairly stable currency, BDC made some foreign exchange gains as a result of
fluctuations.
4.05      The allocation of a part of the loan (up to a maximum of US$1
million) to the BDC/Barclays Bank Small Scale Enterprise Scheme was made on
different terms and conditions. The sub-loans were to be for construction
of workshops, purchase of equipment or for working capital, and the maximum
term would not exceed 10 years, 5 years and 3 years respectively.     BDC
would on-lend the amount at 9.5% to Barclays who would lend it to the SSE
borrower at 13.5% (or 2.5% above the prevailing prime rate). The funds
were available to BDC for a period of 24 months from the first drawdown.
This allocation and the terms and conditions of sub-loans thereunder did
not involve any amendment to the loan agreement; a memorandum outlining the
purpose, terms and conditions and withdrawal procedures was drawn up and
agreed to by all the concerned parties viz, the Bank, BDC, Government of



- 13 -
Botswana and the Barclays Bank. There were no major issues involved in
this special allocation except that the exchange risk was to be borne by
the Government at no cost to the SSE borrower. The Government, however,
requested a "best endeavour" undertaking from the Bank that in respect of
drawdowns from this allocation it will disburse currencies requested by the
Government (in the first instance US$ and South African Rand). The Bank
was unable to provide this undertaking with the result that after the first
disbursement of US$107,000 for 16 SSE sub-projects, further commitments and
disbursements were discontinued. The uncommitted amount of the loan at the
time (US$1.4 million) was finally used by BDC in June 1981 for the
extension of the President Hotel, on the introduction of the Currency Pool
System.
4.06      Details of the medium and large size sub-projects financed under
the loan, all BDC subsidiaries, are provided in Annex 15; brief
descriptions are given below:
(a) Industry and Hotels
(i) Kgalagadi Breweries - (60% BDC owned - Sub-loan
US$0.6 million) - Beer and soft drinks
production.
(ii) Marakanelo - (60% BDC owned - Sub-loan US$0.3
million) - Hotel management.
(iii) Botswana Diamond Valuing - (55% BDC owned -
Sub-loan US$0.2 million) - Diamond sorting and
valuing.
(iv) Hotel Development - (100% BDC owned - Sub-loan
US$1.4 million) - Hotel.
(b) Property
(i) Broadhurst Industrial Estate - (100% BDC owned -
Sub-loan US$0.3 million) - Industrial estate.
(ii) Commercial Holdings - (100% BDC owned - Sub-loan
US$1 million) - Commercial property and hotel in
Selebi-Phikwe.
(c) Agriculture
(i) Talana Farms - (100% BDC owned - Sub-loan US$0.1
million) - Commercial agriculture.
The sub-loan to the Diamond Valuing Company was prepaid in 1977, following
the Government's take-over of the BDC share of the company. The Brewery
and the Hotel Management Co., although well-conceived projects, passed
through a period of financial crisis due essentially to mismanagement; this
was rectified in late seventies, since when the companies are operating
soundly, generating sizeable surpluses (having wiped out the deficits of
earlier years). The President Hotel (item a(iv)), last sub-project to be
financed under the loan has completed its modernization and expansion and



- 14 -
is already a successful and profitable operation. The industrial estate is
fully occupied and has made a significant contribution to development of
industrial and commercial enterprises in Gaborone; it continues to operate
profitably. The commercial properties in Selebi-Phikwe, the mining
township, have gone through a difficult phase and although presently
operating satisfactorily, continue to be a source of concern to BDC due to
the uncertainty surrounding the township's future in view of prospects of
depletion of the mines in about a decade. The Talana Farms, although
having good prospects for future expansion and satellite operations, is not
yet operating profitably due to high cost of imported inputs, a high
gearing and interest burden.    CDC is proposing to take a minority interest
in a proposed expansion of the farms and it is projected that the farms
will be out of the red in the near future. The project has considerable
economic benefits.
V. OPERATIONAL AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
5.01      Annex 4 gives the evolution from 1975 to 1982 of BDC's operations
(approvals 2/ and disbursements) and Annex 5 of its portfolio analysed by
the nature of investments, economic activity, and the nature of companies
in which BDC made the investments.
5.02       During the first few years of its establishment BDC played a
dynamic role in setting up a number of enterprises covering a wide range of
economic activities within Botswana. This involved incorporating the
companies, providing them with the necessary financial resources and, where
necessary, locating foreign investors in joint ventures and recruiting
expatriates to manage the subsidiaries. By the end of FY75 BDC had set up
20 subsidiaries, of which 17 were wholly-owned and taken minority positions
in 11 other companies; the total number of companies assisted by BDC was
31. Of the 17 wholly-owned subsidiaries, ten were property companies
developing industrial, commercial and residential real-estate. The total
number of companies assisted by BDC by FY82 went up to 36 of which 28 were
subsidiaries, 18 wholly-owned and 10 joint ventures (9 with foreign
investors). Having set up a number of subsidiaries in the early seventies,
BDC spent most of its efforts and resources in subsequent years in seeing
that these companies did operate satisfactorily and accomplish the purposes
for which they were created. The most worrisome project which required
constant attention of BDC management almost from the start until 1978 was
the brewery project whose financial performance (due to poor management)
was so disastrous that it threatened the financial health of BDC itself.
This left the BDC management very little time to take new initiatives, with
the result that at the end of FY81, the number of BDC-assisted companies
rose to 34 only. The limitations of the environment also inhibited BDC's
initiatives in identifying and promoting new projects.
5.03       In terms of amount invested in the various sectors, BDC's
portfolio growth has historically been lopsided; investments in property up
to 1977 represented over 70% of BDC's portfolio. While this was partly due
to the unprecedented need and opportunities for real estate development,
BDC's initiatives in this subsector were also motivated by the Government's
desire that property development be carried out, as far as possible, by
2/ Since most operations relate to BDC's subsidiaries or associate
companies, BDC does not distinguish between approvals and commitments.



- 15 -
Botswana nationals or institutions. The composition of the portfolio
changed in 1978 when BDC had to make substantial investments in the
Kgalagadi Breweries in Gaborone (to salvage it out of a disastrous
situation) and in the Hotel Management Co. (which had management contract
for the President Hotel in Gaborone and the Bosele Hotel in Selebi-Phikwe).
Having got into the property development business BDC found it hard to
divest itself of this portfolio on maturity as Botswana nationals or
Botswana owned companies were not available to purchase the properties; to
date BDC has disposed of only one commercial property (Development House).
The portfolio grew at an average rate of 25% between 1975 and 1978 when it
stagnated mainly due to BDC management spending most of its time on
salvaging the two joint-venture subsidiaries referred to earlier in the
paragraph and taking a more cautious approach on project promotion.      Only
since 1981, having satisfactorily resolved the problems of these two
subsidiaries, has BDC substantially increased its portfolio particularly in
the agricultural and tourism sectors. Approvals in FY81 shot up to over P9
million. BDC has now set up a new Project Development Department which
will have responsibility for identification and appraisal of new projects;
supervision and management of the existing enterprises will be carried out
by seven divisions of the Operations Department headed by the Deputy
General Manager. BDC's Board recently approved an investment program of
about P95 million in current prices over the next five years in agriculture
(P17 million), industry (P30 million), industrial property (P20 million),
commercial property (P8 million) and tourism (P3 million).
5.04      As of June 30, 1982, BDC had equity investments in 18
wholly-owned subsidiaries and 16 joint ventures, amounting to about 45% of
the total portfolio. Returns on these investments have varied over the
years but during FY82, the return amounted to about 10.5% of the average
equity portfolio. Most of the dividends were received from the joint
venture companies. The dividend income is expected to increase
dramatically in FY83 as Kgalagadi Breweries have declared a dividend
equivalent to 50% of after-tax FY82 profits.
5.05       In order to enable BDC to meet its administrative expenses during
the early years of its establishment without incurring losses and to
improve its equity base by retention of profits, the Government had
appointed BDC as its authorized agent to license wholesalers who import
sugar and to negotiate prices with exporters in Zimbabwe; it is paid a
commission for carrying out these functions. Income from these operations
until 1974 represented more than 50% of BDC's total income; only from 1976
onwards did income from interest on loans and dividends exceed 50%. While
BDC's net profits exceeded appraisal forecasts in FY74 and FY75, profits
thereafter plummetted mainly due to decrease in income from sugar trade,
and increase in administrative and financial expenses. In FY78 BDC's
financial position took a turn for the worse mainly due to huge losses
incurred by three subsidiaries, the brewery, the hotel management co. and
the (wholly-owned) subsidiary owning commercial property in Selebi-Phikwe.
In view of the huge provisions that had to be made for possible losses on
investments in these companies (P2,307,000) BDC's net worth took a plunge
from P2.5 million at the end of FY77 to P852,000 as at June 30, 1978,
resulting in the long-term debt-equity ratio deteriorating to 8:1. The
Government took steps in the following year to restore the financial health
of BDC by converting its P2 million loan into equity. BDC also carried out
management changes in the brewery and the hotel management co. which



- 16 -
brought quick results; BDC made profits of P407,000 in FY79, and P1,153,000
in FY80. By the end of FY80 BDC's reserves rose to P1,976,000 from a
negative (P1,093,000) as of June 30, 1978. FY80 profits were unusually
high due to capital gains of P860,000 on sale of a commercial property.
FY81 profits amounted to P396,000, but in FY82 the profits rose
dramatically to P1,302,000. During FY81 and FY82 BDC carried out a
professional revaluation of assets of some of its property companies,
resulting in an increase of about P6.2 million in their net asset value.
5.06       BDC had tried in the past to mobilize resources locally by issue
of debentures, seeking local participation in BDC's capital as well as in
some of its mature investments, but these efforts did not bear fruit. In
FY80, with the Government's approval, it invited IFC, DEG and FMO to
participate in its 8.5% Preferred Stock (P1.2 million) and to take seats on
the Board. This was done mainly to strengthen the Board, to benefit from
the expertise of these institutions and to use their good offices in
attracting foreign investment to Botswana. BDC's financial position at the
end of FY82 was very sound with a net worth of P11.7 million and a
long-term debt-equity ratio of 0.4:1. Its portfolio was in good condition
and it had provided for P985,000 for possible losses which the auditors
considered adequate. For the first time BDC declared a dividend of 8.5% to
all shareholders out of its FY81 profits. For FY82, BDC paid only the 8.5%
to its preference shareholders; the Government asked BDC not to pay
dividend on its ordinary shareholdings but to retain the earnings for its
future investment operations.
VI. CONCLUSIONS
6.01       Right from the early days of loan appraisal and through two
management changes in BDC, the Bank has enjoyed close and cordial
relationship with BDC management and its senior staff. Even at a time when
prospects for a second DFC operation with BDC appeared remote, this
relationship was maintained and BDC appreciated the Bank missions'
comments on its operations and strategy.
6.02      BDC's performance in achieving the objectives the Bank had set at
appraisal (para. 2.08) has been mixed. In an environment where local
entrepreneurship was virtually non-existent, BDC took a number of
initiatives in the early years of its establishment in promoting projects
in a variety of sectors. Apart from direct project promotion BDC helped
set up the Partnership for Productivity (Botswana) Ltd., (PFP) a non-profit
institution whose guarantee shares have been assumed by BDC. PFP designs,
develops and operates Batswana staffed programs to assist small scale
Botswana entrepreneurs, particularly by providing assistance in start-up,
management consultancy, accounting etc. BDC also provided some assistance
in the initial phases to the Botswana Technology Center, which was set up
with the assistance of London-based Intermediate Technology Development
Group, and which carries out appropriate technology research; it obtained
its funding mainly from EEC until August 1982 when the Government assumed
full responsibility for funding its operations.
6.03        BDC's performance in the industrial sector has been below
expectations. At appraisal, BDC had investments in three small/medium size
industrial projects and was contemplating a sizeable investment in a



- 17 -
brewery. (This was subsequently made out of the Bank loan.) Since
Botswana was at an early stage of development with limited investment
opportunities in the manufacturing sector, the Bank loan was expected to be
used for financing projects in other sectors as well viz, agriculture,
commercial property, industrial estate, tourism. However, based on BDC's
project pipeline it was also expected that about 30% (P3.9 million) of its
investments during the next five years (1974-1978) would be in the
manufacturing sector. These expectations turned out to be ambitious. The
only industrial investments BDC made during 1974-1978 in addition to the
development of an industrial estate were in a small-scale project and a
massive injection of funds in the brewery at the time of its rehabilitation
in 1978. As of June 30, 1978, out of an investment of P2.7 million in the
industrial sector P2.4 million represented investment in the brewery.
6.04       In order to put BDC's performance in the industrial sector into
proper perspective, one has to take account of the structural problems of
Botswana's economy. Botswana's geographical location, the shortage of
entrepreneurs and of a qualified labor force, the competition from South
Africa, the small size of the domestic market and the high cost of basic
infrastructure have been the major constraints. These were accentuated by
lack of sufficient attention to identification and preparation of projects
by the BDC management in the mid-seventies, perhaps due to their
preoccupation with the critical problems faced by three BDC subsidiaries.
Furthermore, BDC did not establish adequate rapport with the Ministry of
Commerce and Industry (MCI), which had funds and expertise (foreign experts
working in the ministry) to prepare feasibility studies. The latter was
unhappy with the fact that BDC (which was under the Ministry of Finance and
Development Planning) would not agree to pursue feasibility studies
prepared by MClconsultants on the grounds that the financial rates of
return on the projects were marginal or sub-marginal. BDC contended that
under its charter it was required to conduct its affairs on a commercial
basis and to operate profitably. The poor financial performance of three
of its subsidiaries in which it had substantial investments (particularly
the brewery) reinforced its determination to avoid involvement with
projects having low profitability prospects. These judgments and decisions
appear to have been sound. However, in order to encourage Botswana
entrepreneurship and employment creation, it could have worked out a scheme
with the Government whereby the latter would subsidize/underwrite a portion
of the risks on assisting projects which BDC considered "sub-commercial".
In this area BDC had provided assistance to a "sub-commercial" enterprise,
and a few other small scale enterprises outside the BDC/Barclays SSE
Scheme.
6.05      BDC's role in the field of employment generation has also been
limited. This is mainly due to the pre-ponderance of its investments in
the property sector. While BDC-assisted projects provide regular
employment to over 2,200 people, its efforts in this area through the
BDC/Barclays Scheme did not make much headway.
6.06        However, during the last two years BDC has taken a number of
steps to emphasize its developmental role. It has set up a Project
Development Department (with an experienced expatriate as its head and six
project officers) which will not be involved with the existing projects in
BDC's portfolio but will concentrate on identification, preparation,
appraisal and promotion of projects. BDC is also working on a proposal to



- 18 -
make some institutional arrangements, with the active participation of NDB,
for financing small scale enterprises in the country. This might also
involve coordination of its activities with BEDU. These two initiatives
should increase BDC's role in the productive sectors and help create job
opportunities at a higher rate than in the past. The Government has also
approved in April 1982 a policy of providing incentives (in the form of
financial assistance) for projects in manufacturing and "linking"
industries which create employment opportunities for Botswana citizens.
Although these measures should help improve to some extent the environment
for development of projects in productive sectors one should not lose sight
of the major constraints affecting the sector (para. 6.04) which limit the
scope for industrial development.
6.07      The other objectives of the loan included Bank assistance in
improving BDC's project appraisal capability and a review of its policies
and procedures regarding its subsidiaries. Since most sub-projects under
the Bank loan were submitted for approval in 1976, the Bank has not since
had much opportunity to review BDC's appraisal reports. Accordingly Bank's
influence in improving BDC's appraisal capability, particularly the ERR,
has been minimal. 3/ Regarding impact on administration of subsidiaries,
the Bank's advice has resulted in BDC giving a measure of autonomy to some
of its subsidiaries whereby the heavy administrative burden on BDC
management has been reduced. Furthermore, BDC has either already provided
or plans to provide adequate share capital and financial structure to all
its subsidiaries. Of the 15 subsidiaries directly managed by BDC (i) nine
are property companies which require minimal attention, and whose autonomy
would only have resulted in avoidable overheads; (ii) three are farming
subsidiaries, with whole-time independent managers, for whom BDC provides
accounting and secretarial services; and (iii) the remaining three (a
company providing maintenance services, a car rental company and a company
which leases aircraft to the country's national airline) are presently the
only ones which need to be given greater autonomy.
6.08      Bank's impact on BDC's operating procedures has also been less
than adequate and slow to materialize. The Bank at the appraisal or at
subsequent supervisions did not insist on formalization of operating
procedures in the form of Operations and Accounting manuals perhaps because
the senior management consisted of experienced dedicated expatriates who
could be relied upon to manage BDC's affairs efficiently. The
disadvantage in not having formal procedures is that there are no definite
guidelines for the new expatriate or Batswana staff to follow. Since BDC
has yet to go a long way in training the local staff to assume higher
responsibilities in the future, the need for Operations and Accounting
Manuals cannot be overemphasized. Fortunately, the present BDC management
has already realized the importance of laying down guidelines for
operational work and is planning to prepare the necessary manuals etc.
3/  Botswana is a member of the Southern African Customs Union, (including
also South Africa, Lesotho and Swaziland), whereby all duties and taxes
- customs, excise and sales - collected on goods imported into or
produced in the Union area are pooled and distributed among members in
accordance with a formula. This makes the calculation of EROR very
complex and difficult. In view of this the Bank waived the calculation
of EROR on sub-projects submitted by BDC in 1975.



BOTSWANA
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
List of Subprojects Financed under Loan 1019-BT
(US $ '000)
Date      Total Amount      Amount      Amount
Name of Subproject                  Number      Authorized     Authorized     Cancelled    Disbursed
Prinz Brau Botswana (Pty) Ltd.                  A-1          12/11/75         621.8           0.5        621.3
(Kgalagadi Breweries (Pty) Ltd.)
BDC Hotel Management Company I (Pty) Ltd.       A-2          12/11/75         113.8           0.5        113.3
Broadhurst Industrial Estates I (Pty) Ltd.      A-3          12/11/75         272.7          25.0        247.7
Commercial Holdings I (Pty) Ltd.                A-4          12/11/75         652.1           -          652.1
Botswana Diamond Valuing Company (Pty) Ltd.     A-5          12/11/75         234.9          54.0        180.9
Talana Farms (Pty) Ltd.                         A-6          12/11/75         126.2           -          126.2
Commercial Holdings II (Pty) Ltd.               A-7          12/11/75         444.3          61.5        382.8
BDC Hotel Management Company II (Pty) Ltd.      A-8          12/11/75         111.7          14.0         97.7
BDC Hotel Management Company III (Pty) Ltd.     A-9          01/17/78          72.6          72.6          -
Broadhurst Industrial Estates II (Pty) Ltd.     A-10         01/17/78          69.9           1.6         68.3
Talana Farms II (Pty) Ltd.                      A-11         01/17/78          57.5          57.5          -
President Hotel                                 A-12         06/25/81       1,402.6           -        1,402.6
(Owned by Hotel Development Co. (Pty) Ltd.)
BDC/Barclays Bank Small Scale Enterprise
Scheme                                     B1 - B16      01/30/80         107.1           -          107.1
4,287.2        287.2        4000.0
EAPID
January 1983



B0rSWANA [VE[LERENl aPIONATIaN
E=riaLc Characteristics of Subprojects Financed uner loan 1019-BT
% Raw NaterUlas                  Rates of Retun
NeWl/       % Botamnian     laployment          fran          X of Sles      per Apgatsal
H     of &#roject                E     k Sector   ILcation      Tpnsion         (Orship       Qeated         Domestic Sxrces      xported     ERR      FIR
(June '81)                                       2           2
Prinz Brau Botswa (Pty) Ltd.                   Brewery     Gaborone        New             60             173               Nil             Nil       N.C.       23.5
(Kgalagadl Breweries (Pty) Ltd.)
BDC lHtel Managent Canmny (Pty) Ltd.           Hbtel        Selebi-        NLw,            100             340                -               - /      -          12
(Marakanelo) Z/                                           Phikwe
Broadhurst Industrial Estates (Pty) Ltd.    Ind. Estate    Gaborane        Now             100             -                 -               _         -         14.3
Comarcial Hbldings (Pty) Ltd.               Property Co.    Selebi-        Ne              100              8                -               _         -         12
Botmana Diaimnd Valuirg Co. (Pty) Ltd.    Diaivnd sortirg  Gaborone      Expamsion         100              23               100             100       -         35
and valuinrg
Talana Farms (Pty) Ltd.                     Agriculture    Talana       FBpa1ion           100         75 Permanent           10           60-90       12         7
425 Teaporary
President Hbtel                                Hbtel       Gaborone        axpansion       100             22                -               -         -         16.3
(Oaned by Hbtel Development Co. (Pty) Ltd.)
16 SSE Subprojects under                    TranpDrt       Gaborone       Nbw and          100             40               100              -         -          -
BDC,Barclays Bank Scheme                    camere        Francistown|  Expanrion
Wildlife       lobatse                                    681 Penemret
Manufacture    Mahalapye                                  425 Tamporary                                                        x
Poltry         Main      ja
Hbrticulture   Serowe    _
1/ Foreigi exchange earnings estimted at $150,000 for FY82.
2 BDC Hbtel Mangement Co. (Pty) Ltd. charged its nam   early in FY80 when a minority shareholding (4CM) wa sold
to a foreigi ccmnany kich also assunmdari na   nt responsibility for three hotels in Gaboruxe, Selebi-Thikwe and Iobatse.
EAPID
Janrmary 1983



BO1SWANA
BOISWANA IEVE      [Nr oPATiaN
Finanrial QCaracteristics of Subprojects Financed under Iean 1019-
(Amnt in P 'I000)
last  uar for                          Net Profit/Total
Total Project Cost       Ibtal BDC     itdch data        Net Profit          Project Cost %
Nie of SAbproject                 AWpraisal   Actual   Cuerrun   Finaing      is availble   Appraisal   Actual    Appraisal   Actual              Pemarks
Prinz Brau Botskna (Pty) Ltd;.             2,400      4,4C0    2,000      2,700       June 1982        888       1,775        37         40    Retained earnings 2,353
(Kgalagai Breries (Pty) Ltd.)
BDC Ebtel Man  ement Co. (Pty) Ltd.          394      2,215 1/   50B        569            1982          55       587 2/      14         26 3/ Grup retainil earndigs
(Marakanelo)                                                                                                                                    663
Broadhurst Induastrial Estate (Pty) Ltd.     758      1,333      577        577            1982          53        103        7           8    Retaind eamnings 786
tGmrcial Ibldings (Pty) Ltd.               1,673      2,253      580      2,077            1982         94        478         6          20    (Acacmulated deficit 56)
Botsamnia lnavd Valuing Co. (Pty) Ltd.       367       N.A.     N A.       N.A.            N A.        N.A.      N.A.       N.A.       N.A.    (loan prepaid in 1977)
Talana Fares (Pty) Ltd.                      481        553       72        523            1981 4/      56        (68)        12       (12)    (Acau]ated deficit 102)
Ibtel Development Co. (Pty) Ltd.           2,567      2,567       -       2,135            1982         33 5/      102         1.3        4    Expnpian project coa   le-
ted in Janiary 1982.
Retaed earnings 188.
x
1/ Original cost of all projects presently awned by Group.                                                                                                                      w
2/ Profits of expwdx     operations of Grop.
3/ Based on total original csts and profits of expanied operatlons.
4/ Year ended Septenmer 30.
5/ The profits are in respect of pre-expansion operatiors only.
EAFD
January 1983



BOTSWANA
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Operations (1974 - 1981)
(Ps millions)
Year Ending June 30                   1974         1975         1976          1977         1978         1979          1980          1981
R
APPROVALS
Loans                               920,000    2,680,000    1,567,500       639,000    1,080,000    1,008,685       392,000     7,963,250
Equity                              520,000      978,005      200,000       115,000       74,000            -      415,000      1,127,250
TOTAL APPROVALS                 1,440,000    3,658,005    1,767,500       754,000    1,154,000    1,008,685       807,000     9,090,500
DISBURSEMENTS
Loans                               940,655    1,669,574      870,462       730,562    1,976,264      230,220         9,000     1,525,000
Equity                              108,997      697,774      961,646        22,500      374,900       15,743       127,000       837,000
TOTAL DISBURSEMENTS             1,049,652    2,367,348    1,832,108       753,062    2,351,164      245,963       136,000     2,362,000
EAPID
January 1983



BOTSWANA
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Analysis of Portfolio
(as of June 30. Amount in R/P'OOO)
1974         1975          1976         1977          1978          1979          1980          1981          1982
A. Evolution of Portfolio
Loans                                2,608       4,063         4,925         5,663         7,640        7,641          6,604        8,110         9,555
Less Provisions/(Write-off)              -            -             -          283         1,173           727           619          448            148
Net Loans                            2,608       4,063         4,925         5,380        6,467         6,914         5,985         7,662         9,407
Equity Investments                     275          965         1,922        1,825         2,198        2,199          2,329        3,162         7,860
Less Provisions/(Write-off)              5           (5)            -          300         1,273           949           356          837           837
Net Equity Investments                 270          960         1,922        1,525           925        1,250          1,973        2,325         7,023
Gross Portfolio                      2,883        5,028         6,847        7,488         9,838        9,840          8,933       11,272         17,415
Provisions                               5            5             -          583        2,446         1,676            975        1,285           985
Net Portfolio                        2,878        5,023        6,847         6,905        7,392         8,164         7,958         9,987        16,430
B. Sectoral Distribution of Portfolio
%            %             %X                  %             %                     %xZ
Agriculture                            125   4      529  10       467   7      441   6       436   5       434   4       575   7     2,169  19     2,871  16
Industry & Commerce                    198   7      576  11       909  13      908  12    2,737   28    2,563   26     2,927  33    2,743   24    2,137   12
Financial Services                      84   3    - 80    2       131   2      132   2       131   1       134   1       133   1       131   1       131   1
Property                             2,352  82    3,609  72     4,981  73    5,424  72     5,445  55    5,464   56     4,751  53    5,390   48     7,429  43
Tourism, Hotels & Transport            124   4      234   5       359   5      583   8     1,089  11     1,245  13       547   6       839   8    4,847   28
Gross Portfolio                      2,883 100    5,028 100     6,847 100    7,488 100     9,838 100    9,840 100      8,933 100    11,272 100    17,415 100
C. Number of Enterprises Assisted
Wholly-owned Subsidiaries               11           17            19           17            18            19            16            18            18
Joint Venture Subsidiaries               1            3             5            4             5             4             7             7            10
Associate Companies                      9           11             8            9             8-            8             8             7             6
Others                                   -            -             1            2             3             2             2             2             2
21    31            3~~~~_3      32             4            33           353            34            36
EAPID
January 1983



B0rS AN  D DEVEU      CO3 RATIN
Inestaent Perfornunce of Wiholly-Oed 9ubsidiaries
(P'cOO)
Easmngs before
Equity                       Total             Interest, Enpreciation and Taxes                      Prxofit before Ta,ea
Investnent       loans       Investmint    6 nx. to Yr. Erxing Yr. Eding Yr. Ending       6 no. to Yr. Ending  Yr. Erling  Yr. Ening
as of 6/30/82 as of 6/30/82 as of 6/30/82   12/31/79   6/30/80     6/30/81    6/30/82      12/31/79   6/30/80     6/30/81    6/30/82
PRCFaY CW    NIS
1. Bradhirst Ihdustrial Estate        1,944           146         2,090          160        305        360       240            119       224         292         183
2. toDatse Industrial Estate             N              9            9             -          -          -         -              -         -           -
3. Oxiuerdal Holding                    250         1,675         1,925          106         175       227        182             6        (24)        38        (49)
4. Tonhw       Development              347           478           825           70         118       137         -             33        47          70
5. Pesidential Holdings               1,252           890         2,142           44        125        157         _            (14)        19         55
6. Madirelo House                        N            399           399          (12)         29        30         -             (1)        4           7          -
7. Hbldirg SPI                           10            38            48           (1)         6         10         -             (4)        -           4          -
3,803         3,635         7,438
NMI-F1        CCPAN*S
1. Talana Farmi                         250           803         1,053            -         51         241/       -            (47.4) 2/ (20) 21    (105) I
2. Farm )eveelopeat                      20           374           394            -        (21)         -         -            (28)      (29)          -
3. Seleka                               736           688         1,424            -          -          -         -            (10)      (63)          -
4. Srvice CDxporation                    65            50           115            -          (9)        -         -              -         (2)         6
5. Urtin Hymnnn                          16             -            16            -        (2B)        22         -              -       (35)         15
6. B2twaaa btel Devlopment                3             -             3                       -          -         -              -        36          37
7. Botswea Craft                         N             55           55             -          4          -         -              -         1           3
8. Air Botisna                          400           100           500            -         60       (352)        -              -        44        (370)
9. Car Rentals                           N             48            48            -         78          -         -              -        25          44
10. Htel DeteloTment                     N          2,992         2,992            -         65         77       122              -        36          37        (61) 3/
11. Air-ease                            500            70          570             -          -          -         -                   -          -          -
1,990         5,180         7,170
5,793         8,815        14,603                                                                                                             x
1/ Year to 9/30
'   15 nDntls to 9/30
3/ As a result of group tat relief, the oanuw's profit after tamtion amunted to P102,239.
EAPID
jaxury 1983



WIE~    ~m        r aRPQaTIcZ
Imestimnt Performnce of Joint-VenWre    opanies
(Anmrns in P'000)
BDC                                                                                                                  EkWvidvs PFaoAiv 1/ Divijsds RPeoiW      as X
0rership                             Euty      loan                              Profit Before 1/(loaa)                      Ammt            of BDC's Equity Investnt
X Type of Business               As of 6/30/82        As of 12/31/79         6/30/80       6/30/81        6/30/82  _FY8    FY81   FY82    FY80       FYBI     FY82
1.   Marakanlo                    60      Hbtel Mangent               300      240    43 (6 nD.)            67              396                724       -     -      -        -          -        -
2.   Sefalana                      3      Gkain   D1lesale             N        25    187 (U mDi. to 3/31)  472 (3/31/80)   438                  -       4      5    13       15         20        -
3.   Bstana Tyre                  60      Ty-e Petrading               54        -     31 (5 m.)             65              59                  -      31      -     -       58          -        -
4.   Frases                       45      9qu9erw   t                  23        -    150 (12 mD. to 9/79)   68 (9/30/80)   554 (9/30/81)        -      22     11    90      100        391        -
5.   Bota    Inabwuranc           51      Irurarne                     51        -     56 (6 mo.)           219             249                  -      15     31    41       29         60        -
6.   Finandal Servines            30      HLre-Rwrdme & leasing        75        -    83 (6 'n.)            185             177                  -       8     15    18       10.7       20
7.   Minet                        25       Txuran BrdArs               5        -    124 (12 ur. to 9/30)  244 (9/30)      282                  -      25     25    25      500        500        -
8.   lkliday Inn                  20      Hotel                       100        -   1252 (1211D.)        1,067           1,477                  -      40    150    140      40        140        -I
9.   lbica                        20      Freight Forwrdirg             I        -     16 (12 aD.)           41             140                  -       4     -     13      350      1,300        -
10. lm-othodi                     48      Cloth PrintgE & Sewing        9        -     6 (6 a.)             15                3                      -      -      -      -         -              -
11.   wenarg HDtels                -      Ibtel                         -       62    -                    n.a.              (8)                 -       -     -      -        -
12. HU                             -      Ihiform Sedg                  -       17    -                      4                6                  -       -     -      -        -          -        -
13. Ygalagadi Beweries            60      Brs-ry                      990      364   659 (6 a.)           1,014           1,550              2,568       -     -      -        -    -              -
14. Btswana Breweries             60      B    ry                     375       -     -                     -               917                  -      -     143   223        -         -        59
15. Trwlb   International         75      lael AWyr                    N        -                           59               60
16.  bta5ma Furniture            51      Furnitre                    174       -     -                      -                -                  -      -      -      -        -         -         -
17. Seshe River Enterprises       51      lburism                      N        32    -
18. lii Gmelards                  S1       lhuig.                      N        -     -                      -                -                  -      -      -      -        -         -         -
2,067      740
I/ 1epresefnt actual receipt of dividoxxs in Fiscal Ytar.
Th Te c pary declared a dividnd of 5(Y of after-       rofits; BDC wld  recive P532,479 as its shae in FY83.                                                                                       N
EAPID
.Jua,.ry 1983



B1A   LBOI  T WANA,
BOISiWANA I)EVE1TM aE:KPATIC
Ccm~arism  of Actual and Forecasted Incoe StateaEnts (1974-1982)
(PRad ard Pula '000)
1974               1975                1976               1977               1978                1979         1980     1981     1982
Year eadiig June 30                   Forecast Actual    Forecast Actual    Forecast Actual     Forecast Actual    Forenat Actul       Forecst Actual     Acual    Actual   Actual
R                  R                   R                  P                  P                   P             P        P        P
Rental ard trade                             560      565       130      149        130      173        130     159        130      174       -         2G9      501      875    1,025
Interest on deposit                          101      126       100      296         -       164          -      62          -       18       -          18       32       73       26
Interest on lansr                            207      152       317      166       549       193        685     249        780      453       -        676       565      529      886
Dividrids                                     70       83       107      112       135      214         244     268        290      250       -        40B       263      387      581
Others                                         5        -         5        6         5         3          5      65          5       35       -         133        1        6       39
Total                                      943      926       659      729       819       747      1,064     803      1,205      930       -       1,44.4   1,362    1,870    2,557
Adninlstrative 5genses                       175      163       191      227       210       329        230     378        252      296       -         325      469      571      705
(of *idch dpreciation)                       (12)     (15)      (12)     (16)      (12)     (12)        (12)    (11)       (12)     (13)      -        (10)     (15)      (14)     (31)
Interest on borrowings                       116      100       280      370       392      411         514     398        607      428       -        458       359      314      369      1
0t1a                                           _        _         _        _         -        -           -       -          -        -       -          -        37        -        -
Total                                      291      263       471      597       602       740        744     776        859      724       -         783      865      885    1,074
Profit before provisions and tawes             652      663       188      132        217        7        320      27        346      206       -         661      497      985    1,483
Ebctraordinary inr      (Inss)                   -        -         -        -         -         -          -       -          -       22       -         (51)     860        -        -
652      663        88       132       217        7        32      D27        346       228       -        610    1,357      985    1,483
Provlsion                                       35        -        56        -        47         -         30       -         26    1,865       -           -        -      310     (300)
Taxes                                          196      160        57       17        62         7         96      14        105       51       -         203      204      279      481
Other tax ajust ent                              -       (2)        -        -         -        26          -      (8)         -        -                   -        -        -        -
Net profit                                     421      505        75      115        108      (26)       194      21        215   (1,688)      -         407    1,153      396    1,302
EAPID
Jauary 1983



B    OSMM JEVEI OOE;CRATIaN
C*arisc   of Acbml and Projected PaIw 9aets ( 1974-1982)
(Raod 1rd Pula '000)
1974             1975             1976             1977              1978             1979        1980    1981    1982
As of June 30                    Forecast Actual   Forecast Actial  Forecast Actual  Forecast Actual  Forecst Actual   Forecast Actual   Actual  Actual  Actual
R                R                R                 P                P                P            P       p       p
ASSE S
Qirrent assets                           96       110      92      101      27       99     210       91      16       67      -        135   1,419     185     486
Bark blarces ard shDrt-tenn deposits   2,000    3,134     500    2,800       -    1,072       -      581       -      424      -        533   1,347   1,517     253
Invest -nt - als                       2,864    2,622   4,809    4,063   6,499    4,934   7,540    5,663    8,475    7,640     -      7,640   6,591   8,135   9,555
Equity investmenta                       648      263   1,503      960   2,198    1,921   2,663     1,825   3,028    2,198     -      2,199   2,327   3,137   7,860
3,512    2,885   6,312    5,023   8,697    6,855   10,203    7,488  11,503    9,838    -       9,839   8,918   11,272  17,415
Less: Provisim                          (35)       (5)    (91)     (25)   (138)     (43)   (168)    (583)   (194)   (2,448)    -     (1,676)   (975) (I,8)     (985)
Net                              3,477    2,880   6,221    4,998   8,559    6,812  10,035    6,905   11,309   7,390     -       8,163   7,943   9,987  16,430
Net fixed assets                         240      236     240      221     240      221     240      211     240      210      -        202     204     202     240
Total                                5,813    6,360   7,053    8,120   8,826     8,204  10,485    7,788  11,565    8,091     -      9,033   10,913  11,891  17,49
LhBIrrIES AND EM
Carrent liabilities                       -       416       -    1,893       -      377       -      342       -      411      -        476     929   1,126     601
Borrowiigs - I.rg-term                 2,90B    2,960   4,073    3,146   5,738    4,790   7,203    4,928    8,068    6,828    -       4,557   3,863   3,65B   5,112
Equity
hare capital                         1,945    1,945   1,945    1,945   1,945     1,945   1,945    1,945   1,945    1,945     -      3,945   4,145   5,145    5,145
Rservens                               960    1,039   1,035    1,136    1,143    1,092   1,377     573    1,552   (1,093)    -         55   1,976   1,962    6,551
2,905    2,984   2,980    3,081   3,088    3,037   3,282     2,518   3,497     852      -      4,000   6,121   7,107   11,696
Total                                5,813    6,360   7,053    8,120   8,826    8,204   10,485    7,788  11,565    8,091     -      9,033  10,913   11,891  17,409
EAPID
Jamuary 1983



BDTSWANA
BrTSWANA DEVELOPlENT CORPORATIOB
St.te-eot of So-rce *nd Applicatioo of Fonds for the Years Ended 30th Jo0e
1974         1974         1975       1975        1976       1976        1977       1977      1978        1978         1979         1980       1981         1982
Forecast      AcrosS      Forecast    ActoaFororecast        ACttAl     Forecast    Actoal    Forecast    Actu-ll     Actoal        Actoa-     Acttul       Actu l
SOURCE OF FUNDS
Profit before t-tion                                                 663,132                 131,765                 7.022                26,833                 228,460     609,697      497,000     985,000    1.483,000
Add depreciation                                                      15,467                  15,875                11,682                11,279                  12,608       9,960       15,000      14,000       28,000
Utar-ordieery ite. (Write back of provlsioo)                              -                       -                      -                     _                             -                  -                  3DD-000
678,599                 147,640                 18,704                   112                 21,068      619,657      512.000     999,000   1,811.000
Lens profit on sale of fined assets/shares                             (125)                 (5,713)                (3,302)              (62,961)                 (7,859)     (2,220)     859,000
FUND GENERATED (DEPLETED) FROM OPERATIlN                 456,000      678,474      131,000    141,927     155,000     15,402     224,000   (24,849)    241,000     233,209     617,437    1,371,000     999.000    1,811,000
FUND FRIl OT8ER SOURCES
Sale of inveat-ot in associated coapsoles                                 -                       -                      -                     -                       -           -            -       6,000            -
Recovery of lon fro. -bsidiaries/Group coapaoies                         -                       -                      -                     -                       -           -    1,057,000           -      572,000
Proceeds oo ason of shares                                                -                       -                  2,632               181,388                   6,804   2,000,000      200,000   1,000.000            -
Proceeds on sale of fiand assets                                       1,024                  10,824                   670                   461                   3,701       2,349        2,000           -        4,000     9
RePAyleOt of lans-                                                        -       50,000      6,600      165,000         -     394,000         -     500.000           -      14,823            -       2,000            -
Long-tern loans                                       2,925,000   2,959,745    1,200,000    186,712   1.800,000  1.660,827   1.600,000   138,115   1,060,000   2,000,000           -      -                 -      887,000
Withdrsa.l of deposits frm bhilding asciety                                -                328,162                                                   -                 -                -                               -
Sales of shares is s.b.idiarles                                           -                  10,200     100,000          -     150,000         -     250.000           -                                    -            -
Decre.se to sorkigs capital                                               -     1,504.000  1,635,126    565000    197,683               482,266     234,000     204,252           -            -   1,171,000      * 438,000
3,381,000    3,639,243    2,885,000  2,319,551   2,785,000  1,877,214   2,368,000   777,381   2,285,000  2,447,966    2,634,609    2,630,000   3,178,000   3,712,000.
APPLICATION OF FUNDS
Dividend                                                                  -                       -                      -                     -                       -           -            -     359,000      102,000
P-rchase of fied assets                                  (2,000)      10,576                 10,362                 11,809                   935                  12,736       2,817       16,000      12,000       70,000
In-est-sot                                            1,750,000   1,049,657    2,850,000  2,149,398   2,650,000  1,832,108   2,050.000   751,101   2,090,000   2,351,164      16,043      136,000   2,362.000    2,990,000
Taa tioo                                                             197,932                159,791                 16,266                25.345                  13,768     230.220      141,000     188.000      486,000
Repayment of long tern loans                             17,000           -       35,000          -     135,000     17,031     135,000         -     195.000      70,298   2,301,444      628,000     257,000            -
Increase in ntrking capital                           1,616,000   2,381,078                       -     183,000          -     183,000         -           -           -      84.085    1,709,000           -            -   II
?tIscellaneoas                                               -            -            -          -           -          -           -         -           -           -           -            -           -       64,000 6
3,381,000    3,639,263    2,885.000  2,319,551   2,785,000  1,877,214   2,368,000   777,381   2,285,000  2,447,966   2,634,609    2,630,000   3,178,000    3,712,000
EAPID
Janasry 1983



BOMhM
BU1SJANA 1EVELMH    CWATICN
A Comprison of Actual and Forecast Financial Ratios (1974-1982)
1974             1975             1976             1977             1978            1979        1980    1981    1982
Year erdirg Junm 30              Forecast Actual  Foremst Actual   Forecast Actual  Forecast Actual  Forecast Actual  Forecsst Actiual  Actual  Actual  Actal
Ixcie  Statesient ELements
as Z of Ayerage Total Assets
Gross In2me                           22.7    20.9     10.2    10.1    10.3     9.1     11.0    10.0     10.9    12.0       -     16.9    13.7    16.4    17.5
Less: Financial expenses             2.7     2.2     4.4      5.1     4.9     5.0      5.3     5.0      5.5     5.4       -      5.3     3.6     2.8     2.5
Administrative expernes       4.2     3.7      2.9     3.1      2.7     4.0      2.4     4.7      2.2     3.7       -      3.8     4.7     5.0     4.8
Gross Profit                          15.8    15.0     2.9      1.9     2.7     0.1      3.3     0.3      3.2     2.9       -      7.1*    5.4     8.6    10.1
less: Provisions for loais ard
investments                 0.8     -        0.8     -        0.5     -        0.3     -        0.2    23.5       -      -       -       2.7    (2.0)
T1x                           4.7     3.6      0.8     0.3      0.7     -        0.9     0.1      0.9     0.6       -      2.4     2.0     2.4     3.3
tNt Profit                            10.0    11.4     1.2     1.6      1.3     -        2.1     0.2      2.1     -         -      4.4*   11.5**   3.5     8.9
Net Profit and Dividaeds
Net Profit as % of year erd share
capital                             21.6    26.0     3.8      5.9     5.6     -        9.9     1.1     11.1     -         -     10.3    27.8     7.7    25.3
Net Profit as % of average equity     15.6    18.4     2.5     3.8      3.5     -        6.1     0.8      0.3     -         -     16.8    22.8     6.0    13.8
Debt Equity Ratio
LJx-tern debt/equity                   1:1     1:1    1.3:1     1:1    1.8:1   1.6:1    2.2:1   2.0:1    2.3:1     8:1     -      1.1:1   0.6:1   0.5:1   0.4:1    >
Debt Servioe COverage                     4.9:1   7.8:1    1.4:1   1.4:1    1.4:1   -        1.7:1  -        1.7:1   1.3       -      2.4     2.0     1.9     -         a
* Due to an extraordinary loss.
** Due to an extranorinary gain.
EAP1D
January 1983



BOrWANA tEVELIN CORPaRAfCN
Guip Cuolidated Balm- Sheets (1974-1982)
(Rand and ]a" '000)
Year Edirg Aie 30                         1974         1975         1976          1977          1978 1/       1979          1980       1981       1982
R             R            R             P             P            P             p          P          p
ASSEI
Qwrent assets
Stocks                                        17           66          285           574          654          1,23B         2,657      3,562     5,212
Acaxots reenivable                           309          423          953         1,403         1,710         3,376         5,328      5,109     8,774
Cash deposits ard bark balances            1,263        2,898        1,390         1,147         1,533        1,804          3,374      5,127     2,823
3,589        3,387        2,628         3,124         3,897        6,418         11,359      13,798   16,809
Ieves tnts                                     255          728          760          540          1,953          761          1,669      2,302     5,003
XKoWll                                           -           -            -             -             -             -            458        259        42
Npt fied assets                              3,111        4,582        6,494         7,095        6,695         10,733        12,612     20,416    31,385
Otber assets                                   196          307          268           106           86             -              -          -        87
Total assets                               7,151        9,004       10,150        10,865        12,631        17,912        26,098     36,775    53,326
LianXTES AND EUr
Accmts payable                                 560          473        1,526         2,106         2,830        3,940          6,334      8,112    12,600
Bank borrowIirs                                216        1,920          105           124          181         1,317          1,756      1,922     3,622
Otber criet liabilities                        191          137          172          215           356           332            434        854       389
Total arent liabilities                     97         2,530        1,803         2,445         3,367         5,589         8,524      10,888   16,611
Dferred irnse                                    -            -           62            70           73             -              -          -        65
Beferred taxatimn                                -           -            -             -           111           276            383        702     2,303
Iwaraie funds                                   -            -            -             -           250           878          1,593      2,545     3,434
lIg-term loans                               3,120        3,306        4,950         5,164        7,049         5,882          6,861      6,580     7,705
ML'nority Interest                              43          128          240           138           174          454          1,048      2,003     3,416
Total long-term liabilities                3,163        3,434        5,252         5,372         7,657         7,490         9,885      11,830    16,923
Share capital                                1,945        1,945        1,945         1,945         1,945        3,945          4,145      5,145     5,145
Reserves                                     1,076        1,095        1,150         1,103          (338)         888          3,544      8,912    14,647         x
lit iorth                                  3,021        3,040        3,095         3,04          1,607         4,833         7,689      14,057    19,792
Total                                    7,151        9,004       10,150        10,865        12,631        17,912         26,098     36,775    53,326
N1te: Prinz Br (Ygalagadi Brm5eries ar-c-"ts hawe not been consolidated with Grcup acmts until 1978 (emhzsive).
1/ Exclud Brewery.
EAPID
January 1983



BOrWNA,
BOrSWANA DEVELEEN ORCRATIO
Grmup Consolidated lniaoe Statements (1974-1982)
(Rard and Pula '000)
Year Fadirg June 30                          1974           1975          1976           1977           1978           1979           1980        1981       1982
R              R             R              P              p              p              p           p          p
Pental and trade                                   970         1,098         3,095          5,498          7,879          8,787          26,521      36,027     48,472
Interest on deposit                                126           296           164             62             53            60              79         148         27
Interest on loans                                   14            10            16             31             15            95               10         29          -
Dividends                                           60            29           102            122            116            194             272        330         24
Otbrs                                               -             6            (6)            80            169             63              74         34        (53)
Total                                          1,170         1,439         3,371          5,793          8,232          9,199          26,956      36,568     48,470
Exqpnses
ministrative expenses                              340           999         2,837          4,845          7,385          7,677          23,714      31,376     41,662
(of idch depreciation)                             (50)         (126)         (209)          (236)         (354)          (367)           (568)     (1,021)     (1,119)
Interest on borrowings                             113           385          42B            419            479            500             641         757       1,011
Others                                               -            -             -              46             -              51              37          -
Total                                            453         1,384         3,265          5,310          7,864          8,228          24,392      32,133     42,673
Profit before provisionB ard taces                   717            55           106           483             368           971            2,564      4,435      5,797
Eatraordinary incom  (loss)                            -             -            -              -            (831)            -             968           -        605
Taees                                                190            48            62            179            316            321             455       1,146      1,892
Oter tax adjustnent                                   (2)           -             26             -             59             78               4           -
Net profit                                           529             7            18            304           (838)           572           3,073       3,2B9      4,510
Profit attributable to mlnority shareholders           -             1            17             27             38            58             588        1,080      1,261
Otler adjustments                                     13             -            -              -             60            381               -           -          -
Transfer to (release frmn)
imnesbient loss reserve/provision                    -            20-                         400           535            (347)           (131)       359        246
Dividend                                              -             -             -              -              -              -               -           -         102           a
Lbappropriated profit/deficit at year end            542           (14)            1           (123)        (1,471)         1,242           2,616       1,850      2,901          X
Brewery Accomts included since 1980.
EAPID
Januy 1983



Annex 14
- 32 -
Ministry of Finance & Development Planning
Prival Bag 008
Gaborone
Botswana
REPUBLIC OF BOTSWANA
c.c.:  Governor,                                          15th August, 1980
Bank of Botswana
The Chief Executive,
Botswana Development Corporation
P. 0. Box 438
Gaborone
Dear Sir,
CDC LOAN - stg. 264,000
IBRD LOAN - US$4 MILLION
Your application for partial protection against adverse movement
or partial benefit from favourable movements of exchange rates on loan
repayments related to the above loans has been accepted subject to the
following conditions:
1.   The base exchange rates for the loan shall be those
existing on 24th June, 1980 as shown on the attached
schedule.
2.   Repayments of the loan plus interest shall be
calculated at the quoted exchange rate fourteen days
before each due date for repayment.
3.   Variations will be shown between the base rate and the
rate calculated at item 2 above, and such variations
will be notified to MFDP immediately each repayment is
made.
4.   The partial protection on benefit will be borne as
follows:
(a) The first 4% of the percentage variation will
be borne by the applicant;
(b) Of the next 6% of the percentage variation,
Government will contribute one half;
(c) Of the next 5% of the percentage variation,
Government will contribute three quarters;
(d) All of the variation exceeding 15% will be
borne by Government.
(e) Benefits will be shared in the same
proportions shown in (a) to (b) above.
B. Gaolathe
PERMANENT SECRETARY



-33 -                            Annex 15
Page 1 of 4
BOTSWANA
BOTSWANA DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
Sub-Projects Financed under Loan 1019-BT
A. Kgalagadi Breweries (Pty) Ltd.
Sub-loan US$621,300
The BDC loan was made originally to Prinz Brau Botswana (Pty)
Ltd., which was set up as a joint venture in 1973 between BDC (60%) and the
West German firm Brau Finanz (40%) to construct and operate in Gaborone a
brewery and soft drinks plant, which would meet almost the entire
requirements of Botswana for these products. The estimated capital cost of
the project at appraisal was P2.4 million but the actual cost came to about
P4.4 million. One of BDC's objectives in financing this project was to
plough back its profits to BDC out of which a percentage was to be used for
financing "sub-commercial projects" sponsored by Botswana citizens. At the
time of appraisal the project was expected to be highly profitable with an
internal rate of return over 30%. However, right from the outset the
company suffered from poor management and the lack of acceptance in the
market of the quality and taste of the beer. This resulted in substantial
losses until 1978. As of June 30, 1978 the company's accumulated loss
amounted to P1,748,026 and BDC had to make a provision of P900,000 for a
possible loss. Reviewing the overall situation, the shareholders agreed to
change the management; two companies controlled by the South African
Breweries took over the minority shareholdings and another company
controlled by SAB took over the management. The new management turned
around the fortunes of the company and was able to wipe off the accumulated
losses by 1980. The company made net profit of P1,014,000 in FY80,
P1,550,000 in FY81 and P2,568,000 in FY82. It is projecting increases in
production and sales volumes at 30% and 35% during the next two years. -,It
paid the shareholders a dividend equivalent to 50% of the taxed profits of
FY82. The poor financial performance of the company until 1978, which was
having serious implications for BDC as a whole was also partly responsible
for BDC management not desiring to increase its involvement in
sub-commercial projects, which were not expected to yield a satisfactory
return on investments (para 6.04).
B. BDC Hotel Management Co. (Pty) Ltd. (Since renamed Marakanelo (Pty)
Ltd.) - Sub-loan US$211,000
The company was specifically created to equip and operate the
Bosele Hotel in Selebi-Phikwe and to be available for operating other
hotels in Botswana. It began operations in March 1975. The company leased
the hotel from another BDC subsidiary (Commercial Holdings) and used the
Bank sub-loan to finance purchase of furniture, fixtures and operating
equipment. While initially the company's prospects appeared encouraging,
the operations soon ran into trouble due to the shortage of trained staff,



- 34 -                     Annex 15
Page 2 of 4
quick staff turnover at intermediate and management level, the difficulties
in providing full service to the clientele in the absence of permanent
public areas, high financial cost due to under-capitalization and the high
cost of the lease (based on the capital cost).     Although the company tried
to diversify its operations by obtaining the management contract for the
President Hotel in Gaborone and wholesaling alcoholic beverages and soft
drinks both in Gaborone and Selebi-Phikwe, its operations showed only
marginal improvement. At the end of FY79, BDC sold a minority interest in
the company to a foreign investor and changed its name to Marakanelo (Pty)
Ltd. Commercial Holdings also reduced the rent charged to Marakanelo on
the Bosele Hotel lease. The minority shareholder took over the management
of the company and has been able to bring about an improvement in the
operations and profitability of the company. Profits before tax in FY81
and FY82 amounted to P396,000 and P724,000 respectively. (Marakanelo also
owns and manages a hotel in Lobatse and five camps - Gametrackers - in the
Okavango Delta.)
C. Broadhurst Industrial Estate (Pty) Ltd. (Wholly-owned subsidiary) -
Sub-loan US$316,000
In order to meet the need for industrial land, BDC acquired from
the state a 30 hectare plot which was divided into 71 plots for industrial
and commercial use. The company was made responsible for developing and
servicing the land, and for construction of a few buildings for commercial
and industrial use. By the end of FY79 only two plots remained vacant.
These two have since been occupied or committed and the company is making
efforts to acquire more land for industrial purposes. The Bank's two
sub-loans were used by the company to finance the foreign exchange costs of
servicing the estate and constructing two industrial buildings. The
operations of the estate have been profitable and the company made a profit
before tax of P292,000 for FY81. Since most enterprises established on the
estate are not BDC subsidiaries or borrowers, details of employment created
are not available.
D. Commercial Holdings (Pty) Ltd. (Wholly-owned subsidiary)
Sub-loan US$1,035,000
The company was established in 1973, at the request of the Government, with
the specific object of developing the town center of Selebi-Phikwe which
appeared to be poised for a boom as a result of the exploitation of the
nearby copper-nickel mines. In asking BDC to take on this responsibility
through the subsidiary, the Government was keen to avoid excessive foreign
ownership of the town center, as had been the case with the Gaborone Town
Center. Its primary undertaking was to construct three commercial
buildings, a hotel complex (Bosele Hotel) and supporting civil works. The
commercial buildings were to consist of shop, office and residential space
in the Mall. As per understandings reached during the loan negotiations,
the Bank was to finance up to the equivalent of US$800,000 the foreign
exchange content of construction and development costs of buildings and
civil engineering. The project was estimated to have an internal rate of



- 35 -                         Annex 15
Page 3 of 4
return of about 12%. The sub-loan amounted to the equivalent of
US$652,065. Subsequently, at BDC's request the Bank approved a second
sub-loan to Commercial Holdings for financing the commercial part of the
Bosele Hotel; disbursements under the second sub-loan amounted to
US$382,829. Thus Commercial Holdings was the beneficiary of two sub-loans
aggregating US$1,034,894 (or more than 25% of the loan amount) for two
sub-projects. The performance of the sub-projects has been below
expectations. The original projections of rental income were found to be
over-optimistic. Although the shops, offices and residential flats were
leased out without difficulty,rental incomes therefrom were not
satisfactory considering the high construction costs. The rent charged by
Commercial Holdings from the Hotel Management Co. on the Bosele Hotel was
based on the high construction costs; its reduction was negotiated by the
new management of the Hotel Management Co. on taking over hotel management
in 1979. BDC also agreed to Commercial Holdings writing down the value of
the Bosele Hotel by P830,605. A revaluation of Commercial Holding
properties done in 1982 resulted in a decrease in its accumulated losses
from P534,000 to P56,000. In view of this improvement in the company's
financial situation, BDC wrote back the provision for losses amounting to
P550,000. The future of Selebi-Phikwe township, particularly after the
expected depletion of the mines in a decade or so, is a matter of
considerable concern to the Government.    This uncertainty also affects the
prospects of this subsidiary's investments. At the request of the Botswana
Government, the World Bank is proposing to fund a feasibility study on the
future prospects of the township; phase I of the study is scheduled to
start mid-February 1983.
E. Botswana Diamond Valuing Co. (Pty) Ltd.
Sub-loan US$181,000
This was a joint-venture between BDC (55%) and the Anglo American
Corporation (45%) which commenced diamond sorting and valuing operation in
Gaborone in 1974. BDC was asked by the Government to take over its
participation in the company and to represent Botswana interests on the
Board. The Bank sub-loan equivalent of US$180,949 was used to finance the
import content of staff housing and the sophisticated equipment needed for
the operation. In a major re-negotiation of the deal between the
Government and the Anglo American Corporation in 1977 the Government took
over BDC's stock in the company and thereupon BDC repaid the sub-loan. The
project was very successful and BDC sold its investment at a modest profit.
F. Talana Farms (Pty) Ltd. (Wholly-owned subsidiary).
Sub-loan US$126,200
BDC acquired in 1974, at the request of the Botswana Government, four
adjacent farms in the Limpopo Valley, in the Tuli Block Area, (North
Eastern Region) from the liquidator of a South African Company which owned
the farms. The subsidiary to own and run the farms was also created in
1974. The Bank sub-loan equivalent to US$126,200 was used to purchase
irrigation pipes, sprinklers, risers, mainflow and lateral pipes which
enabled the company to exercise closer control over the crop water



- 36 -                         Annex 15
Page 4 of 4
application at critical growth periods. The farms have been growing
cotton, wheat, maize and groundnuts. The entire production of cotton and
some other produce is exported to South Africa. Until FY78, the operations
of the company were quite profitable but higher prices for fuel,
fertilisers and chemicals without a corresponding increase in prices of
farm produce have since adversely affected its profitability. Other
factors responsible for this situation are the high gearing leading to a
heavy interest burden and non-capitalization of development costs which are
charged to revenues as and when they occur. The company has made good
progress in increasing the availability of cultivable land and in improving
the yield per hectare of cotton. Efforts are being made to obtain electric
supply from South Africa which will reduce power charges by about 30%. CDC
has shown interest to become a minority joint venture partner in the
project. Prospects of the farm over the medium-term are good.
G. Hotel Development Co. (Pty) Ltd. (Wholly-owned subsidiary).
Sub-loan US$1,402,600
The company is the owner of the President Hotel block, comprising the
hotel, a bottle store and five shops, in central Gaborone. The hotel
originally had 24 rooms which made it an uneconomic unit. Although the
shops were fully let, the profitability of the company as a whole was at
best marginal. In FY80 the Hotel was leased to Marakanelo for ten years
and in FY82 it completed an expansion program by adding three floors
comprising 76 rooms, raising the total number of rooms to 100. BDC made a
sub-loan equivalent to US$1.4 million (or 35% of the loan amount) out of
IBRD credit line to the Hotel Development Co. to finance part of the
foreign exchange costs of the extension. As a result of the hotel's
expansion and modernization, the bottle store in the President Hotel was
closed, the existing restaurant was modernized and two new restaurants
added. The hotel is experiencing high occupancy rates and the three
restaurants are very popular.



Attachment A
- 37 -                   Page 1 of 7
THEDOTSWANA !DEVELOPMERTCORPORATION LIMITED
F                     TELEPHONE 5181112/3/4
World Bank                                            MADIRELO HOUSE. MMANAKA ROAD
1818 H Street N. W.                                   P.O. BOX 438. GABORONE. BOTSWANA
Washington DC 20433                                   TELEX: 2251 Bo
U. S. A.                                              CABLE ADDRESS: DEVELOP
Attention:  Mr. Shiv S. Kapur              R
Ag. Director General                       REF:        Q/F-IBRD/D/KK/264
Operations Evaluation
29th December, 1982.
Dear Sir,
Re: Loan 1019 BT, Botswana Development Corporation Project Completion Report
Thank you for sending us above completion report for our comments which we
hereby do.
In addition to the detailed comments attached hereto our main question is
whether the cut-off date for most of your data shouldn't be 30th June 1982
rather than 1981 since final disbursement took place in FY 81/82. This
would also make the document look more up to date.
We leave this decision to you but in case you so decide we include audited
accounts for the relevant companies and/c: have made additional notes/
remarks in the attached pages.
Hoping you find our comments usefull, we remain,
Yours sincerely
Klaas Kuiper
GENERAL MANAGER
cc.   Ministry of Finance and Dev. Planning
Attention: M. Ngidi
cVroRss s. Osmim  OKm..i. 0 w Prisv. 0. Fts. A.J L Ct.k (S.A.I. A N Mwwth,k.
L.M. Mpotoewtse, t T Matua. A.J Swwt (Narth.I. J J. awn .n 1G0 l. P 0. Moaim. V S Ibghw.n Ibd.j



- 38 -                       Attachment A
Comments Project Completion Report        Page 2 of 7
Botswana Development Corporation
December, 1982
1.  Basic data sheet   loan 1019 BT
1.1  repaid as of 6/30/82       :    %1.4
1.2  outstanding as per 6/30/82:     %2.6
2.  Basic data sheet:   accumulative loan disbursement
FY81 reads 4.0 should read: 2.6
3.  Basic data sheet, mission data
last line; date of report reads 6/25/82 should be 12/2/82
4.  page 1 par. 1.01
end of quote on line 7 should be at end of paragraph.
5.  page 2. par 2.ol line 2
Botswana population 1982 census is 960.000
6.  page 4, par 2.07 one before last line
"have generated direct employment" add: direct
7.  par 2.09
7.1 Botswana has since November '82 three commercial banks,
third one being: Bank of Credit and Commerce
7.2 line 4 in February '82 there were two insurance companies:
BIC and IGI
8.  par 2.12
8.1 not sure whether one can state that "Botswana's interest
rate structure has closely followed that of South Africa"
Difference in prime rate is 5,%0 points!
The "following" is in trends i.e. both tend to move up and
down more or less simultaneously but a large difference
remains.
8.2 BDC interest rate policy on normal (non special)
loans is: prime plus 0 to 3% (see also par 4.04)
8.3 last sentence
"last few months" has little meaning.
Prime rate was 9% in August 1981
and had changed to 14.5% by May 1982
9. par 3.02 line 2
as per June 1982 there were 26 subsidiaries.    In addition:
some subsidiaries have subsidiaries of which there were 14
at that time (so total of 40 companies)
2/...



10.  par 3.04, 3.05 (and 4.05)                                Attachment 7A
The impression is given that the BDC/Barclays scheme consisted of
only 16 loans. This would be incorrect. Only 16 out of 51 loans
were financed with 1019BT funds. The remainder was financed
i) first by BDC and Barclays together (50/50) and ii) when
Barclays became very liquid in 1981 fully by Barclays. At all
times BDC guaranteed 50% of any potential losses.
By the end of 1982 consideration was given by BDC to upgrade the
guarantee scheme and let other banks and NDB participate in Lhe
guaranteerscheme as well.
11.  par 3.05   (page 7) line 3
The loan Manager (Mr. Egner) left Barclays but not Botswana.
He is still around.
12.  par 3.06
The impression is given that the introduction of the Currency
Pool System triggered the final disbursement. This is not
correct. It is a coincidence.
BDC needed the funds and had a project which could carry the
Qimited; government had given FE fluctuation protection) FE risk.
(BDC's decision to use the final.IBRD funds was taken prior to
its decision to join the currency pool system).
The interest rate (7.25%0) also had become competitive again.
13.  par 3.07, page 8, (iii) (also 4.04)
Foceign exchange risks on sub-loans were not passed on to
ultimate borrowers but carried by BDC which made a gain on
this up to 1982
14.  par 3.07 page 9 (v) last sentence
most of the recapitalizations were completed in FY '82, with
3 companies remaining for FY 83.
15.  par 3.07, page 10 (viii)
"present professional staff", staff quoted is for February '82.
In December '82: total was 21 of which 11 citizens.
16.  par 3.07, page 10 (IX)
Although statement is not incorrect it is better to state
that accounts for subsidiaries and BDC itself are made within
3 months (except Air Botswana, 4 month). but that an additional
2 to 3 months is required for consolidation and December BDC
Board approval.
17.  par 3.09 first sentence (also 5.03 last sentence)
P55 mln was figure early 1982. Has since been revised to P95 mln
(current prices) for period up to and including FY 87 (December '82).
3/....



- 40 -                         Attachment A
Page 4 of 7
18. par 4.12 one before last sentence.
End of June 1982: Marakanelo accumulated deficit was gone and
turned into a retained profit of P330,574. Commercial Holdings
deficit was reduced to P56 040. Talana accumulated deficit
increased to P102 278 mainly due to not capitalizing development
expenses.
19. par 4.03
Marakanelo FE earnings FY 82 over P150,000
20. par 4.06 (a) page 13, line 23.
20.1  SAB itself   is not involved but two companies controlled
by it namely:
a) shareholder and licensor : Intacor Inc
b) manager: Chertsey Investment Company S.A.
20.2  one before last line, page 13
a)  the breweries paid a 500 of taxed profits dividend
in FY 82 (P887,465)
b) net profit before tax in FY 82 was P2,567 790
21.  par 4.06 (b) page 14 last line.
a) Marakanelo profit before tax in FY 82 was P724,000
b) Marakanelo also owns and manages a hotel in Lobatse and the
Gametrackers five camps in the Okavango delta (since March
82)
22.  par 4.06 (d) page 15 last 8 sentences.
a)  A revaluation of Commercial Holding properties was done
in 1982 resulting in a surplus.
The accumulated loss as a result decreased from P534,154 to
P56,040.
b)  in FY 82 there is no longer a provision for possible losses
in BDC's accounts
c)  BDC's loan to Commercial Holdings is not interest free.
Interest was charged once a year when accounts were audited
and usually equal to profits. As of FY 83 the loan carries
prime rate.
d)  page 16 top
It might be useful to mention that the Botswana Government
has requested World Bank assistance for the Selebi-Phikwe
continuation study.
23.  par 4.06 (f) page 16
a)  It is correct to state that fuel, fertilizers, chemicals are
reasons for losses. Others are: high gearing giving high
interest/burden (since corrected) and development costs
4/....



- 41 -                           Attachment A
Page 5 of 7
(bush clearing, surveys) which are not capitalized but charged
as and when they occur.
b)  CDC has shown interest to become a minority joint venture partner in
the project (1981 CDC Board decision)
24.  par 4.06 (g) page 17, one before last sentence.
The bottle store in the President Hotel was taken out. The existing
restaurant was modernized and two new restaurants were added.
25.  par 5.03, page 18 last five sentences.
a)  Supervision and management of the existing enterprises is carried
out by the 7 Division5of theOperations Department headed by the
DGM (Hotels/Tourism, Transport, Financial Services, Property,
Commerce/Industry, Agriculture, SSE)
b)  Investment programme as revised in December '82:
eg.  agriculture           P17 mln
industry              P30 mln
industrial property P20 mln
Commercial    "       P 8 mln
Hotels /tourism       P13 mln
26. par 5.04
revaluations and recapitalization of most companies was completed in
FY 82 with 3 remaining for FY 83.
27. par 5.05 line 4.
BDC does not really handle sugar imports. Our involvement is limited
to the licensing of wholesalers who import sugar, and price negotiations
with the exporters (Zimbabwecompany)
28. par 5.05 and 5.06
data can be updated to FY 82 (see BDC accounts for 1982 enclosed)
29. par 6.02 last sentence
Technology Centre funding comes from USAID, EEC and Government mainly.
CFTC and BDC (minor way) were involved in initial phase only.
30. par 6.04 last sentence
BDC is still involved in sub-commercial activities.    Starting FY 81 10o
of BDC's profits are madeavailable for such activities.
The term "sub-commercial" in the past was something of a misnomer
(except for Botswanacraft); they were small scale enterprises and
are reported as such since 1980.
31. par 6.06 line 3
End 1982 there were 6 project officers.
5/...



Attachment A
- 42 -                         Page 6of 7
32. par 6.06, paqe 21, line 7
The new financial assistance policy is limited to manufacturing and
"linking" industries. Specifically excludes drinks manufacturers
and hotels/tourism sector.
33. Annex 2
a) Employment created is tied to a date. These are June 81 figures
b) column"% raw materials Talana farms: most of the fuel, chemicals,
seed etc is imported. Domestic about 10o
c) note 2) at bottom last part of sentence to read:
three hotels in Gaborone, Selebi-Phikwe and Lobatse.
34. Annex 3 and subsequent
enclosed FY 82 audited accounts would enable an update of these
figures.
35. Annex 7
a) 8. Lentswe la Oodi
shares were returned in 1981 to the cooperative just after
audit.
b) There is a problem relating "dividends received" to-"profit
before tax" due to different year ends used. Please amend as
per attachment hereto.
36. Annex 13
Income
"Rental and sugar trade" is incorrect as wording.
Should read either "turnover" or "rental, trade, airline,
hotels and insurance" or "rental and trade"
Botswana Dev. Corp.
30 December, 1982.



Appendix 7     Attachment A
- 43 -               (revised)      Page 7 of 7
(P'000)                       Profit  b/tax           Dividends
June 30, 1981           received FY 81
2.  Sefalana                    438 1)                       5
3.  Botswana Tyre Corp           59                          -
4.  Frasers                     554                         90
5.  Botswana Insurance          249                        31
7-. Minet                       282                        25
9.  Holiday Inn               1,477                       140
10.  Manica                      140                        13
12.  Kweneng hotels              (8) 2)                    n.a
13.  BUA                           6                       n.a
16.  Travel International         60
P.S. Column for "dividend as % of BDC equity" to be revised accordingly.
1) company profit. Group profit P1.82 mln
2) loss



44 -.acn,er-_a
MINISTRY OF FINANCE AND DEVELOPMENT PLANNING
TL5SRAM8, FINANCE                                                              PRfvATE BAO 008
R I  ENCIL  FDPC 3/5/10 III                                                        GABORONE
REpsuLc or BoTUwANA
31st January 1983
The WJorld Bank,
1818 H. Street,
N.W. Washington D.C. 20433
United States of America.
ATTENTION S. KAFPU.
PROJECT CCMPLZTION REPORT 0Ol BOTESWANA - BCTS.IiNA
DEVELOPi0EPT CO-POIRATION (B.D.C.) (LOlN 1019 - BT).
Your letter dated 2nd December 1982 on the above subject
refers.
2. We have the following comments:-
(i)  Botswana's population is 941 027 according to
1981 census;
(ii)  on page 16 top page it should be mentioned that
phase I of the Selibe Phikwe Study is scheduled
to start mid February 1983;
(iii)  Paragraph 6.02 on page 19 indicates that Botswana
Technology Centre is funded by Commonwealfh Fund
for Technical CoDperation. The Centre has been
mainly funded by the EEC until August 1982 wihen
Government assumed full responsibility for the funding
of the operations of the centre.
3. Thank yqu.
Yours       ully,
M. Ngidi
for/PEByANENT SECR3rTARY.



