                                      Document of
                                   The World Bank




                                                                     Report No: 29336

                        IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                       (IDA-27530 PPFI-P7630 PPFI-P7631 IDA-27531)

                                         ON A

                                        CREDIT

         IN THE AMOUNT OF SDR 50.3 MILLION (US$ 79.2 MILLION EQUIVALENT)
        AND SDR 2.38 MILLION SUPPLEMENTAL (US$ 3.0 MILLION EQUIVALENT)

                                        TO THE

                                REPUBLIC OF MALAWI

                                          FOR

                      THE NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT




                                      June 15, 2004




Water and Urban I
Malawi Country Department
Africa Regional Office

                             CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

         (Exchange Rate Effective December 31, 1994 and December 31, 2003))

                               Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha
                                         15.4 = US$ 1
                                       US$ 1 = 106.5

                                      FISCAL YEAR
                                    April 1 - March 31

                        ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BWB        Blantyre Water Board
CAS        Country Assistance Strategy
CIDA       Canadian International Development Agency
CRWB       Central Region Water Board
DCT        District Coordinating Team
DCA        Development Credit Agreement
EIB        European Investment Bank
EIRR       Economic Internal Rate of Return
EWT        Extension Workers Team
GCU        Government Contracting-out Unit
GoM        Government of Malawi
HYDATA     Hydrological Database System of Institute of Hydrology, UK
IDA        International Development Association
IFMIS      Integrated Financial Management Information System
LWB        Lilongwe Water Board
MoIWD      Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development
MoWD       Ministry of Water Development
MoWS       Ministry of Works and Supplies
M&E        Monitoring and Evaluation
MASAF      Malawi Social Action Fund
MSO        Management Services Organization
MIS        Management Information System
MTR        Mid-Term Review
NDF        Nordic Development Fund
NGOs       Non Government Organizations
NORAD      Norwegian Aid Agency
NRWB       Northern Regional Water Board
NWDP       National Water Development Project
O&M        Operation and Maintenance
PCD        Project Concept Document
PIP        Project Implementation Plan
PMU        Project Management Unit
PPF        Project Preparation Facility
PS         Principal Secretary
QAG        Quality Assurance Group
RWBs       Regional Water Boards
RWSS       Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
SAR        Staff Appraisal Report
SDR        Special Drawing Rights
SRWB       Southern Regional Water Board

TA        Technical Assistance
UFW       Unaccounted-for Water
VHWC      Village Health and Water Committee
WD        Water Department
WR        Water Resources
WRB       Water Resources Board
WRM       Water Resources Management
WRMPS     Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies




                           Vice President:   Callisto E. Madavo
                         Country Director    Hartwig Schafer
                          Sector Manager     Jaime M. Biderman
         Task Team Leader/Task Manager:      Robert J. Roche

                                           MALAWI
                    NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data
2. Principal Performance Ratings
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome
6. Sustainability
7. Bank and Borrower Performance
8. Lessons Learned
9. Partner Comments
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits
Annex 4. Bank Inputs
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Project ID: P001667                                                  Project Name: NAT WATER DEV
Team Leader: Robert J. Roche                                         TL Unit: AFTU1
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: June 15, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: NAT WATER DEV                                            L/C/TF Number: IDA-27530; PPFI-P7630;
                                                                                                     PPFI-P7631; IDA-27531
   Country/Department: MALAWI                                                             Region: Africa Regional Office

        Sector/subsector: Water supply (93%); Sewerage (7%)
                  Theme: Pollution management and environmental health (P); Water resource
                            management (P)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 02/17/1992                                     Effective: 05/01/1996                05/01/1996
     Appraisal: 06/13/1994                                         MTR: 10/31/1997                  10/31/1997
      Approval: 06/28/1995                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 12/31/2003



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Ministry of Water Development, Lilongwe Water Board, Blantyre Water Board,
                                           Northern Region Water Board, Central Region Water Board, Southern Region
                                           Water Board/GOM
                      Other Partners:      Nordic Development Fund, European Investment Bank

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Callisto E. Madavo                             E.V.K. Jaycox
Country Director:               Hartwig Schafer                                Katherine Marshall
Sector Manager:                 Jaime M. Biderman                              Jeffrey Racki
Team Leader at ICR:             Robert J. Roche                                Ebenezer Aikins-Afful
ICR Primary Author:             K. John Shepherd


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: Yes

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:
The objective of the National Water Development Project was to support the implementation of GOM's
Water Resources Management Policy by reforming and upgrading the management of water resources and
the provision of water-related services in order to: (i) ensure convenient access to safe water supplies for
domestic use for a progressively larger proportion of the community, (ii) provide water infrastructure
capable of underpinning economic development, and (iii) assure protection and management of water
resources and of aquatic and riparian environments. Improved sector sustainability and upgraded physical
and financial performance were subordinate objectives, considered vital to the attainment of the primary
objective.

The project addressed CAS priorities including infrastructure provision, reduction of erosion and
sedimentation, and enhancement of the role of women. A special feature of the project was its aim of
improving water supply services in towns, a sub-sector which up to that time was relatively neglected.

3.2 Revised Objective:
At mid-term review (MTR), in March 1999, the scope of the project and targets were refined/clarified
through a log frame retrofit, but were not changed. The objective of each component was stated as follows:

Central Services and Water Resources Management
Sustainable and environmentally sound water development and conservation through (i) strengthening of
central services and water resources management; (ii) strengthening of evaluation capabilities in the water
resources sector; and (iii) improved catchment management.

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
To sustainably enhance the health status of communities through provision of potable water and improved
sanitation by (i) increasing the capacity of sector actors to sustainably deliver potable water and (ii)
improved sanitation facilities to rural communities in ten districts of Malawi.

Urban Water Supply
Improved water supply services in small urban centers, and Lilongwe by (i) establishing three financially
viable Regional Water Boards, (ii) increasing water supply coverage, and (iii) improving water supply
services. Systems were expanded or rehabilitated in 16 towns plus Lilongwe and Zomba as planned, but
minor extensions in 25 other small towns were dropped.

3.3 Original Components:
Project components included Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building, Studies and Water Supply
Investment Program. To facilitate implementation and supervision, these were grouped as follows:

Central Services and Water Resources Management (SDR 7.48m)

Central Services: Strengthen the Water Department (WD) through TA, staff training, and provision of
materials, plant and equipment for the range of WD functions. Strengthen the PMU.

Water Resources Management:
Reconstitute the Water Resources Board (WRB) as a high level body with stakeholder representation, to
provide leadership in water resources management and policy advice to GoM. Upgrade the Water
Resources Act. Assess the key threats to water resources and propose action. Take action to protect up to
10 catchment areas supplying raw water for water supply schemes.

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation (SDR 9.47)
Prepare rules and guidelines for community-led planning, design, construction and operation of rural water


                                                      - 2 -

services, and promulgate widely. The rules are to specify the principle that rural water services are to be
provided only in response to locally initiated proposals, and that the local community will pay a share of
the cost of the facilities. The project aimed to support the provision of 750 new and 5,500 rehabilitated
boreholes, plus 6 new and 5 rehabilitated gravity-fed schemes.

Urban Water Supply (SDR 37.49m)
Establish the three Regional Water Boards (RWBs) pursuant to the new legislation, prepare organizational
structures, corporate charters, asset registers, and business plans, implement programs leading to financial
viability, and transfer responsibility for water borne sanitation to the water boards. Provide new and
expanded water supply services in about 30 towns, and some sewerage system rehabilitation works. The
largest of these investments were the Zomba Dam and Water Supply Scheme, and part of the Third
Lilongwe Water Supply Project.

3.4 Revised Components:
At the time of the mid term review in March 1999, the RWBs had been established and were operating, and
good progress had been made on the two major works, the Zomba dam and water supply facilities, and the
Third Lilongwe Water Supply Project. However, there had been almost no progress on RWSS, water
resources management, or the design of small town water supply schemes, due primarily to limited capacity
in the MoWD and PMU. The cost overrun for the Zomba dam and related supervision was US$9.5m,
where the contract prices for construction and supervision were increased from US$27.2m to US$36.7m.
(see page 15 for details). The budget deficit was further affected by a drop in US Dollar/SDR exchange
rate from 1.57 at negotiations to 1.35 shortly after Board approval, effectively reducing the project budget
by US$11.0m. The GoM and the Bank accordingly agreed that the project should be re-focused to
emphasize policy formulation and capacity building as the first priority, with investment in infrastructure
subordinate to these. At the MTR the physical outputs of the project were scaled back taking account of
progress to date and implementation capacity.

There were two DCA amendments: (i) Nov 6, 1997 that refined the definition of goods and consultants in
Schedule 1 and added BWB as an implementing agency for the purposes of water resources management;
and (ii) June 24, 1999 that reallocated financing according to the MTR agreements added BWB as an
implementing agency for project preparation. There was also a supplemental credit, for the reasons stated
above, dated Sept 4, 2002 that increased the IDA credit by US$3m equivalent. The revised activities by
component were as follows.

Central Services and Water Resources Management (SDR 6.97m)

Central Services. The scope of this encompassed the entire Ministry of Water Development, after its 1997
establishment, with the following subcomponents:

Technical Assistance: (i) Establishment of RWBs (Phase I) by preparing business plans, corporate
charters, etc., (ii) Central Services Phase I Study to propose organization and establishment for the
MoWD, and facilitate initial capacity building; (iii) Strengthening of the Water Resources Board by
increasing its capacity to manage water use and waste discharges, and to use regulation, pricing,
participation, and public information as tools to conserve water resources; (iv) Establishment of Financial
Management Systems including establishing a computer based accounting system; (v) Establishment of
Management Information Systems including computerizing and networking of all water resources
management units, installing the HYDATA system for recording and archiving of hydrological data, and
establishing a database to record boreholes and water permits; (vi) Transfer of water borne sanitation by
preparing plans for the transfer of water borne sanitation to the Water Boards.

Training for the entire cadre of Ministry personnel and the Water Boards.



                                                      - 3 -

Procurement of Goods including laboratory and office equipment, laboratory chemicals, furniture,
computers, motor vehicles, motor cycles, boats, hydrological measuring equipment, and audio-visual
equipment.

Strengthening MoWD Water Resources evaluation capabilities. Two of the originally planned water
resources studies were dropped at the MTR. Those that proceeded were the Water Resources Development
Plan Study, Lake Level Control and Shire River Flow Augmentation (a sequence of studies), and Songwe
River Study.

Strengthening Catchment Management. The component was reduced in scope to four catchments (3
RWBs and 1 BWB), balancing the process of stakeholder consultation with works.



Rural Water Supply and Sanitation           (SDR 4.30m)
At the mid term review it was agreed that the focus of the RWSS component would be on increasing the
capacity of sector actors to deliver sustainable potable water and improved sanitation facilities to rural
communities in ten Districts in Malawi. Before moving to construction, MoWD concentrated on
completion and approval of a revised Sector Implementation Manual; refining implementation
arrangements at the district level; making manuals, guidelines and training materials more user friendly;
training districts and communities; and decentralized procurement of handpumps and spare parts. Five
hundred boreholes were to be constructed. Also one rural piped scheme was to be constructed and a second
one rehabilitated after management arrangements were agreed.


Urban Water Supply (SDR 42.75m)
The program of support to the RWBs continued with the Phase II capacity building program, and the
construction/rehabilitation of 16 systems as originally envisioned was to continue (i.e. two towns in the
Northern Region, six in the Central Region, and eight in the Southern Region). Minor extensions to fifteen
other systems was dropped.


3.5 Quality at Entry:
The concept, objectives and component design of the project accurately addressed the needs of the sector.
However, the project was ambitious in its reform agenda and in the number of the works programs,
compared to the capacity of the MWD and RWBs to refine policy and manage implementation. In such a
circumstance, the project implementation plan (PIP) should have been more fully detailed, and the Project
Implementation Unit should have had the capacity at effectiveness to move ahead with implementation at
full speed. In September 1994, GoM formed a Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development,
demonstrating its recognition of the importance of the water sector, and its commitment to the planned
reforms. The WD was transferred to the new ministry from MoWS. About half of the positions of the
transferred WD were vacant. Shortly after, GoM put a freeze on civil service staff recruitment. An
agreement between GoM and the Bank, February 1996, phased out Project Implementation Units. All
project management, planning and supervision functions were to be housed within the mainstream
operations of relevant ministries and agencies. This was unworkable, so a compromise Project
Management Unit (PMU), much more integrated within the MoWD than the usual implementation unit,
was negotiated, but was resourced at only a fraction of the needed level. In these circumstances, quality at
entry is judged unsatisfactory due to (i) an inadequate PIP, (ii) the works program too ambitious, and (iii)
effective project management arrangements put in place late and at too low a capacity.




                                                     - 4 -

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:
The intended outcomes and objectives of the project were achieved. The project was instrumental in
improving the capacity and performance of both the public and private sector service providers in Malawi,
initiating sector reforms, and extending service coverage and quality.
-        At the central level, it has strengthened the capacities of the Ministry of Water Development in
overall sector management, including in policy development, planning, procurement, regulation, monitoring
and evaluation, project management, and water resources management. A reconstituted, strengthened and
better supported Water Resources Board now exercises more effective leadership of water resources
management.
-        At the city and town level, the three new Regional Water Boards that were established under the
project have improved water services in the towns they serve and have taken a major step towards financial
sustainability. Major works have eliminated supply shortages in Lilongwe and Zomba.
-        For rural water supply and sanitation, the project facilitated consensus building and provided the
resources the MWD needed to demonstrate a district-based, community-driven approach to rural water
supply and sanitation services, supplied through boreholes and rural piped systems. Levels of
sustainability not hitherto achieved in Malawi were achieved. The methodology is now established as the
modus operandi for all such projects in the country.

The impacts of the project include:
-        GoM has much improved policies and capacity to ensure access to water supply services in urban
and rural communities.
-        Sustainability is improved at all levels
-        The works constructed under the project have provided new or substantially upgraded service to
some 1,150,000 people. A further estimated 350,000 people have received improved services through more
responsive operations provided by the trained and equipped employees of the RWBs. Despite the high cost
of the works in Zomba and the need to refocus the project on policy formulation and capacity building, the
project substantially met the objective at appraisal of providing "an estimated 1.5 million people in urban,
peri-urban and rural communities with convenient access to safe water for domestic purposes, on a
sustained basis." (SAR 2.3 (g))

The project was instrumental in moving the water sector ahead on all fronts: village, town and urban water
supply; water resources management; and catchment protection. The overall project outcome is
satisfactory.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Component 1. Central Services and Water Resources Management

Objective: Sustainable and environmentally sound water development and conservation.

Specific objective (1) Strengthening of central services and water resources management

Central Services Phase I Study. The output of this, completed in September 1996, included
recommendations for the restructuring of the MoWD, including proposed organizational structures, and
proposals for management information systems. This output was a major contribution to the Functional
Review of the Ministry carried out in 1997, and is judged to be successful.

Strengthening of the Water Resources Board. The output, completed November 2002, included: (i) review
of the role and mandate of the WRB, (ii) strategies and plans for (a) reinstating the water resources



                                                       - 5 -

monitoring networks (b) the Board's MIS, (c) systems and data bases for water rights and discharge
permits, (d) the WRB's operations becoming financially autonomous; (e) training and capacity building
programs; (f) promoting stakeholder involvement; (g) decentralizing water resources management.
Recommendations already implemented include: (a) procurement of computers, equipment and vehicle; (b)
appointment of a qualified head of the WRB's Secretariat, and filling other WRB support positions; (c)
completion of a National Water Policy superseding the WRMPS of 1994 and its revision of 2000, and a
Water Bill to be presented to Parliament by October 2004 to replace the Water Resources Act of 1969, and
(d) training program. The achievement of this subcomponent is judged successful in regard to policy,
legislation, training and staffing, but various elements of the program must now be implemented.

Establishment of Financial Management Systems. After NWDP started, the Government commenced
another project financed by IDA to establish an Integrated Financial Management Information System
(IFMIS) for four core Ministries. To be compatible with the Government's wider plans, it made sense for
NWDP funds to be used to extend the proposed IFMIS system to MWD. The Ministry acquired the
computers, internal networking and security environment in timely fashion, but after more than four years
of delay, IFMIS has not been successfully installed in any of the Ministries and the computers acquired in
2000 have become outdated. The training given to Ministry staff in accounting systems operation has
nevertheless been valuable in improving accounting and financial management of the Ministry, albeit using
manual systems. As an interim measure the PMU procured an accounting system of its own to fulfill its
obligations. This subcomponent was partially successful.

Establishment of Management Information Systems. Computerizing and networking of the water
resources management units within the MWD has been completed, although problems with the Government
Wide Area Network have affected access to external sites. Hydrological data collection remains a problem
due to the poor state of the network and lack of resources for monitoring. A water point management
system and borehole numbering system have been designed, and previous records are being entered into the
system. It still needs to be rolled out as a national information system for all new boreholes.

Transfer of water borne sanitation. With the appreciation that the transference of water borne sanitation
to the water boards required further consideration, this subcomponent supported a written evaluation and a
number of stakeholder workshops and other consultations. CIDA has agreed to support development of a
National Sanitation Policy, from May 2004. Outcome partially successful.

Training for Sector Personnel. This program, which reached over 800 employees through some 300
training activities, achieved its aim of effective training through the whole Ministry and the five water
boards, benefiting most employees. The training upgraded the effectiveness of the employees of the sector
over the whole range of disciplines and activities. It is judged as a very successful outcome.

Procurement of Goods. The goods required for effective operation of the Ministry, financed by NDF and
IDA, were successfully procured. While most of the goods appear to continue in effective use, normal
budgetary allocations are insufficient to properly maintain them, and to use them for the intended purpose,
highlighting again the challenge of financial sustainability. Nevertheless, the subcomponent is judged as
successful.

Specific objective (2) Strengthening of evaluation capability in water resources management
This subcomponent, financed by NDF, consisted of a number of important studies. (i) The Water
Resources Development Plan Study investigated alternative sources of water for 11 town centers, to meet
demand up to 2025. (ii) The Songwe River Course Stabilization Study, a joint undertaking with the United
Republic of Tanzania, carried out in two phases, prepared a development plan for the Songwe River Basin.
The recommended plan included options for dams for hydropower and irrigation, and channel stabilization.



                                                       - 6 -

The study achieved a successful result in spite of difficulties of data scarcity. (iii) A set of three studies
were carried out to minimize the risk of low levels in Lake Malawi and corresponding low flows in the
Shire River, which can occur following a series of dry years. The result is a significant adverse effect on
the beneficial uses in, around and down stream of the Lake, as happened in the mid 1990s and for more
than a decade from 1915. Recommendations include rebuilding the deteriorating Kamuzu Barrage which
regulates Shire River flow at Liwonde, extending its operating range and improving the release rule, and
when conditions require it, a pumping barrage near Samama/Mponda to maintain river flows when lake
levels are below a critical elevation.

The NDF funded consulting firms which undertook the studies made good use of local partners, increasing
local capacities, and consulted widely, with clients and stakeholders gaining a good understanding of the
results and the processes used. All of these studies achieved their objectives.

Specific objective (3) Improved catchment management. The international consulting firm, financed by
NDF, provided acceptable rehabilitation and conservation plans, but did not contribute to stakeholder
consultation as expected. The RWBs, assisted by local consultants, carried out extensive consultation with
all stakeholders and developed implementation plans that they could support. Core physical improvements
were made under the project. Valuable experience was gained by the water boards and local consultants in
the process of developing and implementing community-based catchment protection plans.

Component 2. Rural Water Supply and Sanitation

Objective: Sustainably enhance the health status of communities through provision of potable water
and improved sanitation.

Specific objective: Increase the capacity of sector actors to sustainably deliver potable water and
improved sanitation facilities to rural communities in ten Districts of Malawi. Preparation for
implementation aimed at building consensus on the measures necessary to ensure a demand responsive
approach to district-based, community-managed rural water supply and sanitation. Materials included an
Implementation Manual, Trainers Guide for Extension Workers, Trainers Guide for VHWCs, Design and
Technical Specification Manual for the Construction of Groundwater Supply Facilities in Rural Areas, and
a Sanitation, Hygiene Education and Community Procedures Manual. Two Management Services
Organizations (MSOs) were hired to implement the project, one for Northern and Central Regions and one
for Southern Region, responsible for consultation with district officials and training district staff and
participating communities. District Coordinating Teams (DCTs) managed activities within the district, and
District Extension Workers Teams (EWTs) trained Village Health and Water Committees (VHWCs).

Communities wishing to have water and sanitation facilities applied for an improved water supply, subject
to conditions including establishment of VHWCs, participation in planning, contribution of a minimum of
5% of the capital cost in cash and in-kind, and self-financing of O&M. For the rural water points
subcomponent, 500 boreholes were implemented in 10 Districts, providing 125,000 people with improved
access to safe water supplies, and associated education in handpump maintenance, and environmental
health. For the rural piped gravity subcomponent, one new scheme was constructed and one rehabilitated,
serving altogether an estimated population of 55,400, projected to increase to 68,000 over a 10 year design
horizon. Each system is overseen by a Water Association which hires a system manager who is responsible
for recruiting a core operators team and contracting most routine operations out to local service providers
within the service area.


Evaluation by the Borrower suggested that for both the borehole and gravity fed schemes, the 18 month


                                                     - 7 -

time allocated for the software aspects proved insufficient, as not all training activities were completed. On
the positive side, for the boreholes, two years after completion, all 500 boreholes have continued to operate
successfully, unprecedented for Malawi. Handpump spare parts are available throughout the country,
through a chain of rural shops. Participation of women is excellent, with 50-60% on VHWCs. A more
user friendly version of the Implementation Manual has been completed to complement the other manuals.
MASAF and programs supported by other donors, including the African Development Bank and CIDA
(COMWASH Project), are now adopting and using the approach tested in this project, including the
improved manuals. The approach and procedures developed have thus become widespread and well
established. For the gravity fed schemes, the facilities provided by the project were completed satisfactorily
as the project closed, and communities and individual consumers are implementing their own agreed
connections, at their own expense, as this report was written. There is no experience yet to judge
sustainability, though the procedures used suggest that it is likely. The outcome of the borehole program is
judged to be very successful, and the gravity fed schemes likely to be successful.

Component 3. Urban Water Supply.

Objective: Improved water supply services in small urban centers, and Lilongwe City.

Specific objective (1) Three financially viable Regional Water Boards established

Waterworks Act. GoM moved with speed and decisiveness to prepare and enact the new Waterworks Act
at project commencement. The powers and obligations conferred by the Act have successfully supported
the establishment and operation of the Boards as commercial entities.

Establishment of Regional Water Boards. In March-April 1996, GoM appointed the Chairmen, Board
Members and General Managers of the RWBs, and staffing commenced. Starting in September 1996,
consultants assisted with organizational structures, business plans, a corporate charter, asset registers, and
human resources plans.

Corporate Charters with sound performance indicators and tariff adjustment formula. The Corporate
Charters, which are performance agreements between the RWBs and the Government, were signed in
September 1999. The Charters set out regulations and procedures for tariff adjustment, and a number of
annual performance targets aimed at measuring the RWBs progress in operating as efficient, effective and
economic businesses. A special study was undertaken by an international consultant to refine the tariff
formula before the Charters were approved by the RWBs and Cabinet. It was based on work in other
countries which was considered to be best practice. The output was thus satisfactorily delivered.

For the most part the RWBs have achieved the performance targets set out in the Corporate Charters,
excepting the production cost of water, which is considerably higher than targeted. For all targets, actual
performance is comparable to what is typically achieved in other developing countries worldwide. These
targets need to be updated periodically based on revised business plans to ensure that the Charters continue
to be of value to the RWBs and their customers. .

              Comparison of Actual Performance to Targets set out in Corporate Charters

                                                      SRWB                CRWB                NWRB
Operating efficiency (Unaccounted for water):
           Charter target for 2003                     21%                   22%                 20%
           Actual performance                          26%                   19%                 36%
Collection efficiency
           Charter target for 2003                     82%                   80%                 95%



                                                      - 8 -

            Actual performance                         57%                   90%                 106%
Cost efficiency (cost per m3 produced)
            Charter target for 2003              MK28.4/US$0.33        MK6.3/US$0.07       MK17.0/US$0.20
            Actual performance                   MK23.78/US$0.47      MK31.63/US$0.37     MK47.71/US$0.45

Staff efficiency (staff per 1000 m3 prod.)
            Charter target for 2003                     21                    12                  10
            Actual performance                          20                    12                  26


On tariffs, the tariff adjustment formula has not been as successful as had been hoped in providing a
mechanism to secure satisfactory and timely tariff adjustment. In the context of Malawi the expansion
provision of the formula proved to be unworkable because it would have amortized investment costs at a
very high rate of interest over too short a time period and too few new customers. The formula did not take
account of the willingness and ability of customers to pay. The formula has been useful as supporting
documentation for Water Board requests for tariff increases and for changes in on-lending terms, but needs
to be revised before it can be used as an independent tool for tariff setting.

The Charter system was intended to provide Government with a tool to measure the performance of the
RWBs to focus their efforts on improving efficiency and effectiveness, and to diminish problems of delay in
setting tariffs. The Charters, together with other provisions such as the business planning process, the
Tariff Review Committee (did not meet), and the Performance Review Committee (met once), did not
provide an environment with sufficient incentive for the RWBs to rapidly improve their performance to the
extent set out in the Corporate Charters. The Government is aware of the weaknesses and is in the process
of establishing a regulator to oversee water and electricity. In this way, the specialized skills needed to
regulate these utilities can be secured. The Charter process is judged to be partially successful.

Encouraged by the MoWD, the RWBs have reviewed their performance and identified actions that can be
taken to improve it. Many of these are related to decentralizing operations in individual towns or groups of
smaller towns, so that local operators have management authority and are accountable for the service that
they provide. These units offer middle management opportunities. They are proving to bring improved
accountability to customers and improved performance tracking by headquarters against agreed targets
tailored to each town.

Business plans. Business plans setting out mission statement, policies, functions, investment plans and
financial projections were prepared between 1997 and 1999, and were endorsed both by the RWBs and
GoM. They were revised in 2003/4. The RWBs made good use of the initial preparation and the revision
processes as opportunities for capacity building and as aids to setting of directions and improving
performance. However, the RWBs and their business planning consultants failed to provide updated
financial models with scheme-by-scheme as well as consolidated projections, that could serve as a basis for
recommending a revised tariff formula, revised on-lending arrangements, and revised performance targets.
The Business Plans are thus judged to have been partially successful.


Financial Viability. Financial viability for the RWBs depends on development and execution of business
plans that set out a clear expansion program for each town matched to the potential return on these
investments, sound borrowing practices, appropriate tariffs, and cost effective operations. In Malawi it
also depends on the Water Boards' ability to collect bills on a timely basis from Government institutions
and other customers. Lack of resolution of long outstanding arrears from Government institutions, lack of
an objective and predictable process for adjusting tariffs and reviewing performance , and on-lending terms
that have effectively transferred foreign exchange risk to the RWBs together pose a risk to the financial
viability of the RWBs. Nevertheless, the RWBs latest financial projections indicate that they can achieve



                                                      - 9 -

financial viability, on the assumptions made, including reasonable bill collection patterns, and revised
on-lending terms. This output is judged moderately satisfactory.

l The three RWBs have a good idea of the expansion requirements in each town, but have not prepared
    system-by-system financial projections based on an analysis of customer willingness and ability to pay
    tariffs required to finance the cost of expansion and ongoing operations and maintenance. As a result
    the overall financial projections for the Boards do not have strong foundations.

l Except for the Zomba Dam and Water Supply, the financial projections of the RWBs indicate that they
    would be able to service debt related to funds on-lent from IDA. However, the NRWB and CRWB
    have also borrowed from the African Development Bank and the Development Bank of South Africa.
    With the current lending terms, it is not possible for the RWBs to repay their loans and at the same
    time properly maintain facilities and expand their systems to meet demand.

l The RWBs suggest that delays in tariff decisions have made it difficult for them to achieve financial
    viability. The tariff table below suggests that this has been true in some years ­ tariff adjustments have
    not always been sufficient to compensate for currency devaluation and inflation. However, it should
    also be noted that tariffs have reached the mid- to upper bracket in real terms when compared with
    levels in general use in both developing and industrialized countries and are likely near what customers
    in Malawi can afford or are willing to pay. Financial viability will depend more on the RWBs' ability
    to increase their customer base, improve service, collect bills and achieve operating efficiencies.



      Table: Water Tariff Trend for the Water Boards in MK/M3 and US$/M3

                              1999          2000       2001       2002         2003

  BWB
               MK              21.2         30.4        38.2       52.9        49.9
               US$            $0.49         $0.54      $0.51       $0.70       $0.55
  LWB
               MK                26.3       26.3        34.4       41.1        44.9
               US$              $0.61       $0.47      $0.46       $0.54       $0.50
  CRWB
               MK              21           23.0        29.0       38.0        45.0
               US$            $0.49         $0.41      $0.39       $0.50       $0.50
  NRWB
               MK              19.3         24.6        32.1       43.6        43.6
               US$            $0.45         $0.44      $0.43       $0.58       $0.48
  SRWB
               MK              10.1         10.1        23.6       30.3        39.6
               US$            $0.23         $0.18      $0.32       $0.40       $0.44



l Arrears remain an issue. Over the last 14 years, arrears have been at their highest when GoM's fiscal
    and macro-economic problems have been at their most severe, for example 1992-4 and in over the past
    few years. Due to weaknesses of GoM fiscal management and of the macro-economy, government
    institutions and Ministries are often under-funded, or in some months, not funded at all. During the
    first few years of the project, payment of water bills by government institutions slowed considerably
    and arrears accumulated. To address the problem, an arrangement was made for bills from the


                                                     - 10 -

    institutions with the worst payment records - the Army, Police, State House, and the Ministries of
    Education and Health - to be paid through the Treasury Central Payments System. This has resulted in
    considerable improvement, but has not completely solved the problem With old outstanding arrears still
    on the books of the Water Boards, the average days sales in accounts receivable for government
    institutions is around 350 days. One of the main indicators for the new Structural Adjustment Loan is
    the timely payment of bills by government institutions to public utilities. Accordingly both the
    Government and the Bank are concerned and have agreed to highlight the issue and track progress. It
    is disturbing to note that while collection from government institutions has improved, collections from
    other customers has slowed for three of the five Water Boards. The average days in accounts
    receivable is around 150 days for other customers, whereas a well performing utility would be expected
    to collect bills within 45 days on average. With such poor collection performance, there is a risk that
    cash flow will be insufficient to fund adequate maintenance of facilities and debt service.

                        Total Water arrears in MK'000 as at 31st December 2003

                       BWB           LWB         CRWB          NRWB         SRWB             Total
Government
  Dec 31, 2003       242,215      139,293        50,054        51,036       183,130        665,728
  Dec 31, 2002       267,152      134,706        40,307        71,366       130,179        643,710
    % Inc/(Dec)         (9%)          3%           24%          (28%)          41%            10%
      Avg days           729          374           184           345           276
Others
    Dec 31, 2003     566,034      195,858         20,189         25,799       76,753        884,633
    Dec 31, 2002     522,891      150,939         24,543         25,620       31,391        755,384
     % Inc/(Dec)         8%          30%           (18%)            1%         144%            17%
        Avg days          253          122             85            88          180
Total Arrears
  Dec 31, 2003       808,248      335,151        70,243        76,825       258,883      1,549,350
  Dec 31, 2002       790,043      285,646        64,850        96,985       161,570      1,399,094
    % Inc/(Dec)          2%          17%            8%          (20%)          60%            11%
      Avg days           320          174           135           185           243


Specific objective (2) water supply coverage increased

Water supply facilities in 16 towns rehabilitated and expanded.
·        Rehabilitation of water supplies for 8 towns, SRWB. Design and construction were successfully
completed. For some of the towns, UFW increased due to bursts following increased pressures. This
project has achieved improved service reliability and an increase in coverage by 35%. Outcome
satisfactory..
·        Rehabilitation and expansion of water supplies for 6 towns, CRWB. Increased coverage by 35%
from 2001 to 2003, revenue more than doubled. Some reliability problems. Outcome satisfactory.
·        Rehabilitation of water supplies for 2 towns, NRWB. Water sales increased by 25%, connections
increased from 1664 to 2606, an increase of 5 6%. Outcome satisfactory.

Dam, treatment and distribution pipelines at Zomba completed. This was the largest scheme constructed
in the project, consisting of a dam, pipeline to the treatment works, new and rehabilitated treatment works,
13 service reservoirs, 42 km of distribution mains, 4 km of access road, and ancillary works. .
Construction commenced in June 1997 and was completed in August 2001, at a cost of US$28.9m.            The
cost overrun for the Zomba dam and related supervision was US$9.5m, where the contract prices for
construction and supervision were increased from US$27.2m to US$36.7m. The largest part of the price
increase of the dam was due to unexpected ground conditions in the quarry area, the intake tower, and
under the dam. There was considerably more soft excavation to reach rock (150,000m3 against the



                                                      - 11 -

 estimated 40,000m3) and the rock did not fragment as suggested by the test drilling carried out during
 tender preparation at the commencement of the works. Extra foundation work for the dam and spillway
 was also required. The increased budget for the dam was cleared by the Operation Procurement Review
 Committee.

 The scheme has eliminated the dry season water shortages in Zomba Municipality which caused the regular
 closure of the University and Government Agencies, and much suffering among the local communities.
 Water sales have accordingly increased by 68%. The cost escalation forced the cancellation of plans to
 extend mains further to increase coverage, so coverage has increased very little. While completion of the
 project was a good achievement, conferring substantial benefits, most of the potential benefits that would
 accrue from increased coverage will be realized as the distribution system is expanded. Outcome
 successful.

 Third Lilongwe Water Supply Scheme completed. The NWDP share of this scheme included the
 consultancy for the supervision of construction, the supply and installation of pumping equipment, and
 supply and installation of an 8.9 km pipeline of 800mm diameter. The largest contract of the scheme, the
 raising of the Kamuzu II Dam, which in conjunction with the other works increased supply availability to
 Lilongwe, was financed by EIB. The works supported by the NWDP were completed successfully at a cost
 of US$5.9m, slightly under budget. The scheme provides adequate protection of the Lilongwe supply
 against drought conditions and upgrades treatment and distribution infrastructure. Outcome highly
 successful.

 Specific objective (3) water supply services improved.

 Production, distribution and sales of water in all towns increased. The three Regional Water Boards
 have achieved the physical targets for increased production and sales of water and reduction of
 unaccounted for water, but have achieved the financial and operational efficiency targets for improvement
 of collection efficiency, reduction in production costs and improved staff efficiency in only a few cases.
 (See Annex 1 ­ Logframe 3 - Urban Water Supply) The cost efficiency results vary from Board to Board.
 Costs per cubic meter produced, in current terms, are higher than the targets and have increased rather than
 decreased over the life of the Project. In real terms, that is after allowing for inflation, NRWB came close
 to achieving its target, while the other two were still well above, due mainly to high staff and administration
 costs.


                                    Performance Indicators

                                  Target         CRWB          NRWB          SRWB
Increase in water produced       increase       8% inc         8% inc       25% inc

Increase in water sold           increase       5% inc         4% inc       21% inc

Unaccounted for water          5% decrease     37% dec         9% inc       19% dec

Production cost of water       5% decrease     12% inc        88% inc       40% inc

Collection efficiency         25% increase     31% inc        15% inc      0.2% dec

Staffing                      25% reduction    37% dec        53% inc      0.5% dec




                                                       - 12 -

Employ best possible management teams, and build smaller, better trained O&M staff. The RWBs were
active in ensuring that their staff benefited from the project training program, and have filled skill gaps by
recruiting qualified staff. All three General Managers and several other senior staff of the RWBs obtained
MBAs or MSc (Management) through the NWDP training program. More training for technician and
trade employees would contribute to improved performance. Staff numbers have reduced, but are still much
higher than optimum especially for CRWB and SRWB.

Strategically contract private sector to minimize costs. Some initial progress has been made, with
communal groups engaged to run communal water points, and motor vehicle maintenance and security
partially contracted out..

Improved relations with customers. Trial community liaison groups established, communal water points
groups established and functioning, staff trained in customer relations.

Improved capability to work with communities to protect catchments. The BWB and the three RWBs
involved community stakeholder groups in the planning and implementation of catchment protection
measures. Outputs and results included formation of community liaison groups, a new high level of
community support for catchment protection, reduction or elimination of inappropriate farming practices
near the more important watercourses, and virtual elimination of vandalism. Measurable results in terms of
stream flow quality require a longer period than to date. Outcome: highly satisfactory.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
The Staff Appraisal Report provided only an indicative economic analysis of investment components, as
specific investments had yet to be selected. For urban and town schemes, primarily rehabilitation, benefits
to users were expected to accrue from: (1) arresting the deterioration of service levels and coverage due to
system malfunctions and (2) additional service coverage attributable to improvements in production and
distribution capacity. For the rural program, the primary benefits were expected to be increased coverage
of the population, which would provide for additional consumption, more convenient access (resulting in
time savings) and safer water (resulting in health improvement). The average IRR was estimated at about
25% for urban and town schemes and at about 16% for rural schemes.

As planned, the project supported preparation of business plans for the RWBs and preparation of economic
and financial analysis of proposed urban and town investments. At completion, the economic analysis was
updated for each RWB, for the two rural piped systems and for the rural borehole program as a whole.
The revised analyses include actual investment costs for the schemes constructed and updated information
about population, connections, demand, consumption, production, tariffs and costs. The results are shown
in the table below. The project is expected to achieve an Economic IRR well above the hurdle rate of
10%..

           Comparison of Estimated Economic IRR at Appraisal and at Completion
                                                 Estimated IRR              Estimated IRR
Description                                        at appraisal              at completion
NRWB                                                   27%                       24%
CRWB                                                   42%                        18%
SRWB                                                   26%                        28%
                                                    Zomba 7%                  Zomba 16%
RWSS boreholes                                         16%                        50%
RWSS ­ Nkhamanga piped system                          16%                        29%
RWSS ­ Dwambazi piped system                           16%                       25%




                                                     - 13 -

4.4 Financial rate of return:
At appraisal financial results were projected for the five Water Boards over a sixteen year period from
1995/96 to 2009/10. Blantyre and Lilongwe Water Boards were projected to show an increasing profit
trend over the projection period. The three RWBs were all projected to produce a net profit by the fifth
year. The financial performance of the Water Boards has not been as positive as projected. Despite
increases in water production, volume sold and tariffs, the Water Boards have not yet been able to achieve
solid financial viability. This is due primarily to macro-economic instability, which resulted in high
inflation, currency devaluation and shortfalls in Government budget transfers to institutions who then were
not able to pay their water bills. The Water Boards have also failed to achieve many of the operating
efficiency targets, even though they should have taken decisions regarding expenditures and staffing.
Annex 3 includes tables showing a comparison of actual to projected financial performance for the most
recent three fiscal years.

The RWBs have updated their financial projections as part of the business planning process and have
identified measures needed to improve financial and operating performance. The projections indicate that
the Water Boards can achieve financial viability if collection and operating efficiency are improved.

4.5 Institutional development impact:
Water resources management: Water resources management needs to be undertaken in line with principles
of integrated catchment management, subsidiarity (that is, management at the lowest appropriate level), and
stakeholder involvement, including women. It needs leadership committed to these principles, and the
backing of legislation that enshrines them. Malawi faces a number of serious WRM problems. Hitherto,
WRM in Malawi was treated as a centralized mid-level administrative task, and attempts to deal with such
issues as catchment degradation, pollution in urban environments, and the effects of drought, were
accordingly quite ineffective. With the establishment under this project of a Water Resources Board, more
representative of stakeholders and more fully empowered and better supported than its predecessors, and
the imminent enactment of modern WRM legislation, GoM has taken an important first step towards
effective WRM.

Rural Water Supply and Sanitation: The very successful RWSS component has been the vehicle for the
district-based, community-driven approach to become the accepted methodology for all donor-supported
rural water and sanitation programs. MoWD has evolved into an effective leader of policy and practice in
this type of service. Policies and methods for the delivery of such programs will continue to evolve as rural
community needs and civil society in Malawi evolve. To ensure that the methodology and materials remain
current and fully accepted, it would be important for the MoWD to continue to be integrally involved in
small to medium scale rural water and sanitation programs.

Regional Water Boards: The performance of the Regional Water Boards has not been an unqualified
success. However, they have gained the respect of most of the communities they serve as being able to
deliver improved and more responsive water services. They have become a stable and valued part of the
utility scene in Malawi. The financial sustainability problems they face are of long standing. However,
some progress has been made. The problems are a combination of the fiscal management problems that
confront the Government, and the need for the RWBs to become more efficient. As the macro-economy
improves and as the RWBs decentralize management to more autonomous town water operators with clear
business plans, performance targets and incentives to achieve them, the RWBs can achieve their intended
objective of being effective, financially viable utilities. Accordingly, it is judged that the institutional
development impact of the project has been substantial.




                                                       - 14 -

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:
Disbursement and project implementation delays. Delays in disbursements by the Bank through the life of
the project caused problems for consultants, works contractors, and the implementing agencies, and
resulted in extra costs on the Zomba works as the penalty clauses for late payment were invoked. This was
the only area of unsatisfactory donor performance noted by the Borrower.

HIV/AIDS was a significant factor in the attrition of GoM and water board staff at all levels during the
project. High turnover rates, for this and other reasons, resulted in extra loads on senior management
personnel of MoWD and the PMU, and caused project delays. The water resources and water supply
specialists in the Ministries generally bore extra workloads, sometimes of an emergency nature, during the
drought years from 1992 to 1996/7. Still more work load from the project was not an option for these staff
during such times. Despite this, total disbursement reached 98.5% of the total credit.

Procurement of consultants. With the honorable exception of the two large consulting firms that supervised
the Zomba and Lilongwe construction contracts, most of the large firms that won selection processes, used
the "bait and switch" technique. That is, they won the bid with a high quality nomination for study leader,
and then at negotiations claimed that the person was unavailable. The substitute usually proved to be of
poor ability or inadequately experienced, and the assignments proceeded to founder, and substantially
increased supervision time. This deception was a cause of some of the more serious delays in the first
years of the project. It was not practiced by the small or medium sized firms (including all of those which
undertook NDF-supported assignments). In theory, GoM had the option of rejection of the substitutes
candidates, and calling upon the second-ranked evaluated firm. In practice, a combination of two factors
militated against the borrower resorting to this: (i) the large consulting assignments where the deceptions
took place were all time-critical, and major project achievements and milestones depended on on-time
delivery of outputs; and (ii) the GoM at least for the first few of such assignments had no reason to
disbelieve these high profile firms when they overstated the qualifications and abilities of the substitute
candidates.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Effects of fiscal management problems. One effect of the cessation of budgetary support from donors in
1992-4 was a loss of skilled personnel, and a general slide of capacity in the MoWS and its successors.
This contributed to the extremely low capacity levels of the MoIWD and MoWD when they were formed.
Subsequently, during implementation, fiscal and macro-economic problems of the government contributed
to (i) freezes on recruitment at various times, leaving the MoWD short of critical human resources; (ii)
accumulation of arrears by government agencies to the water boards, (iii) high inflation and rapid currency
devaluation adversely affected the ability of the RWBs to achieve financial viability, and (iv) project
slowdowns during periods when insufficient counterpart funds were available. During one period of GoM
fiscal crisis, a temporary freeze was imposed during which no new contracts could be entered into. Delays
in the IFMIS program resulted in the project failing to assist the MoWD to implement an effective
accounting system.

Early project management difficulties. The creation of the MoIWD and in 1997 the MoWD, lifted the
profile of water resources and services within Government, but apart from an initial period when the
Government moved quickly to pass the Waterworks Act, there was instead a lack of stability throughout
the project, particularly in the first three years. From appraisal to completion, there were 8 Ministers and 9
Principal Secretaries, and it was not until 1999 that a PS was appointed who stayed more than 12 months.
The PSs that preceded her, though well motivated, had insufficient time to get to grips with the project's



                                                       - 15 -

emphases on community driven services and financial sustainability. In early 1999, following indications
of non-acceptance of the community-driven principles of rural water services provision, and stagnation of
that and the water resources component, the Bank declared the project "at risk". With the application of
strong and more stable leadership from then on, strengthening of the PMU and much of the rest of the
Ministry, and focus on agreed project outputs following the May 1999 MTR, the project was declared
satisfactory from March 2000.

Water Board Governance. Water Board operations have been unduly expensive and Board Chairmen have
gotten too involved in day-to-day operations. The resulting conflicts with the General Managers seriously
undermined their authority. This practice is a major disincentive for the few professionals with good
management skills to build their careers in the water sector. In the latter part of the project, the
Government was more careful to appoint qualified board members.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
Problems due to delays in strengthening and empowering the Project Management Unit in the early years of
the project, the time it took to build project management capacity, and failure of Ministry leadership during
some early stages of the project to support consistently the principles on which the project was based, were
due in part to leadership inadequacies as described above.

5.4 Costs and financing:
Refer to Annex 2.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
This report gives sustainability ratings to (i) the institutions established under the project, i.e. the WRB and
the three RWBs, (ii) the water resources management initiatives ­ monitoring and catchment protection,
(iii) the rural water and sanitation program, and (iv) the four major sets of infrastructure ­ RWSS
facilities, 16 town water supply rehabilitation and expansion, Zomba dam and water supply, and Lilongwe
water supply works. For only one, water resources monitoring, was sustainability rated as unlikely.

The financial viability of the RWBs was rated "likely" because: (i) systems have been put in place to
improve collection of bills for major government institutions that should bear fruit as the macro-economic
situation improves and (ii) recommendations of the business planning and functional review consultancies
are expected to be implemented to improve governance, efficiency and accountability and to revise
on-lending terms and the tariff adjustment process.

Other factors contributing positively to sustainability are (i) the extensive program of training, covering
800 public sector water and sanitation employees has increased the capacities of the water boards and the
Ministry, (ii) much of the staff turnover from the public sector has provided the private sector with well
trained personnel, and (iii) the project has strengthened private sector capacities ­ over 50% of the project
was carried out by local experts, artisans, consultants, suppliers and contractors.

An overall sustainability rating of "likely" is therefore given. See Annex 6.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

Much of the project has been focused on creating sustainable institutions and processes, which have been
mainly successful. Transitions requiring GoM's continued attention include:

WR Monitoring. The project produced computer based systems for the implementation of data archives,



                                                       - 16 -

and hydrographic data collection equipment. Recommendations were made for methods of securing a
sustainable funding stream to support of the water data collection effort. This opportunity now needs to be
taken up by MoWD. The proposed new Water Resources Act will, when enacted, provide the powers and
obligations supporting a pro-active role on the part of the WRB and the MoWD.


Regional Water Boards: The RWB business planning and functional review consultancies have resulted in
recommendations to reduce overheads, improve sales and collections, amend the formula and process for
tariff approvals, amend on-lending agreements. More work is required to refine financial projections
included in the business plans to include a scheme-by-scheme analysis of potential to improve service to
existing customers, expand distribution networks where there is existing capacity to serve more of the
population, improve operational efficiency and, if necessary, to rehabilitate or expand production capacity.
Rapid assessments should be made at the town level to assess willingness and ability of customers to pay
for improved service. Investment priorities should be set based on projected returns on investment at the
scheme level. Several critical issues need to be taken up by GoM/Ministry of Finance before funding can
be made available for additional investments in the Water Boards. These include: (i) amending the tariff
formula, tariff review and performance review process; serious consideration should be given to assigning
responsibility for tariff and performance to the water section of the multi-sector regulator soon to be
established; (ii) amending on-lending arrangements for IDA and other Water Board debt, possibly
rescheduling debt; (iii) continued monitoring to ensure payment of water bills by the five major Government
institutions on a timely basis in accordance with the procedures developed and settling long outstanding
arrears, (iv) providing on-going monitoring to ensure appropriate and economical governance of the Water
Boards.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:
The Bank support to GoM on policy and institutional reform was satisfactory, as was preparation of major
works in Lilongwe and Blantyre. Lack of specificity in the selection of towns for rehabilitation and
expansion, RWSS policy and implementation arrangements, and the scope of water resources management
studies delayed implementation in the first two years. Also given the borrower's limited implementation
capacity and the effect of HIV/AIDS pandemic, the Bank could have more strongly encouraged the
borrower to aim for a smaller scale project in terms of physical works. The financing role was satisfactory
- it increased the credit to compensate for other donors declining to participation. By today's standards the
project was not ready for implementation at the start.

7.2 Supervision:
Supervision of major works in Lilongwe and Blantyre was strong during the first two years of
implementation, but weaker when it came to town rehabilitation and expansion, rural water supply and
sanitation, and water resources management. However, a concerted effort was made from mid 1998
through the end of 1999, to agree with the MWD on the scope and implementation arrangements for these
components. Once consensus was reached, the Government became committed to the project and its
objectives were achieved in the end. There were, however, recurring problems of late disbursement by the
Bank. As penalty payments were not an eligible IDA expense category, this resulted in GoM having to pay
from its core budget.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:
Overall Bank performance was judged to be satisfactory.




                                                    - 17 -

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:
The borrower performed strongly in policy development and in preparing the institutional reform agenda
and achieving the preparation stage reform milestones. However, as indicated above quality at entry of the
rural water supply and sanitation and the water resources management components was unsatisfactory.
Inadequate attention was given to detailed project implementation planning, calibration of the works
program, and establishment of effective project implementation capacities.

7.5 Government implementation performance:
Though the PMU was well led, there was inadequate commitment on the part of GoM through to 1999, to
the successful management and implementation of the project. Through that period, the PMU and indeed
most of the units of the MoWD, were seriously under-resourced. For a time, frequent leadership changes
resulted in some managers temporarily working against the fundamental principles of the project such as
community driven RWSS provision, and the need for well qualified Board leadership for the RWBs.

After project objectives/outputs were agreed at the MTR, the GoM set about remedying this situation with
clear determination by strengthening the PMU professional staff, establishing a RWSS policy and related
implementation arrangements, and concluding terms of reference for the water resources management
studies. The results from 2000 onwards were much improved,

Nonetheless there were continuing difficulties with counterpart funding, turnover of qualified staff
(primarily due to HIV/AIDS) and changes in leadership in the MWD. The Government's delay in dealing
with governance issues and non-payment of water bills by government institutions and its failure to arrange
for settlement of old outstanding arrears put the sustainability of the Water Boards in jeopardy. Though
there has been improvement, this remains a serious issue, which will be closely monitored by the Bank and
other donors considering further financing of investment needs. Nevertheless, balancing these negative
factors against the positive achievements, GoM implementation performance overall has been satisfactory,
and the PMU as very satisfactory.


7.6 Implementing Agency:
The performance of the MoWD was satisfactory, and that of the PMU as highly satisfactory for the rural
and water resources components. The performance of the RWBs from 1999 onwards was somewhat less
strong than the MoWD. Their performance was handicapped by management turnover, in some cases
precipitated by conflicts with board chairman, and by difficulty in recruiting and retaining qualified
financial officers. They would have benefited from a lead specialist in the PMU who focused on the
RWBs. Nonetheless, the RWBs' performance was satisfactory. In spite of the fact that the dam raising
schemes presented substantial technical difficulties, the MoWD (through the PMU) and LWB performed
very satisfactorily in construction management. In particular, the NRWB must be singled out for its
leadership role in the project and persistence in overcoming implementation obstacles, despite the above
problems. It's performance was highly satisfactory.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:
Satisfactory.


8. Lessons Learned




                                                     - 18 -

l Project readiness is essential, especially in the case of projects with demanding reform agendas.
    There is a need for thorough project preparation to ensure that the scope of the project is within the
    capacity of the implementing agency to manage, and the PIP is prepared in thorough detail.
l Stable leadership in the implementing agency is required if reforms are to be implemented
    successfully. Frequent changes in leadership whether at Principal Secretary or Minister level, can
    result in stagnation and possible failure of the project. Loss of personnel to HIV/AIDS requires special
    consideration in scoping projects and building capacity to implement them.
l A district-based, community-driven model for RWSS and catchment management is powerful and
    effective in scaling up and ensuring sustainability. In so doing it is important to provide adequate
    start-up time to introduce concepts and build implementation capacity at the district and community
    levels.
l Establishment of efficient, commercially-oriented urban water utilities requires proper incentive
    structures and professional independent review and monitoring. Adoption of Corporate Charters is
    not sufficient to achieve the desired improvement in utility performance. Performance incentives are
    necessary to motivate boards and managers to maintain determination and momentum in this effort. In
    addition, on-going monitoring and tariff review by a professional, independent regulator is needed.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:
The Borrower rated the Bank's performance as satisfactory except in regard to disbursement. The
Borrower rated the NDF's performance as very satisfactory. The Borrower particularly noted NDF's
flexibility and relative simplicity in financing changes.

(b) Cofinanciers:
The NDF requested that the Bank also cover NDF interests preparing this ICR.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
Not applicable.

10. Additional Information

Partner contributions. The NDF co-financed the major water resources management studies and several
assignments in support of effective project management. The EIB supported more than half of the Third
Lilongwe Water Supply Project, in parallel with IDA. CIDA supported the water point mapping for the
RWSS component, and is supporting development of a National Sanitation Policy. NORAD funded the
aerial photography of the Songwe river catchment and the perimeter of Lake Malawi, for the water
resources management studies. All four showed responsiveness and flexibility in meeting priority needs of
the client. All of the outputs of the work funded by these partners were of good quality and contributed
materially to the overall result of the project.




                                                     - 19 -

   Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

   Logframe 1. Central Services and Water Resources
Objectives      Planned Outputs              Actual Outputs                  Performance indicators
achieved
Strengthening   Regional Water Boards        - Boards and CEOs               - RWBs operational
Central         established.                 appointed
Services and                                 - Charters signed
Water                                        - RWBs in operation
Resources
Management
                Restructure MoWD for         - Proposals for                 - MoWD re-organized for more
                effective sector leadership  re-structuring prepared and     effective sector leadership
                                             implemented.
                                             -MoWD operating as sector
                                             leader and coordinator.
                Effective Water Resources - Computers, equipment and        - Restructured WRB in place
                Board                       vehicle procured;               - Functioning WRB secretariat
                                            - qualified head of Secretariat - Water Resources Act revised
                                            appointed, and other WRB
                                            supporting positions filled;
                                            - draft water resources Bill
                                            prepared.
                                            - training program under way.
                Improved Financial          - Financial officers trained    - Consultancy on Financial
                Management System in        - Improved performance of       Management Strengthening
                MoWD                        existing manual system          - Functioning MWD Financial
                                                                            Management System.
                Improved hydro and water - Consultancy completed.           - Increased number of well
                quality monitoring system. - HYDATA installed.              functioning hydrometric, water
                Improved hydro-database, - Plans for other MIS systems quality and groundwater
                including borehole data.    provided.                       monitoring stations
                                            - Equipment provided to         - Functioning computerized
                                            operate the hydrological        hydrological, hydro-geological
                                            monitoring network              and water quality data base
                                                                            system including boreholes
                Water borne sanitation ­     - Review and consultation       - Transference of authority to
                Transfer of responsibility   questioned assumption that      WBs.
                to Water Boards.             WBs should be solely
                                             responsibility for water
                                             borne sanitation. Further
                                             work to be fund by CIDA.
                Competence of sector         - 300 training events and       - Wide spectrum of training
                personnel in sector          courses supported, over 800     offered to employees.
                activities upgraded.         trained covering whole          - Operational competence in
                                             spectrum of sector training     MoWD and the five water
                                             needs.                          boards improved.
                                             - Competence in operations
                                             in all sector bodies improved
                                             at all levels.
Strengthening   Improved evaluation          - The five studies completed    - increased number of
of Evaluation   capabilities in WRD          successfully, with wide         experienced and qualified water
Capabilities in through studies on: (i)      stakeholder consultation        resources specialists in WRD
the Water       Water Resources              that increased quality of       through participation in the
Resources       Development Plan Study       output and stakeholder          following International C
Sector          investigated alternative     knowledge and support.          onsultancies:
                sources of water for 11      - Plans for the achievement     - Water Resources
                town centers (ii) Songwe     of the objectives of each       Development Plan
                River Course Stabilization   problem studied                 - Songwe River Plan



                                                         - 20 -

                 Study, jointly undertaking      - Substantial participation    - Shire River Flow
                 with Tanzania; (iii) ) A set    and learning by Malawi         Augmentation Program
                 of three studies on             private sector consultants     - Integrated Water Resources
                 minimizing risks of             and by the study supervisors   Development Plan for Lake
                 shortfall of flow in the        in the MoWD and RWBs.          Malawi and Shire River (2
                 Shire River, and of                                            studies)
                 electricity supply to the
                 whole country
Improved         Improved water quality          - International consultancy    - Catchment rehabilitation and
Catchment        and reliability of flows in     produced technical plans.      protection plan prepared and
Management       selected catchments             - RWB consultants to           implemented.
                                                 facilitated stakeholder        - Four catchments managed
                                                 discussions to refine and      with a high degree of
                                                 prioritize interventions,      stakeholder participation.
                                                 agree on implementation        (BWB, SRWB, CRWB, NRWB)
                                                 plans, and supervise civil
                                                 works and reforestation.




    Logframe 2, Rural Water Supply and Sanitation

Objectives        Planned outputs                Actual outputs                 Performance indicators
achieved
To increase                                      - Preparation of user friendly - Number of communities
the capacity of   Improved community             manuals and materials,         effectively demanding for
sector actors     capacity in the focus          sensitization of               facilities.
to sustainably    districts to effectively plan, communities. Community         - Number of facilities
deliver potable   manage and use                 committees formed.             management plans prepared.
water and         sustainable water and          Demand-led provision of        - Number of communities
improved          sanitation facilities.         boreholes to 500               managing their facilities
sanitation                                       communities, plus one new      - Number of communities
facilities to                                    and one rehabilitated gravity  applying sound personal and
rural                                            scheme. 188,000 people         environmental hygiene
communities                                      provided with water            practices
in ten Districts                                 services. Unique result: not
in Malawi.                                       one of the 500 boreholes
                                                 failed in > 2 years of
                                                 operation.
                 Increased participation of      - Management Services          - Increase in number of
                 the private sector, NGOs        Organizations, District        consultants, NGOs and
                 and community based             Coordinating Teams,,           community based
                 organizations in the            Extension Workers Teams        organizations assisting
                 provision of goods and          formed, all private            communities to effectively plan
                 services for WSS facilities     sector/NGO. Decentralised      and manage water and
                 in the focus districts.         construction contracting and   sanitation facilities.
                                                 handpump procurement.          -     Number of community
                                                 Handpump spares available      facilities constructed and
                                                 through country wide from      operating properly.
                                                 largest chain of rural shops.  -     Availability of WSS
                                                                                equipment and spare-parts
                                                                                throughout the country.
                 Enhanced public sector          - MoWD and ten districts       - Implementation Strategy for
                 capacity in the focus           now have the capacity to       use by all actors
                 districts to facilitate         support community driven          Training Manuals and
                 community management of         RWSS programs. This               Materials for all sector
                 water supply and sanitation     methodology was adopted           actors
                 services.                       by MASAF II, and is to be         M&E framework used by all
                                                 used in RWSS programs             actors




                                                              - 21 -

                                              being prepared with support     -District Coordination Teams
                                              from ADB and CIDA               in the focus districts that
                                              (COMWASH).                      support planning,
                                                                              implementation and M&E.




   Logframe 3. Urban Water Supply
Objective       Planned Outputs               Actual Outputs               Performance Indicators
Three           Waterworks Act.               Act enacted by Parliament.   Waterworks Act No. 17,1995
financially
viable
Regional
Water Boards
established.
                Corporate Charters with       Charters prepared and       Charters prepared and approved
                sound performance             approved                    by Cabinet and the Bank.
                indicators and tariff
                adjustment formula
                Business plans setting out    Business plans approved by - Business plans approved by
                mission statement,            RWB Directors and           RWB Directors and Government.
                policies, functions,          Government                  - Business plans implemented for
                investments plans and                                     the designated period
                financial projections.
                Revised business plans       - Revised Business plans     - Revised business prepared and
                with updated investment     prepared and accepted by the accepted
                plans and financial         RWB Directors                 - RWBs finalised and
                projections, tariff formula                               implemented new accounting and
                and on-lending                                            improvements to financial
                arrangements                                              management systems
   Water supply Water supply facilities in   - Engineering designs        - Financially and technically
   coverage     25 towns rehabilitated and economical and consistent      feasible designs prepared
   increased    expanded                    with RWB and community        - Water supply facilities in 16
                                            priorities                    towns rehabilitated and expanded
                                             - Works contracts packaged to
                                            balance competition and
                                            quality work
                Dam, treatment facilities    - Works completed            - Dam and treatment works fully
                and distribution pipelines                                completed
                in Zomba completed
   Water supply Production, distribution                                  -     Production and sales
   services     and sales of water in all    - Increased production and   increased in all RWBs:
   improved     towns increased through     sales of water
                better operation and                                            Prod.    Sales
                maintenance, billing and                                  SRWB           25%       21%
                collection and cost                                       CRWB           8%        5%
                effective rehabilitation and                              NRWB           8%        4%
                expansion investments




                                             - At least 5% reduction in   The production cost of water
                                            production cost of water      increased for all RWBs:

                                                                          $/m3      1999/00         2003
                                                                          SRWB           $0.20     $0.28
                                                                          CRWB           $0.33     $0.37
                                                                          NRWB           $0.24     $0.45



                                                         - 22 -

                                                          Average         $0.25    $0.35



                           - At least 5% reduction in     Overall the target for UfW was
                           unaccounted for water          achieved:


                                                          UfW             1999/00 2003
                                                          SRWB            32%      26%
                                                          CRWB            30%      19%
                                                          NRWB            33%      36%
                                                          Average    32%                 27%



                           - At least 25% increase in     Collection efficiency improved by
                           collection efficiency          only 11% overall:

                                                          Collection
                                                          Efficiency      99/00    03/04
                                                          SRWB            65%      57%
                                                          CRWB            65%      90%
                                                          NRWB            91%      106%
                                                          Average         72%      79%

                           - At least 25% reduction in
                           staffing                       Staff per 1000 m3 produced
                                                          decreased in two out of three
                                                          RWBs, but only slightly:

                                                          Staff per
                                                          1000 m3
                                                          produced 99/ 00       03/04
                                                          SRWB            21       20
                                                          CRWB            19       12
                                                          NRWB            17       26

                           - Personnel trained to do their
                           jobs better                    -      Training carried out for
                                                          Management & staff at all levels
Employ best possible        - Best possible management     - Good numbers of
management team and         team employed                  management and supervisory
build smaller, better       - Smaller, better trained      and operative staff trained.
trained operations and      O&M staff in place
maintenance staff
Strategically contract     - Private sector contracted    - Communal groups run
private sector to minimize                                communal water points
costs.                                                    - Motor vehicle maintenance and
                                                          security partially contracted out
                                                          -
Improved relations with    - Community liaison team       - Trial Community Liaison Groups
customers.                 interacts with town water      established
                           advisory groups and builds the - Communal water points groups
                           management capability of       established and functioning
                           communal water points groups- Staff trained in customer
                                                          relations
Improved capability to      - Catchment management in      - Catchment rehabilitation and
work with communities to    4 water boards improved.       protection program instituted
protect catchments.                                        and completed




                                       - 23 -

          Zomba ­ Mulunguzi
          Kasungu ­ Chitete
          Mzuzu ­ Lunyangwa Dam




- 24 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing


Category     Description                          Budget and      Actual (Counterpart)         Revised DCA
                                                     Procplan                                    Allocation
                                                   SDRmillion                SDRmillion         SDRmillion
   1-AI     WORKS-MIWD                                -                                             -
  1-AI-II   WATER SUPPLY-MIWD                             2.397                   0.297              2.100
   1-B-I    WORKS-NWB                                     3.132                   0.132              3.000
   1-B-II   WORKS-CWB                                     3.560                   0.188              3.372
  1-B-III   WORKS-SWB                                    24.650                   1.200             23.450
  1-B-IV    WORKS-LWB                                     2.782                       -              2.782
  1-B-V     WORKS-BWB                                     0.055                       -              0.050
    2-A     GOODS/VEH/EQUIP/MIWD                          1.832                   0.432              1.400
   2-B-I    GOODS/VEH/EQUIP/NWB                           0.354                    0.054               0.300
   2-B-II   GOODS/VEH/EQUIP/CWB                           0.503                   0.053              0.450
  2-B-III   GOODS/VEH/EQUIP/SWB                           0.627                   0.077              0.550
  2-B-IV    GOODS/VEH/EQUIP/LWB                                -                      -                   -
  2-B-V     GOODS/VEH/EQUIP/BWB                           0.125                       -              0.125
    3-A     CONSULTANTS-MIWD                              5.570                   0.700              4.870
   3-B-I    CONSULTANTS-NWB                               1.693                   0.153              1.540
   3-B-II   CONSULTANTS-CWB                               0.943                   0.069              0.874
  3-B-III   CONSULTANTS-SWB                               3.571                   0.206              3.365
  3-B-IV    CONSULTANTS-LWB                               2.313                       -              2.310
  3-B-V     CONSULTANTS-BWB                               0.752                       -              0.700
    4-A     OPERATING EXP-NWB***                          0.135                       -              0.140
    4-B     OPERATING EXP-CWB***                          0.121                       -              0.130
    4-C     OPERATING EXP-SWB***                          0.024                       -              0.025
    4-D     OPERATING EXP-WD                              1.077                   0.627              0.450
     5      REFUNDING OF PPF                              0.542                       -              0.542
     6      UNALLOCATED                                   0.408                       -              0.150
                             TOTALS                      57.17                    4.188              52.68
Please note that Regional Water Boards Expenditures are exclusive of Water Boards Contributions

                    NORDIC DEVELOPMENT FUND

               SUMMARY OF COMPONENTS AND FINANCES


        Expense Detail            Budget of 21 Apr           Actual Invoiced
                                         2001
                                         (SDR)                     (SDR)
Lab Equipment                                                             243,958.00
Water Res. Dev Plan Study                    245,000.00                 764,995.00
Catchment Protection                         815,000.00                 516,177.17
Lake Level Contr Stage I                     521,000.00                 270,694.00
Lake Level Contr Stage II                    285,000.00               1,061,808.92
Shire River Flow Augmnt                    1,274,000.00                 489,330.00
Hydata                                       505,000.00                    5,592.00
Boats                                                   -               120,906.43
Vehicles                                     115,000.00                  40,081.75
Hydrological Equipment                                  -               307,951.64
Sundry Goods                                 340,000.00                 140,211.59
Lab Requirements                             192,187.50                    9,984.57
Songwe River Stage I                                    -               270,570.02



                                                   - 25 -

Songwe River Stage II                            260,000.00                  535,714.29
Songwe NPC                                       362,344.37                   70,503.60
Songwe Operations                                 62,500.00                   32,246.38
Songwe Cunterpart Staff                           37,240.00                   45,925.93
Songwe Driver                                    100,000.00                   11,029.41
Songwe Meetings                                             -                 55,384.62
Offices Rehabiltiation                            58,796.09                   19,421.43
Echosounders                                      19,119.53                  100,729.93
Project Completion Funds                         107,812.00                  167,564.00
TOTALS                                       5,300,000.00                  5,280,780.55




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                1
                                                       Procurement Method
     Expenditure Category               ICB                NCB                     2          N.B.F.         Total Cost
                                                                            Other
1. Works                                58.70              7.80               0.00             0.00              66.50
                                       (54.20)            (7.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)            (61.20)
2. Goods                                7.40               0.40               0.20             3.00              11.00
                                       (6.00)             (0.40)             (0.20)           (0.00)             (6.60)
3. Services                             0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00              14.30             2.30              16.60
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)            (11.40)           (0.00)            (11.40)
5. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                        0.00               0.00               0.00             0.00              0.00
                                       (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)             (0.00)
    Total                               66.10              8.20              14.50             5.30              94.10
                                       (60.20)            (7.40)            (11.60)           (0.00)            (79.20)



 1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank Loan. All costs include contingencies.

 2/Includes civil works and goods to be procured through national shopping, consulting services, services of contracted staff
   of the project management office, training, technical assistance services, and incremental operating costs related to (i)
   managing the project, and (ii) re-lending project funds to local government units.




     Project Financing


          Source                Appraisal      Actual

                                  (SDR          (SDR

                                 million)      million)



IDA                            50.30          52.68
NDF                             3.38           5.28
GoM                             6.11            4.19



                                                       - 26 -

TOTAL    59.79    62.15




                       - 27 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

The economic analysis in the Staff Appraisal Report provided only an indicative economic analysis of
investment components, as the specific investments for urban and town schemes were to be selected by the
yet-to-be-established RWBs as part of their business plans and, for the rural program, by GOM from
users' proposals. For candidate urban investments, primarily rehabilitation, the user benefits estimated
were of two types: (1) arresting the deterioration of service levels and coverage due to system malfunctions
and (2) additional service coverage attributable to improvements in production and distribution capacity.
The average IRR was estimated to be about 25%, as shown in the table below.

In rural areas, the primary benefits expected were increased coverage of the population, which would
provide for additional consumption, more convenient access (resulting in time savings), and safer water
(resulting in health improvement). The average IRR for rural schemes, including gravity-fed schemes, was
estimated to be about 16%.

As planned, the project supported preparation of business plans for the RWBs and preparation of economic
and financial analysis of proposed urban and town investments, which were taken into consideration in
prioritizing investments. At project completion, the economic analysis was updated for each RWB, for the
two rural piped systems and for the rural borehole program as a whole. The revised analyses include
actual investment costs for the schemes constructed and updated information about population,
connections, demand, consumption, production, tariffs and costs. The results are shown in the table below,
which compares the original estimate of Economic IRR at appraisal and the revised estimate upon
completion of the project. Though in some cases, the estimated IRR at completion is lower than at
appraisal, all investments are expected to provide a positive economic NPV and an economic IRR above
10%.

                                                  Estimated IRR            Estimated IRR
Description                                         at appraisal            at completion
NRWB                                                    27%                     24%
CRWB                                                    42%                     18%
SRWB                                                    26%                     28%
                                                                             Zomba 16%
RWSS boreholes                                          16%                     50%
RWSS ­ Nkhamanga piped system                           16%                     29%
RWSS ­ Dwambazi piped system                            16%                     25%

Financial rate of return:

At appraisal financial results were projected for the five Water Boards over a sixteen year period from
1995/96 to 2009/10. Blantyre and Lilongwe Water Boards were projected to show an increasing profit
trend over the projection period. The three RWBs were all projected to produce a net profit by the fifth
year. The financial performance of the Water Boards has not been as positive as projected. Despite
increases in water production, volume sold and tariffs, the Water Boards have not yet been able to achieve
solid financial viability. This is due primarily to macro-economic instability, which resulted in high
inflation, currency devaluation and shortfalls in Government budget transfers to institutions who then were
not able to pay their water bills. The Water Boards have also failed to achieve many of the operating
efficiency targets, even though they should have taken decisions regarding expenditures and staffing. The
tables below compare actual to projected financial performance for the past three fiscal years for the three



                                                      - 28 -

RWBs.

Updated financial projections have been prepared for the three RWBs as part of the business plan revision
process. These financial projections show that the Boards can achieve financial viability, if progress is
made to improve collection efficiency and to bring down operating costs. Recommendations have also been
made for revising on-lending terms in some cases.

Northern Region Water Board - Comparison of Actual Financial Performance to SAR Projections

Key Statistics                            SAR Projection                        Actual                 Comments
                                 2000/01     2001/02     2002/03   2000/01     2001/02       2002/03

                                                                                                       Sales volume is well belo
Sales volume    000 m3/year          5,203       5,516      5,803     3,510        3,564        3,659 projected levels

                                                                                                       In real terms, tariffs are h
Tariff          MK/m3                  4.54        4.50       4.46    28.45        37.55          43.6 than projected
                US$/m3           $    0.30  $     0.29   $   0.29 $    0.38  $      0.50    $    0.49

                                                                                                       projected, primarily due to
Sales Income    MK '000            21,262       22,341     23,297  109,210      188,198      167,444 higher
                                                                                                       tariffs, but also because o
                US$              $   1,393  $    1,464   $  1,527 $ 1,472    $     2,493    $ 1,892 income was not projected



Net Assets      MK'000            122,622      125,443    128,591  317,867      223,657      341,748



Debt to Equity                                                                                         Debt/equity ratio is reach
ratio                                   0.6          0.6       0.6       0.3          0.4          0.7 projected level, which is h

Return on                                                                                              Negative by 2002/03, whe
Assets                                  2%           2%        2%      4.6%         3.4%        -0.4% facilities are in service

                                                                                                       Lower than projected, but
Current ratio                           5.4          5.5       5.1       3.4          2.4          3.0 acceptable level

Operating Profit                                                                                       Shows trend towards
%                                      44%         45%       45%        23%          15%           5% unsustainability

                                                                                                       Shows trend towards
Net Profit                             10%         11%       13%        14%           7%          -2% unsustainability

                                                                                                       Shows trend towards
Cost Coverage                        111%        112%       114%      122%         112%         101% unsustainability



Collection ratio                       90%         90%       90%        81%          65%          91% Trend is positive
                                                                                                       have not been sufficient t
                                                                                                       costs.
                                                                                                       aimed at increasing sales
Exchange rate used in SAR            15.26       15.26      15.26                                      volume,
                                                                                                       increasing collections and
Exchange rate as of 30-Jun                                              74.2        75.5         88.5 improving operational effi




                                                   - 29 -

Central Region Water Board - Comparison of Actual Financial Performance to SAR Projections

Key
Statistics                         SAR Projection                        Actual              Comments
                            2000/01   2001/02     2002/03    2000/01   2001/02    2002/03
Sales                                                                                        Sales volume is below the proje
volume       000 m3/year       5,004    5,236        5,479      3,364      3,576     3,654 levels - not all planned
                                                                                             works were carried out


                                                                                             In real terms, tariffs are higher th
Tariff       MK/m3               5.03      4.99        4.95      29.00     38.00      45.00 projected
             US$/m3        $    0.33 $    0.33  $      0.32  $   0.39 $     0.50 $     0.51

Sales                                                                                        Sales income is higher than proj
Income       MK '000          22,678   23,540       24,422     83,795   115,871    173,854 primarily due to higher
                                                                                             tariffs, but also because other in
             US$           $   1,486 $  1,543   $    1,600   $  1,129 $    1,535 $   1,964 was not projected


Net Assets   MK'000          100,381  102,994      105,844     66,133   171,351              Information not available for 200


Debt to
Equity ratio                      0.6       0.6          0.6       0.4        0.6        0.7 Debt/equity ratio is above projec


Return on
Assets                           2%         2%          3%       -50%        -5%             Negative Return on assets


                                                                                             Expected to reach an acceptable
Current ratio                     5.3       5.2            5       0.6        0.9        1.3 2002/03


Operating                                                                                    Operating profit much lower than
Profit %                        38%        38%         38%        -2%        7%         8% projected


                                                                                             Revenues are not sufficient to co
Net Profit                       9%        10%         11%       -40%        -8%        1% costs


Cost                                                                                         Expected to reach an acceptable
Coverage                       110%      111%         112%        80%      102%       109% 2002/03


Collection
ratio                           90%        90%         90%        75%       80%        95% Trend is positive
                                                                                             Summary: Tariff increases have
                                                                                             been sufficient to cover costs.
                                                                                             Future investments should aim a
Exchange rate used in SAR      15.26     15.26       15.26                                   increasing sales volume, improv


Exchange rate as of 30-Jun                                        74.2      75.5       88.5 ing collections and operational e




                                                  - 30 -

Southern Region Water Board - Comparison of Actual Financial Performance to SAR Projections

Key
Statistics                        SAR Projection                       Actual             Comments
                           2000/01   2001/02    2002/03     2000/01   2001/02    2002/03

Sales                                                                                      Sales volume is below the projec
volume       000 m3/year      7,665     8,182      8,757                            6,339 levels - not all planned works
                                                                                           were carried out


                                                                                           In real terms, tariffs are higher th
Tariff       MK/m3              6.06      6.02       5.99      23.55      30.53      39.65 projected
             US$/m3        $   0.40 $    0.39   $    0.39  $    0.32 $    0.40  $    0.45

Sales                                                                                      Sales income is higher than proje
Income       MK '000         43,686    46,287     49,247      93,862  112,219    137,275 primarily due to higher
                                                                                           tariffs, but also because other inc
             US$           $  2,863 $   3,033   $ 3,227    $   1,265 $   1,486  $   1,551 was not projected


Net Assets   MK'000         195,040   198,078   203,748      471,423  573,831    515,692

Debt to
Equity ratio                     0.6        0.6        0.6        0.5       0.7        0.7 Debt/equity ratio is high

Return on                                                                                  Return on assets is lower than p
Assets                          1%          2%         3%         2%        3%         1% in 2002/03


                                                                                           Current ratio indicates acceptabl
Current ratio                    5.7        6.2        6.3        3.3       0.9        1.7 liquidity

Operating
Profit % of                                                                                Operating profit is good, even tho
Revenues                       49%        50%        52%         19%       24%        28% lower than projected



Net Profit %
of Revenues                     3%          7%       12%

Cost
Coverage                      103%       107%       113%       113%       121%      167% Revenues are sufficient to cover

Collection                                                                                 Collection efficiency is poor and
ratio                          90%        90%        90%       104%       105%        64% been deteriorating
                                                                                           Summary: Despite lower than p
                                                                                           sales volume, financial
                                                                                           performance is positive. Howeve
Exchange rate used in SAR     15.26      15.26      15.26                                  must be restructured and


Exchange rate as of 30-Jun                                      74.2      75.5       88.5 work is needed to improve collec




                                                - 31 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              12/2/93                   3    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1); WATER
                                             RESOURCES SPECIALIST (1)


 Appraisal/Negotiation
              6/30/94                   4    FINANCIAL ANALYST
                                             (1); WATER RESOURCE
                                             ENGR. (1); ENGINEER (1);
                                             WTR. RES. MGMT. SPEC
                                             (1)


 Supervision

              09/24/1996                4    FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);           U               S
                                             WATER RESOURCE ENGR.
                                             (1); ENGINEER (1); WTR. RES.
                                             MGMT. SPEC (1)
              05/09/1997                6    OPERATION ASSISTANT (1);         U               U
                                             FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                             SR. PROC. OFFICER (1);
                                             RURAL WTR. SUPP. ENGR (1);
                                             WTR. RES. MGMT. SPEC (1);
                                             ENGINEER (1)
              10/17/1997                6    MANAGER (1); WTR.RES.            U               U
                                             MGMT. SPEC. (1); FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); SR.
                                             PROCUREMENT (1); RURAL
                                             WATER (1); RURAL AND
                                             PROC. (1)
              03/27/1998                4    TEAM LEADER (1);                 U               U
                                             WTR.RES.MGMT.SPEC (1);
                                             SR. PROCUREMENT (1);
                                             RURAL AND PROCUREMENT
                                             (1)
              10/22/1999                9    SR. SANITARY ENGR (1); SR.       U               U
                                             WATER RES MGNT SPE (1);
                                             CONSULTANT (1); SR.
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC (1);
                                             FINANCIAL MGNT SPEC (1);
                                             RURAL WATER SUPPLY SP
                                             (3); INFRASTRUCTURE SPEC
                                             (1)
              06/09/2000                6    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.             S               S
                                             FINANCIAL SPEC (1);



                                              - 32 -

                                            INFRAS. SPEC (1); SR.
                                            WATER RES. MGMT (1);
                                            CONSULTANT (1); RURAL
                                            WATER SUPPLY SPE (1)
               02/15/2001              3    TEAM LEADER (1);                  S    S
                                            FINANCIAL ANALYST (1);
                                            RURAL WATER SUP.SPEC. (1)
               02/15/2002              5    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.              S    S
                                            FINANCIAL SPEC. (1); SR.
                                            WATER & SAN. SPEC (1); FIN.
                                            MGMT SPEC. (1);
                                            PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
               10/24/2003              2    TEAM LEADER (1); SR.              S    S
                                            WATER & SAN. SPEC (1)


 ICR




(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation            85.2                         205.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                 95.6                         252.5
  Supervision                          275.7                         740.7
  ICR                                     8.4                          25.6
  Total                                464.9                        1224.5




                                            - 33 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                          Rating
  Macro policies                        H        SU    M       N    NA
  Sector Policies                       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Physical                              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Financial                             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Institutional Development             H        SU    M       N    NA
  Environmental                         H        SU    M       N    NA

Social
           Poverty Reduction            H        SU    M       N    NA
           Gender                       H        SU    M       N    NA
           Other (Please specify)       H        SU    M       N    NA
  Private sector development            H        SU    M       N    NA
  Public sector management              H        SU    M       N    NA
  Other (Please specify)                H        SU    M       N    NA




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Staff Appraisal Report, Malawi National Water Development Project, June 1. 1995
Aide Memoires
Mid-Term Review Report, March 1999.
Government of Malawi, Ministry of Water Development, National Water Development Project
Reports:
   "Zomba Water Supply Cost Benefit Analysis" Lahmeyer Internatonal in association with
   Stewart Scott NCL, December 1995
   "Evaluation of the Urban Water Services Component of NWDP" Mtaferia Consulting
   Engineers, Ethiopia, in association with O&M Associates. Malawi, April 2004
   "Evaluation of the National Water Development Project Rural Water Supply and Sanitation
   Component" F. Kwaule Kondwani Consultancy, Malawi, March 2004
   "Final Evaluation Project Report for the Rural Water Supply and Sanitation Component"
   April 2004
   "Strengthening of Central Water Services ­ Component Completion Report" B.N.C.
   Gondwe, Program Leader, April 2004
   "Component Completion Report for Project Management" B.N.C. Gondwe Program Leader,
   April 2004
   "Water Resources Component ­ Completion Report" Prof Z. Kasomakere, March 2004




                                             - 36 -

- 37 -

