Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 13189-MAI
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
JUNE 1, 1995
Energy and Infrastructure Operations Division
Southern Africa Department



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of December 31 1994)
Currency Unit = Malawi Kwacha (MK)
US$1.00 = MK15.4
FISCAL YEAR (FY)
April I to March 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)  =   3.281 feet (ft)
kilometer (km)  =   0.621 miles (mi)
I square kilometer (km)  =   0.386 square miles (sq mi)
I cubic meter (m 3)  =   264.2 U.S. gallons
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
BWB           =      Blantyre Water Board
CAS           =      Country Assistance Strategy
DWSF          =      District Water Supply Fund
ESCOM         =      Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi
GDP           =      Gross Domestic Product
GIS           =      Geographic Information System
GOM           =      Government of Malawi
ICB           =      International Competive Bidding
IDA           =      International Development Association
KfW           =      Kreditanstalt fur Wiederaufbau (Germany)
LWB           =      Lilongwe Water Board
MASAP         =      Malawi Social Action Project
MIM           =      Malawi Institute of Management
MIWD                 Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development
MLGRD         =      Ministry of Local Government and Rural Development
MOEP&D        =      Ministry of Economic Planning and Development
MOF           =      Ministry of Finance
MOREA         =      Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs
MSC                  Ministry of Statutory Corporations
MWS           =      Ministry of Works and Supplies
NCB           =      National Competitive Bidding
NDF           =      Nordic Development Fund
NEAP          =      National Environmental Action Plan
NWDP          =      National Water Development Project
O&M           =      Operation and Maintenance
ODA           =      Overseas Development Administration (U.K)
OPC           =      Office of the President and Cabinet
PPF           =      Project Preparation Facility
PSIP          =      Public Sector Investment Program
PU            =      Project Unit
RWB           =      Regional Water Board (i.e., Northern Region
Water Board (NWB); Central Region Water Board
(CWB) and Southern Region Water Board (SWB))
SOE           =      Statement of Expenditure
SUCOMA        =      Sugar Corporation of Malawi
TA            =      Technical Assistance
TOR           =      Terms of Reference
UNDP          =      United Nations Development Program
USAID         =      United States Agency for International Development
WB            =      Water Board (3 RWBs, BWB and LWB)
WD            =      Water Department
WRB           =      Water Resources Board
WRMPS         =      Water Resources Management Policy & Strategies



MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY .............................................I
CHAPTER 1. THE WATER & SANITATION SECTOR .............................................1
A. COUNTRY CONTEXT ..............................................
B. SECTOR BACKGROUND ............................................ I
WATER RESOURCES .............................................1
LEGAL FRAMEWORK .............................................2
SECTOR INSTITUTIONS .............................................2
WATER SERVICES TO THE TWO CITIES .............................................2
WATER SERVICES TO TowNS AND RURAL AREAS .............................................3
WATER RESOURCES MANAGEMENT .............................................3
SAN ITATION .............................................4
RELEVANT LINE MINISTRIES AND AGENCIES .............................................4
EXISTING FACILITIES, LEVELS OF SERVICE AND COVERAGE .............................................4
C(. SECTOR ISSUES .............................................5
ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES .............................................5
SECTOR WEAKNESSES AND CONSTRAINTS .............................................5
D. PRIORITIES .............................................5
E. THE POLICY FRAMEWORK AND STRATEGIES .............................................6
F. INVESTM ENT .............................................8
G. PREVIOUS BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED .............................................9
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT ............................................                                                                                                    10
A. PROJECT OBJECTIVES ............................................                                                                                                    10
B. PROJECT OUTCOMES ............................................ I 0
C. RATIONALE FOR IDA INVOLVEMENT .............................................1.1
D. PROJECT STRATEGY ............................................ I 1
E. SUMMARY PROJECT DESCRIPTION ............................................ 1 3
F. INSTITUTIONAL REFORM AND STUDIES ............................................                                                                                       14
INSTITUTIONAL RESTRUCTURING AND CAPACITY BUILDING .14
WATER DEPARTMENT.1.                                                                                                                                                 4
URBAN WATER AND SEWERAGE SERVICES                                                                              .16
STUDIES.17
1. INVESTMENT COMPONENTS.18
G.   PROJECT COSTS                             ....................................                                                                                   19
H. PROJECT FINANCING .................................................................................................................. 21
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION .....................................                                                                                                23
A. IMPLEMENTATION PROGRAM ...............................                                                                                                             23
B. SYSTEMATIC CLIENT CONSULTATION .....................................                                                                                                29
C. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE .....................................                                                                                                         30
D. STATUS OF PREPARATION .....................................                                                                                                        30
E. PROCUREMENT ...................30
F . DISBURSEMENT ...................3 3



G. ACCOUNTING AND AUDITING .........................................................                                                  34
H. BANK SUPERVISION AND REPORTING REQUIREMENTS .........................................................                              34
CHAPTER 4. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS .........................................................                                35
A. PROJECT BENEFITS AND JUSTIFICATION .........................................................                                       35
B. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT .........................................................                                                     35
C. RIPARIAN RIGHTS .............................................................. 35
D. POVERTY IMPACT .........................................................                                                          35
E. FNANCIAL ANALYSIS .........................................................                                                        36
F. ECONOMIC ANALYSIS .........................................................                                                        40
G. RiSKS .........................................................40
CHAPTER  5. AGREEMENTS REACHED  AND RECOMMENDATION ......................................................... 43
A. CONDITIONS OF BOARD PRESENTATION .........................................................                                         43
B. CONDITIONS OF EFFECTIVENESS .........................................................                                              43
C. CONDITIONS FOR DISBURSEMENT .........................................................                                              43
D. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND ASSURANCES GIVEN DURING NEGOTIATIONS ......................................................... 44
E. RECOMMENDATION .........................................................                                                           45
Annexes
Annex 1
1.1    Executive Summary of Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies
Annex 2
2.1       Detailed Project Description
2.2    Rural Water Supply Reform
2.3       Project Costs Estimates
2.4    Financing Plan
Annex 3
3.1    Critical Path Management Chart
3.2    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.3       Supervision Plan
Annex 4
4.1    Forecast Financial Performance of RWBs and LWB
4.2    Executive Summary - Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) - Zomba Upper
Mulunguzi Dam
4.3       Documents in Project Files
This report is based on the findings of a Bank appraisal mission which visited Malawi in June/July 1994, comprising Mr. E.
Aikins-Afful (Senior Sanitary Engineer and Mission Leader), Mr. K. John Shepherd (Water Resources Management
Specialist), Mr. H.A. Garn (Economic Advisor), Ms. N.D. Nikoi (Operations Officer), Mr. Ivor Beasley (Financial Analyst
Consultant), and Ms. Nga Nguyen (Sr. Staff Assistant). Ms. Nga Nguyen and Ms. Robin Harris (Staff Assistant) provided
administrative support in the preparation of the project. Mr. Randolph A. Andersen and Mr. Walter Stottmann were the peer
reviewers. Mr. Jeffrey Racki and Ms. Katherine Marshall are the Managing Division Chief and Department Director,
respectively.



-i-
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DERVELOPMIFNI PROJECT
CRERI AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:                                 Republic of Malawi
Beneficiaries:                           Ministry of Irrigation and Water Development, Lilongwe
Water Board and three Regional Water Boards.
Poverty Category:                         The project would contribute to poverty reduction by
improving access to safe water and thus reducing the
incidence of water-borne disease and increasing
productivity by reducing the time and effort expended on
fetching water.
Amount:                                   SDR 50.3 million (US$79.2 million equivalent).
Terms:                                    Standard IDA  terms with a maturity of 40 years
including a 10-year grace period.
On-Lending Terms:                        To the Lilongwe and Regional Water Boards using a
combination of commercial debt and equity contribution.
Interest Rate on the debt would be 2% above prevailing
inflation; Repayment of principal over 25 years,
including a 5-year grace period.
Financing Plan:                          IDA - US$79.2 million; NDF - US$5.3 million; GOM -
US$9.6 million
Economic Rate of Return:                 Average of 25% estimated for candidate urban schemes.
Staff Appraisal Report:                  No. 13189-MAI
Map:                                      IBRD 26497
Project Identification Number            MW-PA-1667



-ii-
Estimated Project Costs:
(USS Million)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. Institutional Reform, Technical Assistance, and Studies
1. Institutional Development                                       1.5     2.0     3.5       57        5
2. Implementation Support - National Water Dev. Project            1.6     3.9     5.5       71        8
3. Implementation Support - LWB                                      -     1.4      1.4     100        2
4. Studies                                                         0.2     1.8     1.9       92        3
Subtotal Institutional Reform, Technical Assistance, and Studies     3.3     9.1    12.3       74       17
B. Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
1. Urban Water                                                    0.2      0.7     0.9       75        1
2. Rural Gravity-Piped Water                                       0.5     1.4     1.8       75        3
3. Borehole                                                        1.2     2.4     3.6       66        5
4. Protection of Catchment Areas                                   1.0     0.6     1.6       37        2
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Existing Systems                          2.9     5.1      8.0      63       11
C. New Schemes
1. Urban Water                                                     0.3     0.9     1.2       75        2
2. Sewerage                                                        0.7     1.3      1.9      66        3
3. Boreholes                                                       1.1     3.4     4.6       75        6
4. Sludge Disposal                                                 0.1     0.1     0.2       36        -
5. Gravity Fed Rural                                               0.8     2.3     3.1       75        4
Subtotal New Schemes                                                 2.9     7.9    10.9       73       15
D. Extension of Existing Schemes
1. Zomba Dam                                                       3.4     6.1     9.4       64       13
2. Zomba Water Supply                                              1.9     5.9     7.9       75       11
3. Urban Water (29 Schemes)                                        2.9     8.9    11.9       75       16
4. City Water (LWB)                                                0.6     1.1      1.6      64        2
Subtotal Extension of Existing Schemes                               8.8    21.9    30.8       71       42
E. Equipment
1. Lab. and Office Equipment                                         -     1.5     1.5      100        2
2. Vehicles & Motorcycles                                          0.0     0.3     0.3       92        -
3. Spares, Pipes and Trmt. Plant Equipment (LWB)                   0.7     5.0     5.7       87        8
4. Measuring Equipment                                             0.1     1.5      1.6      92        2
Subtotal Equipment                                                   0.9     8.1     9.0       90       12
F. PPF Refinancing                                                     -     1.5     1.5      100        2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                                18.8    53.7    72.5        74     100
Physical Contingencies                                             1.7     4.8     6.5       73        9
Price Contingencies                                               10.8     4.4    15.2       29       21
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                 31.3    62.8    94.1        67     130
Estimated Financing Plan
US$M        %
IDA                                                                             79.2       84
NDF                                                                              5.3        6
Government                                                                       9.6       10
TOTAL                                                                           94.1      100



-iii-
Estimated IDA Disbursements:
Fiscal Year Ending June 30 (US$ million)
Year                     1996    1997    1998    1999    2000    2001    2002    2003
Annual                    5.5      8.2    15.1      15.2    18.1       9.2      6.1      1.8
Cumulative                5.5     13.7    28.8    44.0    62.1        71.3    77.4    79.2
% of Loan                   7       17       36      56       78       90       98      100






CHAPTER 1. THE WATER & SANITATION SECTOR
A.    Country Context
1.1    Malawi is a relatively small country with a surface area of 119,140 square kilometers, of which
Lake Malawi occupies about 20%. The topography varies from the Rift Valley floor at almost sea
level to high escarpments rising to 3,000 meters above sea level. Related to this are wide ranges in
climate with average annual temperatures ranging from 15°C in the north to 27°C in the south. The
average rainfall is about 1100mm per year with variations from 700mm to about 2000mm depending on
topography. The 1992 population of Malawi was 9.0 million, including about 1.0 million Mozambican
refugees, with 88% living in the rural areas. The average population growth rate is 3.3% per annum,
the average population density is about 85 persons per km2.
1.2    Malawi, one of the poorest countries in Sub-Saharan Africa, has recently completed a peaceful
political transition from nearly 30 years under a single party system, to a multi-party democracy.
Subsequent events have, however, continued to demonstrate the vulnerability of its primarily
agricultural economy. A drought nearly as severe in its effects as the one in 1992 has drastically cut
the production of food and export commodities, and has caused power outages in urban areas and water
shortages throughout the country. As a result of these developments, the gross domestic product
contracted by about 9% in 1994. Excessive government expenditures and borrowing in the first few
months of the fiscal year and a sharply depreciating exchange rate significantly increased inflationary
pressures and annual inflation rates at the end of 1994 increased to 34.7% which contributed to further
difficulties in sustaining essential services. Although the new Government (GOM) has continued its
commitment to the economic stabilization process and its attack on the country's pervasive poverty
problem, its credibility will be tested by its response to the drought in terms of the maintenance of food
supplies, and its ability to show progress in the alleviation of poverty, including the provision of more
widespread and assured access to safe water supplies.
B.    Sector Background
Water Resources
1.3    The availability of surface water resources in Malawi, apart from Lake Malawi, varies greatly
between the wet and dry seasons, and from year to year.  The marked seasonality and annual
variability seriously limit the potential of many streams and rivers as reliable raw water sources unless
storage is provided. There are no major storage reservoirs, but there are a number of medium and
small structures, primarily in the estate sector.
1.4    With an area of 28,800 km2, Lake Malawi is the third largest freshwater lake in Africa. It is
used for a wide range of purposes including water supply, irrigation, hydropower generation, fishing
and recreation. Its levels fluctuate widely creating problems for a number of these uses. Malawi is
divided into 17 Water Resources Areas, each of which consists of a river basin and with most of them
subdivided into Water Resource Units. Most surface waters can be classified as soft to moderately soft
and with high suspended solids content (and thus with accompanying problems of sediment deposition
and higher treatment costs, etc.) especially during the wet season. The problem is aggravated by
inadequate environmental watershed protection resulting in soil erosion and decreasing microbiological
water quality.



- 2 -
1.5    Groundwater resources are widespread throughout the country. Their presence is associated
with two types of aquifers: the extensive, but relatively low yielding (typically 1 - 21/s) weathered
Precambrian basement complex which underlies approximately 85% of Malawi, and the higher
yielding, up to 15 t/s, quaternary alluvial deposits in the lakeshore plains and the Shire Valley. The
quality of groundwater in the weathered basement complex aquifer is generally acceptable although
localized groundwater quality problems do occur due to high concentrations of some elements present
in the basement complex rocks.  In the alluvial aquifer, groundwater is more mineralized.
Groundwater is presently exploited by 9,700 boreholes and 5,600 shallow wells equipped with
handpumps.
1.6    A 1986 National Water Resources Master Plan (NWRMP) estimated a mean annual runoff of
51 million m3/d. Thus, on average, there appears to be ample water resources available. However,
their geographical distribution, current status of their development and use, and adverse effects on
water quality resulting from inappropriate land use, indicate that Malawi's water resources are coming
under serious pressure in some areas.
Legal Framework
1.7    The main statute dealing with the use and management of water resources is the Water
Resources Act, 1969. This Act sets guidelines for the allocation of water for various uses and the
monitoring of its quality. It gives the President authority over all water resources in the country. The
duty to oversee the application of the legislation rests with the Minister responsible for water (now the
Minister of Irrigation and Water Development) through the Water Resources Board (WRB) appointed
by him. The Water Resources Act, 1969, was amended in 1990 through the Water Resources
(Amendment) Act, 1990. Complementary statutes are the Blantyre Waterworks Act, 1971, and the
Lilongwe Waterworks Act, 1986, which give legal status to the Blantyre and Lilongwe Water Boards.
Local Government Acts and public health and environmental legislation touch on sanitation and
environmental aspects. The legal framework has limitations that result from it having been developed
in a somewhat piecemeal manner to respond to concerns as they have emerged.
Sector Institutions
1.8    Although there is some private sector capability in consulting engineering for the design of
water infrastructure and for supervising construction, and in small scale construction contracting, the
main players in the sector are government ministries, departments and statutory bodies.
Water Services to the two Cities
1.9    The Lilongwe Water Board (LWB) and the Blantyre Water Board (BWB) are statutory bodies
responsible for water supply services to the two cities.  They operate commercially, receive no
recurrent funding from the Government of Malawi (GOM), and within the constraints imposed on
them, are competently managed. They are empowered to operate their own internal commercial
financial management, employment (to a large extent) and procurement arrangements and appear to do
so well, contributing substantially to their effectiveness. Many day-to-day decisions which should be
the sole prerogative of the Boards are subject to Ministerial approval, and their geographical coverage,
higher level staffing and tariffs are subject to approval by the Ministry of Statutory Corporations
(MSC). These constraints have at times placed their continuing effectiveness at risk.



- 3 -
Water Services to Towns and Rural Areas
1.10   These services are provided by the Water Department (WD) of the Ministry of Irrigation and
Water Development (MIWD). The Department's services include: a) Policy preparation, planning and
monitoring of water supply; b) Control and monitoring of the quality of water supply; c) Provision of
water supply systems to all of Malawi except the declared water areas of the LWB and BWB.
consisting of three types of supply:   urban type piped; gravity piped community managed;
boreholes/shallow wells with handpumps, and protected springs; and d) Technical assistance to
institutions in planning and design of sewerage and effluent treatment.
1.11   The WD has a broad range of responsibilities including policy development and advice, water
resource management and enforcement, central services to the sector, and water supply operations.
There are conflicts of interest between some of these roles, handicapping their effective performance.
Lower and middle level staff are much in need of incentives and skills development, and key positions
remain unfilled for long periods. There is thus a significant need for skills development. Most water
supply assets for which the WD has operations and maintenance (O&M) responsibility are inadequately
maintained, and many become inoperative after a time. Capital expenditure decisions have been ad hoc
rather than based on articulated sector priorities, and capital expenditure has been favored over O&M.
The WD operates a Treasury Fund which permits income from its customers to be retained to help
finance operations and maintenance, but policy and practice have not resulted in sufficient income to
cover the full costs of service provision.  Tariff levels are currently set too low, and neither the
financial management skills in the WD, nor the current financial systems, are adequate to provide the
information necessary to manage the business. Nevertheless, there are several strengths which can be
built on: (a) data gathering capability; (b) an adequate revenue collecting capability; (c) levels of
service which are at least sufficient, where systems are operable, to motivate most customers to pay
their water bills in good time; and (d) LWB and BWB have well developed skills in most essential areas
- these boards are good models from which the rest of the sector can learn, and they can provide some
on-the-job teaching capability.
Water Resources Management
1.12   The WRB is responsible for the granting of water abstraction rights, and licenses to discharge
effluent and wastewater. It monitors abstractions and controls wastewater discharges. Its effectiveness
in water resources management has been handicapped by lack of non-GOM stakeholder representation,
lack of appropriate authority, and terms of reference that result in very little effective participation on
the part of interested Departments. The Water Resources Act. 1969, which is intended to provide the
legislative backing for water resources management, and which is being reviewed, is weak and
provides neither the Minister nor the WRB with adequate powers. Thus, although most problems of
water resource deterioration have multi-sectoral causes and effects, there are no mechanisms or powers
either to mobilize multisectoral diagnosis of the serious water resource problems that Malawi now
faces, or to take concerted action to solve them.
1.13   Environmental management at national level and covering all sectors is the province of the
Ministry of Research and Environmental Affairs (MOREA). National environmental management was
inactive in the past.



-4 -
Sanitation
1.14   Local government bodies are responsible for water-borne sanitation, septic tank emptying and
sludge disposal, and dissemination of pit latrines. The Ministry of Local Government and Rural
Development (MLGRD) provides technical advice on sewerage and on-site sanitation to local
government bodies. The relevant local government bodies in Lilongwe and Blantyre operate the two
largest water-borne sanitation systems, which, however, serve only 15% of the population of the two
cities, and are poorly run.
Relevant Line Ministries and Agencies
1.15   Other Ministries and Agencies with close interests in water issues include the Irrigation
Department within the MIWD, the Ministries of Works and Supplies, Health and Population, Natural
Resources, Agriculture and Livestock Development, and Women and Children Affairs and Community
Services, the Electricity Supply Commission of Malawi (ESCOM) and the Sugar Corporation of
Malawi (Sucoma).
Existing Facilities, Levels of Service and Coverage
1.16   BWB and LWB managed water supplies in the two cities serve about 600,000 people. District
water supplies consist of 53 schemes including 14 supplying institutions (schools, hospitals, etc.) and 39
supplying communities. Some of the schemes supplying communities are small town water supplies
while others are of a rural character. The estimated population served by these 53 schemes is 350,000.
All 53 schemes are managed by the WD through the District Water Supply Fund (DWSF), a treasury
fund set up by GOM. DWSF is required, legally, to be operated commercially and be financially self-
supporting. In practice this requirement has been difficult to meet, although considerable progress in
the financial performance of DWSF was achieved under the Bank-assisted Infrastructure Project (Cr.
2069-MAI). However, much more needs to be done to redress the poor condition of the assets,
increase coverage to those who are inadequately served, and sustain a suitable level of service to those
with access to the systems. The existing facilities of the cities of Blantyre and Lilongwe, and a number
of the town water supply systems which use surface water as the raw water source, include various
combinations of dams, intake structures, transmission mains, treatment comprising flocculation
sedimentation, filtration and disinfection, storage facilities and distribution networks. Water-borne
sanitation services, currently provided by local government, are operated poorly and reach only about
15% of the urban population. Inadequately treated wastewater flows into surface and groundwater are
creating serious health risks.
1.17   For the rural areas, the facilities include 9700 boreholes and 5600 shallow wells equipped with
handpumps serving groundwater to an estimated 3 million plus people and 56 rural piped gravity water
schemes abstracting water from mostly protected catchments, with no additional treatment, and serving
approximately 1.45 million people. Thus, only about 60% of the total population have access to water
supply services (69% urban and 58% rural). The water is supplied through communal water points
only. Some of the DWSF schemes and rural piped gravity supplies, and a large number of boreholes
and wells, are not functioning adequately or at all. The estimates given are consequently, of the
number served if all facilities were fully operational, and many included in these estimates do not
currently have convenient access to safe water supplies.



-5
C.    Sector Issues
Environmental Issues
1.18   The quality of some of the nation's more important water resources, and the aquatic and
riparian environments with which they are associated, are increasingly at risk. This is due to three
main causes. First, a rapidly increasing population is resulting in increases in the intensity of land use.
Subsistence farming is encroaching onto more steeply sloping and less suitable land, and deforestation
is occurring due to the demand for land for agriculture, and for wood, particularly for fuel. As a
result, the sediment load and turbidity of surface runoff is increasing, accompanied by increased
transport of microbiological contaminants and greater risk to human health, as well as threats to the
aquatic iota of some resources. Second, contamination of water resources arising from unplanned
settlements and associated poor sanitary conditions and improper disposal of wastes is increasing in
many parts of the country. In urban areas poor maintenance often results in sewer overflows, leading
to severe pollution of surface water resources. Third, chemical contamination of water resources is
increasing, due to the improper application of fertilizers and pesticides in agriculture, the discharge of
hazardous wastes from hospitals and other institutions and, in perturbing areas in particular, the
improper disposal of chemical wastes from industries.
1.19   Environmental problems arising from major structures such as dams is not an issue in Malawi,
which has no large dams.
Sector Weaknesses and Constraints
1.20   The above discussion leads to the conclusion that the water sector in Malawi is characterized by
a number of weaknesses. From the point of view of results on the ground as seen by the community
the three main weaknesses are: most of the water supply and water-borne sanitation infrastructure
manifests a lack of sustainability; service coverage is poor; and the quality of key water resources is
declining and in some cases already poor. These weaknesses are due in turn to:
a)     Until recently, the absence of a formal policy framework for the sector, as a result of
which there has been a failure to determine effectively, and to fulfill in a sustainable
manner, community needs for water services, and decisions have been made which defeat
such essential objectives as maintaining rational pricing policies, and allocating available
financial resources appropriately between O&M and capital development; and
b)     A set of institutional arrangements which are inadequately matched to the tasks with
which the institutions are faced, particularly in the institutional arrangements for the
delivery of all water services (other than water supply services in Lilongwe and Blantyre)
and for the management of water resources. At central government level, weaknesses in
the institutional arrangements and policy framework for multi-sectoral environmental
management have resulted in little being done to address the problems of deteriorating
water quality.
D.    Priorities
1.21   In early 1994, GOM recognized that its priorities in the sector should be



(a)    To prepare an integrated policy framework to provide a new and consistent basis for all
decision making affecting the sector.
(b)    To put in place institutional arrangements which would provide for the setting and
maintenance of policy and policy implementation, and for ensuring community
participation in determining service standards having regard to the pricing options. These
arrangements would depend on the incorporation of transparent accountability measures
for performance both in water services and resources management, and a framework of
incentives to ensure the achievement of the objectives of the GOM and the community for
the sector.
(c)    To develop a set of strategies and actions to implement the new  institutional
arrangements, and to put the new policy framework into action.
(d)    To secure funding for investments in rehabilitation and extended coverage which would
match the improving capacity of sector institutions, and which would be integral to its
strategy to build and sustain capacity, financial self-sufficiency and self-reliance.
E.    The Policy Framework and Strategies
1.22   Recognizing sector weaknesses, GOM prepared a draft document which seeks to meet these
requirements. In doing so, it involved a wide range of interests in the public sector. The document,
which was completed in May 1994, contains a statement of policy, an analysis of the status of water
resources and services, a package of strategies, and a set of proposed actions to implement the
strategies. It was further considered and amended at a workshop held following the election and
involving all concerned Ministries and Departments. GOM then approved the document and arranged
for it to be printed for wide distribution. The approved Water Resources Management Policy and
Strategies (WRMPS) document, including an Executive Summary (Annex 1.1), is available in the
Project File. The policies and strategies it provides are briefly described in the following.
1.23   Policies. The intent of the policy framework is to guide the sustainable management of water
resources and the provision of services. It consists of a set of seven statements covering:
a)     aspects of the management and use of water for conservation and environmental
protection, and the provision of water services; and
b)    important principles and processes in planning  and  decision-making, including
stakeholder involvement, the allocation of water, the investment of public funds, and
pricing and cost recovery.
1.24   Strategies. The strategies seek to ensure that the policy framework is applied so as to achieve
the sector objectives. They cover institutional development, capacity building, and the achievement of
sustainable resource management and investment, as described in the following:
1.25   Institutional Development and Capacity Building. Other than the existing water supply services
of the Lilongwe and Blantyre Water Boards, most water supply and water-borne sanitation services are
being performed poorly, while some are not allocated to any organization and are not being performed
at all. The proposal is that these services be clearly defined, allocated to appropriate organizations, and



- 7 -
the organization reformed, upgraded or otherwise made fully ready to assume responsibility for
performing the service. The WRMPS document articulates the following reforms and strengthening:
a)    separation of policy making and monitoring from operational functions;
b)    restructuring the institutions of the sector to better achieve a) above, and provision of
legislative and capacity building support for this;
c)     broadening participation in policy-making by reconstituting the WRB, assigning to it the
water resources and environmental policy and strategic functions and authority, and
developing the approach to water resources management to one that involves all affected
community groups and other stakeholders, and all the necessary expertise from other
relevant sectors;
d)     creating three Regional Water Boards (RWBs), to assume responsibility for all urban
water services except those of the LWB and BWB, and to develop and operate these
services in a commercial customer-focused manner;
e)    introducing new legislation, which in addition to establishing the three RWBs, provides
for them, the LWB and BWB, and the responsible Minister, a set of powers and
obligations that will best enable all five boards to achieve GOM objectives of commercial,
effective and sustainable performance, and provides increased decision-making autonomy,
balanced by increased accountability through the setting of performance targets,
monitoring and reporting;
f)    transforming the organization and processes of the WD for planning, implementing and
operating rural water supplies, from a relatively centralized tradition, to a process that is
driven by the rural and small town communities themselves, is decentralized and
responsive, provides scope for the development and management of water resources for
multiple objectives, and results in better husbandry of limited government resources;
g)    transferring the responsibility for water-bome sanitation services from MLGRD to the
respective Water Boards to improve service performance and substantially reduce water
related pollution; and
h)     enabling effective planning and the measurement of performance in the range of
disciplines necessary for a more effective sector, by strengthening the key central services
of hydrology, hydrogeology, scientific and laboratory services, and planning and design,
and establishing new capabilities in investment analysis and sector performance.
Strategies for implementing these institutional restructuring, reform and capacity building initiatives are
provided in the WRMPS document.
1.26   Reducing Dependence. GOM is conscious that one factor contributing to lack of sustainability
of resource management and water services is a continuing dependency on foreign technical assistance
not just for the more technically advanced or demanding projects, but for all projects, irrespective of
the technology to be used. GOM will seek to participate in donor supported projects in such a way as
to reduce this dependency.



- 8 -
1.27   Achieving Sustainable Resource Management and Investment. The WRMPS document features
a new more integrated approach to sustainable resource management and investment. Complementary
strategies are developed for stakeholder involvement, the allocation of water, allocation of investment,
and pricing and cost recovery. These strategies are knitted together through the adoption by GOM of a
few key principles: (a) much more attention will be given in decision process to the economic value of
water, both at the source and in its various uses to complement the long-standing awareness of its social
value; (b) both water and investment resources would be allocated through mechanisms which
encourage the achievement of positive net benefits to Malawi, (c) the mechanisms required to increase
the probability of positive net benefits are to base allocations of both water and investment resources on
tangible evidence of demand at prices which reflect the cost of service provision and, (d) since the
users of water and sanitation services are the best judges of their demand for services at various prices,
stakeholder involvement is a necessary input to investment choices.  These principles will be
implemented through further amendments to the Water Resources Act, the strengthening and
reconstitution of the WRB, the establishment of RWBs for urban and town schemes and the
establishment of a new approach to rural schemes. The RWBs will be established in a way that will
provide positive incentives to be demand-oriented in their choice of investments and in the operation of
the schemes. The rural program will provide improved services in response to local proposals after
negotiation of agreements regarding the type of system demanded by the local area and cost-sharing
arrangements for the building and operation of the demanded system. The principle to be applied for
cost-sharing will be to restrict GOM financial support to a level equal to the per capita capital costs of a
basic minimum service level. All other costs will be borne by the users of the proposed improvement,
including capital and O&M in excess of GOM support. These mechanisms will help ensure that
demand drives the choice of levels of service and that the scheme is perceived as sufficiently valuable
to the users for them to be willing to incur the essential recurrent costs, or the additional capital costs of
more elaborate supply schemes than the minimum national standard.
F.    Investment
1.28   The policy framework and strategies outlined above provide the basis for:
a)    the management of water resources and protection of the environment;
b)    the O&M of existing water supply infrastructure so that it is low cost but sustainable; and
c)    the rehabilitation of run-down supply systems and the planning and implementation of
new ones, in ways that should ensure efficiency and sustainability.
1.29  If the sector is to achieve the effectiveness and sustainability that have been so lacking, it will
be important that all investment in new services and in the rehabilitation of run-down facilities, be
implemented in a way which does not outpace the establishment of the new institutional arrangements,
and the development of institutional and human capacity through training and human resources
development. If investment and capacity building are to be well matched, close year to year control
should be exercised over the scale of the investment program, and the process for the selection of
individual projects should be one that ensures that they are commercially oriented, customer-driven,
and of high net benefit. This can best be achieved through a sectoral approach to the allocation of
resources.



- 9 -
G.    Previous Bank Involvement and Lessons Learned
1.30   There have been four prior International Development Association (IDA) operations in the
sector, one with the BWB (1977), two with the LWB (1982 and 1987) and one with the WD (1989).
These operations helped to build up the capacity of the two city water boards with some success in
terms of reliable service delivery, self-sufficiency and human resource and capacity development,
leading to indigenization of all senior management positions, and initiated IDA's involvement in rural
water supply. They also demonstrated the difficulties of achieving broader sustainability without a
comprehensive approach to the sector. Such an approach would need to include a framework of
policies to guide all decision-making, and a complementary set of strategies which should include
reform of the institutional arrangements to provide a more appropriate environment for effective
managerial, technical and financial performance. Prior experience also indicates that commercial
orientation of operations and judicious use of technical assistance coupled with intensive human
resource development and appropriate incentives are significant contributory factors to the relatively
good success of BWB and LWB. The proposed project would draw on these experiences by providing
mostly short-term TA implemented over a longer time frame to provide opportunity for monitoring and
evaluation and reduce the continuing dependency on TA. Investments would be sequenced to match
implementation capacity to the pace of institutional reform and provision made for annual review and
adjustment as necessary. The project would also seek to improve the legislative relationship between
the minister as the strategic directing authority and the water boards.



- 10-
CHAPTER 2. THE PROJECT
A.    Project Objectives
2.1    The primary objective of the proposed National Water Development Project (NWDP) project is
to support the implementation of GOM's WRMPS by reforming and upgrading the management of
water resources and the provision of water-related services to:
a)     ensure convenient access to safe water for domestic use, for a progressively larger
proportion of the community;
b)     provide water infrastructure capable of underpinning economic development; and
c)     assure the protection and management of water resources and of aquatic and riparian
environments.
2.2   Improved sector susustainability and upgraded physical and financial performance are
subordinate objectives vital to the attainment of the primary objective and will be achieved, within the
project, through:
a)    institutional restructuring;
b)    the development and utilization of both the public and private sectors;
c)     active involvement of stakeholders;
d)    implementation of a policy framework and strategies guiding new investment in the
sector, water resource allocation, pricing and cost recovery; and
e)    implementation of a coherent program of investment in rehabilitation and in new services
consistent with these principles, and managed by the restructured sector institutions.
B.    Project Outcomes
2.3    The outcomes of the project will be:
a) A new WRB, with membership, terms of reference, support and methodology such as to
enable GOM to address sector-wide policy issues and water resources management and
related environmental problems more effectively;
b) Three commercially oriented RWBs serving all urban areas other than Lilongwe and
Blantyre;
c) A modern and consistent legislative environment for the resulting five water boards,
providing a performance-based relationship between GOM and each board;
d) Achievement by the five water boards of levels of financial performance such that income
covers full costs, and of physical performance including acceptable levels of coverage, supply
continuity, and microbiological quality;
e) Transfer of water-borne sanitation to the water boards;



- 11 -
f) Planning, implementation and sustained operation of rural water supply facilities through the
consistent use of community driven processes;
g) An estimated increase of 1.5 million people in urban, peri-urban and rural communities with
convenient access to safe water for domestic purposes, on a sustained basis, through a
combination of institutional and process reform, and investment in new water supply
infrastructure and rehabilitation of existing works;
h) Improvements in the quality of streamflow from catchments designated for catchment
protection programs;
i) Provision of a basis to assess threats to key water resources, particularly Lake Malawi and the
Shire River, and to plan appropriate responses from the results of the water resources and
environmental studies.
C.    Rationale for IDA Involvement
2.4   IDA's previous assistance has supported important strides in the sector, in particular in
introducing in the cities of Lilongwe and Blantyre institutional arrangements, policies and human
resources development that have resulted in the adoption of sustainable commercial and technical
practices. If this success is to be consolidated and extended to water resources management and water
service delivery throughout Malawi, a sector-wide policy-based approach is necessary.   The
involvement of IDA in the implementation of this approach is appropriate because: (i) IDA has had a
long prior involvement in, knowledge of and experience with the sector in Malawi; (ii) IDA played a
central role in assisting GOM to develop the framework of policy and strategies, and the action plan for
implementation; (iii) successful implementation will require that all initiatives in the sector, whether
investment or sectoral reform in nature, be coordinated and integrated, and IDA is best placed to assist
GOM in this; (iv) the proposed Malawi Social Action Project (MASAP) will have important links with
this project, and close coordination of the two is best achieved if IDA is involved in both; and (v) there
is a high degree of congruence between this project and the primary objectives of the Country
Assistance Strategy (CAS).
D.    Project Strategy
2.5    To ensure that investment is properly sequenced with institutional restructuring and capacity
development and that individual investments are chosen to maximize net benefits within this sequence,
a sectoral approach to the provision of credit and to the selection and scheduling of investments is
proposed. Under this approach, the program would comprise: (a) a carefully modulated program of
institutional restructuring and legislative reform within the sector; (b) all public investments in the
sector over the five-year period of the project, (other than the provision of new boreholes and wells,
the provision of which would be closely coordinated with the Malawi Social Action Project (MASAP).
It is expected that the bulk of the funding for boreholes would be provided under the MASAP, with
some being provided under this project. However, implementation arrangements for the two projects
will be carefully integrated); (c) the coordination of all donor financing in the sector according to the
WRMPS framework, including common implementation arrangements; and (d) criteria and procedures
for determining investments on an annual basis (or for small rural water supply facilities, on a shorter
cycle) according to a rolling investment program over the five year period, that takes account of
institutional, financial and physical considerations, and the true needs of the communities served. The
program will thus be developed in part through involvement of user communities in determining their
own needs and contributing to the implementation, O&M of the facilities that serve them, and in part
through the participation of institutions that are more commercially oriented, empowered and



- 12 -
accountable. The WRMPS would provide a suitable framework of policy and strategies for the
proposed sectoral approach. The WRMPS has been adopted by GOM. Formal confirmation of this to
IDA was a condition of Board presentation (para 5.1).
2.6    Consequently, the program  is designed to develop the sector in an integrated way, in
accordance with GOM's recently adopted set of policies and strategies, and with flexibility built in to
pace the level of investments with institutional and financial reforms, so that the capacity to implement
and sustain them is consistent with the level of investment in any given year. To achieve this, the
investment program comprises, in the initial two years, relatively modest capital development targets,
primarily rehabilitation and maintenance oriented, and of high priority. Investments in the ensuing
three years of the five-year program are indicative, still emphasizing rehabilitation and maintenance,
but with a greater share of new developments included.
2.7    The flexibility required to implement the phased approach is reflected in the review procedures.
A detailed mid-term review of progress with the initial two years would be undertaken no later than
October 1997. The review will assess physical, institutional and financial progress of the program to
date, paying particular attention to performance as measured against targets to be agreed at
negotiations. Based on the assessment, all aspects of the program will be recalibrated to be consistent
with the targets as revised according to experience gained by the time of the mid-term review.
Disbursement of IDA funds for the indicative part of the program will be conditioned on achieving key
benchmark institutional, financial and implementation targets established at the mid-term review. For
the indicative phase, the program will be maintained on a two year rolling basis, with annual reviews
confirning or amending investments arising from the commercial, user-driven processes proposed, and
taking account of progress made against the revised targets, including the results of environmental
analyses, agreed at the mid-term review.
2.8    Technical Assistance (TA! Strategy. The TA strategy is aimed at ensuring that skills in the
service delivery organizations of the sector cover the spectrum of disciplines required, at a sufficient
level that they can meet challenging performance targets sustainably, and in a self sufficient manner.
To achieve this all TA assignments will be short term, and TA will be provided at its most intense level
in the first year, and continue intermittently and at a lower level over the following three years to
ensure skill consolidation and adequate depth in each organization. To ensure effectiveness, TA will be
undertaken in accordance with TOR covering each assignment. The TOR will include the detailed
goals of each assignment and will provide for identification of counterparts, indicators of task and skill
transfer performance, and reporting and reviewing of achievement in terms of the indicators and the
objectives both quarterly and at the end of each assignment. The LWB and BWB found that the
provision of TA through twinning arrangements with foreign water authorities with experience in
Southern Africa gave excellent results, and this option will be available to the RWBs. TA in most
skills and tasks for the RWBs will deal with systems and processes (for example, accounting and
billing) that will be identical for all the RWBs. These will be sourced from one provider to ensure
consistency and efficiency. TA tasks vary from those suitable for small groups working in teams or
closely coordinated manner, to specialized tasks without close relationships of expertise or execution
with other tasks. Tasks performed by teams will be undertaken through contracts with firms able to
source all the TA required for that task. For those less closely related, GOM will have the option of
sourcing by stand-alone contract with individuals. The categories of TA and sourcing options are
shown in Table 2.1. Contracts shown below may be amalgamated, subject to timing, but no contract
may be divided. Contracts shown as with consulting firms may not be awarded partially or wholly to
individuals. At negotiations, agreement was reached on TOR for all TA (para 5.4).



- 13 -
Table 2.1 Sourcing Options for TA
Sourcing Option
Category of TA                                             Consulting Firm   Individual
1. Program Management                                                        Contract A
2. Water Resources Management                                                Contract B
3. RWBs:
(a) Business Planning;                                     Contract C
(b) Systems and Procedures; and                            Contract D
(c) Operational Support.                                   Contract E
4. Rural Water Supply Program                                                 Contract F
5. Water Department - Central Services Strengthening          Contract G
6. Sewerage Services Transfer and Strengthening               Contract H
2.9    Environmental Strategy.  The environmental strategy comprises two aspects:  first, water
resources and catchment management aimed at maintaining and improving water quality, and at
protection and enhancement of aquatic and associated terrestrial environments; and second, minimizing
adverse environmental impacts of construction and operation of the physical works which comprise the
investment program. Water resources and catchment management will be the focus of (i) the water
resources works component of the project, which aim at controlling erosion in a number of catchments,
and (ii) the proposed program of studies of water resources and environmental management, which will
address opportunities for monitoring and management of Lake Malawi and the Shire and Songwe
Rivers.  Adverse environmental impacts of construction and operation of physical works will be
minimized in accordance with the strategy for environmental protection incorporated in the GOM's
WRMPS. This requires that appropriate environmental analyses be conducted for all physical works
comprising the investment program. The annual reviews and mid-term review will include processes
for the selection and scheduling of investments and these processes will take into account the results of
environmental analyses for each investment.
E.    Summary Project Description
2.10   For the full five years, the project would include: a) Institutional Reform and Studies (about
US$13.8 million or 20% of base costs), comprising: (i) institutional restructuring, and capacity building
(US$3.5 million or 5% of base costs), (ii) consultancy services for project preparation and
implementation support (US$ 8.4 million or 12% of base costs), and (iii) studies of water resources and
environmental management (US$1.9 million or 3% of base costs); (b) Physical Works (about US$49.7
million or 68% of base costs) including rehabilitation of water supply schemes, water resources
protection and management including catchment revegetation (US$8.0 million or 11% of base costs),
extensions (US$ 30.8 million or 42% of base costs) and new schemes for water supply and sewerage
and sludge disposal sites (US$ 10.9 million or 15% of base costs); and (c) Goods and Equipment (about
US$9.0 million or 12% of base costs) including stores, workshops, spares, mechanical and electrical
plant for the Lilongwe water treatment plant, laboratories and offices, laboratory, office, field testing
and telecommunication equipment, meters, meter testing and repair equipment, together with tools,
vehicles, and GIS required for implementation.



- 14 -
2.11   The initial two-year investment program, selected on the basis of consistency with sector
priorities, includes rehabilitation of 5 urban and 2 gravity-fed rural schemes and 2200 boreholes; the
provision of 300 new boreholes; expansion of 10 urban schemes and augmentation of the transmission
system for LWB; soil conservation measures for five unprotected catchments; facilities and equipment
including Geographic Information Systems (GIS) for water resources management and planning and TA
for capacity development and project implementation support and studies. The proposed five-year
program is described below and detailed in Annex 2. 1.
F.    Institutional Reform and Studies
Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building
2.12   Water Resources Board. Reconstituting the WRB involves administrative directives functions
and objectives specifying new authority, responsibility and functions, appointment of a high level
multidisciplinary membership at Permanent Secretary and Head of Agency level, with representation
from the private sector, and appropriate skills support. It will also involve the enactment of new water
resources management legislation, replacing or substantially amending the Water Resources Act. The
legislation will (a) give legal status to the establishment of the new high level WRB, with functions and
objectives in water resources management, and with a secretariat and budgetary support both provided
through the WD; (b) provide guidelines for water resources management achieved through the
involvement of all stakeholders, and bringing to bear all appropriate Ministries and disciplines; (c)
empower the Minister and the WRB to use economic and financial measures to promote more effective
water resources management (eg. charging to discourage waste discharge into waters or to encourage
efficient use of water withdrawn); and (d) empower the Minister and the WRB to take effective action
in the courts when other approaches have failed. The adoption by GOM of the WRMPS, with its
emphasis on stakeholder involvement as the methodology to be used for water resources management
where communities affect or are affected by water resources problems, provides the WRB with both
the opportunity and the obligation to ensure that this effective and sustainable approach is implemented.
Implementation of the WRMPS would remove the WD's potential conflict of interest in both
performing operational functions, and being required to advise GOM on the regulation of its own
activities. These measures would be aimed at establishing the WRB (i) as a more effective policy
advisory entity to GOM; (ii) as a body more representative of the key stakeholders concerned with the
management of water resources and their utilization; and (iii) as appropriately structured and supported
to deal with water resource protection, allocation, pricing and other key policy issues.
2.13   The project supports this component through (a) support of studies and TA in restructuring and
strengthening the WD which will provide the secretariat, and scientific and technical services to the
WRB; and (b) encouraging timely action through conditionalities regarding the set of actions to be
taken.  First, completion of the initial administrative actions to reconstitute the WRB, namely,
specifying new authority, responsibility, and functions for the WRB establishing it as the peak body
responsible for water resources management and sector policy advice, and appointing to it, new high
level multi-disciplinary membership, was a condition of Board presentation (para 5.1).  Second,
completion of the necessary steps for the reform of the water resources management legislation, and
provision of a secretariat and technical and budgetary support, satisfactory to IDA, for the WRB, was a
condition of disbursement for the catchment revegetation sub-project (para 5.3).
Water Department



- 15 -
2.14   The WD will be restructured and downsized. Its water supply services to country towns and
institutions known as the District Water Supply Fund Schemes (DWSF schemes) will be split off and
allocated to three new Regional Water Boards as described in para. 2.20 below. Its water supply
services to rural areas, which include the provision and rehabilitation of boreholes and wells, and the
construction, operation and maintenance of gravity piped rural water supply schemes, will be
decentralized and reformed. The remainder of the WD will be restructured to provide a defined set of
central support functions, some of which will also be strengthened. The reform of central support
services and of the provision of rural water supplies will be achieved as described in the following.
2.15   Water Department Central Services. The principal functions of the WD's central services units
will be to: (i) perform the review and negotiation process of the rural water supply program, and
monitor and assess the performance of the program on an on-going basis; (ii) provide technical support
to the WRB and the three RWBs, including assessment of the quality and quantity of surface and
groundwater resources; (iii) monitor progress with the implementation of policy; (iv) assist GOM to
set standards and performance targets; (v) monitor compliance with standards and performance targets
and (vi) provide project coordination services. The WD would therefore incorporate central service
units performing the following: (a) rural water supply support; (b) hydrogeology; (c) hydrology; (d)
scientific services (water laboratory and scientific advice); (e) water resources management and
secretariat of the WRB; (f) planning and design; (g) investment evaluation and sector performance; and
(h) project unit (PU).
2.16   The project supports this component through (a) TA in leading and organizing processes,
customer-driven service provision, and in institutional reform and restructuring including support for
the downsizing and restructuring, and for the strengthening of some of the central services of the WD;
(b) staff training, development in the range of central services including field services in hydrology,
hydrogeology, and appropriate procedures and methods for sampling and testing water quality; (c) a
share to be agreed of the funding of initial working capital requirements including materials, plant and
equipment including appropriate water testing equipment and systems; and (d) conditionalities
regarding the leadership of the WD. The restructuring of the WD will affect what virtually every staff
member will do each day, and accordingly will require continued strong leadership within the
Department. GOM will ensure that the three most senior positions of the WD shall be occupied by
persons with appropriate qualifications, experience and achievements.
2.17   Rural Water Supply Program.  Responsibility for services in small areas and villages will
continue to be based in the WD in the near term, rather than being transferred immediately to the
RWBs. GOM has adopted, however, two major changes in the way this responsibility will be
exercised. First, as cities and towns served by the DWSF schemes develop and expand, it is expected
that the RWBs will expand their service areas to include existing peri-urban and nearby rural areas,
currently considered part of the rural water program. Second, the WD will restructure all existing
rural water supply programs into a consolidated rural program (see more detailed discussion in
Annex 2.2), based on a set of widely promulgated rules, which will be developed with stakeholder
involvement through a consultative council, and which will emphasize local demand for services. In
the program, improvement schemes will be undertaken in response to locally initiated proposals and
only after satisfactory negotiations have established the relative responsibilities of the local area and
GOM for payment of capital and O&M costs. GOM's share in the costs of improved service will be
restricted to no more than the costs of a minimum service level provided through a hand pump together
with a concrete apron, drainage and a wash slab. The proposing local area will provide for O&M costs
in all cases and any capital costs in excess of this minimum. Completion of rules and guidelines,



- 16 -
satisfactory to IDA, for the community-led processes of rural water supplies was a condition of Board
presentation (para. 5.1).
2.18   These same principles of community driven provision of local infrastructure have been
incorporated into the proposed Bank-assisted MASAP. Many rural communities that do not have
convenient access to safe water supplies are likely to place the provision of new safe water supplies
high on their list of priorities for facilities to be provided under MASAP arrangements. The provision
of small rural water supplies will therefore be an essential part of the MASAP's menu of options for
these communities. Accordingly, the proposed MASAP will incorporate a large proportion of the
program for the provision of new boreholes, together with a range of associated options for small local
water supplies.
2.19   The project supports the Rural Water Supply Program through (a) TA in developing and
organizing community-driven approaches to the provision of water services, (b) funding a prioritized
program of hydrogeological and hydrological assessment and mapping to provide an information base
available to communities, and (c) funding of the construction of new rural water supply facilities
including new boreholes, and gravity-fed schemes, and the rehabilitation of existing boreholes and
gravity-fed schemes, developed through similar community-driven processes.
Urban Water and Sewerage Services
2.20   Regional Water Boards. The RWBs will be set up on a commercial basis to improve the
demand focus of water supply programs, and to strengthen the sustainability of water services through
a shift to commercial practices by the RWBs. The assets of the DWSF schemes will be divided between
the RWBs, the market areas of which will initially consist of the medium sized cities, small towns and
institutions currently being served by the DWSF schemes. This component comprises: (a) legislation
that: (i) establishes the RWBs; and (ii) assigns functions, powers and obligations to the RWBs
(providing at the same time an improved set of these for the LWB and BWB); (b) identification and
valuation of assets and liabilities, determination of financial structure, and assessment of requirements
for materials, plant and equipment; (c) preparation of business plans by each of the RWBs; (d)
preparation of charters, to include performance agreements between GOM and the RWBs; (e)
preparation and implementation of organization and staffing plans that clarify internal responsibilities
and include: (i) downsizing and/or rationalization of staffing arrangements; and (ii) detailed training
programs; (f) design and implementation of improved financial management, including: (i) satisfactory
financial and accounting systems and procedures; (ii) tariff-setting and cost-recovery practices; (g)
adopting performance targets; and (h) preparation of indicative five and detailed rolling two-year
investment programs, including detailed design of annual plans.
2.21   The project supports this component through (a) the provision of TA in institutional reform and
restructuring; (b) the funding of studies to determine business and human resource plans and other
requirements of the RWBs (see Para. 3.8b); (c) the provision of the initial working capital requirements
of each RWB; and (d) the provision of business and technical information systems (including
accounting, billing, customer inquiry and a common GIS system for asset management and planning).
2.22   Lilongwe Water Board. LWB's capacity to expand and operate its water treatment and
distribution system will be increased. LWB and BWB are to have their corporate relationships with
GOM changed from the present one in which the legislation provides very close and detailed oversight
by the Minister and the MSC, to relationships more appropriate to well-performed commercial entities.



- 17 -
Less detailed oversight needs to be balanced by arrangements for performance target-setting,
monitoring and reporting, enabling the Minister to exercise the strategic oversight appropriate to his or
her responsibility as principal shareholder. This component consists of support for (i) the development
of the proposals for the legislation which will establish the RWBs and put in place a consistent and
performance based relationship between GOM and each of the five water boards, drawing upon the
experience of the LWB and the BWB; (ii) for the establishment of business planning and performance
monitoring and reporting; and (iii) staff training and development.
2.23   The project supports this component through (a) TA in institutional reform and restructuring,
and in business planning and implementation support, and (b) staff training and development in
financial management and technical aspects of water supply infrastructure services.
2.24   Water-Borne Sanitation Services. This component comprises (a) the administrative measures of
transferring responsibility for all aspects of water-borne sanitation services from local authorities under
the responsibility of MLGRD to MIWD; (b) studies to prepare for the transfers including studies of
assets and liabilities associated with existing services, essential rehabilitation works, including measures
to reduce to acceptable levels pollution resulting from untreated discharges and overflows, the
preparation of business plans, human resources plans, and initial requirements for facilities, plant and
equipment, and the scheduling of transfer events and activities; (c) agreement on performance targets,
monitoring and reporting; and (d) the transfer events and activities themselves. The timing of the
transfer will be included in the recommendations of the studies but should not be later than two years
after credit effectiveness.
2.25   The project supports this component through (a) TA in institutional reform and restructuring,
accounting and associated business systems, and in appropriate technology for the treatment of sewage
and the disposal of treated effluent; (b) staff training and development in environmental, technical and
business aspects of wastewater services; and (c) a share to be agreed of initial working capital
requirements for this service including initial requirement for materials, plant and equipment, and
business and technical information systems.
Studies
2.26   There are two important water resource issues in Malawi which warrant substantial study
programs. First, both surface water and groundwater sources are, and will continue to be, important
for the provision of piped water supply systems and boreholes providing water for domestic and
industrial purposes. Both types of source will also be important for the development of irrigation.
However, both are relatively undeveloped in most areas, and future development will be handicapped
unless the current sketchy knowledge of the occurrence and likely yield and quality of both surface and
groundwater resources is substantially increased. Second, the most important and valuable water
resource in Malawi is clearly Lake Malawi, and its effluent, the Shire River. Yet little is known about
Lake's basic hydrological and meteorological indicators, and measures of biological productivity,
which will be important for its future management and protection. Lake levels are lower than they
have been in the last 65 years and there is a risk that, if the drier than average climatic sequence
continues, and Lake levels remain unregulated, then flow in the Shire River towards the end of the dry
season may drop to unprecedented low levels, with potentially disastrous effects. Further, the Lake's
main tributaries are important to its future health, and need to be managed so that the most serious
problems of sediment inflow are minimized.



- 18 -
2.27   The proposed program of studies is designed to address these issues, and will consist of the
following:
(a)    investigation of alternate sources of water to enhance reliability of supply for some of
the urban schemes;
(b)    hydrogeological and hydrological assessment and mapping to provide an information
base;
(c)    seawatch for Lake Malawi: - installation of appropriate equipment and systems for the
automatic collection, transmission and recording of data on water currents, surface
waves, windspeed and direction, air pressure, relative humidity, algae concentrations
and other water quality parameters for use in navigation, environmental monitoring,
fisheries development and maritime research;
(d)    Lake Malawi level control: - to regulate the water levels of the Lake in order to
minimize the likelihood of extremely low levels and no-flow conditions in the Shire
River so as to sustain socio-economic growth through the development and maintenance
of hydropower generation, navigation on Lake Malawi and water supplies for use in
municipal, industrial, irrigation and recreational developments;
(e)    flood forecasting for the Lower Shire Valley:- to improve the forecasting and issuing of
warnings of impending floods in good time to allow timely evacuation and safeguard
against loss of life and reduce damage to property; and
(f)    Songwe River Training:- a prefeasibility study aimed at stabilizing the course of the
Songwe River to reduce sediment loads and local flooding and develop agriculture and
fisheries, and generate hydropower.
2.28   The project supports this component through the provision of credit, to finance the studies, the
strengthening of the central services of the WD, and the institutional restructuring initiative re-
establishing and strengthening the WRB as the entity responsible for water resources management and
the provision of policy advice to GOM in relation to the water sector.
I.     Investment Components
2.29   The investment program (set out in detail in Annex 2.1) would consist of:
(a)    rehabilitation of existing systems. (i) the initial two years: to restore existing schemes to
their design capacity and performance. This would involve repair and/or replacement of
intake structures, treatment units, broken or inadequately sized pipes and storage tanks
and defective meters and other instrumentation and control systems, replacement of
defunct boreholes including screens and casings and pumps together with the construction
of aprons, washing slabs and soakaways. This would encompass 5 urban water schemes,
2 gravity-fed piped rural schemes and 2,200 boreholes (1,100 per year (600 for partial
and 500 for full rehabilitation)). It would also include works for the protection of
catchment areas, consisting of soil conservation measures involving restricting
cultivation on steep river banks and other unsuitable locations, revegetation and farmer
education to alleviate soil degradation and preserve the quality of water in 5



- 19 -
unprotected catchments used as sources of raw potable water; and (ii) years three to
five: an indicative program comprising rehabilitation of 3 urban and 3 gravity-fed piped
rural water schemes, and 3,300 boreholes; protection of 10 catchment areas, and
stabilizing the watercourse of the Songwe River.
(b)    new schemes: (i) the initial two years: the construction of 2 gravity-fed piped rural
schemes (intake structure, transmission mains, slow sand filters) and 300 boreholes;
and (ii) years three to five: 7 urban and 4 gravity-fed piped rural water schemes, 450
boreholes, 2 sewerage systems comprising collection systems, lift stations and oxidation
ponds for the treatment and stabilization of domestic wastewater, and 9 septage and
sludge disposal sites consisting of shallow basins excavated in the ground with sealed
bottoms to minimize seepage and soil and groundwater contamination and operated as
anaerobic ponds for settling and stabilizing sludge.
(c)    extension:  (i) the initial two years: to increase the existing production and supply
capacity of the LWB system as well as those of 12 other urban centers. For the 12
towns, the works would include augmentation of intake systems, treatment facilities
including sedimentation, filtration, final clarification and sterilization, and upgrading of
transmission mains and reticulation networks together with pumps and storage tanks to
meet projected future demands to the year 2005; and for LWB, the provision of
electrical and mechanical plant for filters and clarifiers, and supply and installation of
transmission mains; and (ii) years three to five: 17 urban water schemes, and the
Zomba water supply system including the Zomba dam, - a 47m high rock-fill dam with
a sealing core zone of selected earthfill and impounding a reservoir with a capacity of
3.4 million m3 on the Lower Mulunguzi River. The dam will abut the downstream face
of the existing dam, with the same effect as raising the existing dam, providing the
storage capacity and yield necessary to supply Zomba and adjacent rural areas. The
water will be released into the stream in a controlled manner to augment the existing
reservoir downstream, from which the water will be abstracted, treated and distributed
through several service reservoirs. Treatment works for the other urban schemes
comprise intake systems, sedimentation with coagulation, filtration and chlorination;
transmission and reticulation systems upgrading together with facilities and equipment,
including meters and recorders, pumps, instrumentation and controls, tools and GIS.
(d)    Goods and equipment: including stores, workshops, spares, laboratories, laboratory
and office equipment, telecommunication equipment, water meters, meter testing and
repair equipment, leakage detection and water quality testing equipment, tools, vehicles
and GIS for water resources management and planning.
2.30   The investments for years three to five are indicative only. The annual and mid-term reviews
will determine: (a) the progress of implementation with regard to agreed performance indicators
including the institutional, physical and capacity development aspects of the NWDP; and (b) revisions
as necessary of investment priorities and programs.
G.    Project Costs
2.31   The total cost of the proposed five-year program including physical and price contingencies but
net of duties and taxes (US$5. lmillion) is estimated at US$94.1 million equivalent with a foreign



- 20 -
exchange component of US$62.8 million or 67 percent of the total. A summary of the estimated cost
of the program is presented in Table 2.2 and a detailed cost table in Annex 2.3.
Table 2.2 Project Cost Estimates
(USS Million)
%     % Total
Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. Institutional Reform, Technical Assistance, and Studies
1. Institutional Development                                      1.5     2.0     3.5       57       5
2. Implementation Support - National Water Dev. Project           1.6     3.9     5.5       71       8
3. Implementation Support - LWB                                     -     1.4     1.4      100       2
4. Studies                                                        0.2     1.8     1.9       92       3
Subtotal Institutional Reform, Technical Assistance, and Studies    3.3     9.1    12.3       74      17
B. Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
1. Urban Water                                                    0.2     0.7     0.9       75       1
2. Rural Gravity-Piped Water                                      0.5     1.4     1.8       75       3
3. Borehole                                                       1.2     2.4     3.6       66       5
4. Protection of Catchment Areas                                  1.0     0.6     1.6       37       2
Subtotal Rehabilitation of Existing Systems                         2.9     5.1     8.0       63       11
C. New Schemes
1. Urban Water                                                    0.3     0.9     1.2       75       2
2. Sewerage                                                       0.7     1.3     1.9       66       3
3. Boreholes                                                      1.1     3.4     4.6       75       6
4. Sludge Disposal                                                0.1     0.1     0.2       36        -
5. Gravity Fed Rural                                              0.8     2.3     3.1       75       4
Subtotal New Schemes                                                2.9     7.9    10.9       73      15
D. Extension of Existing Schemes
1. Zomba Dam                                                      3.4     6.1     9.4       64      13
2. Zomba Water Supply                                             1.9     5.9     7.9       75      11
3. Urban Water (29 Schemes)                                       2.9     8.9    11.9       75      16
4. City Water (LWB)                                               0.6     1.1     1.6       64       2
Subtotal Extension of Existing Schemes                              8.8    21.9    30.8       71      42
E. Equipment
1. Lab. and Office Equipment                                        -     1.5     1.5      100       2
2. Vehicles & Motorcycles                                         0.0     0.3     0.3       92        -
3. Spares, Pipes and Trmt. Plant Equipment (LWB)                  0.7     5.0     5.7       87       8
4. Measuring Equipment                                            0.1     1.5     1.6       92       2
Subtotal Equipment                                                  0.9     8.1     9.0       90      12
F. PPF Refinancing                                                    -     1.5     1.5      100       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                               18.8    53.7    72.5        74     100
Physical Contingencies                                            1.7     4.8     6.5       73       9
Price Contingencies                                              10.8     4.4    15.2       29      21
Total PROJECT COSTS                                                31.3    62.8    94.1        67     130
2.32    The estimated costs of rehabilitating selected urban water schemes are based on physical
inspection of the systems, replacement for components with an estimated useful life of three years or
less and refurbishment of the remaining components of the systems. A similar but less extensive
evaluation has been done for the rural systems. The cost estimates for extension and new civil works,
equipment and materials are based on preliminary designs of the facilities and local and regional
construction experience and recent quotations for equipment and vehicles.
2.33    Base costs are expressed in December 1994 prices.  Physical contingencies are estimated at
10% of the base costs for all items except engineering and goods (5%). Physical contingencies are



- 21 -
estimated at US$6.5 million or about 9 percent of base costs. Price contingencies are based on the
following annual percentage of inflation for local costs 15% for 1995 and 1996; 10% for 1997 and 5%
from 1998 through 2000, for foreign costs, 2.2% from 1995 through 2000.
2.34   Price contingencies are estimated at US$15.2 million or about 21% of baseline costs plus
physical contingencies.
H.    Project Financing
2.35   The total program cost of US$94.1 million equivalent would be financed as summarized in
Table 2.3. The IDA Credit of US$79.2 million would finance 84% of the total cost net of taxes or the
equivalent of 92% (US$57.5 million) of the estimated foreign exchange cost of the project with the
NDF providing about US$5.3 million equivalent, or about 8% of the foreign exchange cost or 6% of
the total project cost to finance the hydrological and hydrogeological studies for water resources
management, development and use. GOM's contribution to project financing would be limited to
about 10% of the costs (US$9.6 million equivalent) excluding taxes and duties estimated at
US$5. Imillion equivalent.
Table 2.3 Project Financing Plan
US$M       %
IDA                                                          79.2       84
NDF                                                           5.3        6
Government                                                    9.6       10
TOTAL                                                        94.1      100
Flow of Funds and On-Lending Terms
2.36   The IDA Credit of US$79.2 million would be made to GOM at the standard IDA terms with a
maturity of 40 years including a 10-year grace period. US$59.0 million of the proceeds of the credit
would be passed on by GOM to the newly established RWBs and LWB in a mixture of loans and equity
(grant contribution), comprising: NWB, US$7.3 million; CWB, US$7.5 million; SWB, US$34.5
million; and LWB, US$9.7 million. Of these amounts, 60% will be made available as loans, and 40%
as grants. The ratio of loans to grants will be reviewed annually, and adjusted to ensure that the debt to
equity ratios of the RWBs and LWB are not higher than 60:40. The interest on the loans from GOM
would be at a rate 2% above the prevailing rate of inflation, as measured by the National Composite
Retail Price Index, and the loan is repayable over 25 years including a 5 year grace period.
2.37   GOM would bear the foreign exchange risk of the IDA Credit. Funds made available through
cofinancing would be under the terns and conditions of the donors. The execution of a financing
agreement between the GOM and each WB, under terms and conditions acceptable to IDA, is a
condition of disbursement for each WB (para 5.3).  Assurances were given by GOM  during
negotiations that it would: (i) allocate and disburse its own share of agreed funds for the project; (ii)
exempt goods imported under the project from import duties and taxes; (iii) exempt foreign consulting
contracts from all taxes.



- 22 -
2.38   Of the IDA Credit, an advance of US$1.5 million has been extended to GOM from the Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The advance covered (a) consulting services for a water services sector
study to (i) rationalize institutional arrangements and sector responsibilities; (ii) help avoid costly
investment mistakes by improving integrated development of the sector; and (iii) promote efficient
nationwide management and use of water; (b) project coordinator (8 months) and program leader (19
months) positions and support; additional preparatory work required in the period between appraisal
and credit effectiveness; and (c) goods and services for institutional support.



- 23 -
CHAPTER 3. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A.    Implementation Program
Project Management
3.1    The NWDP will be coordinated by the MIWD. The GOM will maintain a Program Leader,
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA and operating under TORs which were agreed at
appraisal and confirmed at negotiations (Para. 5.4), to coordinate the NWDP and directly manage
substantial parts of it. A Program Leader meeting these requirements has been appointed. He reports
directly to the Controller of Water Services, who is the head of the WD, and will be supported by the
PU within the WD. The key senior personnel of the PU will include an Advisor, Business and
Financial Planning, a Manager, Rural Water Supply Program, and a Project Accountant.  The
proposed organization and composition of the PU and TOR for each of these three positions reporting
to the Program Leader were agreed at negotiations (para 5.4). Appointment to the PU of an Advisor
Business and Financial Planning, with qualifications and experience satisfactory to IDA is a condition
of credit effectiveness (para 5.2).  A Manager, Rural Water Supply Program, and a Project
Accountant, each with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA, will be appointed to the PU as
a condition of disbursement to the WD for rural water supply works (para 5.3). The Program Leader
will be responsible for (i) institutional restructuring, process change and those aspects of capacity
building associated with the WD; (ii) managing the studies program including the studies on water
resources and environrnental management; (iii) coordinating the implementation of the physical works
for WD, LWB and RWBs, and the acquisition of facilities and equipment; and (iv) maintaining project
accounts. The three RWBs and LWB will manage their own capacity building, the urban physical
works, acquisition of the facilities and equipment designated for them, and the studies of urban water
sources.  The WD, through existing line units, will manage the rural physical works, and the
acquisition of facilities and equipment designated for its use.
3.2    Owing to the sectoral nature of the project, the dominant tasks of the PU will change as the
project progresses. The initial phase of 18 months will be the most intensive and will be particularly
concerned with institutional restructuring, process reform, and capacity building. The emphasis in the
second phase, which will extend over 12 months, will shift to continuing capacity building, increasing
the pace of investment, and preparing for and servicing the mid-term review. For the remainder of the
term of the project the main issues will be management of investment, and ensuring continuing
improvements in the performance of sector institutions. PU staffing will change in skills mix and
reduce in numbers as the project requirements change. As indicated in para. 2.15 above, there is a
long term requirement for a PU as a line function of the WD. However, after the first two of the
above phases it will be staffed at a lower level and with some different skills. Staff allocated to the PU
(including the Program Leader) who will be required only for the first one or two phases, are and will
be engaged either on fixed term contracts, or on secondment with fixed termination dates.  All
termination dates will align with the timing of the phases of the project, and will be extendable only
with a no objection from IDA.
3.3    The Advisor, Business and Financial Planning, who will have a background in the development
of commercially oriented utility organizations will assist the Program Leader for a period not exceeding
12 months. For the program of institutional restructuring and capacity building, paras. 2.12 to 2.25
above, the Program Leader will be supported by short term consultants and others under contractual



- 24 -
arrangements providing TA, and staff seconded from time to time for specific tasks. The Rural Water
Supply Program, paras. 2.17 to 2.19 above, will be run by a Manager, Rural Water Supply Program,
who will report to the Program Leader, and who will bring to the project skills in the development of
community driven approaches to the provision of services. The investment components, para 2.29
above, will be managed by the RWBs, the LWB, and the WD as line functions. The performance
monitoring unit of the WD, to be established as a line unit within the WD as part of the restructuring of
WD central services (para. 2.15), will provide to the Program Leader management information on the
performance of investments and processes implemented under the project. GOM will establish and
maintain a performance monitoring unit within the Water Department, will ensure that it obtains,
maintains, and provides timely information measuring both the investment performance and the
business and service performance of each of the institutions and agencies of the sector. The PU would
be provided with the necessary support staff, office equipment and vehicles, and would operate with
annual recurrent funding contributed by GOM, together with funding for senior staff, TA and certain
equipment and services made available through the proposed credit
Sector Policy and Strategies
3.4    Water Resources Management Policies and Strategies. The WRMPS document sets the policy
and strategic framework for this project. Accordingly, it has been approved in full by GOM. Formal
confirmation of the approval of the WRMPS by GOM in a letter of sector policy satisfactory to IDA
was a condition of Board presentation (para 5.1).
Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building
3.5    Water Resources Board. GOM is close to completing the reconstitution of the WRB as the
peak body responsible for managing the water resources of Malawi, and for providing policy advice to
the Minister, MIWD, on water resources management and all aspects of management of the sector.
The conditionalities given in para 2.13 above support the satisfactory and timely completion of this
process.
Water Department
3.6    Water Department Central Services. A study will be undertaken of the resources required by
the WD to provide central services (Para 2.15) to the sector. At negotiations, TOR were agreed for a
study of the scope, level and timing of the strengthening and restructuring required for these services to
fulfill the needs of the restructured water sector, and to determine sources of funding (para. 5.4). A
study of the strengthening, restructuring and funding of the WD will be under way as a condition of
disbursement (para. 5.3). The strengthening, restructuring and revised funding arrangements of the
WD will be completed before the mid-term review.
3.7    Rural Water Supply Program. The procedures and processes used within the WD to initiate
and implement the provision of rural water infrastructure will be changed to ensure that communities
exercise choice and gain as much as possible a sense of ownership of what is provided. This change
process will be initiated and managed by a Manager, Rural Water Supply Program responsible to the
Program Leader. This will commence with the development of capacity to support the provision of
small scale community water supply facilities, primarily new boreholes, using identical community
driven processes whether the particular facilities are constructed with funding support from the
proposed IDA-supported Malawi Social Action Project (MASAP), the NWDP or any other donor. The



- 25 -
processes proposed to apply to small-scale water supplies are summarized in Annex 2.2. The steps and
processes to be implemented include the calling and letting of "rates" type tenders so that wells are
primarily constructed by contractors, thus seeking to avoid the higher costs typical of construction by
departmental crews, and of contract construction of wells one by one. They also include processes for
the community preparation of proposals, and the steps for appraisal, decision making and
implementation. Implementation steps include quality control, and the requirement that implementation
is not complete until community representatives have been trained in maintenance and provided with
tools and spare parts. GOM will arrange for the further development of these procedures to ensure that
rural communities can acquire water supplies of the categories included in the Rural Water Supply
Program (paras 2.17 to 2.19), in a way that is community driven. These procedures and rules will be
compatible with the processes of the MASAP, and will be developed in consultation with
representatives of rural communities. At negotiations, agreement was reached on procedures to assist
rural communities to acquire water supplies of the categories included in the Rural Water Supply
Program, in a way that is community driven and consistent with the rules for the entitlement and
participation of rural communities (para. 5.4).
Urban Water and Sewerage Services
3.8    The Regional Water Boards. The activities required to establish the three RWBs, to bring them
into action in a way that will enhance effective operation and sustainability, and to provide a modern
legislative environment for all five water boards, consist of six categories: (i) gearing up, (ii)
legislation, (iii) business planning, (iv) leadership and staffing, (v) consultation and education, and (vi)
support consisting of technical assistance, and operational expenses relating to the rental of office,
laboratory and workshop space, and the maintenance of vehicles and equipment, as the RWBs become
operational. The critical path management chart "National Urban Water Supply Program", Annex 3.1,
shows these categories, their constituent activities, and their linkages and dependencies. Those of the
categories which will require close project management and support are described below.
(a)    Legislation The powers and obligations of the three RWBs and the LWB and BWB, and
their relationship with GOM, will be defined in accordance with the principles stated in
the approved WRMPS document. GOM will incorporate in the draft legislation to
establish the three RWBs, provisions regarding the powers and obligations of the five
WBs that are consistent with the WRMPS (para. 5.4). Completion of all necessary steps
to enable the legal establishment of the RWBs, providing powers and obligations for the
five WBs consistent with WRMPS and acceptable to IDA, is a condition of effectiveness
(para. 5.2). The proposals for these reforms will be based on the Minister, MIWD,
being the strategic directing authority for all five boards. The present role of the MSC,
which can exercise powers to make decisions on such matters as tariff levels, or can
prevent such decisions from being made in a timely way, can be an impediment to the
proper exercise by the Minister of his strategic role, and to the ability of a board to
achieve the performance targets set by the Minister. It is also inconsistent with the
WRMPS document, which provides, among other things, that the water boards will
have "an accountability link to the community served, with a substantial degree of
independence to set prices", and will be required to meet performance targets.
(b)    Business Plannin, Business Planning studies will be undertaken to provide for the three
new RWBs: (i) updating of the previous work on valuation of assets and liabilities; (ii)
proposed financial structure; (iii) human resources management plans; (iv)



- 26 -
identification of needs for facilities, plant and equipment (also updating previous work);
(v) proposed business plans including working capital requirements, initial subventions,
and pricing scenarios; and (vi) the proposed charter for each RWB. Key products of
the business planning process are financial and physical performance targets. These
are required to support Parliament in its consideration of the Bill, and to assist GOM in
its strategic decision-making on what targets it will want the water boards to achieve
and the tariff and borrowing outlook necessary to enable the targets to be achieved. At
negotiations, GOM provided assurances that the performance agreements to be entered
into with the RWBs will include physical and financial performance targets, relating to
agreed performance indicators, aimed at ensuring sustainability of water infrastructure
services including new pricing and cost recovery policies (para 5.4). Also agreed at
negotiations, were TOR for the Business Planning studies, and the engagement of
consultants to conduct them (para 5.4). As a condition of effectiveness GOM will have
recruited consultants to undertake business planning studies for the five WBs (para
5.2). Completion and adoption of business plans, satisfactory to IDA, for each WB,
including physical and financial performance agreements, share of DWSF funds, and
additional initial working capital requirements, is a condition of disbursement to each
WB (para 5.3). It is proposed that the charters of the five Water Boards each contain:
(a) the mission and role of the board, (b) a succinct presentation of the key information
from the business plan with a three to five year focus, including the business strategy,
the communities to be served and the services to be provided, notable new initiatives to
be taken, and the financial outlook which will include the outlook for borrowing,
investment, profit or loss, pricing and subventions, and (c) the proposed (and after
approval, the agreed) performance agreement between GOM and each RWB, including
both financial and physical measures of performance. TA will be engaged to provide
guidance in the business planning process on the following specialist tasks:
(i)    Preliminary business plan: financial planning specialist;
(ii)    Business plan, preparatory phase: technical specialists in water utility assets,
recurrent activities and recurrent financing, investment planning, human
resources planning, and business strategy development; and
(iii)    Business plan and charter development: specialists in commercially oriented
strategic business planning for the sector, and financial planning.
A total of one person year of expert TA will be available to assist in these activities.
(c)    Leadership and Staffing. The Chairmen and Chief Executives of the water boards are
important to the success of the business planning process, as their participation with the
authority to decide on business directions will ensure that decisions are made in the best
interests of their future customers and the achievement of the performance targets to be
set by the Minister. Participation in the business planning process is also important to
the preparation of the Chairmen and Chief Executives for their future responsibilities.
Selection and nomination of Chairmen and Chief Executives, with experience and
qualifications and according to TOR acceptable to IDA, for the three RWBs is a
condition of effectiveness (para. 5.2). The appointment of a Financial Controller, with



- 27 -
experience and qualifications and according to TOR acceptable to IDA, is a condition
of disbursement to each RWB (para. 5.3)
(d)    Bringing the Boards into Operation. As a condition of disbursement to each RWB,
GOM will vest it with the physical assets, and transfer to it the funds and staff,
necessary and desirable for the effective operation of all aspects of the business of the
RWB within its area of operation (para 5.3). This condition does not imply that GOM
may not apply IDA credit to the preparatory activities for each WB described above.
The estimated funding for defined operational expenses of each RWB in the first three
years of operation are given in paragraph 4.9 Both prior to and following vesting day,
TA will be provided to:
(i)    guide the design/selection of the key systems and procedures required for the
effective and efficient operation of the new RWBs and their installation,
including systems for billing, accounting and stock control;
(ii)    manage the up-loading of data and testing prior to the commencement of
operations;
(iii)    oversee the training of personnel in the operation of the installed systems; and
(iv)    advise on the on-going improvement, adaptation and amendment of systems
and procedures that will be required during the first few months after the
commencement of operations.
A total of 6 person years of TA will be made available for this support.
3.9    Water-Borne Sanitation Services.  The transfer of responsibility for water-borne sanitation
services from local government to LWB and BWB and the three RWBs will require studies of assets
and liabilities, a brief business planning exercise, and a human resources management plan. Planning
for the transition, including these studies, will be undertaken by a small team of officers of the WBs
and of Local Government. TOR for the studies, satisfactory to IDA, will be developed by, and the
study team will report to, the PU. During the mid-term review, a satisfactory action plan will be
provided, based on the recommendations of the team, for transferring water-borne sanitation services to
the WBs.
Investnents
3.10   Urban and Rural. The investment components will be managed by the RWBs, the LWB and
the WD as line functions. This project finances part of the LWB's Third Lilongwe Water Supply
Project, the largest part being the purchase of pipes and other supplies and materials. The timing of the
manufacturing and delivery of these supplies should be linked with the timing of construction activities.
It is therefore a condition of disbursement of IDA credit funds to the LWB, that a loan from the
European Investment Bank or other donor for the parts of the Third Lilongwe Water Supply Project not
assisted under the NWDP, be declared effective (para 5.3).
3.11   Environmental and Water Resources Management.  This project includes a number of
investments in the management and enhancement of water resources and aquatic and riparian
environments. Two of these, the Protection of Catchment Areas and the Songwe River Training



- 28 -
Project (feasibility studies) are particularly relevant to the responsibilities of the WRB. In regard to the
former, both the WRMPS document and the National Environmental Action Plan (NEAP) refer to the
problems of degradation of water quality and soil erosion caused by the increasing use of steep slopes
and the banks of streams for agricultural purposes in catchment areas. NEAP contains a proposal to
shift agriculture from this land to other unused land, and to rehabilitate degraded land, particularly by
revegetation, using where applicable, productive tree species. The proposed NWDP thus includes
investment in rehabilitating and revegetating such degraded areas in catchments. GOM has agreed that
this will be undertaken without the compulsory resettlement of farmers, and that the processes and
practices will be planned, developed and implemented with the full involvement of the stakeholders,
including the farmers themselves. Any resettlement, or relocation of agricultural activity will be based
on plans and procedures satisfactory to the farmers affected, and to IDA. At negotiations, agreement
was reached on the procedures to be used to achieve effective stakeholder involvement and sustainable
land restoration, and resettlement principles including compensation (para 5.4). Both initiatives will be
undertaken under the broad direction of the WRB, reconstituted as specified in the WRMPS. Planning
and supervision of these investments will be undertaken by specialists of the WD, other participating
Departments and Ministries, and consultants.
3.12   Environmental Impact of other Physical Work. The program of rehabilitation and construction
of boreholes will increase the withdrawal of groundwater and the proposed hydrogeological studies will
assess the effects of this program  on water tables and groundwater quality.  The location and
scheduling of future borehole construction will take into account the results of the environmental
analyses. The WRMPS states that "like water projects, sanitation projects should be preceded by
adequate environmental impact assessments in order to avoid damaging the quality of water resources
and air". Accordingly, the selection, design and construction of sludge disposal sites and wastewater
treatment and disposal systems will be undertaken on this basis. An environmental report for the
proposed Zomba Dam (to expand water supply to Zomba and its environs) has been completed,
reviewed and accepted by the Bank. In order to meet the major environmental concern raised during
the review, the proposed dam site has been relocated to the site of the existing dam. This has resulted
in a much higher and bigger structure which is considerably more expensive than a dam at the initial
site on the Upper Mulunguzi. However, no resettlement would be required at this site and a valuable
wetland would be preserved. GOM is in the process of constituting a panel of experts in the fields of
hydrology, geotechnical investigations, dam engineering and environment to ensure that the proposed
dam continues to meet the Bank's guidelines on environmental impact and safety aspects of dams.
Criteria and procedures for assessing the environrnental aspects of prospective investments and for
mitigating possible adverse impacts were agreed at negotiations (para 5.4).
3.13   Monitoring. Reporting. and Review.  At negotiations agreement was reached on:
(i) criteria and procedures for annual reviews of progress with implementation, and of the proposed
rolling two-year investment program, and agreement that the annual reviews will take place no later
than October each year; and (ii) based on the schedule of performance targets and criteria for annual
investment reviews, procedures for undertaking the mid-term review which shall be not later than
October 31, 1997, and for resetting targets and investment  programs (para. 5.4).  Reporting
procedures will include reporting on, progress on, and results of, environmental impact assessments,
and on progress in implementing measures to mitigate adverse environmental effects.



- 29 -
B.       Systematic Client Consultation
3.14     The  objectives,  policy   framework,  strategies,  and   detailed   proposals  for  investmnent,
institutional, legislative and process reform, and training and human resources development, were
prepared by the then Ministry of Works, Supplies and Water Development, under the oversight of a
Project Steering Committee (PSC) representing all concerned Ministries and Authorities. The PSC was
consulted at each stage of development of the project proposals, and it and its members made
significant contributions. With the advent in October 1994 of a new MIWD, the PSC will be
maintained but under the chairmanship of the Principal Secretary, MIWD, to continue the role of on-
going inter-sectoral coordination, and of consultation between GOM and IDA and other participating
donors. The monitoring, reporting and review arrangements referred to in 3.13 above will include the
systematic performance monitoring to be undertaken by the Performance Monitoring Unit which will
be established as a part of the restructured WD. Information produced by this unit will be important to
the relevance and success of these consultations. The arrangements for stakeholder involvement, to be
implemented in fulfillment of the policies laid down in the WRMPS document, including the
community driven arrangements for the planning and delivery of rural water supplies, will constitute
systematic  client consultation  on  GOM's  part.   This  will result in  enhanced  dialogue  with  the
communities served, and will also contribute to useful dialogue between GOM and the donors.
Table  3.1 - Elements of the Technical Assistance Program
Description of Service                             Resources                     Duration       Origin       Person-
Months       Nat  Int       months
1. Program Management                           Program Leader                                  30                          30
Project Accountant                            project                     project
2. Water Resources Management
Advise Water Resources Board on Water           Water Resources Manager with experience in       12               *          12
Resources Management, Catchment Protection      the inter-action of communities and their
and Community Involvement.                      water resources.
3. The Water Boards
Business Planning;                              Advisor, business and financial planning.        12                *         12
Advisor, financial analysis                      4                          4
Advisor, assets.                                 3         *                3
Advisor, investments.                            2                *         2
Advisors, human resources planning.             1.5        *      *         3
Systems and Procedures:                         Manager, systems and procedures, and             12               *          9
financial and management accounting.
Advisors, general ledger, billing, payroll,     12         *      *         12
accounts payable.
Advisor, stock control                           3                *         3
|Operational Support:                           Finance Director                                 12               *          12
Advisors, Technical and Operations.             12         *      *         36
4. Rural Water Supply Program
Advise the Water Department on community-       Advisor, rural water supply, community           12               *          6
driven provision of water facilities.           involvement
Advise on management and operation of rural     Advisor, fuiancial management and                6                *          6
water supply systems.                           administration
l ___________________________________________   Advisor, operations  and  maintenance            12               *          12
5. Water Department-
Strengthening Central Services
Advise on establishing investment analysis,     Advisor, water sector performance and            6                e          3
performance assessment and monitoring           investment analysis
capabilities, and strengthening central services  Advisors, hydrology, scientific services       6                *          9
6. Sewerage Services-                           Advisors, sewerage systems management and        6                          12
Transfer and strengthening                   operations



- 30 -
C.    Technical Assistance
3.15   Role of Technical Assistance. TA will be required on institutional restructuring, commercial
financial management and accounting, operations and maintenance, and central services. The proposal
includes the provision of funding for up to thirteen person-years of TA, and for the Program Leader for
30 months, and the Project Accountant for the duration of the project as set out in Table 3.1 above.
The provision of TA is consistent with the TA strategy (para. 2.8).
3.16   The responsibilities of project staff in each implementing agency and of the TA staff providing
support for project implementation will be specified in a project implementation manual. GOM gave
assurances at negotiations that the project will be carried out in accordance with the implementation
manual and an outline of the manual was agreed (para. 5.4). Completion of a project implementation
manual satisfactory to IDA, is a condition of credit effectiveness (para. 5.2).
D.    Status of Preparation
3.17   A water sector services (WSS) study financed by IDA through a PPF (P-763-0-MAI) and
valuation of the assets of the DWSF financed under the on-going Infrastructure Project (Cr. 2069-MAI)
have been completed. The WSS study aimed at rationalizing institutional arrangements and sector
responsibilities and strengthening the regulatory and executive framework for efficient nationwide
management and use of water resources and prepared the ground for the WRMPS document which has
been endorsed by Cabinet and promulgated. The asset valuation study determined the gross and net
replacement value for all DWSF assets; also an inventory and status report of boreholes has been
prepared. These preparatory efforts have provided the basis for, and guided the selection of, the
priority elements of the proposed program. GOM has received a second PPF to (i) provide the PU
with TA support and equipment required for institutional development and capacity building, which are
so critical to implementation and (ii) engage consultants to finalize further preparatory work on the
investments component of the proposed project. Detailed design of the Zomba water supply system
including the dam is in progress as is the work on augmentation of the treatment facilities and
upgrading of the transmission and reticulation system in Lilongwe.
E.    Procurement
3.18   Procurement Experience of Implementing Agencies. The WD and the LWB have executed
IDA-assisted projects and have some familiarity and understanding of the Bank's procurement
guidelines and procedures. Procurement experience within the RWBs would, most likely, be very
limited. It was agreed during project preparation that this deficiency would be addressed through a
program of intensive training to be initiated as soon as the RWBs are operational and that the
procurement capabilities within LWB and the WD would, as much as possible, be made available to the
PU and the Program Leader especially during the early implementation period to ensure effective
planning, management and execution of the project. Experience with Procurement involving the WD
and LWB has in general been satisfactory.



- 31 -
3.19    A  summary of procurement arrangements is provided in Table 3.2
Table 3.2 Project Procurement Arrangements (US$ '000)
Procurement Method - USS Millions
International    National
Competitive   Competitive    National     Consulting
Bidding       Bidding      Shopping      Services   N.B.F.   Total
A. Civil Works
1. Extenstion of Existing Schemes
Zomba Water Supply                                       10.2            -              -           -        -      10.2
(9.6)                                                     (9.6)
Zomba Dam                                                14.5            -              -           -        -      14.5
(13.1)                                                    (13.1)
Urban Water                                              11.9          3.0              -           -        -      14.9
(11.2)        (2.8)                                       (14.0)
City Water                                                2.3            -              -           -        -       2.3
(2.1)                                                     (2.1)
2. Rehabilitation of Existing Systems
Urban Water                                                 -          1.2              -           -        -       1.2
(1. 1)                                       (1. 1)
Rural Gravity-Piped Water                                 1.9          0.5              -           -        -       2.3
(1.8)       (0.4)                                         (2.2)
Borehole                                                  4.7            -                                           4.7
(4.2)                                                     (4.2)
Protection of Catchment Areas                             1.7          0.5              -           -        -       2.3
(1.3)       (0.4)                                         (1.7)
3. New Schemes
Urban Water                                                 -          1.5                                           1.5
(1.4)                                        (1.4)
Sewage                                                    2.6            -              -           -        -       2.6
(2.4)                                                     (2.4)
Boreholes                                                 5.8            -              -           -        -       5.8
(5.4)                                                     (5.4)
Sludge Disposal                                             -          0.3                                           0.3
(0.2)                                        (0.2)
Gravity Fed Rural                                         3.1          0.8              -           -        -       3.9
(2.9)       (0.7)                                         (3.6)
B. Goods and Equipment
1. Lab. and Office Equipment                                  -          0.4               -          -      1.3       1.7
(0.4)                                        (0.4)
2. Vehicles & Motorcycles                                   0.3            -               -          -        -       0.3
(0.3)                                                     (0.3)
3. Pipes and Trmt. Plant Equipment                          7.1            -              -           -        -       7.1
(5.7)                                                     (5.7)
4. Measuring Equipment                                         -           -            0.2           -      1.7       1.9
(0.2)                         (0.2)
C. Technical Assistance                                          -           -               -        12.8     2.3      15.0
(9.9)             (9. 9)
D. PPF Refunding                                                 -            -              -         1.5       -       1.5
(1.5)             (1.5)
Total                                                         66.2          8.1            0.2        14.3      5.3      94.1
(60.0)       (7.6)           (0.2)     (11.4)        -    (79.2)
3.20    During  negotiations assurances were  obtained  that procurement under the  project will be
carried out in accordance with the arrangements summarized in Table 3.2 above.  It was agreed during
project preparation, that the Bank's standard bidding documents would be used for all procurement for



- 32 -
civil works and goods whether subject to international competitive bidding (ICB) or nationally
advertised competitive bidding (NCB). NCB procedures for civil works were reviewed during project
preparation and found acceptable to IDA. Items (works, goods, consultancies) financed by other
cofinanciers will be procured in accordance with their procurement procedures and processes.
Civil Works
3.21   Extension of existing urban water supply systems, including large individual or smaller DWSF
schemes that can be packaged together (US$38.9 million), and construction of new sewerage systems
(US$2.6 million), and new (US$3.1 million) and rehabilitated (US$1.9 million) gravity fed rural
schemes, would be executed under competitive bidding advertised internationally (ICB). Contracts for
borehole rehabilitation (US$4.7 million), and new boreholes (US$5.8 million), would to the extent
practicable be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost US$500,000 equivalent or more each, and
executed under unit price contracts awarded through ICB. Contracts costing up to US$500,000 each
for extension, rehabilitation of existing and construction of new urban water systems (US$5.7 million),
representing a number of small contract packages with an average value below US$0.15 million that
cannot be packaged together, including boreholes in isolated groups, may be awarded through national
competitive bidding (NCB), as would contracts for the protection of catchments (US$0.5 million),
septage and sludge disposal sites (US$0.3 million), and gravity-fed rural schemes (US$1.3 million).
Goods and Equipment
3.22   Goods and equipment, including pipes, fittings and ancillary items, and electrical and
mechanical plant, US$7.4 million, would be procured through ICB. Vehicles, laboratory equipment,
computers, spare parts and tools for maintenance would be bulked up to over US$100,000 equivalent
and procured by ICB. Laboratory and office buildings construction and refurbishment and equipment
costing US$100,000 equivalent or less per contract (US$0.4 million) would be procured under NCB.
Items costing the equivalent of US$30,000 or less (US$0.2 million) would be procured through national
shopping by seeking at least three quotations from eligible suppliers.
Consultants
3.23   Technical assistance and training encompassing institutional development and capacity building
and consultancies for studies, project preparation and implementation support (US$16.4 million), would
be carried out by consulting firms or individual consultants and/or experts, employed under terms and
conditions satisfactory to IDA. For consultancies financed by IDA, the selection will be in accordance
with the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as
Executing Agency", August 1981.
Prior IDA Review
3.24   Threshold and prior review procedures for IDA financed contracts would be as follows:
(a)    Contracts for works estimated to cost the equivalent of US$200,000 or more, and
contracts for goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, representing
most IDA-financed goods and civil works would be subject to IDA's prior review in
accordance with paras. 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 of the Bank's Procurement Guidelines.
Selective post review of awarded contracts below the threshold levels would be carried
out during IDA supervision missions.



- 33 -
(b)     Contracts for consulting services exceeding US$100,000 equivalent for consulting firms
and US$50,000 equivalent for individuals would be subject to IDA's prior review, as
would (i) contracts awarded on sole source basis; (ii) all TOR regardless of the value
of the contract; (iii) assignments of a critical nature; and (iv) amendments to contracts
with consulting firms or individuals resulting in a total contract value equal to or
greater than US$100,000 or US$50,000, respectively.
Procurement information will be collected and recorded in quarterly progress reports.
F.      Disbursement
3.25   The proceeds of the proposed credit would be disbursed in accordance with the allocation by
category shown in Table 3.3 over a period of about 7 years although implementation is expected to be
completed in five years. The longer disbursement period is in line with Bank experience with
comparable projects previously implemented in the sector in Africa and takes into account the PPF
advance which will be disbursed at effectiveness.
3.26   All applications to withdraw proceeds from the credit will be fully documented, except for (a)
expenditures of contracts with a value of US$200,000 or less for civil works, and (b) US$100,000 or
less for goods, consulting firms, training and field allowances, and (c) for contracts with a value of
US$50,00 or less for individual consultants which reimbursement may be made against certified
statements of expenditure (SOE). Supporting documentation for these expenditures would be retained
by the implementing agencies and made available for review as requested by IDA supervision missions
and annual audits.
Table 3.3 - Disbursement Allocations
CATEGORY                     CREDIT AMOUNT          % EXPENDITURE TO BE FINANCED
1. Civil Works
a) Extension                                    35.4                   100% foreign +80% local
b) Rehabilitation                                8.4                  100% foreign + 80% local
c) New Schemes                                  11.9                  100% foreign + 80% local
2. Goods and Equipment                             6.1                   100% foreign +80% local
3. Technical Assistance                            9.3                  100% foreign + 80% local
4. Operating Expernditures                         1.0                  60% through Dec. 31, 1996
30% in calendar year 1997
l_____________________        10%   in calendar year 1998
| 5. PPF Refinancing                               1.5                        As disbursed
6. Unallocated                                     5.6                        As disbursed
TOTAL                                             79.2
3.27   To expedite disbursements, five special accounts, one for each of the WBs and  for the WD
with a deposit initially of US$0.25 million, rising later to US$0.5 million (an amount roughly
equivalent to four month's estimated expenditures in terms of US dollars ) will be established and
maintained by each agency in a commercial bank acceptable to IDA. The special account will be
replenished by IDA in accordance with agreed procedures. A detailed disbursement schedule is
provided in Annex 3.2.



- 34 -
G.    Accounting and Auditing
3.28   The three RWBs, LWB and the WD would each prepare annual financial statements and report
monthly on progress on receipts, financial commitments and expenditure on each investment
component to the Accountant of the PU in accordance with uniform guidelines agreed between the
Boards and the Accountant. While it is not required for the audit of the IDA credit, the annual
financial statements will be audited and the audit reports, together with the auditors' opinions on project
accounts, special accounts and statement of expenditures (SOEs) will be submitted to the PU. They
will be submitted to IDA as part of the periodic progress reporting undertaken by the PU. SOEs will
be reviewed periodically and during supervision missions.
3.29   A consolidated project account will be prepared by the PU for the overall project and separate
project accounts by each of the executing agencies, the three RWBs, LWB and the WD, for their
respective project components. In previous Bank Group projects involving GOM Ministries, accounts
have been audited by the Auditor General. Accounts for parastatals like BWB and LWB, on the other
hand, have been audited by private sector external auditors.  These arrangements have proven
satisfactory to IDA. The project accounts will be audited by the Auditor General or by private sector
external auditors satisfactory to IDA. Under the on-going Infrastructure project, a measure of success
has been achieved with compliance with the accounting and auditing covenants for the DWSF.
3.30   The project accounts would identify all sources and uses of funds utilized to carry out project
activities, including a detailed account of the use of the proceeds of the IDA credit. Agreement was
reached during negotiations that reports of the procedures for preparation and audit of annual financial
statements including project accounts, special accounts and SOEs would be submitted to IDA within
six months of the close of the fiscal year (para. 5.4). For the on- going Infrastructure Project, the
required audit reports have been submitted in a generally satisfactory fashion with only a few delays.
H.    Bank Supervision and Reporting Requirements
3.31   The project will require close supervision particularly in the first two years of implementation.
A schedule of supervision missions and indication of expertise required for each mission is provided in
Annex 3.3. An estimated 10 staff weeks per annum would be required for field missions in FY96/97
and FY97/98 including 7.5 staff weeks for the mid-term review planned for October 1997. In addition
to field supervision, about 4 staff weeks per annum would be required for review of procurement
documents during the early implementation years. A further 3 staff weeks would be required per
annum over the course of project execution for review of progress reports and financial reports and for
IDA support for project implementation.
3.32   Reports detailing the progress of project implementation will be submitted to IDA quarterly,
and the reporting formats were agreed during negotiations (Para 5.4).  Assurances given during
negotiations that reporting, auditing and monitoring would be carried out using procedures acceptable
to IDA and that the reports, quarterly as well as those due within six months of the end of the fiscal
year, are prepared in a timely manner to ensure their receipt within the agreed time period.
3.33   GOM would complete and submit a project implementation completion report, in a form
satisfactory to IDA, not later than six months after the closing date.



- 35 -
CHAPTER 4. JUSTIFICATION, BENEFITS AND RISKS
A.    Project Benefits and Justification
4.1    The justification for this credit derives from the economic, social and environmental benefits
which will accrue to the economy, the people of Malawi, and the natural resource base of the country.
These benefits include: (i) the provision of infrastructure that will underpin private sector development
and economic diversification, accompanied by measures aimed at achieving sustainability, efficiency,
and responsiveness to demand; (ii) increasing the proportion of people with convenient access to safe
water for domestic use, in a manner that supports community choice, promotes a sense of ownership
and conserves scarce fiscal resources, thus conferring benefits by improving the lot of women and the
health status of the community, and alleviating one of the factors contributing to the pervasiveness of
poverty; and (iii) protecting and enhancing the quality of water resources and associated aquatic and
terrestrial environments.
B.    Environmental Impact
4.2    The proposed environmental classification for the project is B. The environmental effects of
the project are expected to be positive and beneficial.  Substantially improved water resource
management to arrest the degradation in water quality and of aquatic environments is an important
aspect of the project. It is expected also that combining responsibility for water supply and water-borne
sewerage within the water boards will contribute to more effective prevention of pollution of water
sources.
C.    Riparian Rights
4.3    The proposed Zomba dam is to be constructed on the Mulunguzi River which empties into
Lake Chilwa bordered by Malawi and Mozambique. The dam was originally included in the
Infrastructure Project (Cr. 2069-MAI) and, the Government of Mozambique, after having been duly
notified by Malawi, gave its no objection to the project. The withdrawal of financial support by a
number of external support agencies for Malawi in the early 1990s caused the dam not to be
constructed. The dam is now included in the proposed NWDP and GOM has again notified
Mozambique of its intent to dam the Mulunguzi River. Besides the Zomba dam, some of the other
water supplies proposed in the NWDP would abstract raw water from international waterways that
Malawi shares with Mozambique and Tanzania. GOM has accordingly notified these riparians of the
project providing relevant hydrological and water quality data to assure them that their interests would
not be adverse and requesting a positive response on the subject.  Compliance with the Bank's
guidelines on riparian rights was a condition of Board presentation (para. 5.1).
D.    Poverty Impact
4.4   It is expected that the project will have a substantial impact on alleviating poverty in both urban
and rural areas. The sector has not been able to increase coverage as rapidly as would be desirable
because of financial and human resource capacity constraints resulting from inappropriate pricing and
cost-sharing policies, the poor management and incentive structures implicit in the present institutional
arrangements, and the inadequate orientation of investments to effective demand. The proposed cost-
sharing policies in the rural program will permit the limited financial resources in the sector to benefit
the poorest in the communities, as well as those who, although poor by almost any measure, can at



- 36 -
least afford a small contribution towards the maintenance of the water supply facility of their
community. The poor in urban and perturbing communities will benefit from the much increased
incentives and capabilities that the commercially-oriented RWBs will have to provide services of cost
and technology well matched to the needs and expressed willingness-to-pay of each urban or perturbing
neighborhood. It is expected that about 1.5 million of those inadequately served currently, most of
them poor, will get access to improved services as a result of the project.
E.    Financial Analysis
4.5    Current Financial Performance. The current financial performance of LWB and BWB and the
DWSF is summarized in the table below.
Table 4.1 Summary of Operating Performance
1990/1     1991/2      1992/3      1993/4
Lilongwe
Water sold            millions m3        9.9        10.7        11.5        13.8
Average tariff           MK/m3          0.90        1.09        1.31        1.46
Return on net assets          %        0.9%        1.9%        0.7%        3.6%
Blantyre
Water sold            millions m3       14.8        15.7        16.7        17.0
Average tariff           MK/m3          1.14        1.37        1.61        1.94
Return on net assets          %       -0.1 %      10.9%       -8.5%       -7.9%
DWSF (restated)
Water sold            millions m3                                            9.1
Average tariff           MK/m3                                              1.49
Return on net assets          %                                           -4.5%
In 1993/4 LWB was profitable whereas BWB made a net loss of some 8%. LWB's performance has
improved over the past ten years partly as a result of the impact of the recently completed Second
Lilongwe Water Supply Project (Cr. 1742-MAI). The improvements in financial performance which
have been achieved by LWB and until 1991/2 by BWB, are due to efficiency measures such as
contracting out some services and reducing staffing levels. BWB's average tariff is higher than LWB's,
reflecting the high costs of pumping from the Shire River. Thus the key reason why BWB makes
losses is the high depreciation charges based on the most recent revaluation of assets. LWB has also
revalued its assets but it has a smaller overall asset base. The performance of DWSF shown above has
been recalculated based on the asset revaluation recently completed. DWSF has not yet taken the
decision to incorporate this revaluation into its accounts. Thus, at present, the depreciation charge in
its income statement is understated and the accounts present an artificially favorable position.



- 37 -
4.6    Financial management.   There are currently 61 accounts staff within DWSF whose
responsibility is restricted to transaction processing and bookkeeping.  There are no qualified
accountants amongst these staff. Management information is limited to ad hoc reporting. The existing
financial management skills within DWSF are not adequate for the operation of a fully commercial
entity. The major skill gaps are in the areas of management accounting, project management and
financial and economic analysis. Development of these skills will require a systematic process of
training and recruitment based on a detailed human resources plan and a training needs analysis.
Improvement in the capacity for financial management must be supported by the development of new
systems and procedures.  The current financial systems within DWSF are not adequate for the
provision of financial information. The systems to be established for the new RWBs will need to be
capable of both financial and management accounting in an integrated scheme to ensure the stewardship
of their assets, monitor and record the transactions, and provide management with sufficient
information with which to manage the business. In spite of these deficiencies, there are several positive
factors which give good reason for confidence that the RWBs can be successful in financial terms.
These include: (i) the existence of data gathering capability, (ii) the on-going systematic and reliable
collection of revenue from a high proportion of customers at tariff levels within range of the levels
which apply in Lilongwe and Blantyre, (iii) the presence nearby of proven skills in LWB and BWB in
developing successful water supply services to communities with similar socioeconomic characteristics,
and (iv) a real rate of return on assets that, while far from satisfactory taking account of under-valued
assets, indicates a business that can be brought under control. The human resources planning, training
needs analysis, recruitment and training, and the development, installation and testing of new systems
and procedures, would be carried out under the guidance of the incoming chairmen and chief
executives of the RWBs under the National Urban Water Supply Program activity categories entitled
"Business Planning", "Leadership and Staffing", and "Support as the Boards Come into Operation", as
described in Chapter 3 above.
Future Financial Performance
4.7    Lilongwe and Blantyre Water Boards. The corporate plans for both LWB and BWB show an
increasing profit trend over the next five years. The major extension of the water supply facilities of
the LWB, part funded under this project, will have a significant effect on the finances of LWB, as
shown in Table 4.2 below. The only other impact of this project on LWB and BWB will be the
proposed transfer to them of responsibility for sewerage services. The tariff for sewerage services will
be set at a level which is designed to recover the operating costs and no major investment in new
sewerage assets is anticipated in these cities under this project. The impact of the transfer of sewerage
services on the financial performance of the LWB and BWB will be therefore negligible. During the
next five years, both boards may carry out asset revaluation studies which may alter the high
depreciation charges currently being borne by Blantyre.
4.8    Regional Boarqds. Key indicators for the future performance of the three new RWBs and LWB
are given in Annex 4.1 and summarized in the Table 4.2 below. The most important parameters used
in preparing the financial scenarios are as follows: (i) the agreed performance targets of revenue as a
percentage of full costs, defined as the cost of operations plus depreciation plus debt servicing, shall be,
at the end of year 2, 60%; year 3, 80%; year 4, 100%; and (ii) the assumption that by the end of year
2, operating costs will be reduced by 10% below present operating costs through efficiency
improvements. Initial tariffs are based on existing levels or increases already approved. In the initial
years after establishment, the RWBs will not generate a net profit. However, all three RWBs would
generate an operating profit (before depreciation, interest and tax) by 1997/8 (the third year of



- 38 -
operation). By the year 1999/2000 (the fifth year of operation) all three RWBs will produce a net
profit. The institution of improved financial management as discussed above is critical to each RWB's
ability to manage its own financial performance.
Table 4.2 - Summary of Expected Future Performancel
1995/6        1997/8        1999/0        2001/2
Lilongwe
Water sold 2                millions m3         13.8          14.8          16.3          18.6
Average tariff2                MK/m3           2.80          4.59          4.66          4.63
Return on net assets               %           -34%          -10%           2%            8%
Blantyre
Water sold 2                millions m3         17.3         20.4           23.4          25.7
Average tariff 2               MK/m3           4.36          4.72          4.66           4.60
Return on net assets               %            -4%           4%            7%            7%
North
Water sold                  millions m3         3.6           4.4           5.1            5.5
Average tariff                 MK/m3           3.55          4.21           4.13          4.05
Return on net assets               %            -2%           2%            2%            2%
Central
Water sold                  millions m3         2.7           3.8           4.9            5.2
Average tariff                 MK/m3           3.55          4.21           4.41          4.50
Return on net assets                             -8            -2             2           2%
South
Water sold 2                millions m3         5.5           6.6           7.4            8.2
Average tariff2                MK/m3           3.62          4.36          5.48           5.42
Return on net assets               %            -7%           -6%            1 %          2%
'.     Further details of expected financial performance are given in Annex 4. 1.
2       Excludes sewage.
4.9     Financing.  As far as possible, the new  RWBs will be obliged to operate in a commercial
environment. To this end, they should bear the full financing costs of the investments in their region
at commercial rates of interest. However, in many of the schemes, the existing facilities are not
operationally viable due to a backlog of maintenance work. In addition, some schemes do not currently
cover populations of adequate size to be commercially viable but require extension. The envisaged
investments in rehabilitation and extension of the DWSF schemes would remedy the more serious of
these deficiencies over the investment period. It is also necessary that the RWBs achieve a reasonable
debt/ equity ratio if they are to operate on a fully commercial basis with the potential, ultimately, to be
privatized. Thus the finance required for the investment program, 90% of which will be provided to
GOM by IDA and other donors, will be on-lent to the RWBs using a combination of commercial debt
and grant funding. The grant funding would become part of the RWB's equity and would not be



- 39 -
repayable. In the financial forecasts for the RWBs the balance of grant to loan financing has been set
such that the debt to equity ratio is not worse than 60:40. The loan funding would be at commercial
terms, in line with market interest rates, and both interest and principal would be paid to GOM in
accordance with the agreement reached. The interest rate will be set at 2% above the prevailing rate of
inflation, using the National Composite Retail Price Index published by GOM as the inflation indicator.
The repayment period is proposed to be 25 years, which is somewhat less than the expected average
life of the assets created, thus minimizing intergenerational inequity. There will be an initial repayment
holiday of five years. The repayments adequately cover GOM's commitments for repayment of that
portion of the IDA credit used for these purposes. These on-lending arrangements would not apply
either to the share of the DWSF assets provided to each RWB on vesting day, or to the sums made
available interest free, to each RWB to provide sufficient funds for operating expenses for its first
three years of operation. The amounts of the DWSF share and requirements for additional funds for
operating expenses will be calculated in the business planning process and specified in the charter for
each RWB. The additional funds to be made available by IDA to the RWBs for operating expenses in
the first three years of operations are estimated to be: NWB, US$200,000; CWB, US$300,000; and
SWB, US$500,000. The value of the DWSF assets transferred to each RWB will be considered as the
GOM's initial equity contribution.
4.10   The Effects of Investments on Tariffs. Table 4.2, Summary of Expected Future Performance,
shows Rate of Return on Net Assets as an indicator of the increasing financial viability of each Board.
The information in the table is based on the constant cost financial models for each organization shown
in Annex 4.1. The average tariff figures show a rising trend due to two factors. First, tariffs are
currently too low and need to rise some 10% to achieve full cost recovery. Second, although some of
the proposed investment is desirable in order to increase the customer base of each RWB, the total
effect of the investment programs on depreciation and debt service cost will be a further increase in
tariffs of some 10% to 40%. The small reductions in average tariff which occur towards the end of the
project are due to the increasing proportion of supplies to kiosk and handpump users in low-income
peri-urban areas. Users of these services are charged at low rates. The single investment with greatest
impact on a RWB is the Southern RWB's Zomba Dam and Treatment Works. This sub-project has
increased in costs as expressed in Malawi Kwacha, due to moving the dam site downstream to a more
expensive site to prevent adverse environmental impacts, and to the devaluation of the currency.
Earlier studies showed the project to be economically and financially justified but this now needs
review. Prior to the mid-term review, the economic and financial justification of the sub-project will
be revisited and it will be re-optimized if necessary, by reviewing its scale and the treatment options.
In accordance with the policies of the GOM stated in the WRMPS, the project will only be proceeded
with if economically and financially justified.
Financing Plan
4.11   Fiscal impact. The GOM  is committed to providing 10% of the funding required for the
proposed investment program as counterpart funds. This commitment is likely to amount to some
US$9.6 million equivalent over the term of the project. The objective of the project is to establish the
RWBs in such a way that they do not require GOM subventions to meet operating costs. In addition,
the RWBs will be expected to make interest payments to GOM and repay the loans thus providing
funds with which GOM can meet its obligations to the lending agencies.



- 40 -
F.    Economic Analysis
4.12   A primary institutional aim of this project is to restructure both urban and rural programs to
give primary responsibility for assets and investment selection to the Water Boards in urban areas and
the selection of service technologies and levels to locally proposed projects in rural areas.
Consequently, only an indicative economic analysis of investment components is feasible at this time.
The specific investments in the urban and town schemes must be selected by the yet-to-be established
RWBs as part of their business plans if the desired level of managerial autonomy and demand-
orientation is to be achieved. Similarly, the investments in the rural program will be determined by the
users' proposals approved by GOM, rather than predetermined by GOM.
4.13   There is strong evidence of considerable excess demand in Malawi for increased coverage of
the population and improved services for those currently served. It is expected that this will continue
to be the case even at tariffs required to meet financial objectives of the RWBs in urban and town
schemes. Moreover, there is sufficient excess demand to permit negotiated cost-sharing in rural areas
to cover O&M costs in all cases and to also cover capital cost in excess of minimum service level costs
in cases where higher service levels are proposed by specific rural areas. To the extent that this is true,
there is prima facie evidence that economic benefits exceed costs and are economically justified.
4.14   These judgments are supported by consultant reports and internal GOM economic analyses on
the candidate investment packages for the rehabilitation of existing DWSF schemes and typical rural
gravity-fed system. For the candidate urban investments, primarily rehabilitation, the user benefits
estimated are of two types: (1) arresting the deterioration of service levels and coverage due to system
malfunctions and (2) additional service coverage attributable to improvements in production and
distribution capacity. The incremental service provided is valued at the prices expected as shown in
Table 4.2. The average IRR for these schemes is estimated to be about 25%. The relative rates of
return, calculated by the consultants and staff of GOM for the three new RWB service areas are: North
27%; Central 42%; and South 26%. In rural areas the primary benefits are increased coverage of the
population which will provide for additional consumption; more convenient access (resulting in time
savings); and safer water (resulting in health improvement). The average IRR for these rural schemes
is estimated at about 16%. Moreover, both the financial and economic impacts of investments actually
chosen by the RWBs and the rural villages will be estimated prior to investment and reviewed annually
during the implementation of the project. The rates of return estimated by the WD were on average
16% for candidate Rural Gravity-fed Schemes.
G.    Risks
4.15   The proposals for institutional restructuring and the changes in legislation, processes and
practice, when implemented, are intended to provide an environment in which each organizational unit
and their managers and employees are surrounded by a consistent set of incentives to achieve their
performance targets. The GOM is expected to set demanding targets requiring the five WBs and the
WD to achieve increased coverage, levels of operations and maintenance that result in long lived assets,
and improved levels of water quality in water resources and supplies. The five WBs are likely to be
required to cover full costs with income while keeping tariffs to acceptable levels in real terms.
Achievement of such targets is clearly important to Malawi's social, political and economic progress.
Yet some of the changes require new attitudes and processes that will be at odds with present
organizational cultures and long standing practice. Whether the proposed new ways of doing things
that will be the greatest departure from present norms will be accepted and frlly or pervasively



- 41 -
implemented, is the major challenge and risk of this program. The issues that are likely to present the
greatest tests of will and persistence are the following.
(i)    In the past, water resources management has been administered by enforcement, as is
common throughout the world. However, this approach is quite unsuited to water
resources problems where the cause is the inappropriate use of land by significant
numbers of people, and the best solution is one in which the users of land understand the
causes of the water and land degradation, and have incentives to find and adopt
sustainable solutions.   This certainly applies to Malawi's problems of resource
degradation due to the cultivation of unsuitable land in key catchment areas. Many of the
subsistence farmers who are now in this situation have been forced into their present
farming methods and locations by the pressure of population and the scarcity of land for
traditional farming. Widespread and lasting support for a solution can only be secured
from these farmers if they themselves have close involvement in the development and
implementation of the solution. This in turn requires, first, involvement of all the sectors
within GOM who can assist, and second, a commitment on the part of all concerned
public sector participants to the practice of stakeholder involvement. Neither of these
have been the practice in the past, and even with training programs and projects with
which to put the concept into practice, experience suggests that it is likely to take some
years for stakeholder involvement to become the normal, habitual way in which new
initiatives are planned and implemented.
(ii)    The financial viability and the physical assets of the LWB and BWB have in the past been
put at risk by inappropriate decisions by the person holding the office of Minister of their
parent ministry, and by the MSC. Both are empowered and required by the legislation
which established these agencies to give approval to, or vary, the recommendations of the
boards on matters of detail such as extensions of mains and appointments of senior staff,
and matters of importance such as the change in tariff required to increase income in
response to price inflation. Neither have had the contextual understanding to make such
decisions, nor could this have been expected of them. These provisions of the legislation
are inappropriate. It is proposed instead to use new legislation, which will apply to all
five WBs, to seek to focus the Minister, the WBs and the MSC on roles more consistent
with the GOM's intentions to ensure the achievement of its objectives. The proposed
legislation will confer upon the Minister the powers and obligations not to abrogate the
roles of the WBs, but to set performance targets (after consulting with the WB), to
monitor progress towards their achievement (with the assistance of the MSC), and to give
strategic and policy directions regarding their achievement. It now remains to be seen
whether Parliament will indeed be willing to endorse such a change. This step has not
frequently been achieved in southern Africa as governments and Parliaments have
sometimes been unwilling to devolve powers.
(iii)   The WD, when implementing the proposed new community-driven approach to the
provision of rural water supplies, will need to institute a number of steps that will involve
its employees, and the communities with which they deal, in unfamiliar activities
requiring new attitudes and approaches. The steps in implementing small water supply
facilities for rural communities will include:



- 42 -
(a)    developing a set of rules and procedures, with the aid of a Consultative Council
consisting of some representatives of conmnunities that will potentially be
recipients of these services;
(b)    mobilizing conununities to identify their priorities and make choices;
(c)    pioviding technical and costing advice to communities, and coordinating this with
assistance and advice from other agencies like education and health;
(d)    calling and awarding bulked-up contracts to well construction contractors to give
communities access to relatively inexpensive implementation options;
(e)    ensuring that contracts for construction and for the training of members of the
communities in maintenance, are successfully completed; and
(f)    making payment to contractors promptly.
This change from the present approach to one of closer consultation with the communities will be a
challenge not only for the WD but also for many of the rural comnmunities of Malawi. The social and
political hierarchy in Malawi was characterized by an authoritarian structure down to and including village
level and more democratic structures and processes will take time to permeate society.  Gaining
acceptance of stakeholder involvement as the normal mode of implementing small-scale rural water
supplies will require consistent effort and support both by the WD and GOM itself, and in some areas will
be a controversial and laborious process.
4.16   The investment components, with the exception of the Zomba Dam, are well tested and
frequently used in Malawi and pose no significant technical or environmental risks. The Zomba Dam
has separately undergone an envir-onnmental assessment, that has been already accepted by the Bank,
and does not pose any major environmental or technical risks.



- 43 -
CHAPTER 5. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
A.    Conditions of Board Presentation
5.1    The following conditions of Board presentation have been met:
(a)    completion of the initial administrative actions to reconstitute the WRB (para 2.13);
(b)    completion of rules and guidelines satisfactory to IDA for the community-led processes of
provision of rural water supplies (para. 2.17);
(c)    provision, in a letter of Sector Policy satisfactory  to the Association, of fornal
confirmation of acceptance of the WRMPS by GOM (para 3.4);
(d)    compliance with the Bank's guidelines on riparian rights (para 4.3).
B.    Conditions of Effectiveness
5.2    The conditions of effectiveness are as follows:
(a)    completion of all necessary steps to enable the legal establishment of the RWBs,
providing powers and obligations for the five WBs consistent with WRMPS and
acceptable to IDA (para 3.8a);
(b)    appointment to the PU of an Adviser, Business and Financial Planning, with experience
and qualifications satisfactory to IDA, and recruitment of consultants to undertake
business planning studies for the five WBs (paras 3.1 and 3.8b);
(c)    selection and nomination of Chairmen and Chief Executives, with experience and
qualifications and according to TOR acceptable to IDA, for the three RWBs (para 3.8c);
and
(d)    completion of a project implementation manual satisfactory to IDA (para 3.16).
C.    Conditions for Disbursement
5.3    The conditions for disbursement are as follows:
(a)    on the water resources works to be undertaken by the WD: completion of the necessary
steps, satisfactory to IDA, for reform of the water resources management legislation, and
provision of a secretariat and technical and budgetary support for the WRB (para 2.13);
(b)    on all expenditures by each RWB: the establishment and bringing into operation of the
RWB, including:
(i)    execution of a financing agreement between GOM and each WB under terms and
conditions acceptable to IDA (para 2.37);
(ii)   completion and adoption of business plans, satisfactory to IDA, for each WB,
including physical and financial performance agreements, a share of DWSF
funds, additional initial working capital requirements (para 3.8b);
(iii)  the appointment of a Financial Controller with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to IDA (para 3.8c); and



- 44 -
(iv)   vesting of the physical assets and the transfer of the funds and staff necessary and
desirable for the effective operation of all aspects of the business of the RWB
within its area of operation, to the satisfaction of IDA (para 3.8d).
(c)    on the rural water supply works to be undertaken by the WD:
(i)    a study of the strengthening, restructuring and funding required for the central
services provided by the WD to fulfill the needs of the restructured water sector,
will be under way (para 3.6); and
(ii)   appointment to the PU of a Manager, Rural Water Supply Program, and a Project
Accountant, each with experience and qualifications acceptable to IDA (para
3.1).
(d)    on all expenditures by the LWB: the European Investment Bank or other donor declaring
effective a loan for the parts of the Third Lilongwe Water Supply Project not assisted
under the NWDP (para 3.10).
D.    Agreements Reached and Assurances Given during Negotiations
5.4    During negotiations, agreement was reached and assurances given on the following:
(a)    GOM will incorporate in the draft legislation to establish the three RWBs, provisions
regarding the powers and obligations for the five WBs that are consistent with the
WRMPS (3.8a);
(b)    The performance agreements to be entered into between GOM and the RWBs to include
performance targets, relating to agreed perfornance indicators, aimed at ensuring
sustainability of water infrastructure services including new pricing and cost recovery
policies (para 3.8(b));
(c)    Land restoration in catchment areas will be carried out in accordance with agreed
procedures to achieve effective stakeholder involvement and sustainability and agreed
resettlement and compensation principles (para 3. 11);
(d)    Qualifications, experience and TOR for the Program Leader, the proposed organization
and composition of the PU, and TOR for the three positions reporting to the Program
Leader (para 3.1);
(e)    TOR for all TA (para 2.8);
(f)    TOR for a study of the scope, level and timing of the strengthening and restructuring
required for the central services provided by the WD to fulfill the needs of the
restructured water sector, and to determine sources of funding (para. 3.6);
(g)    procedures under which the WD will assist rural communities to acquire water supplies of
the categories included in the Rural Water Supply Program, in a way that is community
driven and consistent with the rules for the entitlement and participation of rural
communities (para. 3.7);
(h)    TOR for the Business Planning studies, and for engagement of consultants to conduct
them (para. 3.8b).



- 45 -
(i)    criteria and procedures for assessing the environmental impacts of prospective
investments and for mitigating possible adverse impacts (para. 3.12);
(j)    criteria and procedures for annual reviews of progress with implementation, and of the
proposed rolling two-year investment program, and agreement that the armual reviews
will take place no later than October each year (para 3.13);
(k)    procedures for undertaking the mid-term review, which shall take place no later than
October 31, 1997, and for resetting targets and investment programs, based on the
schedule of performance targets and criteria for annual investment reviews (para. 3.13);
(1)    project implementation to be carried out in accordance with the implementation manual,
outline agreed (para. 3.16);
(m)   procedures for preparation and audit of annual financial statements including project
accounts, special accounts and SOEs and submission of such reports to IDA within six
months of the close of the fiscal year (para. 3.30); and
(n)    reports detailing the progress of implementation will be submitted to IDA quarterly in
accordance with the agreed reporting formats. GOM will carry out auditing, reporting
and monitoring using procedures acceptable to IDA, and reports will be prepared in a
timely manner to ensure their receipt within the agreed time period (para. 3.32).
E. Recommendation
5.5    On the basis of the above actions, conditions and agreements, the proposed Project would be
suitable for a credit to the Government of Malawi in the amount equivalent to US$79.2 million on
standard IDA terms with forty years maturity including ten years of grace.



-46-
Annex 1.1
Page I of 6
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Executive Summary of Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies
1.    The need for a Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies.  The water
resources of Malawi are relatively abundant. They are, however, coming under increasing
pressure. Land use is intensifying, causing increased demand and a range of actual and
potential threats to the quality and availability of water. At the same time, water supply and
water-borne sanitation services are proving difficult not only to extend to meet the needs of
communities in a number of areas, but also to sustain in good operating condition.
2.    The water sector is at a turning point. Unless new and pro-active approaches to water
resources management and the provision of water services are developed and adopted, the
water sector will increasingly be characterized by water services which fail to provide
effectively and efficiently for an increasing proportion of the population, and by water
resources that in a number of areas will be degraded in quality.
3.    A coherent set of policies guiding the management of water resources and the efficient
and responsive provision of water services, supported by strategies and proposals for change to
ensure their implementation can provide a route to a new and positive future for the water
sector in Malawi, and for all those who benefit from it.
Policy Framework
4.    A set of statements of policy are proposed, to guide the sustainable management of
water resources and the provision of services. They cover:
(a)   the management, and use of water for conservation and environmental
protection and for the benefit of the community:
(b)   stakeholder involvement;
(c)   the allocation of water;
(d)   the investment of public funds; and
(e)    pricing.
5.    They prescribe how decisions should be made on the management of water resources
and the planning and provision of services, to secure maximum benefit for all those who may
be affected, and to ensure that water resources are well managed and protected.



-47-
Annex 1.1
Page 2 of 6
Overview of the Water and Sanitation Sector
6.    It is only from an understanding of the status and condition of the water resources of
Malawi, and of water and water-borne sanitation services to its communities, that a true
assessment can be made of the problems that resources and services face and of the
opportunities for the solution.  The geographical distribution of surface and groundwater
resources, the current status of their development and use, and adverse effects on water quality
resulting from inappropriate land use, indicate that Malawi's water resources although
relatively abundant, are coming under pressure in some areas.
7.     Malawi infrastructure providing water supply and water-borne sanitation services is
characterized by rapidly growing demand and difficulty in ensuring the financial and physical
sustainability of existing schemes.
8.     The legal and regulatory structure for water resources management, the institutional
and organizational arrangements under which the water sector operate, the pricing and tariff
arrangements, the practice for most water supply systems of providing funding from central
government sources rather than from those benefiting directly from the service, are all
arrangements and practices which, though no doubt appropriate in days gone by, act today
often to discourage effectiveness, efficiency and responsiveness to the needs of the community.
9.     Degradation of water quality is resulting from increased suspended solids and turbidity,
caused by deforestation and inappropriate land use. Inadequate sanitation and waste disposal
arrangements in many settlements are resulting in increasing of contamination of water
resources, with potential risks to human health. Improper application of agricultural and
hazardous chemicals in industrial wastes, also present risks of contamination of receiving
waters. The legal and institutional arrangements for national environmental, management have
been recognized as needing to be upgraded to enable more effective management of
multi-sectoral environmental issues.
Strategies
10.    Ojectives. The status and condition of water resources and water services clearly
indicate the need for a set of strategies that provide new directions to the water sector, guiding
all investment and management initiatives. The challenges which the water sector face are a
result of many factors which make it difficult to exercise good husbandry of water resources
and to provide efficient, responsive water services. The challenges can be overcome by
developing and following a complementary set of strategies which ensure that all investment
and management decisions act in concert towards the development of a stronger, more efficient
and self-reliant sector.
11.   It will be helpful in formulating the strategies and consequent actions to have in mind a
set of objectives for the water sector which reflect values widely shared by the community and
accepted by the government. these can be briefly stated as follows:



-48-
Annex 1.1
Page 3 of 6
(a)    Community Services. To ensure that all citizens of Malawi have and will
continue to have convenient access to water in sufficient quantity and of
adequate quality for basic domestic needs, and to have available adequate
sanitation;
(b)    Economic Development. To provide water infrastructure and services that will
underpin the economic development of all sectors of the economy and to do so
in the most economically efficient manner; and
(c)    EnirQnmone. To preserve and enhance aquatic and riparian environment.
Institutional Development and Capacity Building
12.   The opportunity now exists to implement a number of institutional adjustments and a
determined program of capacity building over the next few years. The institutions of the sector
should be structured to create a consistent environment of incentives which encourages all the
organizations to achieve good performance, and ensures accountability to the government and
to the recipients of services. A strategy for capacity development is also required, leading the
organizations to carry out their tasks in accordance with their charters, to develop and maintain
the skills of their people and to deploy them to undertake those tasks efficiently and effectively.
13.   The strategy for institutional development and capacity building accordingly consists of
a set of initiatives which establishes an appropriate act of organizations, each growing in
capacity and contributing to an evolving self-sufficiency and confidence to achieve quality,
sustainable services. The initiatives proposed are the following:
(a)    The Water Resources Board to be strengthened as a high level body responsible
for the management of the water resources of the nation and constituting the
prime source of policy advice to the Government on water resource
management issues. The results are a desirable separation of policy resources
management from operations:
(i)    Decentralizing the water service activities of the Water Department,
and moving towards establishing them as commercially oriented
government-owned water boards, responsive to the needs of the
communities served.
(ii)    Developing a sustainable capacity by adopting and working towards
targets of self-sufficiency in the planning and execution of a significant
proportion of water projects.
(iii)    Strengthening the central services such as hydrology, hydrogeology,
scientific and laboratory services and planning and design. An
important strength to be established is the evaluation of investment
proposals and the assessment of sector performance.



-49-
Annex 1.1
Page 4 of 6
Strategy for Environmental Management
14.   The institutional arrangements for environmental management for the nation generally,
but particularly to coordinate and provide strategies direction for all sectors that affect the
water environment,. need to be strengthened. It is proposed that a national environmental
regulatory authority be established, to take charge of research in environmental affairs and be
provided with adequate legislative support. This will provide the capacity to assess the status of
the environment, propose and coordinate environmental management, environment impact
assessment process independent of the operational organizations within the various sectors of
the economy, which at times may be seen to have wasted interests in proposals or operations
which may adversely affect the environment.
The Value of Water
15.    The development of strategies for the efficient allocation of water, for investment to
create new assets to provide water services, and for pricing, all require a common approach to
the value of water. It should be recognized that water has not only a social value, but also an
economic value, both at the point of use, and at its source.
Sanitation
16.   Water-borne sanitation services require substantial upgrading and extension.  The
responsibility for water-borne sanitation should be integrated into the water sector. This will
provide consistent policy direction and enable the development of a strategy for upgrading and
further extending these services. Existing water-borne sanitation services which are provided
by local government should be taken over by the Water Boards for greater efficiency and
effectiveness.
Allocation of Investment
17.    A strategy for the allocation of investment is provided. This provides on approach to
ensuring that scarce financial resources available for investment, are deployed so as to achieve
maximum sustainable benefit for the community.
Stakeholder Involvement
18.    A strategy for stakeholder involvement in the development of all proposals for water
services and facilities will be aimed at better matching services with community needs and
willingness to pay.
Water Allocation
19.   A strategy for water allocation is one which seeks to maximize benefits through a
"market" approach to ensuring that water allocation assigned to uses that have economic benefit
as the primary objective, can be made available through market mechanisms for the most
beneficial uses. The strategy also ensures that allocations are determined and reserved for
purposes such as for environmental protection that is difficult to ensure through market forces.



-50-
Annex 1.1
Page 5 of 6
Pricing
20.   A pricing strategy will be to provide an incentive framework for ensuring financial
sustainability of sector institutions and of the capital base of the industry and a mechanism to
ensure efficiency in operations and the matching of service with willingness to pay.
Required Changes
21.   In conclusion a set of change required to implement the policies and strategies are
proposed as described below:
Institutional Arrangements
22.   Change are required in four areas regarding institutional arrangements of the water and
sanitation sectors.
(a)    The prime role of policy advice on water resources management should be
undertaken by a central policy making body, established by reconstructing and
upgrading the functions of the Water Resources Board. Membership of the
Water Resources Board will include stakeholder representation as well as the
highest level representation from other ministries in order to facilitate in the
spot decision making.
(b)    In order to increase efficiency and promote user satisfaction, decentralization of
implementation and operational functions of the Water Department will be put
in place as soon as is practical by forming three government owned regional
water boards.
(c)    The responsibility for water-borne sanitation will be integrated into the water
sector. Sanitation activities will be undertaken by the local water boards in
order to address current operational deficiencies .
(d)    It is proposed that a national environmental regulatory authority be established
to look into research on enviromnental affairs and be provided with adequate
legislative support, that all policies and activities affecting water supplies,
sanitation and aquatic life are coordinated and integrated.
Capacity Building
23.   Capacity building is an area requiring major emphasis in order to achieve the following
targets and objectives.



-5-
Annex 1.1
Page 6 of 6
(a)    To ensure sustainable development of water services undertakings in the area of
the planning and implementation of schemes and in operation and maintenance,
targets have been set such that by the year 1999-2000 greater than 50% of all
projects to implement new water and sanitation schemes or rehabilitate existing
systems should be, carried out by Malawian human resources, without the need
for foreign-sourced technical assistance.
(b)   In the area of human resources development every effort should be made to
ensure a continued upgrading of the skills and expertise of all staff in water and
sanitation agencies.
(c)    There is need to strengthen the existing capabilities in the Water Department in
order to provide a full set of key central services to the water industry.
Stakeholder Involvement
24.   The involvement of stakeholders will become the normal procedure in the development
of the sector. This will ensure maximum participation and a sense of ownership which will in
turn contribute to the efficiency, sustainability and success of projects, as local stakeholders
often have more detailed knowledge of the local areas which may not be available to the
agencies implementing or financing the projects.
Water Management
25.   In the area of water management there is need to develop an integrated approach that
will guide the allocation of water the allocation of investment and the pricing of water services.
These strategies aim at achieving maximum net benefit to Malawi from its water resources
while recognizing both the social and economic value of water. The overall result will be that,
except in unusual cases of need, users will be expected to pay the full cost of the services in
cash or in kind.
Conclusion
26.   It is important therefore that all those concerned with the financing and implementation
of water and sanitation projects be made aware of the policy framework and strategies
promulgated in this document and play a part in putting them into effect.
27.   Adherence to these strategies will result in very substantial improvements in the
coverage, efficiency, effectiveness and sustainability of water services throughout the nation
and in the conservation and management of its water resources for the benefit of the present
and future generations.



-52-                                 Annex 2.1
Page 1 of 8
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Detailed Project Description
A.    Institutional Reform and Studies
1.    This component comprises (i) the reconstitution of the WRB; (ii) the establishment of three
conumercially-oriented RWBs serving all urban areas other than Lilongwe and Blantyre; (iii)
restructuring of the WD and strengthening of some of its central services; (iv) transfer of water-borne
sanitation from MLG to the water boards; (v) rural water supply program; and (vi) water resources and
environmental studies.
Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building
2.    Water Resources Board. Reconstituting the WRB involves administrative directives specifying
new TOR, appointment of a high level multidisciplinary membership at Permanent Secretary and Head
of Agency level, with representation from the private sector, and appropriate skills support. The
adoption by GOM of the WRMPS, with its emphasis on stakeholder involvement as the methodology to
be used for water resources management where communities affect or are affected by water resources
problems, provides the WRB with both the opportunity and the obligation to ensure that this effective
and sustainable approach is implemented. Implementation of the WRMPS would remove the WD's
potential conflict of interest in both performing operational functions, and being required to advise
GOM on the regulation of its own activities. Measures within the WRMPS would be aimed at
establishing the WRB (i) as a more effective policy advisory entity to GOM; (ii) as a body more
representative of the key stakeholders concemed with the management of water resources and their
utilization; and (iii) as appropriately structured and supported to deal with water resource protection,
allocation, pricing and other key policy issues
3.    The project supports this component through the provision of (i) TA in institutional reform and
restructuring supporting the establishment of the new institutional arrangements, and the strengthening
of the central service roles of the WD, which will provide technical and scientific support services to
the WRB; (ii) support for the procurement and installation of a GIS system, a function of which will be
the support of water resources management and infrastructure planners; (iii) materials and equipment
supporting the strengthening of central services; and (iv) staff training and development in resource
management and central services.
4.    Regional Water Roards. Responsibility for all urban water services (other than those provided
by the LWB and the BWB) will be transferred from the WD to three newly created RWBs. They will
be. set up on a commercial basis to improve the demand focus of water supply programs, and to
strengthen the sustainability of water services through a shift to conunercial practices by the RWBs.
The RWBs will share the assets of the DWSF schemes, and their market areas will initially consist of
the medium sized cities, small towns and institutions currently being served by the DWSF schemes.
This component comprises: (a) legislation that: (i) establishes the RWBs; and (ii) assigns functions,
powers and obligations to the RWBs (providing at the same time an improved set of these for the LWB
and BWB); (b) identification and valuation of assets and liabilities, determination of financial structure,
and assessment of requirements for materials, plant and equipment; (c) preparation of business plans by



-53-                                  Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 8
each of the RWBs; (d) preparation of charters, to include performance agreements between GOM and
the RWBs; (e) preparation and implementation of organization and staffing plans that clarify internal
responsibilities and include: (i) downsizing and/or rationalization of staffing arrangements; and (ii)
detailed training programs; (f) design and implementation of improved financial management,
including: (i) satisfactory financial and accounting systems and procedures; (ii) tariff-setting and cost-
recovery practices; (g) adopting performance targets; and (h) preparation of indicative five and detailed
rolling two-year investment programs, including detailed design of annual plans.
5.     The project supports this component through (a) the provision of TA in institutional reform and
restructuring; (b) the funding of studies to determine business and human resource plans and other
requirements of the RWBs; (c) the funding of training and staff development programs in the
managerial, technical and financial skills of operation of commercially oriented water entities; (d) the
provision of the initial working capital requirements of each RWB; and (e) the provision of business
and technical information systems (including accounting, billing, customer inquiry and a common GIS
system for asset management and planning).
6.     Water Department Central Services. The operational responsibilities of the WD - primarily,
under the proposed institutional arrangements, the implementation of the Rural Water Supply Program
-- will be decentralized to regional offices of the department and down-sized. The remainder of the
WD will be restructured to provide a defined set of central support functions, most of which will be
strengthened also by this project. The principal functions of the WD's central services units will be to:
(i) perform the proposal review and negotiation process of local rural proposals and to monitor and
assess the performance of the program on an on-going basis; (ii) provide technical support to the WRB
and the three RWBs, including assessment of the quality and quantity of surface and groundwater
resources; (iii) monitor progress with the implementation of policy; (iv) assist GOM to set standards
and performance targets; (v) monitor compliance with standards and performance targets.
7.     The project supports this component through (a) TA in leading and organizing processes,
community-driven service provision, and in institutional reform and restructuring including support for
the downsizing and restructuring, and for the strengthening of some of the central services of the WD;
(b) staff training, development in the range of central services including field services in hydrology,
hydrogeology, and appropriate procedures and methods for sampling and testing water quality; and (c)
a share to be agreed of the finding of initial working capital requirements including materials, plant
and equipment including appropriate water testing equipment and systems.
8.     Lilongwe and Rlantyre Water Boards. LWB and BWB are to have their corporate relationships
with GOM changed from the present one in which the legislation provides very close and detailed
oversight by the Minister and the DSB, to relationships more appropriate to well-performed
commercial entities. Less detailed oversight needs to be balanced by arrangements for performance
target-setting, monitoring and reporting, enabling the Minister to exercise the strategic oversight
appropriate to his or her responsibility as principal shareholder. This component, therefore, consists of
support for (i) the development of the proposals for the legislation which will establish the RWBs and
put in place a consistent and performance based relationship between GOM and each of the five water
boards, drawing upon the experience to date of the LWB and the BWB; and (ii) for the establishment of
business planning and performance monitoring and reporting arrangements for all five-boards.
9.     The project supports this component through (a) TA in institutional reform and restructuring,
and in business planning, and (b) staff training and development in financial management and technical
aspects of water supply infrastructure services.



-54-                                    Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 8
10.    Water-Borne Sanitation Services. This component comprises (a) the administrative measures of
transferring responsibility for all aspects of water-borne sanitation services from MLG to MIWD; (b)
studies to prepare for the transfers including studies of assets and liabilities associated with existing
services, essential rehabilitation works, including measures to reduce to acceptable levels pollution
resulting from untreated discharges and overflows, the preparation of business plans, human resources
plans, and initial requirements for facilities, plant and equipment, and the scheduling of transfer events
and activities; (d) agreement on performance targets, monitoring and reporting; and (e) the transfer
events and activities themselves. The transfer will take place within two years of credit effectiveness.
I.    The project supports this component through (a) TA in institutional reform and restructuring,
accounting and associated business systems, and in appropriate technology for the treatment of sewage
and the disposal of treated effluent; (b) staff training and development in environmental, technical and
business aspects of wastewater services; and (c) a share to be agreed of initial working capital
requirements for this service including initial requirement for materials, plant and equipment, and
business and technical information systems.
Rural Water Supply Reform
12.    Rural Water Program. Responsibility for services in small areas and villages will continue to
be based in the WD in the near termn, rather than being transferred immediately to the RWBs. GOM
has adopted, however, two major changes in the way this responsibility will be exercised. First, as
cities and towns served by the DWSF schemes develop and expand, it is expected that the RWBs will
expand their service areas to include existing peri-urban and nearby rural areas, currently considered
part of the rural water program. Second, the WD will restructure all existing rural water supply
programs into a consolidated rural program (see more detailed discussion in Annex 2.2), based on a set
of widely promulgated rules, which will be developed with stakeholder involvement through a
consultative council, and which will emphasize local demand for services.  In the program,
improvement schemes will be undertaken in response to locally initiated proposals and only after
satisfactory negotiations have established the relative responsibilities of the local area and GOM for
payment of capital and O&M costs. GOM's share in the costs of improved service will be restricted to
no more than the national average per capita costs of a minimum service level provided through a hand
pump. The proposing local area will provide for O&M costs in all cases and any capital costs in excess
of this minimum.
13.    These same principles of community driven provision of local infrastructure have been
incorporated into the proposed Barnk-assisted MASAP. Many rural communities that do not have
convenient access to safe water supplies are likely to place the provision of new safe water supplies
high on their list of priorities for facilities to be provided under MASAP arrangements. The provision
of small rural water supplies will therefore be an essential part of the MASAP's menu of options for
these communities. Accordingly, the proposed MASAP will incorporate a large proportion of the
program for the provision of new boreholes, together with a range of associated options for small local
water supplies.
14.    The project supports the Rural Water Supply Program through (a) TA  in developing and
organizing community-driven approaches to the provision of water services, (b) funding a prioritized
program of hydrogeological and hydrological assessment and mapping to provide an information base
available to communities, and (c) funding of the construction of new rural water supply facilities



-55-                                   Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 8
including new boreholes, and gravity-fed schemes, and the rehabilitation of existing boreholes and
gravity-fed schemes, developed through similar community-driven processes.
Studies
15.    This component comprises the following studies:
(a)    Lake Malawi Level Control: The fluctuations in levels and flows in the Lake Malawi
and Shire River system are of major concern and of extreme importance to the
Malawian economy. The system provides water resources for:
(i)    power generation;
(ii)    irrigated agriculture;
(iii)    water supplies to lakeshore towns and settlements;
(iv)    navigation;
(v)    coastal bio-habitat;
(vi)    recreational (tourism) infrastructure; and
(vii)    fishery development.
It is proposed under this component to carry out a study to develop a coordinated plan
for the efficient regulation and management of the Lake Malawi and Shire River
System balancing regional and multi-sectoral interests. To achieve this objective, the
following will be undertaken: (i) review regional interests and individual sector
objectives and assess the natural resources; (ii) develop models capable of determining
physical impacts and risks of proposed control measures; (iii) examine available
measures for regulation and identify alternative regulation plans reflecting different
objectives, given natural constraints;(iv) develop a multi-objective planning model, to
assess at pre-feasibility level, cost, benefit and impacts; (v) compare and discuss the full
implications of alternative regulation plans; (vi) examine and suggest an adequate
institutional framework for future management and monitoring; and (vii) train
counterpart staff to manage and update the regulation plan.
(b)    Seawatch for Lake Malawi - This component involves the installation of an
automatic data collection and transmission system for use in environmental monitoring,
water resources assessment, navigation (Lake transportation system), fishery
development and maritime research. The transportation system will benefit from
reliable data on wind speeds and directions, currents and wave height; temperatures,
currents, temperature profiles, oxygen and algae concentrations are important elements
of the fish habitat. Knowledge of these;parameters is essential to promote fishery
development; and hydrological parameters such as direct rainfall at and evaporation
from the lake surface are indispensable for proper water balance calculations, and thus
improved water level forecasting and control.



-56-                                  Annex 2.1
Page 5 of 8
(c)    Flood Forecasting for Lower Shire Valley - Phase 11: - Under this component it is
intended to follow up the UNDP/WMO project, "Flood Forecasting and Warning
System for the Lower Shire Valley" in order to improve the forecasting and issue of
warning of impending floods in good time to allow timely evacuation of the population
and implementation of other precautionary measures. It will consolidate the Water
Department's capacity to develop national expertise to efficiently operate and maintain
the system. It will also provide improvement to the existing system installed during
Phase 1. At present, the flood forecasting model and warming procedures have not yet
been commissioned. The following will be carried out under this project:  (i)
completion and commissioning of Phase I; (ii) improved quality of rainfall and water
level data to be achieved through improvement of the existing telemetry system; (iii)
acquisition of data from un-gauged parts of the Upper Shire catchment; and (iv)
detailed mapping of flood-prone areas.
(d)    Feasibility Studies for Songwe River Training: This involves a pre-feasibility study to
solve the problems of underutilization of land and water resources due to the
continuously changing course of the Songwe River, which forms the border between
Malawi and Tanzania, and of flooding. The study aims at a multipurpose basin-wide
development including hydropower generation and agricultural and fishery
development once the river course has been stabilized and the water resources
controlled.
16.   The project supports this component through the provision of credit, the strengthening of the
central services of the WD, and the institutional restructuring initiative re-establishing and
strengthening the WRB as the entity responsible for water resources management and the provision of
policy advice to GOM in relation to the water sector.
B.    Investment Components
17.   The proposed five year investment program consists of (a) physical works and (b) goods and
equipment. Physical works comprise rehabilitation and extension of existing and provision of new
water supply and sewerage systems. Specifically:
(a)    Physical Works
Rehabilitation
(i)    The objective of rehabilitation is to restore existing schemes to
their design capacity and performance and arrest further deterioration brought
about by inadequate maintenance. This would comprise 8 urban water schemes
requiring improvement to intake structures, repair and/or replacement of
treatment units, transmission mains and distribution pipes and defective meters
and identification of alternative sources of supply where the existing sources
are inadequate or unreliable. For the rural schemes, partial rehabilitation of
3,000 boreholes comprising replacement of old pumps with standardized
VLOM-type pumps and necessary repairs or new construction of aprons,
washing slabs and soakaways; full rehabilitation of 2,500 boreholes comprising
desilting, replacement of screens and casings with uPVC ones where necessary,
replacement of existing handpumps with standardized VLOM-type pumps and



-57-                                  Annex 2.1
Page 6 of 8
repairs or construction of new aprons, washing slabs and soakaways.
Communities will be mobilized to take over maintenance responsibilities for the
boreholes (selected villagers will be trained), hygiene education and sanitation
promotion programs carried out; and repairs or replacement of transmission
mains and distribution systems and storage tanks will be carried out for 5
gravity-fed piped rural schemes.
(ii)    Water resources works would include soil conservation and slope stabilization
measures in selected catchments (Lunyangwa River, Chifuga/Chitete Rivers,
Mpamadzi/Mariku Rivers, Mwanza River and Mzimba River).   These
measures will comprise restricting cultivation on steep river banks and other
unsuitable locations, revegetation and farmer education in 15 catchrnent basins
to alleviate soil degradation, and preserve the quality of water in unprotected
basins used as sources of raw potable water.
Extension
(iii)    The objective of extension is to increase the capacity of existing urban water
supply systems.  In the project, production and distribution facilities of 29
urban water schemes, in addition to Zomba and Lilongwe, will be augmented
to meet increasing water demand projected to the year 2005 and to serve areas
within townships that are presently not served. For schemes with ground water
source, site investigations to locate suitable aquifers will be carried out and a
required number of boreholes to meet projected demand drilled. The boreholes
will be equipped with electrosubmersible pumps and additional reinforced
concrete storage tanks will be constructed together with chlorination facilities.
For schemes with surface water sources, additional sedimentation and rapid
gravity filter units with pumping and chlorination facilities will be constructed
to meet increasing demand. Improved intake works will be provided at most of
the lakeshore schemes.
(iv)    Zomba Water Supply including the Dam: The objectives of this component of
the project include:
*  improving the intake system mainly through the construction of a new dam;
*  improving and expanding the treatment capacity;
*  augmentation and expansion of the main pipeline;
*  rehabilitation and extension of the distribution system; and
*  installation of new fire hydrants and new booster stations.
The project goals are to install, maintain and operate a reliable water supply
system in the Municipality of Zomba to serve both the existing customers and
potential customers within the planned municipal boundaries. The project will
involve the construction of: (i) a new dam on the Mulunguzi River,.The Zomba
dam -- a 47m high rock-fill dam with a conventional sealing core zone of



-58-                                  Annex 2.1
Page 7 of 8
selected earthfill and impounding a reservoir with a gross capacity of 3.4
million m3 on the Lower Mulunguzi River about 70m downstream  of the
existing small dam. The dam will have a full concrete side-channel spillway
with 357m3 per sec. discharge capacity. The water will be released into the
existing natural stream in a controlled manner to augment the existing reservoir
downstream from which the water will be abstracted, treated and distributed
through several service reservoirs; and construction and/or rehabilitation of: (ii)
two steel tanks each of 250m3 capacity; (iii) 11 reinforced concrete tanks with
capacity varying from 250m3 to 1,500rm3; (iv) two flat-bottomed sedimentation
tanks; (v) four rapide gravity sand filters; (vi) one clear water collecting tank
(774m3 storage capacity); (vii) one treatment works building; (viii) access
road to the existing treatment plant; (ix) existing mechanical and electrical
equipment in the treatment plant; (x) new main pipeline totaling 41.4km; (xi)
138km of primary and secondary pipeline system of which 108.4km will serve
the hydraulic network pipeline; (xii) 83 new fire hydrants; (xiii) 3 kw booster
pumps; and (xiv) three settling ponds.
New Schemes
(v)    The objective of new schemes is to provide service to presently unserved or
inadequately served areas. This component of the project would include 7
urban and 6 gravity-fed piped rural systems, 750 boreholes, sewerage systems
for two urban areas and construction at 9 suitably located sites for controlled
disposal of septage and sludge. New Boreholes: 165 mm in diameter with
depths varying from 30 to 50 m will be drilled.  110 mmn diameter uPVC
lining/screens will be installed and the annulus around them filled with selected
gravel-pack, followed by development and testing to determine yields. Village
Level Operation and Maintenance (VLOM) - type Afridev pumps will then be
installed on properly-constructed plinths and drainage and soakaway provided
together with twin-level washing slabs. For each new borehole site, the
benefiting community will be mobilized for establishment of VLOM system and
selection and training of caretakers. Health education and sanitation promotion
will also be instituted as part of the VLOM system and will be executed with
assistance from the Ministry of Health.
(vi)   New Gravity-Fed Rural Water Supply Schemes:-Under this
component, gravity-fed water supply schemes will be established at six rural
sites where the topography is suitable for water supplies by gravity from
protected catchments. Feasibility studies to determine minimum flows,
bacteriological and chemical quality of the water, treatment requirements and
other details will be carried out to confirmn the results of preliminary surveys
and pre-feasibility studies prior to detailed design and implementation. For all
schemes, river intakes in the form of weirs to divert water will be constructed
in protected catchment areas. Reinforced concrete storage tanks will be
constructed at strategic locations for night-flow storage and a pipe distribution
network provided.
(vii)    Sludge Disposal Sites: This component encompasses the construction of nine
sludge disposal sites, comprising anaerobic ponds for settling and stabilization



-59-                                Annex 2.1
Page 8 of 8
of sludge to reduce environmental degradation. The sites will be strategically
located to serve a number of urban and semi-urban centers and maintained and
operated to make increasing use of private contractors for emptying of septic
tanks and pit latrines.
(b)    Goods and Equipment
18.   Goods and equipment would include electrical and mechanical plant for treatment works, pipes
for transmission and reticulation systems, plant and equipment for stores, workshops and laboratories;
office equipment, telecommunication equipment, computers, water meters, meter testing and repair
equipment, leakage detection and water quality testing equipment, vehicles and motor bikes and
Geographic Information System for water resources management and planning.
19.   Investment Program
Remaining
Initial            3 years
2 years           (indicative)
A. Institutional Reform and Studies
B. Investment Program
(a) Physical Works                                 Yes                 Yes
(i) Rehabilitation
Urban Water Systems                                 5                  3
Gravity-Fed Rural Schemes                           2                  3
Boreholes - Partial Rehab.                       1200               1800
Boreholes - Full Rehab.                          1000               1500
Catchment Protection                                5                 10
(ii) Extension
Urban Water System (including LWB)                 13                 17
Zomba Water Supply
Dam                                                -             Yes
Treatment Works                                    -             Yes
Reticulation                                       -             Yes
(iii) New Schemes
Water
Urban Water Systems                                -                  7
Gravity-Fed Rural Schemes                          2                  4
Boreholes                                        300               450
Sewerage
New Sewerage Systems                               -                  2
Sludge Disposal Sites                                                 9
(b) Facilities and Equipment                       Yes                 Yes



-60-
Annex 2.2
Page 1 of 3
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Rural Water Supply Reform
Community Driven Provision of Village-Scale Water Infrastructure
Implementation Processes
1.    EIcitinzg. au . Communities will be notified by the GOM, in accordance with
procedures established under the Social Action Fund, that the opportunity will be available to
them to determine their priorities for infrastructure or other investment, and that if the
commnunity is able to show that eligibility requirements are met, the GOM will ensure that their
highest priority need is met. Eligibility criteria that will apply to all types of infrastructure,
will include: (i) funds will only be provided where there is a demonstrated and sustainable
poverty alleviation effect; (ii) funding provided will be limited, not substantially above the
average cost of the provision of the facility throughout Malawi; (iii) the community can
demonstrate that it is in a position to continue to operate and maintain the facility, and pay for
any extras additional to those for which funding will be provided. The following processes for
preparations to ensure that the facilities are provided efficiently, and for providing the facilities,
apply both to requests to the govermnent's Social Action Fund agents for water supply
infrastructure, and to requests direct to the Water Department (such as replacement of a failed
well).
2.     Preparing an Environment for Efficient Provision of Water Facilities consistent with
SAE. Provision for low-cost, bulked-up boreholes or other small-scale water facilities such as
minor reticulation from large-yield boreholes, will be arranged through calling tenders for
"rates" contracts. Tenders will be called by the Water Department for contractors to submit
unit rates for the provision of the following, in quantities of say 250:
(a)    drilling, casing and fitting the screen for a borehole at a site specified by a
village Water Committee;
(b)    equipping the borehole with a pump (Afridev or other options to be specified);
(c)    constructing the concrete surround/apron, washing slab, and optionally, a
drainage line, animal drinking trough, and/or limited pipework if required;
(d)    providing a set of tools and a few basic spares;
(e)    providing training in maintenance; and



-61-
Annex 2.2
Page 2 of 3
(f)    all of this to be in compliance with standards of materials and workmanship,
and within time limits, as specified in the contract documents.
3.    The successful contractors will enter into: (i) for SAF-initiated water proposals, a three-
party contractual agreement between the Social Action Fund (SAF), the Water Department, and
the contractor, and (ii) for proposals which are independent of the SAF and thus have been
transmitted direct to the Water Department, a normal two-party contract between the Water
Department and the contractor. The contracts will oblige the SAF and Water Department to
ensure that the contractor is provided with the opportunity to construct say 250 installations
within a specified time. The contractor will be obliged to construct and provide the facilities
and training to a village within a maximum number of weeks of being requested, and to do so
in accordance with the standards specified. The SAF (for case (i) above), or the Water
Department (for case (ii)), will be obliged to pay the contractor when it receives a satisfactory
certificate of completion. The contract will give community Water Committees the option of
negotiating extras with the contractor or others (and to pay accordingly) if they wish.
4.     Mobilization and Initiation. Communities are advised at a very early stage of the
preconditions a community must satisfy if any proposal it wishes to put for the provision of
village scale water infrastructure is to be eligible for further consideration. The preconditions
will include:
(a)    the community must form a Water Committee, and elect or appoint a President
and Secretary;
(b)    it must agree to establish a maintenance fund, to carrying out all the
maintenance that may be necessary or expedient to maintain the water facility
in operating condition and to ensure that funds earmarked for maintenance are
used for no other purpose; and
(c)    implementation of a water supply facility may not commence until the Water
Committee has deposited in its maintenance fund sufficient to ensure that all
maintenance required over the ensuing 12 months can be undertaken.
5.    Villaae Water Committee prares and submits prpsal. The community, led by its
Water Committee and with other support if it wishes, decides what facilities it will seek.. This
may involve any of a number of sectors.  If water supply facilities are a part of what the
community seeks, the information on the process and prerequisites for eligibility will advise
that it should seek the advice of the Water Department, although it may seek advice from any
other source. Information on availability of water, (both surface and underground) for the
locality will be provided to the extent that this is known. The village submits its proposal to the
SAF (case(i)), or the Water Department (case (ii)).
6.     Appraisal and deceinn. The SAF or the Water Departrnent ensure that an office
technical evaluation and a field appraisal are done. The Water Department will try to determine
whether or not water will be available in adequate quantity and quality, and whether local water



-62-
Annex 2.2
Page 3 of 3
resources will be overtaxed. It will provide advice to the village on the sites that will give best
results in terns of water yield, quality and drainage. It will provide a cost estimate, using
established contractor rates, or other sources of cost information if the proposal is not fully
within the scope of the 'rates' contracts. The appraisal will involve all concerned sectors, for
example health, education and irrigation if the proposal involves those components. If the
proposal is appraised as acceptable, the SAF or if appropriate the Water Department notifies
the Water Committee, the contractor and where appropriate the Water Department.
7.    Implecmaein.   The contractor notifies the Water Committee and the Water
Department the date he will begin work on the site. The Water Committee, the Water
Department and the contractor will provide the SAF with a certificate of completion, checking
off all items required, including standard of work, and advising the amount payable. The SAF
pays the contractor.
8.     Transitin. The National Water Development Program (NWDP) will incorporate a
small investment the provision of new borehole supplies at village scale. It may be necessary
to employ existing drilling skills in the Water Department by pernitting its drilling units to
respond to the tender call and allocating it some work on a limited period basis, using separate
profit center accounting, in a move to commercialize and ultimately downsize or privatize this
aspect of the Water Department's operations. The contributions of the staff and facilities of the
Water Department to SAF activities will be provided from  SAF funds, as unlike other
Departments where all staff salaries are funded from the government's recurrent account, this
expenditure is (appropriately) charged to the cost of the capital projects on which they are
employed. This will be arranged as part of the three way contracts between the Water
Department, the SAP, and the contractors.



MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
PROJECT COST SUMMARY
(Kwacha Million)                           IUSS Million)
%     %Total                            %    % Total
Foreign   Base                          Foreign   Base
Local Foreign   ToWal   Exchange Costs  Local Foreign  Total Exchange Costs
A. Technl   Assisaxce
1. Insttutional DOsvlomt                                       18.1    23.5      41.6       57       5     1.5    2.0      3.5       57       5
2. hnImuuaUcn Su4ppo1 - Naoawl WaMr Dev. Prjod                  19.0   46.9       65.9      71       7      1.6    3.9      5.5      71       8
3. lr t_ onS Suppait - LUngwq Wir Pr*d                            -    22.3       22.3     100       2       -      1.4     1.4     100       2
4. Staue                                                         1.8   21.1       22.9      92       2     0.2      1.8     1.9      92       3
SubWal Tedmical Assistance                                        38.9   113.8     152.7      75      17      3.3    9.1    12.3       74      17
B. Rehab_ adon Eo ig System
1. Urhn Watwr                                                   2.8    8.5        11.3      75       1     0.2     0.7     0.9       75       1
2. Rural Gradtiped Water                                         5.5   16.6       22.0      75       2     0.5      1.4     1.8      75       3
3. Borehle                                                      14.5   28.2       42.7      66       5      1.2    2.4      3.6      66       5
4. Protection of Catchment Aras                                 12.0    7.0   .  19.1       37       2      1.0    0.6      1 6      37       2                1
Subtotal Rathbliltil  of Exidng Systdns                           34.8   60.3       95.1      63      10      2.9    5.1      8.0      63      11                ao
C. New Schem_n
1. Urban Wl.                                                    3.4   10.4        13.9      75       2     0.3     0.9      1.2      75       2
2. Seweae                                                       7.8    15.2       22.9      66       2     0.7      1.3     1.9      66       3
3. Borehe                                                       13.5   40.9       54.3      75       6      1.1     3.4     4.6      75       6
4. Sludg DIposal                                                 1.4    0.8        21       36        -     0.1     0.1     0.2      36        -
5. Gravty Fed Rural                                             9.0    27.4       36.4      75       4      0.8     2 3     3.1      75       4
Subktd New Scheme                                                 35.0   94.6      129.6      73      14      2.9    7.9    10.9       73      15
D. Equ inmt
1. Lab. wnd Ofie Eu ot                                            -    17.4       17.4     100       2       -      1.5     1.5     100       2
2. VehIcle & M* cycles                                          0.3    3.1         3.3      92       -     0.0     0.3    0.3        92        -
3. Pop. ad Tmt Pint Equnwt                                      11.4   79.3       90.7      87      10     0.7     5.0    5.7        87       8
4. Memsu*g  EqIpust                                              1.5   17.4       18.9      92       2     0.1      1.5     1 6      92       2
Subta Equlmu                                                      13.2   117.2     130.4      90      14      0.9    8.1      9.0      90      12
Ex.nuIogon of EBasin Sdmas
1. Zombs Den                                                   53.8    96.9      150.7      64      16     3.4    6.1      9.4       64      13
2. Zorbe Waw Supply                                            23.2   70.5       93.8       75      10      1.9    5.9      7.9      75      11
3. Urban Wer (29 Sdchm)                                        35.0  106.3       141.3      75      15     2.9    8.9    11.9        75      16
4. CUy Wair (Lorm)                                              9.4   16.9       26.2       64       3     0.6      1.1     1.6      64       2
Subtal Eauiono d Exllsting S    dhm                              121.4  290.6      411.9      71      45      8.8    21.9    30.8      71      42
F. PPF Rd     r incI                                                       1.5       1.5     100       -       -      1.5     1.5     100       2
Total BASELINE COSTS                                             243.2  678.0      921.2       74    100    18.8   53.7    72.5         74     100
Physka Codlgui_e                                                22.4   62.0      84.3       73       9      1.7    4.8     6.5       73       9              03 >
Pric      eC C"dkvwldn137.8   46.6                                               184.4      25      20    10.8    4.4    152         29      21             OQ  3
Total PROJECT COSTS                                              403.4   786.6   1,189;9       66     129    31.3    62.8    94.1       67     130                x
o*



-64-
.Annex 2.4
Page 1 of I
MIALAWl
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan
Wxnff -4f
USSNMlim                                     MA                             Qit         11  ,snu             Taw             Sy.   tBd       za. &
Amn       I0.     u       ' An %    n     .   M=               AMn              Eck    Tam)   Ta
A Tarl Ass
I hl       tumI mu                               3.9   88.3      00      0.3       -       -    05      11.4    4.4      4.6    2.2      22
-                               D:v Pt)          4.5     5.6               -       -       -     23    34.4    6.8       7.2    4.5      23
3 Itlpl      &W- -LS aeUbyRft                     1.5   IG0.0      -       -       -       -       -       -      1.5     1.6    15
4.  -*                                                     -      2.3   101.0      *             00              2.3     2.4    2.0    0.2
&9 To;uh 1Asu                                       9.8    6.8      23     15.3      -       -     2.8    19.0    14.9    15.9   102       4.7
a            q*JiEm- ~
1. U1iVAbW                                       1.1    94.0       -       -                     01      60      12      1.2    0.8      0.4
2_ Rai  Ihygy\xOW Wm                              22    94.0        -       -      -                 1   60      2.3    2.5      1.6    0.7
3.  }itdc                                         4.2    89.0              -       -       -     05    11.0    4.7       5.0    2.8      1.9
4.F=    ofCadmd    thAm                           1.7    7.0               -       -       -     0.5    24.0      2      24      07      15
IIKtd khmbdkmm of'ExigSmme9.2    g7.9                                           -13    12.1    10.5    11.1                   60      45
C WSim=
1. - ubin VAMW1.4    94.0                                          --          -       -         Q       60       1.5    1.6    1.1    0.5
2. &Uw                                            2.4    92.0       -       -       -      -    0.2        o      2.6    2.7    1.5       1.0
3. B3dmks                                         5.4    94.0                  - -  -      -     03      60      5.8     61      4.1      1.7
4.  1*Dpi                                         02     M0         -       -      -       -     0o      14.0    Q3      0.3    0.1      02
5. Casy FedRd                                     3.6   94.0        -       -      -       -     02      60       3.9    4.1    2.7      1.2
'boA t&Sdm                                         D.131    935             -       -       -     0.9    6.5    14.0    14.9    9.4    4.6
D.   piut
1. L  a     !ff  i m                              0.4    3i5      12    73.5       -       -               -     1.7    1.8    1.7         -
2. VdiS&M ud                                      Q3    90.4        -      -       -       -     0.0     9.6     03      03      03      00
3. 1I.d  ThlL 1liSIfI                             5.7    833       -       -       -              1.4   19.7    7.1      75      5.7     1.4
4. M--   Wpm                                      02     10.4    1.8    89.6      0-0                      -     20      2.1      1.8    02
§b im-1 Eiwp=l                                      66    61.0    3.0    272         -       -      1.4   12.9    11.0    11.7    9.4      1.6
E EammfdEdSdui
1.  Zmb D                                        13.1    912       -       -                     1.4    9.8    14.5    15.5    7.4       72
2. ZnI  zMmS4i*Y                                  9.6    94.0      -       -           -         06      60      10.2    10.9    7.1    3.1
3. Utjtinh A (29 Sd3                             14.1   93.9       --                      -       9     61      15.0    160    10.5    4.5
4. Cy (ibpk                                       2.1    913       -                             O -    02  9.7    2.3   2.5    1.2    1.1
&b    E:.oEs4                                      39D     9-4           -       -       -         32      7.6    422    44.S    23       15.9
F. PPF    1                                         Ic   1.5   1MO   -           -           -       -       -     1.5    1.6      15
Tagji  ww b                                          92    842      5.3    5.6                -     9.6    102    94.1  1O    W3         313



-65-                                            Annex 3.1
Page I of 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Critical Path Management Chart
1995
10   Task Narne                Ouration SI          N   0   J   F   MA    U   J   J   A  i S   0    N 
I   Gearing up                     75d
2        rmp errertation pian        4w
3       Apocint project              4w
eacersfpip
4       Select ana apooint TA       14w
and consuilants
5       Govt approves                3w
mPierementation pian
S  l    Funds provided for           3w
preparatory activities
7       Assemble team                8w
prepare TORs                                            
I  I Legislation                   35Id
9       Instructions for             6w
Parliamentary Counsel                   .
10       Govemrnmet approves I       4w
instructions
I 1      Draft bill for legislation  9w
12       Govtmmnt approves           3
bill
13       Parliament e                7I
legislation          I                                            ,
14       Legislation prlaimod        1w
15       GoM notfi  IDA of            1w
procfaimed Act
1i       Prepare subordinat          9w
I    legislatlon           ____
17       Finaliz subordinat          5w
leglatis n
19       Proclaim subordinate        3w
legislatbon                                         _._                                               _=_
is  lusnws Planning                2nd                                  - _ _
20       Preliminary Busfi3 
Plan
21       Asts and liabilite         lW
22       Recurrent actviWe lo
anatyse_____
23       Investmnt pl                ow_
24       Business                                               _ SW
21   Human rsowm                     7w
26       Businese pla
27       Prepm Ch.U                  3w
20       Sutit Chwtum toa             2
Govwme                    _         ___
TOa                                         Raw  Up Teak
CrIUci Tatk                                 Red  Up CrEsi Teak
Proea. Me"t NWOP  Urban WEw                                                          R
Oate Man 4f1 GM                                                                      Rwup W9
MiaIN                                       Roll  Up P      le
Summw 



-66-
Annex 3.1
Page 2 of 2
1991
ID  Task Nanme                Ouration  S   0   N   0 J   F   M   A               J   J   A   S   0   N   0   J   F   M   a
29       Soverrrment approves       6w                                            i             l                     F   M A
Cl,arlers 
30      Sbrmrt year 1 prces,       Iw
su overitions targets                                                    i 
31      Government approves         7w
year I prices etc
32  Leadership and Staffing       355d            _
33      Select Board               1 Ow
Chairmen
34      Appoint Chairmen            3w
35 I    Select and appoint          3w
Boardi members
30        rSelec and apoinit        Sw          _ _              __* _
CEOs
37       Call for senior staff     12w
35  Install Chairmaen.         2w
Boards. CEO's       i ____C
39       Finalize Humanf            4w
Resources Transtloil  r
40       Finalz organiubon.       1 Ow
fill senior POSitOfi 
41       Finalze transferS          7w
appt of other staff
42  Consuitatlon and              1Ul a                                       _                   _
education
43       Pban public education      Sw
44 |    Public educatio, sff       l ow
consutation, Sta    I_                                               _
45       Communicaton plan          3
Stae 2
4U      Communication &             S                                                               I I
consultaon St  2  |                                                                 _ __
47  Support fr Boards             141 _ 11_
48       Boards recsa internt       4w
fundinD              __i______
49       Prepare se1111IC1111      1w
-         agraserit. sydten   ___i___
50       Negoiae s|o                owi
conwtrat      
51  Negotatons be*Ifn        |      Od_
g govenment and IDA       __i
62  IDA Bowrdapproid                Od                                             NOg
53  Credit Effeie   es              Od                                  i__________
|U4 Vu   Aets.  Funds md              G d                                                                                          41
I Istaff                                                               i 
Tuk                                        Roiled Up Tak
Crdl T_ak                                 Roed Up Criltc Ts _k
Projed: MaWMs NWOP- Urtia Water            0                                     Roild Up MIIoNs I      >
Datse: Mon 4 N1019
Millions                                   Roild Up Progrs
Summar



-67-
Annex 3.2
Page I of 1
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Estimated Credit Disbursement Schedule
IDA Fiscal Year          Quarterly Disbursement   Cumulative   Disbursement
and Quarter Ending               (USSm)              (US$m)      % of Total
FY 1996                                                                   7
Dec-31-95                  1.5               1.5*
Mar-31-96                  1.5              3.0
Jun-30-96                  2.5              5.5
FY 1997                                                                  17
Sep-30-96                  1.6              7.1
Dec-31-96                  1.8              8.9
Mar-31-97                  2.3              11.2
Jun-30-97                  2.5             13.7
FY 1998                                                                  36
Sep-30-97                  3.0              16.7
Dec-31-97                  3.6             20.3
Mar-31-98                  4.1             24.4
Jun-30-98                  4.4             28.8
FY 1999                                                                  56
Sep-30-98                  4.4             33.2
Dec-31-98                  4.2             37.4
Mar-31-99                  3.0             40.4
Jun-30-99                  3.6             44.0
FY 2000                                                                  78
Sep-30-99                  4.2             48.2
Dec-31-99                  3.5             51.7
Mar-31-00                  5.4              57.1
Jun-30-00                  5.0             62.1
FY 2001                                                                  90
Sep-30-00                  2.5             64.6
Dec-31-00                  3.0             67.6
Mar-31-01                  1.5             69.1
Jun-30-01                  2.2             71.3
FY2002                                                                   98
Sep-30-01                  1.9             73.2
Dec-31-01                  1.6             74.8
Mar-31-02                  1.2             76.0
Jun-30-02                  1.4             77.4
FY 2003                                                                 100
Sep-30-02                  1.1             78.5
Dec-31-02                  0.7             79.2
*Refrnancing of PPF



-68-
Annex 3.3
Page 1 of 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
I.    Supervision activities under the proposed project would be carried out by the PIU
under the direction of the Program Leader and by the Water Boards for the urban water supply
and sewerage components and the WD for the rural water supply programn and coordinated by
the PIU under the direction of the Program Leader. The supervisory functions would include:
(a)   initial review, recording and forwarding of:
(i)    all procurement orders
(ii)   all disbursement requests
(iii)  special accounts expenditures/reimbursements and statements of
expenses;
(b)    preparation of annual implementation budgets;
(c)    preparation of bidding and other project contracts documents;
(d)    preparation of monthly financial statements;
(e)    preparation of progress reports on all aspects of project implementation;
(f)    monitoring of key performance indicators to be agreed during negotiations;
(g)    arranging for the annual audits of project accounts and SOEs; and
(h)   liaising with IDA supervision mission.
2.    In addition to field supervision as specified below, IDA staff would spend an estimated
4 staff-weeks per annum at headquarters during the early implementation years reviewing and
commenting on procurement documents and disbursement requests, and a further 3 staff-weeks
per annum over the course of project execution for reviewing reports and audited accounts and
for IDA support for project implementation.
3.    A mid-term review of GOM and IDA would be undertaken in September 1997. The
TOR would be prepared by IDA and agreed with GOM prior to the review date. The review
will assess physical, institutional and financial progress of the two-year program as measured
against targets to be agreed at negotiations. Based on the reviews, the program will be adjusted
to be consistent with the targets as revised according to experience gained by the time of the
mid-term review.



-69-
Annex 3.3
Page 2 of 2
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
IDA Supervision Input
Approximate           Activity                    Staffing           Staff Weeks
Date
11/95     Project Launch Workshop    Task Manager                     6.5
Institutional Specialist
Financial Analyst
Procurement Disbursement
Community Participation Spec.
3/96      Supervision Mission       Task Manager                      3.5
Institutional Specialist
Financial Analyst
9/96      Annual Review             Task Manager                      5
Institutional Specialist
Financial Analyst
3/97      Supervision Mission       Task Manager                      5
Institutional Specialist
=_________ jFinancial Analyst
9/97      Mid-Termn Review          Task Manager                      6.5
Institutional Specialist
Financial Analyst
Procurement, Disbursement
Community Participation Spec.
3/98      Supervision Mission       Task Manager                      3.5
I___L______                              Financial Analyst
9/98      Annual Review             Task Manager                      5.0
Institutional Specialist
Financial Analyst
3/99      Supervision Mission       Task Manager                      3.0
Financial Analyst
9/99      Annual Review             Task Manager                      5.0
Financial Analyst
Institutional Specialist
3/00      Supervision Mission       Task Manager                      2.5
Financial Analyst
9/00      Supervision Mission       Task Manager                      7.5
(Preparatory work for the    Institutional Specialist
Project Implementation    Financial Analyst
Completion Report)        Procurement, Disbursement
_  Community Participation Spec. I



-70-
Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 19
MlALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Forecast Financial Performance of RWBs and LWB
Financial forecasts for the three regional water boards
1.           The financial forecasts for fiscal years 1995/1996 to 2010/2011 and the assumptions on which
they are based are shown in the pages which follow.
2.            Assum=tions. The forecasts are prepared in constant March 1995 prices in Malawi Kwacha.
The figures used are derived from December 1993 figures corrected for inflation and exchange rate change
during the interim period up to March 1995. The opening balance sheet for each board is assumed to be a
proportion of DWSF's existing balance sheet based on the ratio of the value of fixed assets corresponding to
each region.
3.            Population. The forecasts assume a base population served by the urban water systems in each
region of equal to that currently being served by DWSF in that region. Population growth is then assumed at
6. 1 % being the 1977-87 intercensal rates. The coverage rates used in the forecast are taken from the
consultants report'. Average consumption in liters per capita per day is assumed at 90 for piped water and 27
for water kiosk supply.
4.            uariff. Opening tariffs are set at March 1995 levels and increased so as to meet the cost
coverage targets defined in conditionality (paragraph 4.8).
5.            Collections. The forecasts assume that 90% of the value of water sold is successfully collected
as income.
6.            Fixed Assets. Opening values for fixed assets are taken from the Asset Valuation study
recently completed for DWSF2. Sewerage asset values are taken from the consultant's report'. Capital
expenditure for the subsequent years reflects the investment profile prepared as part of the National Water
Sector Development Project except for the investment in Zomba Damn for which the investment is considered to
be in proportion to the urban consumers to be served, i.e. 35% of the total investment cost. Depreciation is
calculated on the basis of 3.3% of net book value each year.
7.            Eina-ncing. Where possible internal financing of investments is encouraged. Where external
financing is required this is assumed to come direct from Government in a mixture of equity (grant) and debt
funding such that the debt to equity ratio is not worse than 60:40. Loans are repaid assuming a 20 year term
and five years grace.
'Cowi Consult 1994 - Malawi National Water Development Project - Report
2Cowi Consult - Valuation of Assets of the District Water Supply Fund - December 1993



-71-
Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 19
8.           lnventories. Stock levels are assumed to reflect 7% of the operating and maintenance costs.
Operations and maintenance costs are assumed at an average cost per capita served per year as specified in the
consultants report'. After discussion with the MOW and the WD, a 10% cost saving after the establishment of
the new Boards has been assumed.
9.            Salaries. Salaries reflect a reduction in the current overstaffing in the water department and an
increase in the average salary paid as the staff move from Government to parastatal employ-ment. Amounts of
salary costs for each region are set out in the consultant's report'. Again, a 10% cost saving has been assumed
after the establishment of the new Boards.
10.           Admini1tr2tioln. Cost of administration is set at 10% of operations, maintenance and salary
costs.
Financial forecasts for Liongwe Water Board
I1.          The forecasts presented for LWB are based on the samne assumptions as listed above for the
regional water boards, except for the opening balance sheet and capital investment which are taken from the
LWB corporate plan. Capital investment has been adjusted to reflect the inclusion of the Third Lilongwe Water
Supply project.
Key indicators for Blantyre Water Board
12.           Key indicators are presented for Blantyre Water Board by way of comparison. No investment
in BWB is assumed within this project. The assumptions used to calculate these indicators are the same as for
the RWB's except for the opening balance sheet and the capital investmnent which are taken from the
consultant's report'
'Cowi Consult 1994 - Malawi National Water Development Project - Report



Northern  Region                                                                              Pagec 1                                                            4/6/95 03 35 PM  NORrlIINtW  XLS
1995/6   1996/7    199718   1998/9   1999/00   2000/1   2001/2   2002/3   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   20U6/7   2007/8   2008/9   2009/10   2010/1
MK(883O  MKO MK K'O MKM'OOO   MKOOO  MK'000  MK' MK                      '          000 M K0O0O M KMNK'OOO   MK00'    MK'OW    MK'O0O    MK'OuO    MK'OO   MK'OU1
Key statistics
Soles olume
Urban piped 1,OOrmNSyw                                 3,546    3,828     4.256      4,434     4,863     4,893     5.125     5.327     5.543     5,775     6.005     6,261     6,526     6.811     7.096     7,414
Urban water poinis I .OOOn3/yr                           16        32        95        163      234       309        391       476       565       661       764       873       987     1,108     1.236      1.373
Tol consumion                                         3,561     3,860     4,351     4.597      5,097     5,203     5,516     5,803     6,108     6,436     6,768     7,134     7.513     7,919     V,332     8.787
Tnilt
Urbanpipod MK/l3                                        3 96     4.36       4.75      4 75      4.75      4 75      4 75      4.75      4.75      4.75      4.75      4.75      4 75      4.75      4 75       4.75
UIbunwaiact puusMK/M3                                   1.00      1.10      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      120       1 20       1.20      1.20
TariltIcr-c                                              0%       10%        9%        0%        0%        0%        0%         0%        0%        0%        0%        0%        0%        0%        0%        0%
S*slfce   (M%4'ISI)                                   12,651    15.040    18.303    19.140    21.052    21,262    22.341    23,297    24,318    25,412    26,505    27.719    28.976    30,328    31.682    33.192
NAM"(MILK6SS11                                       69.505    82.697    S9.223   104,622   116,518   122,622   125,443   128,591   132,188   136.488   141.495   147.300   153,947   161.4S6   169,912   179.332
De  to Equity raia                                       0.3       0.0       0.6       0.6       0.6       0 6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0 6       0.5       0.5        0 5       0 5
adrmo elnd,                                            -2%        3%        3%        2%        2%        2%        2%        2%        3%         3%        4%        4%        4%        5%        5%        5%
arrewrl ti                                             2.8       4.5       4.4       4.7       5.4        5.4       5.5       5.1       4.9       4.8       4.8       4.9       5 1       5 6       6 2        7 1
.9 aCWCI.l ICil,llb.iftC
mg proIi%                                          9%       30%       40%       41%       44%       44%       45%       45%       46%       47%       47%       48%        49%       49%       50%       50%
NetPrditV                                           -10%       16%       13%       10%       13%       10%       11%       13%       15%       17%       19%       21%       23%       25%        27%       28%
uCoveage                                               91%      119%      116%      112%      116%      111%      112%       114%      117%      120%      123%      126%      130%      133%      136%      140%
OQ :3
(D D
0



Northern  Region                                                                       Page I                                                        416/95 03 34 PM NORllINEW  XLS
1995/6   199617   1997/8   1998/9  1999/00   2000/I1   20012   2002/3   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8   2008/9  2009/10   2010/1
MK'OUO  MKM000  M4O                   K' MK000  MKO0O   MK'000  MK'000  MK'ODO  MK'000  MK'000  MK'000  MK'OOO  MK'OUO  MK'OO(O  MK'OOO  MK'OO(0
Balance Sheet                          37% of
DWSF
Fixed aswi
Net fixed assets                        69,449   68,921   78,861   106,909  141,480  165,588  176,783  179,553  182,230  184,818  187.320  189,738  192,076  194,335  196.520  198,631   200,673
Errexd uds
itock                                     925       306      298      327       337      358      362       384      403      424       446      468      492      517       545      572       603
Accounts rcceivable                      1,112    2,636    3.133    3,813    3,987    4,386    4,430    4,654    4.854    5,066    5,294    5,522    5,775    6,037    6,318    6,600    6,915
Eknk and cash                             409    1,914    4,746    5,129    5,943    7,749    7,959    8,566    8.122    7.849    7,930    8,433    9,263   10,315   12,381    15,485   19,731
ral                                      2,446    4,856    8,177    9,270   10,267   12,493   12,750   13,604   13,379   13.339   13,670   14,423   15,530   16,869   19,245   22,658   27,249
ett [Jabitles
Acousts payable                           296    1,094    1,064    1.168    1,205    1,278    1.292    1,371    1,441    1,513    1.592    1,671    1,758    1,848    1,946    2,044          2.154
'amuerdeposits                             56       633      752      915       957    1,053    1.063    1.117    1,165    1,216    1,271    1,325    1.386    1,449    1,516    1,584        1.660
TOW                                        352    1,727    1,816    2,0t3    2,162    2.331    2,355    2.488    2,605    2,729    2,862    2,996    3,144    3,297    3,462    3.628         3,813
in lit ablikies
ADBIDWSF loan                            1,961    1,940    1,919    1,898    1,877    1,819    1,761      1,703    1,645    1,587    1,529    1,467    1,405    1,343    1,281       1,219     1,157
Capit development loan                            605      605   22,975   43,086   57,123   62,796   63,523   62,768   61,654   60.110   58,203   55,756   52,618   49,535   46.530   43,619
r'vking capital loall                               0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0         0
Assets                                69,583   69,505   82,697   89.223  104,622   116,808  122,622  125;443  128,591   132,188  136,48h  141,495  147,300  153,947  161,486  169,912   179,332
Fiancing and rewrvrs
rants and conitrhbuiisos                  529    1,711    12.534   16,596   29,989   39,334   43,097   43,543   43,746   43.746   43.746   43,746   43,746   43,746   43,746   43,746   43,746
ixed assets revalualion                67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67.034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034   67,034
ietined earrngs                         2,019      760    3,129    5,593    7,598    10,440   12,491    14,866   17.10   21.407   25,707   30,714   36,519   43,166   50,706   59,132   68,552
salI                                   69,583   69,505   82,697   89,222  104,622   116,807  122,621   125,442  128,591   132,187  136,488  141,494  147,300  153,947  161,486   169.912   179,332
00  :1
m   t
0'
O -
'.0



Northern Region                                                                         Page 1                                                        4/6/95 0334 PM  NORTIHNEW XlS
1995/6   1996/7   1997/8   1998/9  1999/00   2000/1   200tIf2   2002/3   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8   200t8/9  2009/10   201t/I
MK't00  MK'000  MK'000  MK'OOO  MK'ODO  MK'000  MK'000  MK'000  MK'000  MIK'O0   MK'ODO  MK'OOD   MK'000  MK'OUO  MK'OOO  MK'OOO
Cash Flow
Ipeiug Bdaac                                       409    1.914    4,746    5.129    5.943    7.749    7,959    8,566    8.122    7,549    7,930  S.433    9.263   10,315   12.311    15.4S5
leak                                          ' 12.651    15.040   18.303   19.140   21.052   21.262   22.341   23,297   24.318   25.412   26.505   27,719   28.976   30,328   31.62    33.192
PlUaopenuigdetkws                                  1.112    2.636    3,133    3,813    3.987    4.3S6    4.430    4,65.4    4.554    5.066    5,294    5.522    5.775    6.037       6.31S    6.600
l I csing detba                                   (2.636)  (3.133)  (3.113)  (3,967)  (4,326)  (4,430)  (4.654)  (4,854)  (5.066)  (5,294)  (5,522)   (5,775)  (6.037)  (6.318)  (6.600)  (6,915)
Iams                                             1.151   10.e23    4.062   13.394    9.344    3.763        446      203        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0
letesa received                                      a        21       435      191        79       9S       96       99        89       52        79       SO       U4       59       101      121
Borowing                                            605        0   22,369   20,111    14,038    5.703       755      393    1,040    1.313    1.232        729        0        0        0         0
Wtkig capiuc loan                                     0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
OpcatibW Epense                                   11.521    10.530   11,044   11.338    11,7S6   11.919   12,366   12,769   13.149   13.55S  ' 13,973   14.42l   14.,94   15,398   15.910   16.471
Lss oening stock                                    (925)    (306)    (296)    (327)    (337)    (358)    (362)    (354)    (403)    (424)    (446)    (468)    (492)    (517)    (545)    (572)
Plus clsing siock                                   306       296      327      337       356      362      354       403      424      446       465      492      537       545      572      603             [,
Plusopeningcredisors                                352    1.727    1,S16    2,063    2,162    2.331    2,355    2,4U        2.605    2,729    2,62    2.996    3.144    3.297    3,462       3,628
Less ckosing crediltus                            (.727)  (1.16)  (2,063)  (2,162)  (2.331)  (2.355)  (2,415)  (2,605)  (2,729)   (2,62)  (2.996)  (3,144)  (3,297)  (3.462)  (3.628)  (3,813)
Cap"al espendimure                                1.787   12,237   30,677   35,134   25,324   16.715    8.662    8.662    8.662    5.662    8.662    5,662    5,662    8.662    8.662         8.662
l r repaymecns                                       21        21       21       21        55       U        5U    1.207    2,212    2.914    3.202    3,238    3,200    3,145       3.068    2.972
liwest paid                                        162       113    2.605    2.423     1,7U8    1.S71    LOW2      1,696    1,587    1,474    1.360    1.241      1,116    1.001      896       803
[closing balance                                   1,914    4.746    5,129    5,943    7.749    7.959    8,566    8.122    7.,49    7.930    8,433    9,263   10,315   12.381    15.485   19,731
DJ m
t_n
0*
S.-.
'0



Northern Region                                                                                                                                    416/95 03.35 PM NORknlNEW XLS
1995/6   39967   1997/8   1996/9  I39/0   2000/1   2001/2   200213   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006f7   207/S   20A/9  20u9/10   2010/1
MK'0O3]   MK'O MKOGO   MODO  KMWODG  MK'O3D  MK'O    MKao0   M13000  W13                OOD 1(00   M1(000        MK'OOL    O MK301   MK'OUO  MK'1D0)
incme StJlemlsl
o ame                                   12.651   15,040   18.303   19,40   21,052   21,262   22.341   23.297   24,318   25,412   26.505   27.719   25,976   30.328   31.652   33,192
s   W nwas                                    6.097    5,317    5.368    5.487    5.601    5,668    5.758    5,846    5.9)2    5.960    6.020    6.053    6,147    6,215    6.256    6.360
andnmieune                               4.377    4.256    4,672    4,820    5,.34     3.167    54A4    5,762    6.052    6,366    6.613    7.034    7.393    7.783    8,137      8.614
Admu _aram general                                3,047      957   L3O04    3.033    1.071    3,04    1.124    1.161    3.395    1,233    1,270    1,312    1,354    3.400    1.446    1,497
Taalqpermaeg ee  ie                              113.21   30.530   11,044   11.338   11.786   11.919   12.366   12.769   13.149   13.558   13.973   14,428   14.94    15.396   15.910   16.471
oP"ud" P-MdUi                                     3.129    4.310    7.259    7.301    9,266    9,343    9.974   10.528   11.169   113.53   12,532   13.291   14.02   14,930   15.772   16,721
D  -ai                                            2,315    2.297    2,629    3,64    4.716    5.520    5,193    5.965    6,074    6,.61    6,244    6.325    6,403    6,471    6,553    6.621
uepid                                        362      113    2.405    2,423    1.7U 3     .871     .a.02    3.66    1.587    3.474    1.360    1.241    13.16    3.003       896      303
ece,vd                                              3      273      436      393       79      9g         9        99       39       82       79         D                89      303      323
pruul/Qgm)                                    (3.259)   2,370    2.463    2.006    2,841    2.051    2.375    2.945    3.597    4,300    5.007    5.805    6.647    7,539    *.426    9.420
-J
A-l
OQi
lb >
ol 
5-
0



Central Region                                                                              Page 2                                                            416195 0334 PM  Cl:N'IrNEW  XLS
1995/6   1996/7   1997/8   1998/9   1999/00   2000/1   2001/2   2002/3   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8   2008/9   2009/10   2010/1
MK'000  MK M000  MK'OUU  MK M000  MK M000  MK              MK' MK'000  MK'0   MK'O 000  MK M000  MK        MK'O MK   MK'O MK  MKO MK000   MKOUU   MKOOO
Key statistics
Sales volume
Urban piped 1.OOOEn3/yr                              2.693     2,934     3,702     4,194     4,709    4.740     4,906     5,074     5,252     5.433     5,608     5,819    6.017     6.227     6,450     6.678
Urban waler points 1,.00(n3/yr                          14        28        81       139       199      264       331       405       480       563      649       741       839       940     1,050      1.168
oLal consumption                                     2.706     2.962     3.783    4,333     4,908     5,004     5.236     5,479     5.732     5,996    6,257     6,560     6,856     7.167     7,501     7.845
Trr
Urban piped MK/n3                                     3.96      4.36      4.75      4.89      5 06      5.24      5.24     5.24      5.24      5.24      5.24      5.24      5 24     5 24      5 24      5 24
Urban WaF ponts MK/M3                                  100       110      1.20      1.24      1.28      1.32      1.32      1.32      1.32     1.32      1.32      1.32      1.32      1 32     1 32       1.32
arflu erem.                                            0%        10%       9%        3%        3%        4%        0%        0%       0%        0%        0%        0%        0%       0%        0 %       0%
Saks Iaoote (1II)                                    9.609    11,530    15,921   18,618   21,669    22.678    23.540    24,422    25,352    26,304    27,233    28,339    29,388    30.499    31.685    32.899
et Aieds (MKmI )                                   62.765    58,894    73.680    86,777    96.103   100.381   102.994   105,844   109.078   112.869   117,169   122.106   127,647   133.828   140,694   148,259
Dtb88oEquky ratio                                       0.7       1.0      0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       06       0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6       0 5       0.5       0.5
111mm der  dd +.Wu,
Retfwo asooat                                           *8%      -7%       -2%        0%       2%        2%        2%        3%        3%        3%        4%       4%        4%        5         5%        5%
urremt mAtwo                                          1.7       1.9       2.4       3.8       5.0       5.3      5.2       5.0       4.8       4.7       4.8       4.9       5.1      5 3       5 8       6 5
'V-Cs  tSJWuCl Iu.bmlew
togprord%                                       -25%        2%       24%       31%      37%       38%       38%       38%       39%       40%      40%       41%       41%       41%       42%       42%
ftProl                                             -51%     -34%       -8%        0%        9%        9%       10%       11%       13%      14%       16%       17%       19%       20%       22%       23%
_Coverage                                             66%       75%      93%       100%     110%      110%      111%      112%      115%      117%      119%     121%      123%      125%      128%      130%
(D (D
0
O~ -



Central Region                                                                           Page I                                                          4/6/95 03 33 PM  CENTRNIW  XLS
1995,6   1996(7   1997/S   1998/9  1999/00   200011   2001/2   2002/3   2003(4   2004/5   2005/6   2006/7   2O07(8   2008(9   2009V10   2010/1
MK'UODO 000  MIK000  MK0o0   MK'OO   MKWOO  MK'OOO                  000  MK0 MK0000 MK'ODO  MK'ODO  MK'DDO  MK'OU     MKo000  MK'OU
Bilance Shee                            37% of
DWSF
-ed mods
Nea fixed assa                           67,572   66.590   74,435   99.658  129.208  146,247   152.770  155,183   157.517  159,772  161.952  164,060  166.097  168,067   169,971  171.811   173.590
Lwrg  not"
stock                                       900      233       229      272       295      319       322      334       346      359       372      384      400       415      431       448       465
Accounts rccivabkc                        1.02    2,002    2.402    3,317    3.879    4.514    4,725    4,904         5,061    5,282    5.480    5.674    5.904    6.123    6.354    6.601        6,854
amlcash                                     396        0         0      610    3,434    6,236    7.064    6.975    6,867    6,503    6.584        6.997    7,692    8.392    9,536    11.488    14.277
otal                                      2.380    2.235    2,631    4,199    7.6C       11,070   12.131   12,213   12.301    12.143   12,435   13,055   13.996    14.930   16,321    18.537   21,596
L'd~ l
Accanspayable                               288      531       816      9n      1.054    1,140    1,150    1,191      1.234     1.280    1,328    1,373     1,429     1.482    1,538     1.599    1,661
Conmwr dqcpa                                 54      480      S57       796       931     1,063    1.134     1.177    1,221    1,268    1,315    1.362      1.417    1.469    1.525      1.584    1.645
Tsal                                       342    1,311    1,393      1.768    1.965    2.224    2.284    2.368      2.456    2,541    2,643    2,734    2.846    2.951    3,063       3.183     3.306
ADS/DWSF ban                              1.908     1.8I8 ll"68        1,.48    1.827    1,771     1,715    1,659    1,603    1,547      1.490    1,430     1.369    1,309     1.248     1.188     1.128
C4ideveI9mnIm le.n                              1.270    11.335   22,966   42,651   53,643   57.024   57.058   56.776   55,782   54.604   53,175   51.331   48.806   46,017   43.287    40.628
Workingcapital loan                                 1,590    3.576    3,576    3.576    3,576    3.497    3,318    3.139        2,960    2,781    2.607    2.441    2.284    2,136       1.997    1.866
Nd Ams                                   67.702   62,765   58,894   73,680   86,777    96.103   100,311   102.994  105,144   109.078   112.869   117,169   122,106   127,647   133,828   140,694   148,259           j
Fmnding _d rewrvs
Cam and contibiuuom                         515      515       515   16.569   29.666   37,022    39,239   39,560   39.723    3.723   39,723   39,723   39.723   39,723   39.723    39.723    39.723
isal assau rcvalusion                   65.223    65.223   65.223   65.223   65,223   65.223   65,223   65,223   65.223   65,223   65,223   65,223   65.223   65.223   65,223    65.223   65,223
iauedeanungs                          1.965   (2.973)  (6,844)  (S,112)   (S.112)   (6,142)   (4,080)   (1.789)     899    4,132     7,924   12,224    17,161   22.701    28,832    35.748   43.313
aSal                                    67.702   62,765   58.894    73.680   86,7    96.103  100,381   102,994   105.544  109,078   112.569   117.169   122,106  127,647   133,828   240,694  148,259
0.
'0



Central Region                                                                        Ps  3                                                        4/6/95 0133 PM CENTRNEWXIS
I W5/6   1996/7   197/8   199I69   1999100   2000/1   2001/2   20213   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8   2006/9  2009/10  2010/1
MKOO     K           DO M000  MKKOO   MICOO O MKO0G   MWOOD  MKO0D   MKODO  UKeoo    MOK O  MKO0O  MK-O0O   MK'OOO  MKO0D  MK00  MK'OOO
Cash Flow
0   I  M*hgct                                      396        0        0       630    3.434    6.236    7,064    6,975    6.567    6.503    6.514    6.997    7.692    5.392    9.536   11,4S1
9.609   11.530   15.921   16,618   21,669   22,675   23.540   24,422   25,352   26.3D4   27.233   28.339   29.31S   30.499   31.655   32,399
ocpe%debaon                                   1,062    2.002    2.402    3.317    3,879    4.514    4.725    4.04    5.06       5.282    5.410    5.674    5.904    6.123    6,354    6.601
cLmiq *Wws                                   (2.002)  (2,402)  (3.317)  (3,S79)  (4,514)  (4.725)  (4.904)  (S.0u)   (5.252)  (5.480)  (5.674)  (5.904)  (6,123) (b6354)  (6.601)  (6.85)
Gsa 0                                                       0   16,054   13.097    7.357    2,217       321       363       0         0        0        0        0        0        0         0
_rccived                                           6        0         a       23       46       79       86       3o        75       61       65       66       609      72        73       n
ommaswiw                                       1.270   10.065   11,6531   19.665   11.055    3,445     601      a"      1,139    3,503    1.423    3.009      314        0        0        0
w    capn loam                                  2,590    1.96         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0        0        0        0         0        0        0
rEmaEnpem                                     12,054   11,255   12,101   12.920   23,758   14,120   14,621   15,106   35.504   15,912   16.355   16.554   17.342   17,554   38,394    15.947
ei uak                                        (900)    (233)    (229)    (272)    (295)    (319)    (322)    (334)    (346)    (359)    (372)    (384)    (4w0)    (415)    (433)    (445)
c3mm imck                                      233       229      272      29       319      322      334       346      359      372      354      400      415      431       448      465           00
opemn_gediwxs                                  342    1,311    1,393    1,761    3.965    2.224    2,,64    2.361    2,456    2.545    2.643    2.734    2.546    2,953    3.063        3.833
ckuigCrediluvs                               (1.3ll)   (1,393)  (1.76)   (3965)   (2.224)  (2.254)  (2.368)  (2,456)  (2.54)   (2.643)  (2.734)  (2.546)  (2.953)  (3,063)  (3.183)  (3.306)
cilwnduic                                        1,270   10,065   27,704   32,871   21.346   11.397    7,506    7,506    7.s56    7.506    7.50      7.506    7.56    7.506    7.506    7.506
bnrcppaynems                                       20       20       20       20       120      199      102    1,314    2,361    2,917    3.066    3,079    3.056    2.995    2,930    2.S50
pacesapaid                                         326    1.397    2,606    2.399    1,650    1.701    3.621    1.537    1,439    1.342    1,245    1.146    1.031        934      537       750
W..Ubabaae                                          0        0      630    3,434    6,236    7.064    6.975    6,367    6,503    6.54    6.997    7,692    3.392    9.536    11.4118    4,277
0Q0 
'5(5
m D
x
0'



Central Region                                                                        Page I                                                       41/e/95 03 34 PM CENTRNEW XLS
1995/6   1996/7   1997/8   1998/9  1999/00   2000/I   2001/2   2002/3   2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8   2008/9  2009/10   2010/1
MKOO      '       K MK'OOO MK'000  MK'000  MK'000  MK'000  MIC000  MK000  MK'000  MK0OD   MK000  MK K000  MKt000  MKOLX           O MKC'000  MK'000
Income Statement
)peruiaglacoae                                   9,609   11.530   15,921   18,618   21,669   22.678   23,540   24,422   25.352   26,304   27,233   28,339   29.388   30,499   31.685   32,899
larai  E9e.dMure
Sales and wages                                   7.635    6,995    7,114    7.529    7.946    8,237    8,527    8.795    S.973    9,155    9,378    9.604    9.839   10,080)  10.327   10,581
Operalion and maintenance                         3.323    3,265    3,8U7    4,217    4.561    4.599    4,764    4.938    5,122    5.310    5.490    5.717    5.927    6,151    6.395    6,644
inisatiaongeneral                             1.096    1,026    1.100    1,175    1.251    1,284    1.329    1,373    1,409    1.447    1,487    1.532    1,577    1,623    1,672    1,722
olaoperatingca4cnditure                         12,054   11,285   12.101   12,920   13.758   14,120   14,621   15,106   15.504   15,912   16.355   16.854   17,342   17.854   18,394   18,947
iug prdbk/(Iom)                            (2,445)     245    3,820    5,698    7,911    8,558    8.919    9.317    9,848   10.392   10,878   11,485   12,046   12,645   13,291    13.952
Depreciawn                                        2,252    2,220    2,481    3,322    4,307    4.875    5.092    5.173    5.251    5,326    5,398    5,469    5,537    5,602    5,666    5,727
Irheresapaid                                       326    1,897    2.606    2,399    1.680    1.701    1.621      1,537    1.439    1.342    1,245    1,146    1,038      934      837       750
Inseres rereived                                    U6        0         0       23       46       79       86       80        75       68       65       66       69       72       78        89
praflld(dis)                                  (4,937)  (3,871)  (1.268)      0    1,970    2.062    2,291    2.687    3.234    3.792    4.300    4,937    5,540    6,181    6,866       7,565
1
-4
'00 
O  Ss
oS



Southern Region                                                                              Pace 1                                                             4/6195 03 36 PM  SPARTZOM  XLS
1995/6   1996t7   199171    19969   1999=0   20DOt    2OD1/2   20213    200314   20D4/5   2005/6   2006N 7    2007/8   20099   2009/10   2010/1
MK'000  MK000K MK'000   MK'OW   MK000   MKOo   MKOOD   MKOOG   IK0C   MK'OOG   UK'ODO   MK0OD0   MK0W0   MK000  MK'UIO   MK'ODD
Key statistics
"_m
Urbuapiped 1.00om3lyt                                5,429     5,23     6.4S6    6,837     7,207     7.379     7.818    8,317    8.s25      9.363    9,908    10,496    11,106    111754    12.437    13,141
U.baumwa pae_s Il.000I/yr                               22        45       102       162      225       286      364       440       520      605       694       792      390      1.001    1.113     1,235
wettmem ~ewase i.UOODL yr                            SI5       541       566      592       628       676       616      705       736       769      719       323       3ss      878       915       935
Urbt p*ied MKJI3                             4.04     4.04      4.36      4.90      6.23     6.23      6.23      6.23     6.23      6.23      6.23      6.23     6.23      6.23     6 23      6.23      6.23
UAinm     epaimmsKIM3                        1.00      1.00     1.0       1.21      1.54     1.54      1.54      1.54      1.54     1.54      1.54      1.54     1.54      1.54      1 54     1.54      1.54
fla6mmuwuage                               1.93      1.96     2.1       2.45      3.12      3.12     3.12      3.12      3.12     3-12      3.12      3.12      3.12     3.12      3.12      3 12     3.12
r      _eium                                           0% S      S        12%      27%        0%       0%        0%        0%        0%       0%        0%        0%       0%        0%        0%        0%
k1mm 4MKU6                                      20.65    23.932    29,958    40,239   42,503    43.616    46,287    49.247    52.292    55,520    58.755    62.296    65.954    69.783    73,878    78.056
Amins MKgII                                      54.169   67.309   117.373   169.S30   190,618   195.040   196.073  203.74S  212,266  223,745   236,159   255.714   276,482  300,564   328,131   359,240
iswqwycld                                          0.4       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.6      0.6       0.6       0.5       0.5      0.5       05        0.5
CD
miBws                                            -7%      -5%       -6%       0%        IS%        %        2%        3%       4%        5%        6%       7%        s%        8%       S%        9%               O
WNd am
C_tr                                                   1.7       1.9      2.0       3.9       5.6       5.7      6.2       6.3       6.1      6.1       6.6       7.5       3.9     10.6      12.6      14.9
.fe muem; hA~
Uprldgr   %                         s4S                          19%       32%      43%       49%       49%      50%       52%       53%       54%      55%       56%       57%      58%       59%       59%
NZ Ptak S                                             -13%      -14%      -25%       0%        4%        3%       7%       12%       16%       21%      25%       Zs%       31%       35%      37%       40%
Co wea                                                  M5%      U8%       30%     100%      104%      103%      107%     113%      119%      126%      133%     139%      146%      153%     160%       166%
P} m
0aG 
o 



Southern  Region                                                                               34p1                                                                4/6/95 03 35 PM  SPARTZOM XlS
299/6       996/?7   1997/3   1996/9   1999WW    2501/1   2001/2   2002/3   200314    20D4/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/1    21)/9   2009/10   201WI
MKIUW    UKOCM b4K'000  MK'ODD  MK'ODD  MKC000  MK000   M41ODD  M4O0O  MK1(00    MK'OSO   MKWOS0   MK'OW    MKOL5U  MK000   MKOUO
Balance Sheet                             27% of
DWSF
Nfid agias                              57,855    60,360   106.393   245,506   363,470   410.105   415.103   415,415   412.322   410.312   407.337   405,542   403.275   401,064   398.966   396.915  394.939
hocst                                        675       sc6       419       535       553      573       591       629       672       717       765       313       566       920      975      1.039     1.101
rcceivablc                            312     4.306     4.166     6.241    8.363      3.655     9,101     9.643    Io.2     10.394    11.567    12,241    12.978    13,740    14.539    15,391    16.262
an cas                                    299        0         0         0      6.533    14.094    14.559    18,242    19.,6    19.779    21.377    25,601    32.950    43.748    55,259    76,37    99.392
1,785    4.812     5.474     6.776    15.524    23.523    24.551   23.515    30.534    31.391    33.709   38,654    46.794    58.408    73.306    93,237   116.755
pa| shk                              2216      3.37     1.745     1.910     2.975     2,047     2.110     2.248     2.401     2,561    2.731     2.902     3.092     3,236     3.492     3.711     3.933
der_ u s                              41      1.033     3.397     3.4"     2.012     2.125     2.1Z4     2,314     2.462     2.615     2.776     2,931     3.115    3.296     3,489     3.694     3.903
r.j                                          257     2.641     2.942     3.407     3.967     4.172     4.294     4.563     4.663     5.175     5,507     5S340     6,207    6.5S4     6.961    7.404      7.336
DWSFb_                                  1.431     1,416     3.401     1.316     1.373     1.322     1.216    3,244     1.202     2,.60     1.113     2On       1.027      962       936       391        846
sdhickpaM loan                                  4.433    35,455   121.060   199.754   223.45    233.096   231,325   225.272   215.234   203,.61   192.206   180.640   169.376   i53.612  148.419   133,a09
Wincspss  los                                        2.313     4,258     9.052     9.052    9.052     5.936     8.723    8,270      7.518    7,365      6,913     6,432     6.069     5.678     5.310    4.964
Asids                                   57.953    54.169    67.09   117.378   369.330   190.618   195.040   196.078   203.741   212,266   223.745   236,159   255.714  276.452   300.564   328.131  359,240
od rewries
G    id comr.bulms                     7,562     7.562    24,533    81,641   134.093   153,219  156,432   156.432   356,432   156,432   156.432   156,432   156.432   156.432   156.432   156.432   156,432
=medsets revalusaion                      48.917    48,917   48.917   48.917   43,917   41.937   41.917   48.917   48,917    41.917   41.917    4,917   41,917   48.917   46.917    48.917   43.917
R eamaiws                            1.473    (2,310)   (5.691)  (13,1D3)  (13,1J3)  (11.519)  (10.306)   (7.271)   (1.601)    6,917   13.396    32.510   50,365    71.133    95.215   122.753   153.391
57.953    54.169    67.09   117.376   169.330   190,618  395.040   196.075   203.746   212.266   223,745   233,159   255.714  276.482   300,564   325.131   359.240
OQ s
(D 



Southern  Region                                                                                                                                                    4/6195 03.35 PM  SPARTZOM.XLS
1995/6   1996/i   1997/U   1994/   I999a0   2000/I    2001in    20023    2003/4   2004/5   2005/6   2006D7    2007/8   200W/9   2009/10   2010/1
MWK'OD  MKODO   MKe000   MKOODO   MK'000  MKOOD  MK'O00   MX o1                 W O MK'O00    MK0000 MK'000    MK'OCO    KODD  MK00JU  MKOUO   MK'OO
Baance Shein                              27% of
DWSF
bawd anf
No fied auds                               57.855    60.360   106.393   245,506   361.470   410.105   418.103   415.418  412.U22   410.312   407,K7   405,542   403.275   401,064   396,966   396.918   394,939
eck                                          675       s06       419       535       553       573      591       629       672       717       765       313       866       920       976     1.039     1.101
neivable                              612     4.06      4.956     6.241     8.363     SA55      9,101     9.643    10.260    10.89     11.567    12.241    12.978    13.740    14.539    15.391    16.262
I    and C"                               299        0         0         0     6.SU    14.004   14.&59    18.242    19.602    19.779    21,377    25.601    32.950    43.746    58.289    76.807    99.392
rA                                          1.7K5    4.812     5.474     6.776    15.524    23.523    24055I   26.515    30.534    3I.391    33.709    38.654    46,794    58.406    73106    93.237   116.755
payabk                                216     1.607     1.745     1.910     1.975     2.047     2.110     2.248     2.401     2,561     2,731    2.902     3.092     3,286     3.492     3.711     3.933
ed poski                              41      1.033    1.1 7     1.496     2.012     2.125     2.184     2.314     2.462     2.615     2,776     2.938     3.115    3,296     3.469     3.694     3.903
257     2.641     2.942     3,407     3.97      4.172    4.294     4.563     4.663     5.175     5.507     5.640     6,207     6.514     6.961    7,404      7.836
km   oai
loDWSIon                                1.431     1.416    1,401      1.366     1.371     1.328    1,216     1.244     1,202     1.160     1,116     1.072     1.027      962       936       691       646
drvclipechi oan                                 4,433    35.458   121.060   199.754   228,458   233.096   231.325   225.272   215.214   203.661   192.206   180,640   169.376   158.612   148,419   138.609
Wiag capiU Iaoa                                      2.313     4.258     9.0s2    9.052     9.0e2     8.936    8,723    6,270       7,618     7.365     6.918     6.42    6.069     5.678     5.310     4.964
ANds                                    57.953    54.169    67,.9   117.378   169,0    190,618   195.040   196.078   203.74S   212,266   223.745   235,159   255.714   276.482  300.564   328,131   359,240
t--
g andW rerves
G nd comrbulwns                        7.562    7.562    24,.53    61.641   134.093   153.219   156.432   156.432   156.432   156.432   156.432   156.432   156.432   156,432   156.432   1S6.432   156.432
ied      revaluaiion                      48.917    4u.917    4,6917    4U.917    46.917    48.917    48.917    48.917    4u.917    48.917    4u,917    48.917    4U.917    48.917    48.917    48.917    48.917
wmarnps                              1,473    (2.310)   (5.691)  (13.130)  (13.160)  (11.519)  (10.306)   (7.271)   (1,601)    6.917    16,396    32,810    50,36S   71.133    93.213   122.783   153.891
regal                                      57.953    54.169    67.09   117.378   169630   190,618   1939040   196078   203,74    212.266   223.745   236,I"   255,714   276,462   300,564   326.131   359.240
O0
o



Southern  Region                                                                             Pagc 3                                                             4/6/95 03 35 PM  SPARTZOM  XLS
199516    99WW7    1997,g   199819   1999)00   200W1    2001/2    203    2003/4   20D4/5   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8   200)19   20W11/0   201010
MKCOO   MKMKDO  MK0K' MKMK' MKMKW MK'MK'O MKMKW0 MKOW    WOOD  MICOO   MKOODO   MK'000  MK'000  MK'WO    MK'OUO    MK'000
A.c.e Slateesil
1 1   Ic_e                                 20.668    23,932    29,958    40,239   42,50S    43.686   46.217    49.247    52,292    55.520   58,755    62.296   65.954    69.78    713,78    78.056
W dwa                                         12.304    10.655    10,756    11.074    lI.lff    11,630 IV 11,2    12.109    12.27    12.350    12,476    i2.605    12.739    12,77    13.022    13,165
Ed mau       eua                                7.229    6.91      7,638     7.900     8,16     8.439     J993      9.604    10.242    10.922    11607    12.367    13.144    13.966    14.,42    15.732
*_ _ 1                                     --  I.ff3      1.764    1."       33"7      I,ffS    2,0D7     2,087     2.171    2.247     2.327     2.40      2.497    2.5U      264       2,786     2.890
r p          .....apsumia-e                        21.43     19.39    20.233    20.17    21.540    22.076    22.11U    23,1U     24.716   25.599    26.491   27.469   28.471   29.528    30,651   31.767
p°   -46                                     ga)    4.533    9.724    1936    20Q.'   21.610   23.324    25.364    27.576    29.921   32.26           34.827    37.413    40,260   43.228    46.269
D                                               31.92    2.012    3154       .3I3W    12.22    13.670    13.937    311,47    13.761    13.677    13.5%    13.518   13.443    13.369   13.299    13.231
POW                                            3.303     5.901    13367    13.1U4     7.110    6.W9      6.530    6.056      5.513    4.972     4.465     3.997     3.570    31,4      2,338     2.528
eumawed                                          64         0         0         0        U       179       3o3       210      213       20X       212      242       2         376       477       596
1p     _  -81,794)   (33.3                                           (7.43"        0     I.,6f     1,230    3.037     5,.70      ,SIS    11.479    14,415    17.554   20.76    24.082    27.567    31,10
039
1"h
O-



Lilongwe                                                                                                 Page I                                                                            4bt395 0u 37 FM  I Ii (KNIW XKS
1994/5    I195/6      Iw97n         97/8     I99W39     199m        2000/1      2001/2      200213    200314    2004/5      2005/6      2uo6n      2W718      2008/9     2009/10
MKI'OU     MK'    MK/ OO    MK'Q0M MI /OO    MI/ODO                  MI/OO    MI/O          M MKI/OO    M/KOOO    M/K'OW        MI/OO   MKI/O      MKIOI7)    MK'OW       MK'OW
Key statistics
JUbam p   1 ,OiKlm3/yr                                13.307     13.754      14,132     14,670      15.245     15,10      16,7t3      17,825     13,913    20,067     21,291      22.624     24.004      25.469     27.022      28,670
Ir    _    _  I.,OO3/yr                                   0           0         42         176        320         472         625        306        9"8      1,183      1,385       1,600      1.836      2.071       2,335      2.615
Wuucbe  wwc   I.COOUyr                                  2.094      2.275      2.450       2,634      2.804       3.030       3,319      3.411       3.302     3.592      3.1713      3.iQ0      3.184      4.003       4,122      4.241
T
_it  p     4Kow   M  1.1 3.11                           3.11        ,11        4.66       5.13   S.     U 5.2 3              3.2 5       .2S  5.25  5.25 5.25  5.25  S. 2.2                                5.         5.25        3.25
itmh p'_M  MI/J                              1.57       1.?7      13.7         2.35       2.59        2.65       2.63        26          2.65       2.65      2.65        2.65       2.65       26          2 65       2.65        2.6S
Wauburn mcp                                  1.45        1.45       1.4S       2.16        2.38       2.44        2.44        2.44       2.44        2.44      2.44       2.44        2.44       244        2.44        2.44       2.44
ra       _0%                                                         0% os       os         los         2S         0%          0%          aS         0S        0%         OS          OS         0%          0%         OS          0%
'        _0SlS3                                   39,96      41.456     44.105      73,79      79.002      U,532       U8,090      93,69      9,469   105,587    112.121      119,130    126,402    134,165    142,334    151.107
NA deIS8S                                        13.126    137.f        175S3    186,761       136,761    190.6o       200,6i2    217.053    240.456   271.S02    310960    39.444    415,029    477.995    548.629    627.265
1f4t   s_ alu    row0.4                                          0.5        0.6        0.6         0.6        0.6         0.6         0.6        0.6       o.5         03         05         0.3         0.3        0.5         0.5
tan *.y
1_a m                                             *l7%       -34%        -24S       -IOS         0%          2S          5S%          s        10%       [IS        13%         13%        13%         13%        113%        13
FM"                                                     0.3         0.1        0.1        0.1         0.1        0.1          0.2        0.2        0.3       0.5         2.7        6.3         9.7       13.3        17.0       20.8 3
peS                       *                     36%        36%         57%        61%        62S         62S         63%         64S        65%       65%        66%         66%        67%        6%          6%S         68%
emm%                                                 -77%      -111%        67%S       -2%          0%          5S         11%         US         24%       29S        35S         41%        44%        47%         50%         52%
Coveora                                                 56S        47%         60%        tes        30     os  105%        313%        121S       131S      142%        154S       169S         t87%      InSB        198%       209%
0/'7
OQ 0
in m
Ln 
0



-85-                                      Annex 4.1
Page 16 of 19
_e 4Nn          v                        if   i f,a
s f lR  g            v      .    .      2          . 
>,  i1   s     >^;    *   -             ¢  i-t
i~    ~      ~                     if gq    if, - N -         
^~~f                         -   if,   to| _ }    
0'    R      -  -r     S -       k   qo *|*
'80    e    @if*~   i0f-if,            S    iS2
8~~ -     5 tBR    
:~~ -                             if    -   R   -  '    S 8-
*                               NX --    3    _     _~  N 
I g                      _       ;x '    -  'f
3 ~~ i                                  I ;j1   1!t21l 



Lilogwe                                                                                                  Pqc 1                                                                            416/95 03 37 PM  I 11 UNI-W XLS
1994/5     Is5s/6     1W          1997/93/   199         999100     200/I       200/2       200213    2003/4    200s4/S       0/b       2oo.n      200718    2A/WN       20o9/10
.MKOW       MKOO    MK 4K0 K0 M4K OD0              MK e    KODo    MK Ogo        1K'MODMKK0    4K'0D0    M14K000   61(000    14K'OD0    14KWO    MK 183    4K  O           4K(UOO
Flow
311    130.71t)   (72,156)  1115,062)   1133.141)  (131.177)   (124,t93)   1121.737)   (94.022)  (U.26S)   (34.U27)        7,042     51.92      99,727    155.9ub    220.16
39.s99     41.49      64,100      73,ns9     79.002      12.532      uWoso      93692        9.46s9   10557     112,121    119.130    126.402     14.165    142384    151.107
rP_e _w                                            5,4V        8.327      8.637      13.355     15.366      16.459      17,194     15.332      19,519    20.723     119n7      23.359      24,19     26.334     27.nf       29.663
.m dos" debh s                                        (&3IZ)     (67)   (13.355)   (15,366)   (16.459)    (17.194)    (15.352)   (19519)    (20,7233  (21,997)   (23.359)    (24,19)   (26.334)   (217.951)    (29.463)    (31MAO1
a          0 e     0.394     29.9"           0           0           0          0           0         0          a           0          0          a           a          0
_  inved                                            67          0          0           a          0           0           0          0           0         0          0          67        46)        836       1,275       1.715
10,010    116.917     94.959      57.320     (0.000      10,000      (0,010     10.000      I0.000    10.00D     I0.000      3.458          0           0                      O 0
EF~c                                          25.399     26.401      27,291 21,436          29.19      31,033      32.440      33. 2      35.207    36,693      38.299     39.956     41.749      43,634     45.632      47.747
A_oU9     mck                                        (3,05)       (99)        (969)     1.044)     (1.116)    (1.192)      (3.274)    (1.360      (1,442)   (1.352)    (1.918)    (1.715)    (ISIS)      (1.924)    (2.039)     (2160)
d                                                    93                    1044       1.116       1.192      1.274       1.360       1.442      1,52      1.611       1,715      1.515      1.924      2,039       2.140       2U.29
r_ _A ._                                            9,777      5.31        5.0         .935      1.67n       8,207       8.676       9,261      9,83A    10.430      11,058     11.730     12,449      13,193     13.990      14.U34
do    uingI                                        (5.353)    (5.45)    (6.935)    (7.672)    (5.W0         (a.676)     t.216)      (9.86)   (10.430)  (O1.05)   (11.730)   (12,449)   (13,193)   (13.990)    ((4,834)    (13.729)
*    2e                                            10.000    116.97    m253          t7          10.00       10.000      10.00     (0.00      10,000    (0.000     10.000      10,000     20.000     10.OD      10,000     10.00
L_ E3U                                             6.731      6.94       12.39      212s       23.31       22.650      22.017      21.416     20,545    20.303      1.781      19.299     (S.507      17.531     (6.702    1(.867 
P_ d                                            33.94      49.492        .445      9.3        23399      22.217      20.817      19.m       16."4    14,46       11,390      1.175      7.397       6,692      6.055       5,47I
C  b.Lwc                                          (30.714)   /72,156)  (l15,62)  (133,141)   113L,l7)   (124.393)   (112,737)   (94,022)    64.265)  (34,M           7,042     31.392     99.727    (55.9D6    220.116    292.563
ro
o -



tiA   gwe                                                                                              ta.  I                                                                         4/W   03317 PM 11IA3NtW XKS
199435     195/6      19960      1997/6     1990       1999D0      2000/1     211112      Z00213    2D03/4    200415      2005/67 f             2007/1     20W49      2009/10
MK'OUO    MK(553    MK'OOO    UK'UOO    MEK'OW          MKOW       MKOW        MKO0G    MK100       MK100       WOD    MK1000 K1K'O0            MK1000    MK'OO0    MK'OU0
4 _                                         39,96      41.456     64.105      73.75      79.002     U2.532       3.090     93.692     99.469   105,57    112.121      119.130    12.402    134,165    142.134    151.107
of                                             9.679      9.572       9.9        9.916      9.963      10.014      10,046     10.122     IO,IU    10,245      10.313     10,333     10.462     10.539     10.624      10,714
ad_a_me                                     13.411     14.129     14.921      15,937     17.028     1.1Y3       19.425     20.607     21.525    23,113     24.495     25,96      27.493      29,129     30.,00     32.693
P,_                                      I 3113     14011       2.451      2.1S5      2.61,      2821         2.99       3,073      3.201     3.336      1,461      3.635      1.795      1.9b       4.147       4,341
ad q.u.  e2admrt                                    25339      26.401     27.291      25.43J     29.61      31,033      32,440     33,002      35.207    36.693    3.29        39.996     41,749     43.634     45.632     47.747
14.570     IS.0       3,S14      45.320     4f,112     51.90       55.649     59,591      64,262    6,34       73.32      79.144     54.652     90,531     96.752    103.360
11,9      11.5W4     15,106     23,76      25.913     25,383      24,70      24,374     23.395    23,432     22.954     22.552     22.133     21.729     21.335      20.960
POW                                            33.941     49.492     64.44      39.93       23139      2Z.217      20.S17     19.05S     16,964    14,416     11.390      *.175      7.397      6.692       6.055      5.478
ureiv.i                                           67           S          9          0          0          a           0           a          0        0           0         67        463        356       1.275      1.715
00.953     (46.0031)   l42.737)   (3.440w        (0      1,89        9.362      16.431     23.403    31.046      9.455     45.453     1535.6     62.96      70,634      75.636
(OW
-4
.s~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
<7 >
c0 
O 



Blantyre                                                                                      Plap                                                                   4/6195 03 39 PM  BLANTYR.XLS
1994/I   1995/6   19967    191          19      1999/00   2000/1   2001/2   20D2/13   2003/4   2004/S   2005/6   2006/7   2007/8    20U8/9    2009/ 10
MK0U1   MK'OD    MCK'OD   MK'QOW   UK'000   MK'ODO  MK'ODD  MK'000  MK'ODD  MY'OO  MK'000  14hK'OD    MK'OOO  1A1(O0O   MK 'O                       1 M4K'OOD
Key statticsls--
ub_*pid I,Ol.0(iyr                                 16.024    17.295   JS.16    20.224    21.465    22.813    23.704    24.630   25,623    26.694   27.800    28.961    30.245    31.600     33,.07      34,519
Ur  Aip_        I.ODDmyr                                0        0        48       2Q0       391       594       607     1.032    1.274     1,534     1.06      2.069    2.399    2.721       3.064       3.426
au6mucewwrage I.COOOLyr                            2.4W      2.684     2.876    3.061    3.322      3.552     3,710     3.674    4,011    4,115      4.329     4.474    4.621    4,813       4.965       5.11S
Urbsap*1 MK/m3                              4.40      4.40      4.64      5.2S      5.2S     5.28      528       5.2       1        5.2S      5.28      5.2U      .28      528       528        5.28        5.2S
du  p.p MK/a3                              £.00      l.00      1.10     1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20      1.20     1.20      1 20      1 20      1.20      1 20     1.20      1 20       1.20        1 20
W iarmaewa   MK/L                         2.20      2.20      2.42      2.64      2.64     2.64      2.64      2.64      2.64      2.64     2.64      2.64      2.64      2.64     2.64        2.64        2.64
rw rl.mm                                              0%    £05    9%    Os    0%    Os    0%    Os    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%    0%                                                          0%          0%
S koa (M11                                     61.342    81.137   96,3Q1   103.63S   110,319   117.490   122.329   127.457   132,668   138451   144.341   150,604   157.294   164,537    171.956    £79,695
Amkd(MKUI6                                      406,254   391,995   395,228   412,S39  438.3f    470.324   505.164   543.404   585,027   630.295  679,201   731,891   7S8.543   849,412    914.527   984.114
is Kq4Ay r,d.                                      0.7       0.8       0.6      0.3       0.8       0.3       0.8      0.3       0.6       0.7       0.7      0.7       0.7       0.7        0.7         0 7
1 o _  *mn                                       .6%      -4%        1S        4%       6%        7%        7S        7%        7%       7%        7%        7%        7%        7%         7%          7%
prtdWNP Mv-l
'also                                           0.7       0.6       1.2      3.0       4.4       5.7       7.0       1.4      9.7      11.1      12.5      13.9     15.3      166         18.0        193
:)1^iE%                                          25%       33%      41%       42%       43%       44%       45%      45%       46%       46%       46%       47%      47%       47%         48%         48%
PreIks                                             -35%     -.1%        3%       17%       24%       27%      28%       30%       31%       33%      34%       35%       36%       37%        38%         39%
meweage                                            74%      15%      103%      120%      131%      137%      140%     143%      146%      149%      151%      154%     156%      159%       161%         163%
OQ  DJ
tD {D
00 3
X
vo -



-89-
Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 2
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Summary
Environmental Impact Assessment
Zomba - Upper Mulunguzi Dam
I.    Introduction. An environmental study, entitled EIA Zomba Upper Mulunguzi Dam, was
undertaken from November 1989 to November 1990. A report and extensive Executive
Summary were provided by the consultants, Lahmeyer International Consulting Engineers, and
are held in the Project Files. This Annex summarizes this information.
2.    Initial results from technical studies. Raw water for the city of Zomba is drawn from the
Mulunguzi River on the Zomba Plateau. The yield from the existing dam and reservoir,
constructed in 1950, has not been adequate to meet demand for some years, and is far short of
projected future needs. Based on the results of feasibility studies, a staged development was
indicated. This consisted first of a new dam at an upper site not far below the river's head, and,
later, a higher dam downstream of the existing dam, which would inundate the existing structure
in a new and larger reservoir. The feasibility studies, which included three alternative dam sites
and four alternative operational schemes, found that this staged approach, incorporating the dam
at the upper site as the first stage, would cost much less than any of the other alternatives
considered.
3.    The Upper Mulunguzi Marsh. The new reservoir proposed at the upper site would cover
about 85% of the Upper Mulunguzi Marsh, a flat marshy, grassy depression. The Marsh covers
an area of about 26.5 hectares, at altitudes from 1,721 m.a.s.l. in the center to 1740 m.a.s.l. at the
edges, surrounded by an area of fringe natural forest and shrub of 13.9 hectares. The marsh
consists of a thick layer of organic material covered by a floating carpet of grass vegetation. It is
of great ecological importance as a natural reservoir which minimizes discharge variations in the
upper course of the Mulunguzi River, and is a habitat for a diverse vegetation, not particularly
rich in species, but with a very high percentage (over 40%) of rare species, as well as a number
of species not yet found elsewhere in Malawi. The invertebrate fauna is different and in many
instances distinct from other marshy locations on the Zomba Plateau, and may be a unique
biotope in Malawi and neighboring countries.
4.    Effects of impoundment. The marsh in its present state ( i.e. its biotic conditions and
characteristic plant communities) will die as a result of impoundment, with loss of its existing
biota, including the populations of species that are rare and possibly unique. The areas that
would not be inundated are in fact connected hydraulically to the large area that would be, and
the existing biota of these areas would be lost also. Under the characteristic marsh nitrogen/
phosphorous/ oxygen regime, a large organic load has been preserved in the marsh area. It is
highly likely that this will be released on impoundment, resulting in a subsequent eutrophication
of the reservoir. The oxygen balance, both in the reservoir and in the river downstream, will
remain negative for an extended period as a result of the decomposition processes, with changes
in oxygen content that may be lethal for higher animals such as fish and Crustacea. Both the
nitrogen and phosphorous concentrations will increase substantially. The band of evergreen



-90-
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 2
forest lining the banks of the Mulunguzi River is a result of long-tenn interactions of several
ecological and environmental factors and processes dependent on the availability of abundant
moisture both in soil and air. Several species will not be able to adapt to the altered conditions,
and will be competed out or otherwise eliminated.
5.   BRcmmendations, It is recommended to erect a new dam downstream of the existing
dam able to provide sufficient water for Zomba City and the rural areas. This new location
implies the following advantages:
*  The water quality will not be effected.
* The population of Zomba City and the rural area will not experience water shortages.
*  The Upper Mulunguzi Marsh will not be destroyed.
*  The water flow in the 7 km long river bed on the Zomba Plateau will not be changed.
* No additional investigation for the environmental aspects will be required. For
necessary future statements in the Design Report for the lower dam site, all field data
and criteria are already available.
*  There are no restrictions expected from the ecological and environmental point of
view for the construction of the dam at the lower site.



-91-
Annex 4.3
Page I of I
MALAWI
NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMENT
DOCUMENTS IN PROJECT FILES
1.     Water Resources Management Policy and Strategies including an Executive Summary.
2.     Environmental Assessment Report on Zomba Dam.
3.     Supplementary Report on Zomba Dam at New Site.
4.     DWSF Assets Valuation Study.
5.     Water Sector Services Study.
6.     Project Document.
7.     Water Resources Act.
8.     Act Establishing the Blantyre Water Board.
9.     Act Establishing the Lilongwe Water Board (Lilongwe Waterworks Act, 1986).






IBRD 26411'
MAL[AWI
The boundories, colors,           \    9                                            NATIONAL WATER DEVELOPMlENT PROIECT
denominators ond  any                                                                                      L Location  Map
other information shown
,   on  this  mop   do   not                                                                     'Water Resources Unit Boundaries
intply, on  the  port of
The World  Bonk  Group,
any judgment on the legal                                                                               0      e *   Ct ['ii AT INs
status  of any  territory,                               1 7      \                                                         t
or  any  endorsemetnt                              x                         j
or acceplonce of such                                   ihlu., F             a ,S                          Wit  Rf tt-ltRCt nREAt
boundaries.
1 |I   S    t  \   IMRr It\i LL [PINt, RI
*a-                i                                2              A KAkr ( H [VA
Rrh                                         3            SOALUTH *   I LES[ifORE
,  ,    ,    ,    ,  ' \.  ,NRTtAERN2i::      'N              4  17      I LlNIHIPt
iil   1  -     /S  89  7    rS   01i        , X   Lake  "_               5             BELA
¢so    -   .. sLh a6            _  ] FIW A Nr.
1..          1RFtorot           it                       - r  t 7   ZI] 'iL [H Reti IiRLJ  NORTH Ri MPH
t     -16  F-6~,
k5rnel                K                  1,,                            Chgbe'+ / 1) 8  NO RjIiH R; I t. 11RH1
t  o    .      p             /(. r~~~~~AL.AWtI: 
,         |>u  z >l;grl           9         'S~ ( }4N ,VIE .L LTIIR A
\_   '9'\  \    (         ,            1 1 |       | ~~~~~~~L AKE (HI IILI'A
?   9                                  ~~~~     ~    ~~~~~~~12    L K.LIMA I'LANLI
fv    L   zo HA Malrwi
6 , .          .  s      +      .sr      \                  13              HIt.tt LA tSLAND
15    N,,HATA  tK§ITA [AKutS-toIt
16            NKHAIA -it LAKtSHOIRE
f               > + v s... L.. .                                7'           FAI,N, 'o   IHO
nit tAt~ ~~~~~~~t  J
NAIKN*  : -A[ s.ITAL
-    C IHIN H       .1 ,No4DCtZ5F
IN-Tc NttstIi NAL Ii    t                                                                   00 n AI ,.:;
A ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~d iii  ,            4uWi.1A                                                                                            I\UR !4.                          , \     7FA[i(   Ae9rR
Wr 4 85 o c <X4 s. > e . e <. + );, ,_
b_  -4sg+>.,+><,g46s  o 4 4e o 4EGI
A    .4*v.  ' o+o+^^o.    
R\^ERS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~AIA\ 1  .9 09 5 .









IMAGING
Report No;       13189 MAI
Type: SAR



