Page  1
                                                             CONFORMED COPY
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2753 MAI
                         Development Credit Agreement
                    (National Water Development Project)
                                   between
                             REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                                     and
                    INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                           Dated November 1, 1995
                                                     CREDIT NUMBER 2753 MAI
                        DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 1, 1995, between REPUBLIC OF
MALAWI (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
(the Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Association has received a letter dated May 31,
1995, from the Borrower describing a program of actions,
objectives and policies designed to improve water supply
services in rural and urban areas and to reform the regulatory
framework for the subsector (hereinafter called the Program)
and declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution of the
Program;
      (C)   part of the Project will be carried out by Lilongwe
Water Board (LWB), with the Borrower's assistance and, as part
of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to LWB a
portion of the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this
Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter
Page  2
alia, of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower
upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and
in the LWB Project Agreement of even date herewith between the
Association and LWB;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                               ARTICLE I
                     General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the modifications thereto set forth below
(the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this
Agreement.
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
            "Except as the Association and the Borrower shall
otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be made: (a) on account
of expenditures in the territories of any country which is not
a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or services
supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any
payment to persons or entities or any import of goods, if such
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Association is
prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council
taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "MLGRD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Local
Government and Rural Development;
      (b)   "MIWD" means the Borrower's Ministry of Irrigation
and Water Development;
      (c)   "WRB" means the Borrower's Water Resources Board,
established pursuant to the Water Resources Act, (Cap. 72:03 of
the Laws of Malawi);
      (d)   "NWB" means Northern Region Water Board;
      (e)   "CWB" means Central Region Water Board;
      (f)   "SWB" means Southern Region Water Board;
      (g)   "LWB" means Lilongwe Water Board established pursuant
to the Lilongwe Waterworks Act, (Cap. 72:04 of the Laws of
Malawi);
      (h)   "BWB" means Blantyre Water Board established pursuant
to the Blantyre Waterworks Act, (Cap. 72:02 of the Laws of
Malawi);
      (i)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated September 1, 1992,
September 28, 1992, January 5, 1995 and January 30, 1995
between the Borrower and the Association;
      (j)   "MIWD Special Account" means the account which the
Borrower may open and maintain for MIWD pursuant to Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (k)   "NWB Special Account" means the account which the
Page  3
Borrower may open and maintain for NWB pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (l)   "CWB Special Account" means the account which the
Borrower may open and maintain for CWB pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   "SWB Special Account" means the account which the
Borrower may open and maintain for SWB pursuant to Section 2.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (n)   "LWB Special Account" means the account which the
Borrower may open and maintain pursuant to Section 2.02 (b) of
this Agreement;
      (o)   "Special Accounts" mean the accounts referred to in
subsections (j), (k), (l), (m) and (n) above and in Section
2.02 (b) of this Agreement, and "Special Account" means each
and every such account;
      (p)   "NWB Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and NWB pursuant to Section
3.01 (c)(i) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the NWB
Financing Agreement;
      (q)   "CWB Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and CWB pursuant to Section
3.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the CWB
Financing Agreement;
      (r)   "SWB Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and SWB pursuant to Section
3.01 (c)(iii) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and includes all schedules to the SWB
Financing Agreement;
      (s)   "LWB Financing Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and LWB pursuant to Section
3.01 (c)(iv) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from
time to time, and includes all schedules to the LWB Financing
Agreement;
      (t)   "Financing Agreements" mean collectively the NWB
Financing Agreement, CWB Financing Agreement and SWB Financing
Agreement and "Financing Agreement" means each and every such
agreement.
      (u)   "LWB Project Agreement" means the agreement between
the Association and LWB, of even date herewith, as the same may
be amended from time to time and such term includes all
schedules and agreements supplemental to the LWB Project
Agreement;
      (v)   "Water Board" means NWB, CWB, SWB or LWB;
      (w)   "Implementation Manual" means the comprehensive
manual for the implementation of all components of the Project
referred to in paragraph 7 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement;
      (x)   "Performance Agreement" means each of the agreements,
satisfactory to the Association, to be entered into by the
Borrower with NWB, CWB, SWB and LWB, respectively, referred to
in paragraph 6 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; and
      (y)   "EIB Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and the European Investment
Bank (EIB) to finance the Third Lilongwe Water Supply Project.
                           ARTICLE II
Page  4
                           The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the
Borrower, on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to
in this Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent
to fifty million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 50,300,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be
withdrawn from the Credit Account in accordance with the
provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures
made (or, if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in dollars five special deposit accounts in
a commercial bank for use by MIWD, NWB, CWB, SWB and LWB on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association, including
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure or attachment.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall
be made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 6 to this
Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
Account and pay to itself the amount required to repay the
principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn
and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges
thereon. The unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of
the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be canceled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the
Association a commitment charge on the principal amount of the
Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by
the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed
the rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date)
to the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by
the Borrower from the Credit Account or canceled; and (ii) at
the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the
accrual date or at such other rates as may be set from time to
time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set
as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next
payment date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such
places as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii)
without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the
territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified
in this Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions or in such other eligible currency or
currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected
pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4
of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall
be payable semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each
year.
Page  5
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in
semiannual installments payable on each April 15 and October 15
commencing October 15, 2005 and ending April 15, 2035. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on April
15, 2015 shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount,
and each installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of
such principal amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product
per capita, as determined by the Association, shall have
exceeded $790 in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive
years, and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent
to the review and approval thereof by  the Executive Directors
of the Association and after due consideration by them of the
development of the Borrowerþs economy, modify the terms of
repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise such modification to include, in
lieu of some or all of the increase in the amounts of such
installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate agreed
with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in
the judgment of the Association, such revision shall not change
the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned repayment
modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms
pursuant to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines
that the Borrowerþs economic condition has deteriorated
significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the
Borrower, further modify the terms of repayment to conform to
the schedule of installments as provided in paragraph (a)
above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                       Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end:
            (i)    shall carry out Parts A.1 through A.4, A.6, B,
                   and C of the Project through MIWD, NWB, CWB and
                   SWB with due diligence and efficiency and in
                   conformity with appropriate administrative and
                   financial practices and shall provide, promptly
                   as needed, the funds, facilities, services and
                   other resources required for the Project; and
            (ii)   without limitation or restriction upon any of
                   its other obligations under this Agreement, the
                   Borrower shall cause LWB to perform in
                   accordance with the provisions of the LWB
                   Project Agreement all the obligations of LWB
                   therein set forth, shall take or cause to be
                   taken all action, including the provision of
                   funds, facilities, services and other
                   resources, necessary or appropriate to enable
                   LWB to perform such obligations, and shall not
                   take or permit to be taken any action which
                   would prevent or interfere with such
                   performance.
Page  6
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph
(a) of this Section, and except as the Borrower and the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall carry out
Parts A.1 through A.4, A.6, B and C of the Project in
accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      (c)   The Borrower shall, under financing agreements to be
entered into between the Borrower and each Water Board, which
shall have been approved by the Association, make available out
of the proceeds of the Credit to:
            (i)    NWB, an amount equivalent to SDR 4,600,000
                   partly as a grant and partly as a loan (the NWB
                   Subsidiary Loan);
            (ii)   CWB, an amount equivalent to SDR 4,800,000
                   partly as a grant and partly as a loan (the CWB
                   Subsidiary Loan);
            (iii)  SWB, an amount equivalent to SDR
                   21,900,000 partly as a grant and partly as a
                   loan (the SWB Subsidiary Loan); and
            (iv)   LWB, an amount equivalent to SDR 6,200,000
                   partly as a grant and partly as a loan (the LWB
                   Subsidiary Loan).
      (d)   The Borrower shall ensure that in addition to the
terms and conditions set forth in Section 3.01 (c) of this
Agreement: (i) the Financing Agreements shall incorporate the
terms and conditions set forth in Schedule 5 to this Agreement,
and (ii) the LWB Financing Agreement shall incorporate terms
and conditions which shall be consistent with paragraph 1 of
Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
      (e)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Financing Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the
purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate
or waive the Financing Agreements or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants'
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower shall, jointly with the
Association, NWB, CWB, SWB and LWB carry out not later than
October 31, 1997, a comprehensive review of the Project, during
which they shall exchange views generally on all matters
relating to the progress made in the carrying out of the
Project and the performance by the Borrower, NWB, CWB, SWB, and
LWB, of their respective obligations under this Agreement;
including, but not limited to: (i) a review of the achievements
of the Project, having regard to performance indicators agreed
upon between the Borrower and the Association, including the
Performance Agreement; (ii) the implementation and management
aspects of the Project; (iii) performance and use of technical
assistance personnel; (iv) the role of national counterpart
staff; (v) the status and results of training; (vi) reporting,
accounting and audit performance; (vii) disbursement
procedures; and (viii) the sustainability of the Project.
      (b)   Not later than sixty days prior to the review
referred to in (a) above, the Borrower shall furnish to the
Association, for its comments, a report, in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, on the progress and
status of the Project, including an evaluation of the progress
Page  7
achieved in implementing the various components of the Project,
including the Performance Agreement, and a draft plan
containing proposals for remedying any identified deficiencies.
      (c)   Following such review, the Borrower shall promptly
take any corrective action deemed necessary to remedy any
shortcoming noted in the implementation of the Project, or to
implement such other measures as may have been agreed upon
between the parties in furtherance of the objectives of the
Project. To this end, the Borrower shall: (i) prepare an action
plan, satisfactory to the Association, based on the
recommendations stemming from the aforementioned review, and
(ii) adopt and implement such plan for the remainder of the
Project period.
      Section 3.04. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Association not later than
six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may
be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the
Association, a plan, of such scope and in such detail as the
Association shall reasonably request, for the future operation
of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Association a reasonable opportunity to
exchange views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Association's comments thereon.
      Section 3.05. The Association and the Borrower hereby
agree that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of Part A.5 and C.1 (b)(i) of the
Project shall be carried out by LWB pursuant to Section 2.03 of
the LWB Project Agreement.
                                ARTICLE IV
                             Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain, and cause
NWB, CWB, SWB and other departments or agencies of the Borrower
responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,
to maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with sound accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures in respect of Parts A.1 through A.4,
A.6, B, and C of the Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) of this Section including those
                   for the Special Accounts for each fiscal year
                   audited, in accordance with appropriate
                   auditing principles consistently applied, by
                   independent auditors acceptable to the
                   Association;
            (ii)   furnish to the Association, as soon as
                   available, but in any case not later than six
                   months after the end of each such year, a
                   certified copy of the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
            (iii)  furnish to the Association such other
Page  8
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
      (c)   For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain, or cause to be maintained, in
                   accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section,
                   records and accounts reflecting such
                   expenditures;
            (ii)   retain, until at least one year after the
                   Association has received the audit report for
                   the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal
                   from the Credit Account or payment out of the
                   Special Account was made, all records
                   (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts
                   and other documents) evidencing such
                   expenditures;
            (iii)  enable the Association's representatives
                   to examine such records; and
            (iv)   ensure that such records and accounts are
                   included in the annual audit referred to in
                   paragraph (b) of this Section and that the
                   report of such audit contains a separate
                   opinion by said auditors as to whether the
                   statements of expenditure submitted during such
                   fiscal year, together with the procedures and
                   internal controls involved in their
                   preparation, can be relied upon to support the
                   related withdrawals.
      Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall,
from time to time, at the request of either party, exchange
views with regard to the Borrower's water pricing policies and
its plans in respect of the overall development of the water
sector.
      (b)   The Borrower agrees, as long as it exercises control
over the setting of water rates of NWB, CWB, SWB, BWB and LWB,
to establish rates for water sold by such water boards which
would, consistent with the terms of their respective
Performance Agreement:
            (i)    allow the Water Boards, under conditions of
                   efficient operation at reasonable levels of
                   capacity utilization, to cover their operating
                   costs including taxes, earn an adequate return
                   on funds invested in them, meet their financial
                   obligations and make a reasonable contribution
                   to future investment for expansion of capacity;
                   and
            (ii)   subject to the achievement of the objective
                   stated in (i) above, pass on the benefit of
                   declines in the real costs of production to
                   NWB, CWB, SWB, LWB and BWB through reduction in
                   rates in real terms.
                                    ARTICLE V
                            Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   A situation has arisen which shall make it improbable
that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be
carried out.
Page  9
      (b)   LWB shall have failed to perform any of its
obligations under the LWB Project Agreement.
      (c)   As a result of events which have occurred after the
date of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have
arisen which shall make it improbable that:
            (i)    LWB will be able to perform any of its
                   obligations under the LWB Project Agreement; or
            (ii)   any other Water Board will be able to perform
                   any of its obligations under a Financing
                   Agreement.
      (d)   NWB, CWB, SWB or LWB shall have failed to perform any
of its obligations under the Performance Agreement or the
Financing Agreement.
      (e)   The Lilongwe Waterworks Act or the law establishing
NWB, CWB or SWB shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated,
repealed, or waived so as to affect materially and adversely
the ability of LWB, NWB, CWB, or SWB to perform any of its
obligations under the LWB Project Agreement or the Financing
Agreement; and
      (f)   The Borrower or any authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of LWB or for the suspension of its
operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (b) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue
for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall have been
given by the Association to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (e) and (f) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                           ARTICLE VI
                  Effective Date, Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Development
Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (b) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has adopted legislation establishing
NWB, CWB and SWB and providing NWB, CWB, SWB, LWB and BWB such
powers and obligations as are consistent with those set out in
the Program;
      (b)   the Chairmen and Chief Executive Officers of NWB, CWB
and SWB have been duly appointed;
      (c)   the Borrower has appointed: (i) a business and
financial planning adviser to the Project Unit, and (ii)
consultants to carry out business planning studies for NWB,
CWB, SWB, LWB and BWB and the business planning process has
commenced; and
      (d)   the Implementation Manual has been adopted.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely that the LWB Project
Agreement and the LWB Financing Agreement have been duly
authorized or ratified by LWB, and are legally binding upon LWB
Page  10
in accordance with their respective terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of
this Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section
12.04 of the General Conditions.
                           ARTICLE VII
             Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes
of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
            the purposes of Section
11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
          Ministry of Finance
          P.O. Box 30049
          Capital City
          Lilongwe, 3
          Malawi
          Cable address:                            Telex:
               FINANCE                                44407  MI
               Lilongwe
      For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                            Telex:
               INDEVAS                                248423 (RCA)
               Washington, D.C.                       82987 (FTCC)
                                                      64145 (WUI) or
                                                      197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                               REPUBLIC OF MALAWI
                               By /s/ W. Chokani
                                                  Authorized Representative
                               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                               By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                                    Regional Vice President
Page  11
                                                                     Africa
                                SCHEDULE 1
                 Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of
the amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage
of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                           Amount of the
                         Credit Allocated             % of
                          (Expressed in          Expenditures
Category                 SDR Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1)   Works:                                     100% of foreign
                                                 expenditures and
                                                 80% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (a) for the Water Department
         (i)    Water
                resources
                works        1,000,000
         (ii)   Rural
                water
                supply       9,000,000
     (b) for:
            (i)   NWB        3,200,000
            (ii)  CWB        3,300,000
            (iii) SWB       18,400,000
            (iv) LWB         1,200,000
(2)   Goods for:                                       100% of foreign
                                                       expenditures and 80%
     (a) the Water             120,000                 of local
         Department                                    expenditures
     (b)   (i)  NWB            120,000
          (ii)  CWB            120,000
          (iii) SWB            200,000
          (iv)  LWB          3,300,000
(3)   Consultants'                                     100% of
      Services for:                                    foreign
      (a) the Water Department                         expenditures and
                               950,000                 80% of local
                                                       expenditures
      (b)   (i)   NWB          950,000
            (ii)  CWB          950,000
            (iii) SWB        1,440,000
            (iv)  LWB        1,300,000
(4)   Operating Expenditures for:                      60% through
                                                       December 31, 1996
      (a) NWB                  130,000                 30% in calendar
                                                       year 1997
                                                       10% in calendar
      (b) CWB                  190,000                 year 1998
      (c) SWB                  320,000
(5)   Refunding of             950,000                 Amounts due
Page  12
      Project                                          pursuant to
      Preparation                                      Section 2.02 (c)
      Advance                                          of this Agreement
(6)   Unallocated            3,160,000
      TOTAL                 50,300,000
                            ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term þoperating expendituresþ means operating
expenditures incurred for rental of office, laboratory and
workshop space, and the maintenance of vehicles and office,
laboratory and workshop equipment.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals
shall be made in respect of:
      (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement;
      (b)   category (1) (a) (i) unless the Borrower has adopted
legislation, satisfactory to the Association, for the reform of
its water resources management; and
      (c)   category (1) (a) (ii) unless (A) consultants, with
qualifications and terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association and selected in accordance with the provisions of
Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, have been appointed
by the Borrower to carry out a study on the strengthening,
restructuring and funding required for the central services to
be provided by the Water Department to fulfill the needs of the
restructured water sector; and (B)  the Borrower has appointed
duly qualified experts, selected in accordance with the
provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this Agreement, to
the Project Unit as manager of the Rural Water Supply Program
and as Project accountant;
      (d)   categories (1) (b) (i), (2) (b) (i), (3) (b) (i) and
4 (a) unless:
            (i)    the NWB Financing Agreement has been executed;
            (ii)   the Borrower and NWB have executed the
                   Performance Agreement;
            (iii)  NWB has appointed a duly qualified
                   Financial Controller; and
            (iv)   the Borrower has transferred to NWB the
                   physical assets, staff and initial funds
                   required to enable NWB to carry out its
                   functions in the Northern Region.
      (e)   categories (1) (b) (ii), (2) (b) (ii), (3) (b) (ii) and
(4) (b) unless:
            (i)    the CWB Financing Agreement has been executed;
            (ii)   the Borrower and CWB have executed the
                   Performance Agreement;
Page  13
            (iii)  CWB has appointed a duly qualified
                   Financial Controller; and
            (iv)   the Borrower has transferred to CWB the
                   physical assets, staff and initial funds
                   required to enable CWB to carry out its
                   functions in the Central Region.
      (f)   categories (1) (b) (iii), (2) (b) (iii), (3) (b) (iii)
and (4) (c) unless:
            (i)    the SWB Financing Agreement has been executed;
            (ii)   the Borrower and SWB have executed the
                   Performance Agreement;
            (iii)  SWB has appointed a duly qualified
                   Financial Controller; and
            (iv)   the Borrower has transferred to SWB the
                   physical assets, staff and initial funds
                   required to enable SWB to carry out its
                   functions in the Southern Region.
      (g)   categories (1) (b) (iv), (2) (b) (iv) and (3) (b) (iv)
unless the Borrower has furnished evidence that EIB has declared the
EIB Loan Agreement effective.
4.    The Association may require withdrawals from the Credit
Account to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure
for expenditures under contracts not exceeding $200,000
equivalent for works and $100,000 equivalent for goods and
consultantsþ services, under such terms and conditions as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                               SCHEDULE 2
                       Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to reform and upgrade the
management of water resources and the provision of water-
related services in order to:
      (a)   ensure convenient access to safe water for domestic
use, for a progressively larger fraction of the Borrowerþs
population;
      (b)   provide water infrastructure capable of underpinning
economic development; and
      (c)   assure the protection and management of water
resources and of aquatic and riparian environments.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to
such modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association
may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Institutional Restructuring and Capacity Building
1.    Water Resources Board
Reconstitution and institutional strengthening of WRB through:
(a) the carrying out of studies and the provision of technical
assistance; and (b) the acquisition of materials and equipment.
2.    Water Department Central Services
      Restructuring and decentralization of the functions of
MIWD's Water Department and streamlining the Borrowerþs
oversight duties over LWB, BWB, NWB, CWB and SWB through: (a)
the carrying out of studies and the provision of technical
assistance; (b) the carrying out of a training and development
Page  14
program for staff  of the Water Boards; and (c) the acquisition
of materials, plant and equipment.
3.    Rural Water Supply Program
      Implementation of a community-based water supply program
in rural areas through: (a) the provision of technical
assistance; and (b) the construction of water supply
facilities, including the rehabilitation and construction of
boreholes and gravity-fed schemes.
4.    Regional Water Boards
      Institutional strengthening of NWB, CWB and SWB through:
(a) the provision of technical assistance; and (b) the carrying
out of studies to determine business plans and human resource
requirements.
5.    Lilongwe Water Board
      Institutional strengthening of LWB through: (a) the
carrying out of technical assistance in institutional reform
and restructuring, business planning and implementation
support; and (b) the carrying out of a training and a
development program for staff of LWB.
6.    Water-Borne Sanitation Services
      Strengthening MIWDþs capability to monitor and supervise
water-borne sanitation services through: (a) the carrying out
of studies and the provision of technical assistance; (b) the
carrying out of a training program for the staff of MIWD; and
(c) the acquisition of materials, plant, equipment and the
installation of business and technical information systems.
Part B:   Studies
      The carrying out of the following studies for the:
1.    investigation of alternate sources of water to enhance
reliability of supply for some of the urban schemes;
2.    hydrogeological and hydrological assessment and mapping to
provide an information base;
3.    hydrologic and water quality of Lake Malawi, including
installation of appropriate equipment and systems for the
automatic collection, transmission and recording of data on
water currents, surface waves, windspeed and direction, air
pressure, relative humidity, algal concentrations and other
water quality parameters for use in navigation, environmental
monitoring, fisheries development and maritime research;
4.    control of the level of Lake Malawi, including regulation
of the water levels of the lake in order to: (i) minimize the
likelihood of extremely low levels and no-flow conditions in
the Shire River; (ii) to sustain socioeconomic growth through
the development and maintenance of hydropower generation; and
(iii) enhance safe navigation on Lake Malawi and water supplies
for use in municipal, industrial, irrigation and recreational
development;
5.    forecasting of floods in the Lower Shire Valley to improve
the forecasting and issuing of warnings of impending floods in
good time to allow timely evacuation and safeguard against loss
of life and reduce damage to property; and
6.    determination, on a preliminary basis, of the feasibility
of stabilizing the course of the Songwe River to reduce
flooding, developing agriculture and fisheries and generating
hydropower.
Page  15
Part C:   Water Supply Investment Program
1.    Physical Works
      (a)   The rehabilitation of existing water schemes to their
design capacity and performance, including: (i) about eight
urban water schemes; (ii) five gravity-fed, piped rural
schemes; and (iii) about 5,500 boreholes.
      (b)   Extension works to increase the capacities of: (i)
LWBþs urban scheme; and (ii) about twenty-nine other existing
urban water schemes, including augmentation of treatment
facilities and distribution systems.
      (c)   Construction of new water schemes including: (i) 7
urban water supply schemes; (ii) six gravity-piped rural water
schemes; (iii) about 750 boreholes, (iv) 2 sewerage systems,
(v) about nine sites for controlled disposal of septage and
sludge; and (vi) a 47-meter-high rock-fill dam with a
conventional sealing core zone and impounding reservoir with a
gross capacity of about 3.4 million cubic meters near Zomba on
the Lower Mulunguzi River, including the refurbishment and
expansion of treatment and distribution facilities for the town
of Zomba and the surrounding area.
      (d)   The carrying out of water resources works through
soil conservation measures in selected unprotected catchments
used as sources of raw potable water.
      (e)   Construction of: (i) about 10 catchment protection
works, and (ii) river training works along the Songwe River.
2.    Facilities and Equipment
      (a)   the construction of workshops and laboratories;
      (b)   acquisition of office, telecommunication, meter-
testing, meter-repair, leakage detection and water quality
testing equipment, computers, water meters and vehicles; and
      (c)   installation of a geographic information system for
water resources management and planning.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
                              SCHEDULE 3
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     General
      Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of Section 1 of the "Guidelines for Procurement
under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in
January 1995 (the Guidelines) and the following provisions of
this Section, as applicable.
Part B:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section,
goods and works shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix I thereto.
2.    The following provisions shall apply to goods and works tobe procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
Page  16
      (a)   Grouping of contracts
            To the extent practicable, civil works contracts for
new boreholes estimated to cost $500,000 equivalent or more
each and rehabilitation and extension of urban water schemes
shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost $500,000
equivalent or more each.
      (b)   Preference for domestically manufactured goods and
domestic contractors
      The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the
Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto shall apply to goods
manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works to be
carried out by domestic contractors.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    National Competitive Bidding
      (a)   Civil works contracts estimated to cost $500,000
equivalent or less per contract and $7,800,000 equivalent or
less in the aggregate for:
      (i)   extension and rehabilitation of existing urban
schemes and construction of new urban schemes in part C.1 of
the Project;
      (ii)  construction of new gravity-fed rural water schemes
in Part C.1 of the Project;
      (iii) catchment protection works in Part C.1 of the
Project; and
      (iv)  construction of boreholes in isolated groups
      may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
      (b)   Laboratory and office buildings refurnishment and
equipment estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or less per
contract and $400,000 equivalent or less in the aggregate, may
be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.    National Shopping
      Goods and equipment, including vehicles, laboratory
equipment, computers, spare parts and maintenance tools,
estimated to cost $30,000 equivalent or less per contract and
$200,000 equivalent in the aggregate, may be procured on the
basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Procurement Planning
      Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for
bidding or to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement plan
for the Project shall be furnished to the Association for its
review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of
paragraph I of Appendix I to the Guidelines. Procurement of all
goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the
Association, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.    Prior Review
      With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works
estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent or more; and (ii) goods
Page  17
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix I to the Guidelines
shall apply.
3.    Post Review
      With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2
of this Part, the procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of
Appendix I to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.    Consultants' services shall be procured under contracts
awarded in accordance with the provisions of the "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the
World Bank as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August
1981 (the Consultant Guidelines). For complex, time-based
assignments, such contracts shall be based on the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the
Association. Where no relevant standard contract documents have
been issued by the Bank, the Borrower shall use other standard
forms agreed with the Association.
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Association review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $100,000 equivalent each or (b) contracts for
the employment of individual consultants estimated to cost less
than $50,000 equivalent each. However, said exceptions to prior
Association review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of
reference for such contracts, (b) single-source selection of
consulting firms, (c) assignments of a critical nature, as
reasonably determined by the Association, (d) amendments to
contracts for the employment of consulting firms raising the
contract value to $100,000 equivalent or above, or (e)
amendments to contracts for the employment of individual
consultants raising the contract value to $50,000 equivalent or
above.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                     Implementation Program
1.    MIWD shall be responsible for the coordination of the
Program and shall appoint, and retain until at least thirty
months after the Effective Date, a Program Leader, whose
qualifications and terms of reference shall be satisfactory to
the Association. The Program Leader shall report to the
Controller of Water Services within MIWD and shall be assisted
by a Project Unit (PU) to be established within the Water
Department of MIWD, with membership and terms of reference
satisfactory to the Association, including an advisor on
business and financial planning, a manager of the Rural Water
Supply Program and a Project accountant.
2.    The Program Leader shall also be responsible for
supervising:
      (a)   the implementation of institutional restructuring and
capacity building activities in Parts A.1 and A.2 of the
Project;
      (b)   the implementation of Parts B.2, B.3, B.4, B.5 and
B.6 of the Project;
and
      (c)   the coordination of implementation of Parts A.4, C.1
and C.2 of the
Page  18
Project.
3.    NWB, CWB and SWB shall be responsible for:
      (a)   carrying out capacity building activities in Part A.4
of the Project for their respective entities;
      (b)   carrying out, in their respective region, urban
            physical works in Part
C.1 of the Project;
      (c)   the acquisition of facilities and equipment for their
respective entities in Part C.2 of the Project; and
      (d)   carrying out studies in Part B.1 of the Project, for
their respective region.
4.    The Water Department shall be responsible for:
      (a) carrying out Parts A.2, A.3 and a portion of  Part A.4
of the Project;
      (b) carrying out rural physical works under Part C.1 of
the Project; and
      (c) the acquisition of facilities and equipment for its
own use under Part C.2 of the Project.
5.    In supervising the implementation of the urban reform
program in Parts A.2 and C.1 of the Project, the Program Leader
shall be assisted by duly qualified consultants and counterpart
staff in adequate numbers to be seconded from time to time for
this purpose, by MIWD.
6.    The Borrower shall enter into agreements with the Water
Boards specifying, inter alia:
            (i)    the physical and financial performance targets
                   to be achieved by each Water Board;
            (ii)   the pricing and cost recovery policies to be
                   adopted and implemented by each Water Board;
            (iii)  each Water Boardþs share of the District
                   Water Supply Fund;
            (iv)   the working capital requirements of each Water
                   Board; and
            (v)    the terms and conditions under which each Water
                   Board can obtain donor funds through the
                   Borrowerþs Treasury.
7.    The Borrower shall ensure that Project implementation is
carried out in accordance with a comprehensive Project
implementation manual, satisfactory to the Association, which
shall be consistent with the Program and the Performance
Agreement, and shall include, for all Project components: (a)
the specific tasks to be carried out including, terms of
reference, items to be procured and training needs, (b)
procurement, consultancy and training procedures to be
followed, (c) a breakdown of cost estimates, (d) implementation
timetables, and (e) formats for annual work plans and programs,
and periodic reports.
8.    Based on periodic progress reports on the implementation
of the various components of the Project which shall be
prepared and furnished to the Program Leader by the respective
Project implementing entities, the Program Leader shall furnish
to the Association, in such form as shall be satisfactory to
the Association, consolidated quarterly and annual Project
progress reports not later than fifteen days after the end of
Page  19
each reporting period.
9.    In the carrying out of Parts A.4 and A.6 of the Project
the Borrower shall appoint duly qualified consultants to carry
out business planning studies for each Water Board which shall
form the basis for the Performance Agreement.
10.   In the carrying out of Part A.2 of the Project, the
Borrower shall appoint consultants to carry out a study on the
scope, level and timing of the strengthening required by the
Water Department to enable it to provide services to the
restructured water sector and to determine sources of funds.
11.   In the carrying out of Part A.3 of the Project, the
Borrower shall take such measures as shall be necessary to
develop, in close consultation with representatives of rural
communities, rules and procedures, satisfactory to the
Association, which ensure that rural communities will exercise
control over the choice and development of smallscale community
water supply facilities using community driven processes.
12.   The Borrower shall take all measures necessary to ensure
that all prospective investments to be made in Part C of the
Project are carried out in conformity with criteria and
procedures, satisfactory to the Association for assessing the
environmental impacts of such investments and for mitigating
possible adverse impacts.
13.   In the carrying out of Part C of the Project the Borrower
shall adopt and implement policies, satisfactory to the
Association, for the protection of catchment areas, including
investments in rehabilitation and revegetation of degraded
areas. Such policies shall be planned, developed and
implemented in close consultation with stakeholders, including
the affected farmers.
14.   The consultants and experts referred to in paragraphs 1,
5, 9 and 10 of this Schedule shall be selected in accordance
with the provisions of Section II of Schedule 3 to this
Agreement.
                              SCHEDULE 5
                Terms of Financing Agreements Required
                     Pursuant to Section 3.01 (d)
The terms and conditions of the NWB Financing Agreement, CWB
Financing Agreement and SWB Financing Agreement shall include
the following:
1.    The obligation of the Borrower to make available to NWB,
CWB and SWB, respectively the NWB Subsidiary Loan, CWB
Subsidiary Loan and SWB Subsidiary Loan under terms and
conditions which shall have been approved by the Association
including the repayment of the NWB Subsidiary Loan, CWB
Subsidiary Loan and SWB Subsidiary Loan in twenty-five years,
including five years of grace, the payment of interest at the
rate of  2% per annum above the prevailing rate of inflation as
measured by the Borrowerþs National Composite Retail Price
Index, revised on a semiannual basis, and with the exchange
risk to be borne by the Borrower.
2.    The obligation of NWB, CWB and SWB to:
      (a)   carry out the Project in accordance with the
Implementation Manual referred to in Paragraph 7 of Schedule 4
to this Agreement, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate administrative, financial,
engineering and public utility practices acceptable to the
Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   comply with the record keeping, auditing and
Page  20
reporting requirements set out in Article IV of this Agreement;
      (c)   at all times, operate and maintain its plants,
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time,
promptly as needed, to make all necessary repairs and renewals
thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, financial
and public utility practices;
      (d)   comply with the procedures for procurement of goods,
works and consultantsþ services set out in Section 3.02 of this
Agreement;
      (e)   carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in
accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering
and public utility practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in
adequate numbers;
      (f)   keep its positions of General Manager and Financial
Controller filled, at all times, by persons having experience
and qualifications acceptable to the Association;
      (g)   promptly inform the Borrower and the Association of
any condition which interferes, or threatens to interfere, with
the progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes
of the Credit, or the performance of the Water Board of its
obligations under the Financing Agreement;
      (h)   furnish to the Borrower and to the Association,
through the Program Leader, periodic quarterly and annual
progress reports, and a financial report, of such scope and in
such detail as the Borrower and the Association shall
reasonably request;
      (i)   at the request of the Association, exchange views
with the Association with regard to the progress of the
Project, the Water Boardþs performance of its obligations under
the Financing Agreement;
      (j)   take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or
to make other provision satisfactory to the Association for
insurance against such risks and in such amounts as shall be
consistent with appropriate practice;
      (k)   carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03,
9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating
to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules,
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition,
respectively) in respect of the components of the Project to be
carried out by the Water Board;
      (l)   establish Water rates in accordance with Section 4.02
(b) of this Agreement;
      (m)   in accordance with Section 3.03 of this Agreement,
participate in the review of the Project and thereafter,
prepare, adopt and implement the action plan referred to in
said Section; and
      (n)   in accordance with Section 3.04 of this Agreement,
prepare and furnish to the Association, for its comments, the
action plan referred to therein, and thereafter, implement said
action plan taking into account the Associationþs comments
thereon.
2.    A provision stipulating that in case of conflict between
the Financing Agreement and this Agreement, the latter shall
apply.
                             SCHEDULE 6
                          Special Accounts
Page  21
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means: (i) Categories
(1) (a), (2) (a), and (3) (a) set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement with respect to
"MIWD Special Account"; (ii) Categories (1) (b) (i), (2) (b)
(i), (3) (b) (i) and (4) (a) with respect to "NWB Special
Account"; (iii) Categories (1) (b) (ii), (2) (b) (ii), (3) (b)
(ii) and (4) (b) with respect to "CWB Special, Account"; (iv)
Categories (1) (b) (iii), (2) (b) (iii), (3) (b) (iii) and (4)
(c) with respect to "SWB Special Account"; and (v) Categories
(1) (b) (iv), (2) (b) (iv) and (3) (b) (iv) with respect to
"LWB Special Account".
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures
in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to
this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount of
$500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited
in each Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this
Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to
an amount equivalent to $250,000 until the aggregate amount of
withdrawals from the Credit Account plus the total amount of all
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal
to or exceed the equivalent of $29,000,000.
2.    Payments out of the Special Accounts shall be made
exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory
to it that the Special Account has been duly opened,
withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as
follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate
amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such
request or requests, the Association shall, on behalf of the
Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account and deposit in the
Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall
have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
            (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for
                   the payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested.  On the basis of
                   each such request, the Association shall, on
                   behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
                   Credit Account and deposit into the Special
                   Account such amount as the Borrower shall have
                   requested and as shall have been shown by said
                   documents and other evidence to have been paid
                   out of the Special Account for eligible
                   expenditures.
Page  22
      All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association
from the Credit Account under the respective eligible
Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall
have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of a Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Association such
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have
determined that all further withdrawals should be made by the
Borrower directly from the Credit Account in accordance with
the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
      (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Association, within the period of time specified in Section
4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for
the Special Account;
      (c)   if, at any time, the Association shall have notified
the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Credit
Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions; or
      (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect
to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount
of the Authorized Allocation.
      Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the
remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the
eligible Categories shall follow such procedures as the
Association shall specify by notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent
that the Association shall have been satisfied that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the
date of such notice will be utilized in making payments for
eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for
an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the
evidence furnished to the Association, the Borrower shall,
promptly upon notice from the Association: (A) provide such
additional evidence as the Association may request; or (B)
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Association shall
so request, refund to the Association) an amount equal to the
amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so eligible
or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise agree, no
further deposit by the Association into the Special Account
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or
made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures,
the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association,
refund to the Association such outstanding amount.
Page  23
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association,
refund to the Association all or any portion of the funds on
deposit in the Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
