Results Profile: Morocco Public Administration
                                                                                                        91729
                                                                                                        March 15, 2010




 IMPROVING PUBLIC ADMINISTRATION PERFORMANCE

 Morocco’s Civil Service Boosts Efficiency, Adopts E-Government




Overview
In Morocco, the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (IBRD) and the
government are working to improve public administration, making it leaner, more focused, and
more efficient in the delivery of social services). Through the program, Morocco’s
administrative tradition is evolving from strict and bureaucratic legal compliance to a search for
better performance and more effective public service.


Challenge                                                 MULTIMEDIA


Between 2001 and 2009, Morocco enjoyed the
benefits of sound macroeconomic management
and reforms, with its economic growth rate
doubling from that of the nineties to an average
of 5.1 percent, while per capita gross domestic
product (GDP) also doubled to US$2,890.
Thanks to steady reform efforts, public finances
largely withstood the negative impact of the
global crisis, running a manageable fiscal deficit
of 2.2 percent of GDP in 2009, following two
years of fiscal surpluses.
                                                          MORE
                                                           Videos on Middle East & North Africa
However, many social indicators were still
lagging those of comparable countries, especially
those on poverty, equity, health, and education.
The low performance of public services delivery and weak
                                                                       More Results
governance were contributing to the disparity between
economic growth and improvements in social indicators.
Public administration in Morocco was characterized by the

                                                                        89
lack of a multi-year vision on budgeting, by excessive
centralization, and by poor civil service management,
including a high-cost wage bill out of proportion to its 7
percent share of the labor force.                                      projects conceived to improve
                                                                        public sector efficiency and
                                                                        transparency.

Approach

Since 2002, the government has implemented a
comprehensive Public Administration Reform Support
                                                                        MORE INFORMATION
Program (PARP). Public administration reform is viewed as a
core component of improving governance and is central to                 Country Website
the economic and social reforms that the government is                   Country Brief
carrying out to improve economic performance and enhance
its capacity to achieve sustained growth.                                Country Partnership Strategy
                                                                        Data and Statistics
The aim of the PARP is to provide Morocco with a modern
and gradually de-concentrated administration that could
contribute to the competitiveness of the economy and to the            PARTNERS
sustainable development of the country while ensuring the
                                                                        European Union
viability of its macroeconomic framework. The key objectives
of the reform program are to improve government efficiency              African Development Bank
in budget management and human resources management;
consolidate and control the public payroll; and improve
service delivery and simplify public procedures through e-
Government.                                                         


Results

Under a reform program supported by funds and technical support from IBRD, Morocco’s
administrative tradition is evolving from strict and bureaucratic legal compliance to a search for
performance and more effective public service. While this change in the administrative
atmosphere still needs to develop further, it has already yielded a number of achievements.
The IBRD loan and the accompanying analytical activities have served as a vehicle for the
articulation of a comprehensive medium-term framework for economic policy and institutional
reform.

The budget reform actions taken in the context of the PARP contributed to the improvement of
budget management parameters, especially execution rates of the economic and social
investment projects, which increased to more than 86 percent in 2009 from 64 percent in 2002.
Another important achievement of the PARP is the timely preparation and submission to the
Parliament of the Annual Budget Execution Reports. Preparation delays have been significantly
reduced during the last few years, when the government has made significant effort to adopt
and submit all overdue budget execution reports (those of 2003– 2006) to the Parliament by
the end of 2008. During 2009, the government also adopted and submitted the reports of the
fiscal years 2007 and 2008. In addition, the PARP has led to an improved structuring of the
budget as more resources have been channeled to investment. The share of investment in total
expenditures increased to 22 percent in 2009 from 17 percent in 2002. The improvement in the
structure of expenditures has been achieved through reducing the shares of recurrent
expenditures (to 64 percent from 65 percent), including of the wage bill (to 35 percent from 41
percent). The PARP strategy also entailed the streamlining of the civil service, and
improvement of service delivery in the social sectors. The voluntary retirement program
implemented in 2005 allowed the government to restructure the civil service in favor of the
social sectors, through targeted recruitments to fill the gaps in needed skills and in
understaffed areas and sectors, especially in education and health. Data for 2009 show that 64
percent of recruited civil servants (not counting security and military personnel) joined the
education and health sectors (42 percent in education and 22 percent in health). The PARP
also sought to enhance the skills of civil servants also through training. In this regard, credit
earmarked to training has been raised by 60 percent since 2002 (from Mad 111 million to MAD
176 million).

Diagnostic work completed in 2009 under the Public Expenditure and Financial Accountability
Framework allows for a detailed appreciation of progress. Predictability of budget execution is
satisfactory and arrangements are in place for monitoring the flow of public funds. Control and
audit procedures were found to be good overall for procurement and payroll. Significant
improvements were realized during the period reviewed in the implementation, frequency, and
methods for internal audit. Complete, good quality budget execution reports are regularly
produced however delays, while fewer in 2008, remain in the preparation of annual financial
statements. Accounting data categories for recording state assets and liabilities are still absent
from the Chart of Accounts. The General Auditor’s Office (Cour des Comptes) is fully engaged
in its role as external auditor of the management and use of public funds. The frequency and
scope of its audits are steadily increasing.

Steady implementation of the PARP resulted in subdued recurrent expenditures, including a
continued decline in the wage bill relative to GDP. The main measure to control the wage bill
consisted of the successful voluntary early retirement program, implemented in 2005, and
subsequent measures to limit hiring to actual needs, mostly targeted to the education and
health sectors. Although the size of the central government staff has now reached its pre-
reform level, its skills mix, its geographic and sector coverage, and its age structure improved
significantly. The combined effect of these measures translated into declining wage bill, which,
in 2008 edged down to 10.2 percent of GDP compared to 10.7 percent the previous year (and
11.7 percent in 2005). In 2009, it stayed at the same level as in 2008, despite wage increases
for low-income civil servants as part of the fiscal stimulus package to alleviate the effects of
the global crisis.
The e-Governance agenda is also taking hold with a clear institutional framework now in place
and the design of as much as 89 projects conceived to improve public sector efficiency and
transparency.

Bank Contribution

To support the PARP the Bank has prepared a series of programmatic development policy
loans with four medium-term objectives: (a) improve government efficiency in budget
management; (b) improve government efficiency in human resources management; (c)
consolidate and control the public payroll; and (d) improve service delivery and simplify public
procedures through e-government. This last component was added in the second PARP series
following government introduction in 2007 of e-governance as a core element of its reform
agenda.

The main characteristic of Bank support to the PARP has been the continuous combination of
programmatic development policy loans and programmatic advisory and analytical activities. 
Both actions have been reinforcing each other and have provided the momentum for
continuous progress. Through the loans provided under the PARP, IBRD has provided:
US$100 million under the first phase, US$120 million under the second, US$100 million
through the third phase, and US$100 million under the fourth.

Partners

This is an emergency or disaster risk reduction type of project. There has not been much donor
interest or capacity to support this project. IDA remains the only donor partner for this project
through its three successive phases.

Toward the Future

The fourth PARP operation concludes the second PARP series. Looking ahead, a third new
series is envisaged to support the next phase of the reform program. The PARP agenda will
focus on several key dimensions: (i) the finalization of the draft Organic Budget Law; (ii) the
completion of the de-concentration strategy and (iii) the conclusion of the preparatory work and
subsequent implementation of the current phase of human resources reform.  In line with the
new IBRD Country Partnership Strategy objectives, the Bank is prepared to design a new
PARP series to support the next PARP phase and further strengthen the results orientation of
the program for enhanced service delivery thus fostering the mainstreaming of the reform
objectives in key line ministries. In addition the new series would further reinforce donor
harmonization as it will be developed in full coordination with the next EU and AfDB programs
which should materialize around the same time frame and with similar objectives. This will
contribute to an even more effective multi-donor support to the government reform agenda as
joint discussions with government to develop the new program are tentatively planned to start
in the spring of 2010.
 
 

 


                                                     Last updated: 2010-09-28
