                                        Document of
                                     The World Bank




                                                               Report No: 26319

                          IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                        (SCL-42880)

                                          ON A

                                          LOAN

                            IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 15 MILLION

                                          TO THE

                                 KINGDOM OF THAILAND

                                         FOR AN

                      ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT




                                       August 29 2003




Southeast Asia and Mongolia Country Unit
Poverty Reduction and Economic Management Unit
East Asia and Pacific Region

                        CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                    (Exchange Rate Effective August 2003)

                         Currency Unit = Thai Baht
                            1 Thai Baht = US$ 0.0250
                                     US$ = TB 41.00

                                FISCAL YEAR
                          October 1       September 30

                    ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

BOB                       Bureau of the Budget
BOT                       Bank of Thailand
CD                        Customs Department
CGD                       Comptroller General's Department
ED                        Excise Department
EFAL                      Economic and Financial Adjustment Loan
EMIS                      Economic Management Information System
ETO                       Express Transportation Organization
FSIAL                     Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Loan
FPO                       Fiscal Policy Office
FPRI                      Fiscal Policy Research Institute
GFS                       Government Finance Statistics
MOC                       Ministry of Commerce
MOF                       Ministry of Finance
MOI                       Ministry of Industry
MOT                       Ministry of Transport
NESDB                     National Economic and Social Development Board
OCSC                      Office of the Civil Service Commission
OIE                       Office of the Industrial Economics
PDMO                      Public Debt Management Office
PIU                       Project Implementation Unit
PSC                       Project Steering Committee
PSRL                      Public Sector Reform Loan
RD                        Revenue Department
SEPC                      State Enterprise Policy Commission
SEPO                      State Enterprise Policy Office
SRT                       State Railway of Thailand
SOE                       State-owned Enterprise
TA                        Technical Assistance
TD                        Treasury Department



                        Vice President:         Jemal-ud-din Kassum, EAPVP
                      Country Director          Ian C. Porter, EACTF
    Chief Economist and Sector Manager          Homi Kharas, EASPR
      Task Team Leader/Task Manager             Syed Ejaz Ghani, EASPR

                                KINGDOM OF THAILAND
                 ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE PROJECT


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            5
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                            13
6. Sustainability                                                                14
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 15
8. Lessons Learned                                                               16
9. Partner Comments                                                              17
10. Additional Information
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             30
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             31
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             33
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             34
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             35
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                36
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            37

Project ID: P054799                                                      Project Name: THAILAND-ECO MGT IMPLE
                                                                         ASSIST
Team Leader: Ejaz Syed Ghani                                             TL Unit: EASPR
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                       Report Date: August 28, 2003


1. Project Data

                   Name: THAILAND-ECO MGT IMPLE ASSIST                            L/C/TF Number: SCL-42880
   Country/Department: THAILAND                                                           Region: East Asia and Pacific
                                                                                                     Region

        Sector/subsector: Central government administration (100%)
                  Theme: Macroeconomic management (P); Public expenditure, financial
                            management and procurement (P); Export development and
                            competitiveness (P); Technology diffusion (S); Administrative and
                            civil service reform (S)

KEY DATES
                                                                               Original               Revised/Actual
         PCD:    10/20/1997                                        Effective: 05/18/1998              05/18/1998
   Appraisal:    10/20/1997                                            MTR:
    Approval:    02/26/1998                                         Closing: 02/28/2001               02/28/2003

    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          Kingdom of Thailand/Ministry of Finance
                      Other Partners:      None

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Jemal-ud-din Kassum                            Jean-Michel Severino
Country Director:               Ian C. Porter                                  Jayasankar Shivakumar
Sector Manager:                 Homi Kharas                                    Pieter Bottelier
Team Leader at ICR:             Ejaz Syed Ghani
ICR Primary Author:             Thang-Long Ton


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly
Unlikely, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                          Outcome:S

                     Sustainability:L

Institutional Development Impact:SU

               Bank Performance:S

           Borrower Performance:S


                                                      QAG (if available)              ICR
                                  Quality at Entry: S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

3.1.1. Background. In the aftermath of the 1997 currency and banking crisis that adversely
affected the country's economy, the Royal Thai Government implemented a program of economic
stabilization and structural adjustment to restore sustainable and high rate of economic growth.
This program enjoyed broad support from bilateral donors, the IMF and the World Bank. The
financing package supported by the Bank included several fast-disbursing policy-based loans (1)
buttressed by technical assistance loans. The Economic Management Assistance Loan (EMAL) is
one of the two Technical Assistance (TA) projects in the Bank package of assistance. (2)

3.1.2. Objectives. EMAL aimed to provide technical assistance to improve the capacity of the
government for effective management of the country's economy. The project supported measures
to (i) upgrade macroeconomic management and support public sector reform; (ii) public
enterprises reform; and (iii) strengthen the competitiveness of Thailand's industrial sector. It was
expected that this project would contribute to the revival of economic growth and improvement in
export performance by bolstering both the effectiveness of the public sector with improved
governance and the competitiveness of the Thai private industry.

3.1.3. Given the urgency to address the financial crisis, this project was designed to enhance the
government's capacity to implement broad medium-term structural reforms. It aimed to
strengthen economic management in economic analysis, public finance and public administration,
support the reform of state enterprises and public administration, dismantle structural obstacles to
investment efficiency and sharpen Thailand's international competitiveness by strengthening the
enabling environment for private sector operations.

Note 1. These included a series of three Economic and Financial Adjustment Projects and a Public Sector Reform Loan.
Note 2. The second TA project, the Financial Sector Implementation Assistance Loan (FSIAL), supported financial sector
reforms.

3.2 Revised Objective:

3.2.1. None.

3.3 Original Components:

3.3.1. To fulfill the above objectives, the project aimed to support the following principal
components:

·       Formulation of a coherent macroeconomic and fiscal strategy based on sound
macroeconomic analyses and reliable data sources and data management, public resource
management, public administration, and implementation of public sector reform;
·       Reform of state-owned enterprises (SOEs) by supporting the government's program that
deal with divesting public enterprises, designing an adequate regulatory framework and improving
the performance monitoring of SOEs that would remain in public ownership;
·       Sharpening of the industrial competitiveness of the private sector by improving the



                                                          - 2 -

industrial sector knowledge base, upgrading industrial technology, and facilitating trade; and
·        Improvement in project coordination and implementation by strengthening institutional
capacity.

3.3.2. The table below summarizes the project's components, the problems and constraints it
sought to address, and the proposed instruments and actions to be undertaken.

EMAL: Components, Problems/Constraints, Instruments/Actions

      Component                     Problems/Constraints                          Instruments/Actions
 1. Streamlining
 Economic
 Management
Macroeconomic              ·        Inadequate institutional         · Bolster macroeconomic analysis, data
analysis and data          capacity for macroeconomic                collection and management, fiscal projections
management                 management under a changed policy         and debt monitoring.
                           regime.
Public Resource           ·         Neglected efficiency and equity · Prioritize public expenditures, retool budget
Management                of revenue collection, budget system and management and payments systems, increase
                          expenditure management during             transparency of tax administration.
                          economic boom.
Administrative renewal ·            Public administration with      · Modernize public administration with
and public sector reform insufficient transparency and little       increased decision-making for managers for
                          budgetary flexibility.                    budgetary allocations and staff redeployment.
2. Reforming Public
Enterprises
Framework                  ·        Lack of comprehensive            · Develop best practice policy parameters for
development                policies to achieve competitiveness of    SOE development, plus corresponding legal
                           SOEs and competitive structures in        and regulatory framework.
                           their respective markets.
Institutional             ·         Weakness in policy making,      · Streamline administrative functions,
development               implementation and regulation.            rationalize organization set-up and strengthen
                                                                    technical proficiency and regulatory capacity
                                                                    within overarching shift of government from
                                                                    operator to regulator
Privatization preparation ·         Low returns on investment and · Initiate company specific restructuring and
                          state involvement in productive sectors   privatization plans for best operational
                                                                    performance
Performance monitoring ·            Insufficient management         · Upgrade performance evaluation and
and evaluation            oversight to achieve operational          corporate governance through business based
                          improvements                              performance contracts and supervision system.
 3. Strengthening
 industrial
 competitiveness
Industry survey            ·        Weak knowledge base of Thai      · Conduct systematic surveys and analysis of
                           enterprises and their constraints.        industrial competitiveness, skills development
                                                                     and technology upgrading
Public policy framework ·           Weak governance system for      · Create public policies to support a
                          competitiveness hampers Thai exports.     framework for competitiveness.
Customs modernization ·             Non-transparent and             · Monitor progress of streamlining customs




                                                        - 3 -

                        cumbersome customs procedures           and increase tariff collection.
                        undermine export performance.
4. Project coordination ·        Traditionally weak interagency · Reinforce strong project implementation
and implementation      coordination.                           under FPO.
Consulting services                                             · Provide expertise for procurement, project
                                                                implementation.
Equipment                                                        · Provide office equipment, translation.



3.4 Revised Components:

3.4.1. No major revisions were made to the above components. However, there were
adjustments to some activities during the project time frame. These included the addition of the
component on the modernization of information system for the management of state properties of
the Treasury Department in order to strengthen the management efficiency of the state
information system. The component on macroeconomic assessment outlook was merged with
that of the data management component under the macroeconomic analysis section, because its
objective on monitoring and assessing the performance of the economy was basically the same.
The project also supported diagnostic studies that contributed to the design of the Public Sector
Reform Loan (PRSL).


3.5 Quality at Entry:

3.5.1 In 1997, the government wished to take the strategic advantage of the economic crisis to
address some medium-term institutional and structural weaknesses. As a result, the project
reflected specific government requests in key areas with direct impact on economic performance.
Given the urgency of the situation, the project was prepared under the guiding principle of quick
and constructive response to immediate needs of the government, in lieu of comprehensive
proposals with limited coverage.

3.5.2 The above approach provided a positive environment for strong collaborative partnership
that was crucial in strengthening institutions and competitiveness in Thailand. The nature of the
project created an opportunity where government agencies collaborated and worked closely with
Bank staff on individual components that were chosen carefully by the government to insure
operational relevance and to bring about desired results.

3.5.3 The design of this technical assistance project took into account the requirement of strong
political and stakeholder commitment, expeditious preparation, and flexibility. The project was
also structured with separate lead counterpart agencies and the terms of reference for each
component reflected the priorities of each of the key agencies.

3.5.4 Last but not least, the project had strong ownership from the Royal Thai Government
which urged the Bank to initiate this project within a very short time frame and which committed
local resources to all the components of the project. Bank staff also undertook close
consultations with government agencies at all levels which wished to have support from this
project. These consultations enhanced further the strong ownership of the project among these


                                                    - 4 -

participating agencies during the implementation stage.

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

4.1.1 Achievement of objectives and outputs under the project was satisfactory. The loan
supported the realization and sustainability of Thailand's program of reforms (i) to build stronger
public capacity for economic management and reform in the public sector; (ii) to reform
state-owned enterprises; and (iii) to sharpen industrial competitiveness of the private sector. The
project contributed greatly to strengthen the government's overall ability to formulate a coherent
and consistent macroeconomic and fiscal strategy through better macroeconomic analyses and
data management, public resource management, and public administration renewal. It supported
the privatization program and performance improvement of public enterprises, in addition to
developing effective regulatory oversight for providing infrastructure services. Studies and
surveys on private sector competitiveness brought about an in-depth understanding of the
problems an issues facing enterprises. At the same time, the project focused on developing skills
and upgrading technology and its use among public agencies, improving the public policy
framework for competitiveness, and facilitating international trade. At the final count when the
project closed, there were 12 sub-components with 67 sub-projects and 14 implementing
agencies, grouped under three principal components described above. All these sub-components
were complementary building blocks and together helped to successfully fulfill the project's
overall development objectives, albeit over a somewhat longer timeframe than the three years
originally envisaged. All the legal covenants of the loan were complied with by the government.

4.1.2 The project provided timely technical assistance to several government agencies to carry
out institutional reforms that were needed following the 1997 crisis. The operation was an
effective means to move the policymakers from the discussion of what reforms were needed
towards how to actually implement these reforms through practical measures and steps, especially
through institution-building and improved public administration and organization. Most
importantly, the project helped strengthen and reconfirm the government ownership of the reform
agenda and the commitment of relevant agencies which undertook these reform activities.

4.1.3 Further, this technical assistance also served as an effective vehicle for the Bank to carry
out and maintain an active dialogue with the government on post-crisis structural reforms. This
project played an important role in supporting and following up on the Bank's structural
adjustment lending operations which were part of the financing package funded by the Bank to
help Thailand address the aftermath of the 1997 crisis.

4.2 Outputs by components:

Project Component 1. Streamlining economic management

4.2.1. This component helped strengthen the government capacity for macroeconomic analysis
and improved fiscal management by providing technical assistance to guide policymakers in three
key areas: (i) macroeconomic framework, (ii) public resource management; and (iii) renewal of



                                                - 5 -

public administration and public sector reform. There were some adjustments to these
components (see below) while the project was implemented to take into account the current
situation.

Macroeconomic Analysis and Data Management

4.2.2. This component was divided into four sub-components: (i) macroeconomic assessment
outlook; (ii) data management; (iii) fiscal and monetary research; and (iv) debt monitoring. As the
project was implemented, it was decided that the first sub-component, macroeconomic assessment
outlook, had similar objective as that of data management project and would involve the same
government agencies. Thus, this was subsumed under the data management subcomponent as
these activities would be better covered in sequence under this component.

4.2.3. Data Management. This sub-component helped establish a central macroeconomic
database, the Economic Management Information System (EMIS), designed to increase the
efficiency, quality and consistency of macroeconomic data and their management and services.
EMIS has been successfully implemented and provided efficient support and input to the
country's macroeconomic analyses and to policymakers in their decisions on economic policies
and measures, as was intended in the original objective of this component. EMIS is available
through the web pages of the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO), the Bank of Thailand (BOT), National
Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB), and the Bureau of the Budget (BOB). This
sub-component covers macroeconomic analyses (see the discussion above) since the government
decided ­ with Bank concurrence ­ that this activity would be a logical next step in the data
management sub-component.

4.2.4. Fiscal and Monetary Research. The Fiscal Policy Research Institute (FPRI) was
established through the project support with the following mandate: monitoring economic
developments and providing analytical guidance for macroeconomic policy-making. FPRI
performed an important role during the economic crisis: it monitored the country's economic
situation and provided recommendations on appropriate policies and measures to address the
problems that arose. FPRI has now assumed the role of a government think-tank within the FPO
of the Ministry of Finance (MOF). It is responsible for providing timely analyses on
macroeconomic trends in the domestic economy and in the international sphere. It also provides
assessments on potential effects of economic policies that are being adopted or to be adopted by
MOF in the latter's exercise to formulate future economic policies. FPRI serves as a conduit to
further the understanding of the economy to Thai and foreign investors as these are considering
investment opportunities in Thailand.

4.2.5. The project supported the Competitiveness Study project which was completed and
served as a basic document on the country's policies to enhance the competitiveness of Thai
industries. The report covered six principal topics with a set of recommendations on policies that
the government needs to undertake to improve and enhance the country's competitive edge in the
international markets.

4.2.6. Debt Monitoring. The Public Debt Management Office (PDMO) was established in the



                                                - 6 -

FPO, as specified by the project, with the mandate to record and maintain the debt recording and
management system and to establish external debt borrowing policy and coordination and
cooperation with multilateral and bilateral donors in the area of financial assistance to the country.
The debt monitoring project also funded computer hardware and the installation of the CS-DRMS
(3) software version 6.1, later upgraded to 7.1, to monitor public debt. This debt management
system operates with greater efficiency and responsiveness when providing scenarios on overall
debt management and related services, including debt repayment, currency risk, and interest
fluctuation, etc. The PDMO now uses this system as an indispensable tool for the country debt
management to carry out its responsibilities under the MOF overall supervision.

4.2.7. The FPO has also upgraded its traditional library into an electronic one with the support of
the project, contributing to an improved database management process and information flow for
researchers and policymakers in the MOF.

Note 3: The CS-DRMS stands for Commonwealth Secretariat ­ Debt Recording and Management System.


Public Resource Management

4.2.8. This component was divided into a series of sub-projects.

4.2.9. Public Expenditure and Investment Review. The Public Expenditure and Investment
Review activity was completed in June 1999 and its recommendations were presented to the
government. The Review was found to be useful to the BOB which subsequently adopted the
report's recommendations in its annual exercise on the allocation of the national budget. The
results were also used for developing a government budget management system and were part of
the Public Sector Management Reform Plan.

4.2.10. Modernizing Budget Management, completed in June 1999, aimed to strengthen public
expenditure planning for more efficient budget allocations, consistent with the development plan
through two phases that included the following steps: (i) reviewing the budget system, (ii)
retooling the budgeting system; (iii) fiscal decentralization; and (iv) budget expenditure modeling.
This subcomponent supported the development of a result-oriented budgeting system and
advanced the budget decentralization activity. The Strategic Performance-based Budgeting
(SPBB) system is now required for all public agencies from 2003 forward.

4.2.11. Government Payments System: The tasks supported by the project included (i) evaluation
of budget execution system; (ii) upgrade of the fiscal information system; and (iii) information
technology. These tasks were completed successfully. They now support the building of an
effective disbursement system for budget control and administering expenditures consistent with
government-established program and policy priorities. The Comptroller General's Department
has adopted the results of the study and incorporated into its operations, i.e., the e-payments and
public sector accounting standards.

4.2.12. The Revenue Department implemented four activities funded by the project: (i) Tax
Administration; (ii) Automated Audit System; (iii) Automated Audit Selection System (AASS);
and Tax Identification System (PINTHIP). All four activities have been successfully completed


                                                      - 7 -

and made operational. The AASS and the PINTHIP have been successfully launched by the staff
of the Revenue Department. Maintained by its staff, these computerized systems have helped the
Department to better manage its taxpayer database and enhance the revenue collection system
with increasing efficiency and timeliness.

4.2.13. Modernization of Documentation and Information System and Establishing New
Computer Cabling System for Excise-Net. These two sub-components were completed through
the procurement of hardware for the information system and the cabling system. The system was
installed and made operational. The Excise Department is now relying on this system to improve
the effectiveness of the excise tax collection, including reducing the need of large amount of
documents in hard copies, better and faster search for records (thus saving time), and providing
the same database for all departments, thus avoiding inconsistency arising from the earlier
situation where different departments relied on different databases.

4.2.14. Excise Revenue Forecasting in Micro-Economic Model was developed and completed by
FPRI for the Excise Department. This model now serves as an effective tool for the Department
to project excise tax revenues. It helps improve the capability of the department to formulate and
propose appropriate/realistic excise tax policies to policy makers, resulting in better
implementation of these policies. Staff of the department enthusiastically welcome this model for
their work.

4.2.15. GFS Data Management System, which was established as a management information
system, currently serves as a centralized statistical system which compiles all government financial
data from relevant agencies to meet statistical needs by government agencies. However, the
system will need further fine-tuning, including addressing data inconsistency and reliable and
regular data reporting in order to make the system more useful and timely. The authorities
indicated that they will continue to fine-tune this database and the system of reporting and
updating these statistics to ensure their timeliness and accuracy under the FPO guidance.

4.2.16. Treasury Department IT Master Plan. The Treasury Department of MOF is responsible
for state property management, mint production and management and property evaluation. With
the project's support, the 5-year Information Technology Master Plan was prepared in February
2001. It was updated in January 2003 in response to organizational structure and duty changes as
a result of the public service reform and to the national ICT Master Plan. This IT master plan
covers computer hardware and network procurement, software package procurement, application
software development, computer training, IT outsourcing, etc. The Treasury Department is now
implementing these activities called for in the plan from its own budget.

Administrative Renewal

4.2.17. For greater transparency and budgetary flexibility, the Office of the Civil Service
Commission (OCSC), implemented the Administrative Renewal Project. This included several
sub-components, (i) the result-based management system; (ii) rightsizing the civil service; (iii)
human resources; and (iv) senior executive services.




                                                  - 8 -

4.2.18. The result-based management system contributed successfully to the improvement of the
quality of the civil service at the Department of Insurance of the Ministry of Commerce. This
system was expanded to the other seven departments of the Ministry and helped to ensure linkage
of performance with result in this Ministry. This system will be adopted in other departments and
will be further expanded to provincial levels. In addition, the project funded the software
application for the result-based management approach, which facilitated the compiling and
measurement of indicator performances for relevant reports. Training was also provided for the
use of this software.

4.2.19. Other activities funded by this sub-component included participation of OCSC staff in the
1998 Biennial Conference of the Commonwealth Association for Public Administration
Management (CAPAM) in Malaysia which aimed to improve knowledge on New Public
Management and Public Sector Reform.

4.2.20. A proposal for the establishment of an Ethics Promotion Center was supported by the
project. This Center has now been set up with the funding from and under the supervision of the
OCSC.

4.2.21. In addition, there were a series of public relations programs undertaken through various
media and designed to raise public awareness and understanding about the administration. These
included public contests on clean and open government, youth projects on clean and transparent
government. These aimed to encourage the public to be more aware of corruption problems and
to participate in the anti-corruption campaigns.

4.2.22. This sub-component also funded the service of a public sector reform advisor who assisted
the government in formulating a coherent package of policy measures and action plan for the
public sector reform in the long-run. The consultant facilitated the networking on public sector
reform to key agencies, OCSC, Bureau of the Budget, and the Public Sector Reform Committee,
provided advice to OCSC on reforms in civil service structures and human resource system, on
the relationship between the newly adopted budget system, and the civil service structure.

Component 2: Reforming State-Owned Enterprises

Framework Development

4.2.23. The government was committed to increase enterprise efficiency and economic
performance through a comprehensive privatization program. The project supported the
government's Privatization Master Plan ­ under preparation following the crisis ­ which was
finalized and approved by the Cabinet on September 1, 1998. The Plan presented the objectives,
roles and responsibilities for state enterprises restructuring and privatization. It provided the legal
basis for corporatization and privatization. The plan included the privatization plan for the
following sectors, telecommunications, water supply, transport, energy, and others, with the
establishment of key parameters for privatization, i.e., labor retrenchment, liability management,
treatment of environmental costs, etc.




                                                  - 9 -

Institutional Development

4.2.24. The project initiated the process to streamline administrative functions, rationalize
organization set-up and strengthen technical proficiency and regulatory capacity within
overarching shift of the government from operator to regulator. The institutional strengthening
includes better management of the database on SOEs, softwares and hardwares for the
computerization and management of SOE records. These databases allowed for more reliable
information for better analyses and assessments of the SOE sector and its privatization process.

Privatization Preparation

4.2.25. The project supported the initiation of company-specific restructuring and privatization
plans for best operational performance. The State Railway of Thailand (SRT) was one of the
chosen company for the privatization process. A short-term financial strategy development
sub-project funded a study on the SRT's existing financial and commercial status with suggestions
on alternatives to address SRT financial crisis. (4)                 A second phase, entitled the SRT
Restructuring sub-component, provided further analyses and alternatives to SRT restructuring,
with recommendations on separation of selected accounts and lines of business reorganization.
Following these two reports and their recommendations to the government, SRT has undertaken
some further financial and organizational steps towards a efficient organization in anticipation of
the government's decision on SRT reform.

4.2.26. Another sub-component under this activity was the Express Transportation Organization
(ETO) of Thailand corporatization study which was implemented by the Ministry of Trade
(MOT). It analyzed the current situation facing ETO and proposed approaches to corporatize
this organization. The study's recommendations are expected to be taken into account as the
government proceeds with its decision on ETO corporatization.

Note 4. The report suggested that the infrastructure-related costs could be subsidized by the government in order to help with
the restructuring of SRT.

Performance Monitoring and Evaluation

4.2.27. This component aimed to upgrade performance evaluation and corporate governance
through business-based performance contracts and supervision system. The component had two
sub-projects. The first one sought to support the State Enterprise Policy Commission (SEPC),
later renamed State Enterprise Policy Office (SEPO), improving its capacity to monitor and assess
SOE performance with the procurement of equipment and computer systems. The second
sub-component financed the design and building of the Thailand Privatization Website through
which progress on public enterprise reform would be made available to the public. This website,
which was launched in the early 2000s, aimed to provide information on public sector reform,
including background, status, plans, progresses, current and future operations, SOE supervision
data, good governance, law and regulations related to SOE reforms. The website has contributed
to increased awareness among the Thai public on the government's privatization process and
helps to bring about more transparency in the privatization process.




                                                            - 10 -

Component 3: Sharpening Industrial Competitiveness

Industry Survey

4.2.28. The project supported the conducting of systematic surveys and analyses of industrial
competitiveness, skills development and technology upgrading, that would be useful to
policymakers in order to create a conducive environment for the private sector in Thailand. The
Industrial Survey ­ Part I, carried out by the Industrial Information Center of the Office of
Industrial Economics (OIE) at the Ministry of Industry (MOI), sought to improve the industrial
database information on Thai industries, from data collection processes to compilation and
establishment of a comprehensive database to meaningful data analyses. The output consisted of
the 1998 in-depth industrial survey covering about 600 factories of five sectors, garments,
textiles, electronics, food processing, and auto parts. The report, entitled the Road to Corporate
Recovery, was well received by policymakers.

4.2.29. The Industrial Survey ­ Part II continued with the second round of surveys. Data for
1999 and 2000 were collected with a view to institutionalize the survey process for about 4000
factories a year, and to prepare comprehensive reports analyzing the industrial situation and
assessing the trends in the industries of Thailand, including an estimation of the total factor
productivity for the country. These reports and survey results have been used by policymakers
and other international institutions on short and long-term policy making. They have also been
widely disseminated to the public.

Public Policy Framework

4.2.30. To create public policies to support a framework conducive to competitiveness, the
project supported two studies that were undertaken by NESDB: the Cost Structure of Major
Thailand Industries and the Cost Structure Study on Land Freight Transport. The first study
sought to establish a reference framework for the cost structure of the Thai industries and the cost
structure of seven major industries, i.e., food, electronic appliances, garments, automotive, plastic
products, rubber and leather goods with policy recommendations for these industries. The
findings of this survey have contributed to the understanding of the basic costs of production for
the relevant Thai industries so that appropriate policies could be formulated to reflect the
industrial situation in Thailand and to encourage these industries to growth and invest in the most
efficient way.

4.2.31. The second study on land freight transport considered the model for cost calculation for
land freight transport. Due to budget and field survey constraints, the model has not been tested.
However, NESDB officials have been trained to run this model to analyze transportation costs in
relevant projects.




                                                 - 11 -

Customs Modernization

4.2.32. The project supported the activities to monitor progress in streamlining customs and
increase tariff collection at the Customs Department. These consisted of two sub-components:
the Customs Administrative Reform and the Development of Import Valuation System.

4.2.33. The first component, the Customs Administrative Reform, involved the preparation of a
master plan and its implementation plan, including training of the officials from the Customs
Department in carrying out the plan. The second component originally sought to assist the
Customs Department in evaluation and improving its import valuation information system and
database. It also included the development and implementation of a methodology for providing
international pricing sources to help expedite the clearance of goods while deterring undervaluing
practices. However, this component was not complete and the consultant services were
inadequate for the purposes specified by the Customs Department at the project closing.
Consequently, the Customs Department intended to complete these activities using its own
budget.

Component 4: Project Coordination and Implementation

4.2.34. The project supported the establishment of a Project Implementing Unit (PIU) under FPO
to assist in implementing the activities called for in this operation. The PIU would provide
expertise for procurement and implementation for the project implementing agencies (PIAs) in
different agencies and ministries. It would act as the supporting and coordinating agency for the
project.

4.2.35. At the beginning when consultants and PIU staff were being hired and trained to support
the project, the PIU experienced some challenges and difficulties, as any newly constituted office
would, in carrying out its activities that involved extensive coordination among many government
agencies and good knowledge of the Bank's operating and procurement guidelines. As the
project was being implemented, the process improved and there was gradually better coordination
and cooperation that came with learning by doing while the individual PIAs also improved their
knowledge about Bank's requirements for project implementation. However, given the fact that
there was a continuous high turnover among the PIU staff, the challenges remained for the unit to
carry out smoothly its responsibilities over the life of the project.

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

4.3.1. Not applicable. However, the project would improve the efficiency of resource allocation
and hence returns on investment generally.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

4.4.1. Not applicable. However, the project would yield significant returns by augmenting the
Royal Thai Government's institutional capacity.




                                                 - 12 -

4.5 Institutional development impact:

4.5.1. The project's institutional development impact was high. It provided the means for the
government to improve the capability and capacity of key economic agencies to formulate and
implement policies, at first to deal with the economic crisis and later to move beyond the crisis for
better management of the economy. Institutional development activities strengthened the
regulatory environment for fiscal management and state enterprises and helped government
agencies to face the challenges posed by the exposure of Thailand to increasing globalization,
while instituting modern and more efficient processes and new offices that were required for
effective management of the economy and formulation of needed macroeconomic policies by the
government.

4.5.2. Ministry of Finance. The project helped institutionalize new processes and relevant
offices and units in the FPO to help the Ministry meet the challenges in managing the
government's macroeconomic policy. The Fiscal Policy Research Institute has taken on
challenging responsibilities as a government think tank to monitor macroeconomic trends and to
provide the government with relevant policy recommendations or assessments of potential policies
undertaken by the authorities. FPRI continues to perform these activities for the Ministry after
the project closed. The Public Debt Management Office was established with the support of the
project. This office took over an indispensable and important activity of the government, the
monitoring and careful management of public debt.

4.5.3. Office of the Civil Service Commission. The Ethics Promotion Center was established
following the proposal funding by the project. OCSC expects that the Center will play an
effective role in increasing Thai public awareness for good government, good governance and
transparency in the public sector.

4.5.4. Many processes and policies, initiated and supported by the project, have taken roots in
the implementing agencies. These included the public expenditure and investment review and the
modernization of the budget management at the Bureau of the Budget. The Comptroller
General's Department has adopted the government payments system which helps speed up and
simplify the system of payments by the government. The Excise Department now uses the excise
revenue forecasting microeconomic model in order to project their revenue and improve its
capability to propose appropriate excise tax policies. The Revenue Department has adopted the
Automated Audit System and the Tax Identification System that have vastly improved its work
towards an efficient and transparency tax administration system. The result-based management
application enhancement project has contributed to the streamlining of the public administration
with greater transparency in the Office of the Civil Service Commission.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

5.1.1. Similar to projects that provide assistance for a large number of agencies, coordination
among Thai agencies and ministries presented a challenge to the government and the principal
implementing agency. The familiarity with project implementation guidelines and procedures



                                                     - 13 -

varied across these agencies and these could not be solved in the short-term.

5.1.2. The unfamiliarity with Bank procurement guidelines at the beginning of the project was
also a challenge as the Borrower had not borrowed from the Bank for a long time. This was
addressed later when the Bank appointed a procurement specialist in its office in Bangkok to help
in this process.

5.1.3. The procurement of timely services from international consultants depended on the speed
and response of the latter to the government's advertisements and the consultants' availability for
the assignment. Thus, there were delays in getting some consultants on board in time and also for
the delivery of their services.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

5.2.1. Most of the activities to be implemented were under the government control and its
implementing agencies. As there was strong ownership among them, the project was completed,
albeit with three extensions. But, the government delivered its promises with timely provisions of
counterpart funds and most of the activities were carried out and completed satisfactorily.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

5.3.1. The PIU, under the overall FPO guidance, was responsible for the coordination between
its departments and with other relevant agencies and ministries to carry out the activities. The
initial unfamiliarity with Bank's procedures and diverse components of the project among many
ministries and agencies created some challenges at times for the implementation of the project.
However, the learning-by-doing process improved with time while the project was implemented.

5.4 Costs and financing:

5.4.1. The project was financed with US$ 15 million from IBRD and $5 million from the
government, with a total project cost of $20 million. At the closure of the project on February
28, 2003, $13 million was disbursed by the Bank. The government requested the cancellation of
$2 million as all the activities were completed at the project closed. An undisbursed balance of
$0.480 million was also cancelled after the project closed. The total cost of the project was lower
than originally estimated following the government's decision to use the services of Thai
consultants for some of the project activities, in particular, for Component 2 on SOEs.

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

        6.1.1. The overall project sustainability is rated likely.         The activities and its
sub-components supported by this project have been achieved and are sustainable after the
project's closure. Most of the implementing agencies have continued with the activities funded
under this project with their own budget after the project closed, as discussed above. For some
activities, the new processes and instruments which were introduced by the project were adopted
subsequently by the implementing agencies as part of their regular businesses and administration



                                                    - 14 -

processes or inputs. For other activities, the results have been used for further actions within their
agencies or continued to serve as a tool in their reform agenda or program. New administrative
units were established that now serve the government efficiently in the management of the
country's economy.

6.1.2. All together, the project's components have instituted valuable and practical building
blocks that contributed to the government's overall reform program and the project's
development objectives. In the aftermath of the 1997 crisis, the project helped the government to
focus directly its attention on specific and practical reform measures to be undertaken immediately
to address the shortcomings revealed by the crisis. It introduced practical measures to strengthen
the government's capacity and capability where needed for better management of the economy
through efficient and transparent processes and pragmatic introduction of institutional changes in
economic agencies and ministries.            Further, the government demonstrated its unwavering
commitment to carry out the reform activities as called for in the project through its requests for
extensions of the closing date in order to complete them in a satisfactory manner.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

6.2.1. EMAL was in part of a larger package designed by the Bank to help the Borrower to
weather the 1997 crisis. This project served as a platform for Bank economic dialogue with the
government in conjunction with the series of Economic and Financial Adjustment Loans (EFALs)
and the Public Sector Reform Loan (PSRL) to Thailand and a vehicle for positive contributions to
these structural adjustment operations. EMAL buttressed the Bank's policy-based lending in the
areas of competitiveness, privatization and public sector reform. In addition, EMAL also played a
positive role in supporting the Bank's PSRL through diagnostic studies that were used in
designing the reforms envisaged by PSRL. It is worth noting that the Thai economy has made
solid progress since the 1997 crisis with improved GDP growth rates and other key economic
indicators. The government decided that it was no longer necessary to proceed with the fourth
EFAL from the Bank, has repaid the IMF loans, and has started to prepay the debts incurred
during the crisis.

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

7.1.1. The Bank's performance in project identification is rated satisfactory. Bank staff were
able to identify timely activities in different agencies and ministries that enhanced the ownership of
the government in the project, despite its broad coverage. The newly enhanced Bank's Country
Office with its resident Director and country economist also served as an efficient vehicle to
identify necessary and relevant components for the project and allowed for its preparation and
appraisal in a very short time frame.

7.2 Supervision:

7.2.1. The Bank's performance in the overall supervision of the project was satisfactory, despite
a change in task manager. The presence of the task manager in the field contributed greatly to the



                                                   - 15 -

smooth supervision of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

7.3.1. The Bank's overall performance is rated satisfactory in this project.           The Bank's
accurately identified the activities and the actions that were needed by the Borrower following the
1997 crisis. It provided close support, supervision and coordination with the government, the
PIU and the implementing agencies in order to carry out the planned activities.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

7.4.1. The government's role in the preparation was satisfactory, given the urgent needs for
technical assistance support to address the economic challenges in the aftermath of the crisis. The
authorities, in hindsight, knew what areas to focus its efforts for reforms and exerted strong
ownership in the overall project as well as its components.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

7.5.1. The government performance was satisfactory.              The project reflected the strong
ownership of the technical assistance program among the government and its implementing
agencies for each of the component supported by the project. Despite three extensions, the
government was committed to carry out the activities supported by the project to their successful
completion.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

7.6.1. The performance of the main implementing agency, the Ministry of Finance, was
satisfactory. As the project has several components which were managed by different agencies,
the FPO was the supervising unit in charge of this project. FPO handled the coordination and
cooperation between all the government agencies and with the Bank with the help of the PIU.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

7.7.1. The government overall performance was satisfactory.           There was close cooperation
between the government and the Bank during the implementation of the project, facilitated by the
Bank's country office and resident task manager. The Ministry of Finance, through its FPO and
the PIU, provided strong leadership and facilitated the smooth implementation of this project
which covered many agencies and ministries, as shown by its determination to complete
successfully these activities.

8. Lessons Learned


8.1.    The major lessons are:

·       Overall strong support and ownership from the Borrower during project preparation and
implementation contributed to the successful completion of the project, especially in the


                                                 - 16 -

introduction of important changes in key agencies and ministries. The government's willingness
to borrow for technical assistance and the desire to complete them in a satisfactory manner
underlined further its commitment to reforms.
·        Clear ownership from each individual agency supported by the project helped to carry out
the anticipated reforms and ensure the outcome of the activities supported by the project.
·        A knowledgeable and well-staffed Project Implementing Unit (PIU) played a key role in
this type of technical assistance project with many components in coordinating activities among
implementing agencies.
·        Close supervision by the Bank's task manager ensured that the project's implementation
was on track. The resident task manager facilitated greatly the process of implementation.
·        Close coordination is needed between the Bank and the PIU during the implementation
stage for smooth procurement services.
·        Capacity building and institutional development activities have been sustained with
continuing efforts beyond the project life. This project has provided basic building blocks for the
realization of these activities.
·        Relationship between technical assistance operation and policy-based lending operations.
The technical assistance project was useful in providing the Bank with a platform for active
dialogue on structural reforms with the government, for the need for coordinated and
comprehensive approaches to reforms, and better assurance for sustainability. At the same time,
the technical assistance project also provided diagnostics studies that were used in designing the
country's structural reform program and funding to carry out other necessary preparatory
activities.
·        Time frame required for institutional building operations: The project was extended three
times (for a total period of two years) so that activities under various components could be
completed. The time actually taken to introduce changes in the government processes and
institutional building as well as consultant requirements will need to be acknowledged in planning
similar technical assistance projects.
·        Public information and communication campaigns that advance transparency and better
governance are key to successful reforms, both among the public and the staff of the
implementing agencies. The administrative renewal component contributed to these public
outreach programs and helped sustain this activity.


9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:


                ECONOMIC MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE LOAN (EMAL)
                                        LOAN No. 4288-TH
                                   Borrower's Evaluation Report
Project Background

9.1.1.Following the economic crisis of 1997, the Royal Thai Government proposed the Economic
Management Assistance Loan (EMAL) as part of a broader effort to support Thailand's
stabilization and structural adjustment program to restore high sustainable economic growth. The
Loan complemented the standby facility provided by the IMF and the emergency-financing


                                                 - 17 -

package from bilateral and multilateral sources. On February 17, 1998, The Executive Directors
of the World Bank approved the EMAL in the amount of USD 15 million equivalent. The Loan
Agreement was signed on March 10, 1998. The original loan closing date was February 28, 2001,
which was extended to February 28, 2003 in order to provide adequate time for effectively
implementing the new program.

Project Objectives

9.1.2.The objective of the Project was to provide technical assistance to improve Thailand's
capability to implement its macroeconomic program and to improve the competitiveness of its
economy with emphasis on: (1) upgrading macroeconomic management and public
administration; (2) reforming public enterprises; and (3) strengthening the competitiveness of
Thailand's industrial sector.

Project Description

9.1.3.The Project was composed of four components, namely: (1) Streamlining economic
management in the areas of macroeconomic analysis, public resource management and renewal
of public administration; (2) Reforming state-owned enterprises through support for the
Government's program for divesting public enterprises, designing an adequate regulatory
framework and improving the performance monitoring and evaluation of SOEs; (3)
Recommending public measures to assist in upgrading industrial competitiveness of the private
sector by improving the industrial sector knowledge base, developing a framework for
competitiveness and facilitating trade; and (4) Strengthening the institutional capacity for effective
project coordination and implementation.


Achievement of Project

9.1.4.Under the Project's components mentioned above, there were 12 sub-components and 67
sub-projects, which were complementary and designed to reach the overall Project objectives. The
Project was, thus, implemented by a number of agencies concerned under the supervision of the
Project Implementation Unit (PIU) of the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) (See Annex 1). The
implementation achievements of the Project according to its components were as follows:

Component 1 : Streamlining Economic Management

1.1 Macroeconomic Analysis

9.1.5.Starting with the Data Management or Economic Management Information System:
EMIS, the project was intended to increase the efficiency and quality of macroeconomic data
management and services through the modern technology. The implementation of the project was
successful, indicated by the unique and modern centralized macroeconomic database, which has
been gorgeously supporting the macroeconomic analysis and the decision making of economic
policies and measures. Currently, the EMIS system can generally be used through client/server of



                                                - 18 -

the major economic units comprising of the FPO, the Bank of Thailand (BOT), the National
Economic and Social Development Board (NESDB) and the Bureau of the Budget (BOB), or
alternatively through the link in the FPO Website.

9.1.6.The foundation of the Fiscal Policy Research Institute (FPRI) was another significant
achievement in developing macroeconomic models to foresee future economic trends and analyze
effects of various economic policies adopted by the Ministry of Finance (MOF) in order to
formulate future economic policies. The FPRI has drawn the important role during the economic
crisis by monitoring economic situation and proposing suitable policy recommendations.
Moreover, it has also spent a major role in providing correct information about Thai economy that
would lead to true understanding to both Thai and foreign investors. This organization has helped
bring out Thailand to the knowledge base economy.

9.1.7.One of the major studies performed by the FPRI was the Thailand's Competitiveness
Study Project. Since the International Institution for Management Development (IMD) and the
World Economic Forum (WEF) analyze and rank the ability of a nation to provide an environment
that sustains the competitiveness of enterprises, this study was very beneficial in terms of
identification of the strengths and the weaknesses of Thailand's competitiveness under the
IMD-WEF framework and suggestion of how to improve the overall competitive level. The study
was divided into six main issues, namely 1) Thailand's Global Competitiveness 2) Economic and
Social Policies Related to Real Sector Competitiveness 3) An Analysis of Excess Liquidity in the
Banking Sector: Its Implications on Government Bond Issuing 4) Evaluation of Fiscal-Credit
Policy 5) A General Framework of Cluster Analysis and 6) Information System of Thailand's
Competitiveness. All the information has been disseminated free of charge in the
www.competitiveness.in.th. The study has been used as a set of suggestive policies to the
government in order to improve Thailand's competitiveness and enhance the competition policy.

9.1.8.The Debt Monitoring project, or the project of Debt Recording and Management System
for Thailand: Upgrading of CS-DRMS to version 7.1, by the Public Debt Management Office
(PDMO) was implemented to support the duties and responsibilities of setting the external
borrowing policy and coordinating with international financial institutions and foreign
governments regarding financial assistance for Thailand. Improving foreign debt management has
been needed to achieve greater efficiency and responsiveness to international financial conditions,
which has had large repercussions on the country's external debt situation. For this reason, it was
necessary to have high efficiency instruments that could promptly analyze the effects of interest
and exchange rate fluctuation. This system has generated more reliable and accurate public debt
database with better requirement driven quality and has led to the development of IT
infrastructure for more technologically advanced database.

9.1.9.The Electronic Library Development Project of the FPO has turned the traditional library
into an electronic library. It has developed the database system of the library into the form that
allows searching through both the Internet and the FPO's intranet network. It has also made the
FPO library become a leading center of economics and fiscal information with books, documents,
and other medias for all users, eliminating library working process and speeding up the library's
data management.



                                               - 19 -

1.2 Public Resource Management

9.1.10. There were two sub-projects executed by the BOB. The first one was the Public
Expenditure and Investment Review. This project evaluated the efficiency, effectiveness and
equity of budget allocations in the past. It also made concrete policy recommendations by
providing practical budgetary guidelines, and regular expenditure review mechanisms and
procedures. The output of the project was the report on public expenditure review mechanisms
and budgetary guidelines highlighting on education, public health, agriculture and transport. The
result of the study has been used as part of the consideration for allocating national budget. The
second sub-project was the Modernizing Budget Management. The project was aimed at
improving the Thai budgeting system, management, processes and related institutions, so that the
resource allocation in the public sector would be more efficient, effective and equitable.
According to the project study, the BOB has adopted a new budgeting system recommended by
the Consultant and has used it as a criterion to improve the Thai budgeting system in order to
cover all public agencies. From the year 2003 onwards, all public agencies have to adopt the
Strategic Performance-based Budgeting (SPBB) system.

9.1.11. The Government Payment System by the Comptroller General's Department (CGD)
was another significant project in this sub-component. The project designed an integrated set of
fully functioning computer-based information system (Both TA and GFS) for payment system,
government accounting and post/payroll management. The project also designed the CGD's
payment administration system to help speed up, simplify and ensure probity of the government
payment system. All the tasks were completed as planned. The result of the study has been
adopted by the CGD to develop its administration such as the e-Payment and public sector
accounting standards.

9.1.12. The IT Master Plan for the Treasury Department executed by the Treasury
Department (TD) was intended to prepare guidelines for computer investment and IT system
development in terms of hardware, software and network system for the TD of the next five years
(2003-2007) as well as to prepare personnel development plan. According to this Master Plan,
three projects are being implemented and two projects are in the procurement process. Later, the
IT Master Plan Update for the Treasury Department was implemented to update the IT
Master Plan. This was to respond to the organization restructuring and duty changes resulted
from the public sector reform as well as to cope with the national ICT master plan. The result of
the project was to include the plan for the Bureau of Property Valuation of the Department of
Land into the TD's IT Master Plan that has served the change in the structure and duty of the
organization as well as the national ICT master plan. Currently, four projects under the updated
Master Plan have been included in the 2004 fiscal year budget plan.

9.1.13. To increase the efficiency and transparency of tax administration and tax collection, the
Revenue Department (RD) was responsible for implementing four activities, namely the Tax
Administration, the Automated Audit System, the development of Automated Audit
Selection System (AASS) and the Tax Identification System (PINTHIP). The execution of all
activities was accomplished. The Automated Audit Selection System and the Tax Identification



                                              - 20 -

System (PINTHIP) have been launched and the end-users have already been trained.

9.1.14. There were two sub-projects carried out by the Excise Department (ED). First, The
Modernization of Documentation and Information System and Establishing New Computer
Cabling System for Excise-Net was completed through the procurement of hardware equipment.
The installed system has supported the ED in improving the effectiveness of excise tax collection.
Second, the Excise Revenue Forecasting in Micro-Economic Model was developed by the
FPRI (as the Consultant) to improve the ability to project the excise taxable revenue and to
improve the capacity of the CD to propose practical excise tax policies, leading to an effective
implementation of excise tax policies.

9.1.15. The GFS Data Management System project of the FPO has established a specialized
management information system (MIS) that would serve all needs for compiling and computing
the government financial statistics. The system would lead to more convenient, faster and more
accurate in compiling government financial statistics. However, at present, some data imported
from other related agencies are missing, causing errors and delays to the results yielded by the
system.

1.3 Administrative Renewal

9.1.16. In order to streamline public administration with greater transparency and more budgetary
flexibility, the Office of the Civil Service Commission (OCSC) has implemented several activities.
One of them was the Administrative Renewal Project (ARP) Phase I and II (Development of
RBMS in Seven Departments of Ministry of Commerce).

9.1.17. The ARP Phase I comprised of five components, namely 1) Result Based Management
System, served at the Department of Insurance, Ministry of Commerce (MOC) 2) Executive
Agency 3) Rightsizing the Civil Service 4) Human Resources and 5) Senior Executive Service. As
the tremendous success of the ARP, which was completed in May 2000, the OCSC decided to use
the ARP's remaining budget to extend the work on the result base management system (RBMS)
to develop a functioning RBMS in the remaining seven departments of the MOC. This continuous
project has ensured the hierarchical linkage of performance measurement between the MOC and
her departments. Presently, the RBMS has performed effectively in all purposes.

9.1.18. Besides, the OCSC staff has participated in the 1998 Biennial Conference of the
Commonwealth Association for Public Administration Management to gain knowledge on the
issue of New Public Management and Public Sector Reform. In addition, there were also many
Public Relation Programs through various media, composed of TV talk show, TV documentary,
Radio documentary, Programmercial in Television Program, Printing media, Live Radio Program,
VDO Presentation, Seminar Tours and Website to campaign the ARP. These programs increased
awareness and understanding of the public on the ARP.

9.1.19. Another important project was the Public Sector Reform Advisor (Dr. Graham Scott).
This project has assisted the government in formulating a coherent package of policies, measures
and action plans for public sector reform in the long run. This project provided advice to facilitate



                                                - 21 -

development of networking on public sector reform to key reform agencies, including OCSC,
BOB and Public Sector Reform Committee. It also provided advice to the OCSC on civil service
structure reform and human resource system under the new structure and provided advice to
responsible agencies on the relationship between the new budget system and the new civil service
structure.

9.1.20. The Result Based Management Application Enhancement Project has provided the
new internet-based software application including connecting devices and IT equipment for the
results-based management (RBM) approach. The RBM software has effectively been used as a
tool to facilitate government agencies in compiling and calculating performance of each indicator
and converting them to percentage of achievements, and then producing the report in various
forms. The project has also prepared RBM staff for the technology. This has helped users in
government agencies understand and know how to apply the software application appropriately.
During project implementation, there were some difficulties occurred that were the selection and
negotiation time was longer than expected and the consultant requested for time extension
because the work was overloaded.

9.1.21. Not only the system reform projects were devoted, but also ethics and moralities were
promoted to general public, especially students and government officials in primary and secondary
schools nationwide. Following this purpose, the project of Planning the Establishment of
Ethics Promotion Center has designed and prepared a proposal for the establishment of Ethics
Promotion Center (EPC), which has eventually led to the setting up of the EPC under the
supervision of the OCSC. The Essay Contest of the Clean, Open and Transparent Thailand
Project and the Clean and Transparent Youth Project have also encouraged all sectors in the
society to be aware of corruption problem and participate in anti-corruption campaign.

Component 2 : Public Enterprise Reform

9.1.22. The sub-projects under this component have contributed enormously to the development
of the government's state-owned enterprise reform and privatization program. Most of them were
implemented by the State Enterprise Policy Office (SEPO, formerly Office of the State Enterprise
and Government Securities - OSE), except for those in the sub-component 2.3. The achievements
of each sub-component were as follows.

2.1 Framework Development

9.1.23. Under the Public Enterprise Reform project of the SEPO, the Government's
Privatization Master Plan was finalized and approved by the Cabinet on September 1st, 1998. The
Master Plan was divided into two parts. The first part contained seven topics, namely goals of the
Master Plan, objective, roles and responsibility, legal concerned, independent body, social and
labor problems and public relations. The second part contained five topics of each sector, namely
telecommunications, water supply, transport, energy and others. To date, the Master Plan has led
to the restructuring and privatization of three public enterprises, namely Petroleum Authority of
Thailand (energy sector), Airports of Thailand Public Company Limited (transport sector) and
TOT Public Company Limited (telecommunications sector).



                                               - 22 -

9.1.24. There were also two studies for framework development by sectors. First, the Review of
Telecommunications Concession Conversion Proposals gave recommendations on principle
and framework for converting or not converting the telecommunications concession as well as
guidelines and mechanism deemed most suitable for carrying out the conversion process. Second,
the Transport Reform Study Phase II drew up the Transport Sector Reform Plan that redefined
the role and duties of the Ministry of Transport (MOT, formerly Ministry of Transportation and
Communications - MOTC) to be in line with the future transport reform. The plan was used as a
supporting information for the restructuring of the MOT in October 2002.

9.1.25 In addition to analytical support, the participation in the APEC Privatization Forum
1999 and 2000, where Thailand proposed a cooperation framework for privatization program,
helped promote the privatization process of public enterprises especially infrastructure services in
APEC member countries. The Forums brought about useful ideas and advice from experts. They
also became an information source for technical cooperation and encouraged investment in
privatized enterprises of APEC member countries.

2.2 Institutional Development

9.1.26 To strengthen the government's implementation management and regulatory oversight,
the Public Relations Program Supporting the Establishment of Independent Regulatory
Agency was implemented to help disseminate information on the rational and necessities for
setting up independent regulatory agencies. The public relations consisted of five seminars on
independent regulatory agencies and the regulatory of four sectors, namely electricity services,
telecommunications, transport and water supply.

9.1.27. Apart from the public relations program, the SEPO has executed the Improving
Incentive and Compensation System of SOE Employees project. The study proposed
guidelines to improve the MOF's supervision of SOEs, guidelines to improve the structure of
incentive and compensation system for chief executives according to contracts, guidelines to
improve the structure of incentive and compensation system for SOE board members and
employees and guidelines to improve the SOEs' performance evaluation system. On the whole,
the study was the first detailed analytical information on the SOEs' incentive system structure,
compensation system and other related regulations. The result of the study has been used when
considering related policies and is useful for future projects such as the project of setting up the
incentive and compensation system for SOEs' chief executives and employees.

2.3 Privatization Preparation

9.1.28. To prepare for the privatization process, the State Railway of Thailand (SRT) has
implemented two sub-projects. First, the Short-term Financial Strategy Development Project
carried out a quick study on SRT's current financial and commercial situation, and identified
options for easing the SRT financial crisis. The study was completed in line with its objective.
However, the project will be fully accomplished through the concrete restructuring of SRT with
emphasis on the government's subsidization of SRT infrastructure-related costs. Second, the



                                               - 23 -

SRT Restructuring Project analyzed and refined the broad approach to SRT restructuring based
on separation of accounts and line of business organization. The study gave technical opinions to
the government on SRT restructuring which were very useful for future operation. According to
the study, the SRT has proposed the restructuring outlines starting with internal management
adjustment. This adjustment would 1) divide the SRT into business units and 2) separate business
missions from social missions for transparency. Each business unit would have total power that
can be evaluated with a clear framework. This would be to create competitive environment among
business units and to make SRT an efficient organization.

9.1.29. Another sub-project was the Study of Corporatization of the Express Transportation
Organization of Thailand (ETO) implemented by the MOT. The study analyzed and proposed
appropriate approach for the Corporatization of the ETO. The result of the study will be taken
into account when deciding on the ETO Corporatization.

2.4 Performance Monitoring and Evaluation

9.1.30. There were two sub-projects in this sub-component. The first sub-project was the IT
Development Project Phase II aimed at supporting the management of SEPO and increasing the
capacity of SEPO to monitor and evaluate the performance of SOEs. The procurement and
installation of equipment and systems were completed. The project has helped reduce workload
and working process of SEPO, and has also enabled the SEPO to better analyze, monitor and
evaluate SOEs. The second sub-project was the Designing and Building the Thailand
Privatization Website aimed at disseminating the information on the progress of public
enterprise reform. The Website was completed with information related to public enterprise
reform including its background, progress, future operations, SOE supervision, good governance,
related laws and regulations. After launching the Website, SOEs' employees and general public
have learned more about the privatization and the government's related development policies.
This resulted in less opposition to the privatization of public enterprises.

Component 3 : Industrial Competitiveness Strategy

3.1 Industry Survey

9.1.31. This sub-component consisted of two successive sub-projects executed by the Office of
Industrial Economics (OIE), Ministry of Industry (MOI). The Industry Survey ­ Part 1 was
aimed at improving the industrial data collection system and assisting the MOI in data collection,
compilation, cross tabulation and analysis. The work was carried out at the Industrial Information
Center of the OIE. The useful outputs of the project were 1) a sound industrial survey of 1998
and the collection of approximately 600 factories of five original sectors (garments, textiles,
electronics, food processing and auto parts) and approximately 400 factories of three additional
sectors (rubbers, leathers and chemicals) and 2) an industrial economic analysis under the
Thailand: The road to corporate recovery report. Later, the Industry Survey ­ Part 2 was
implemented to upgrade the survey system and to collect data of the year 1999 and 2000. The
outputs of the project were the industrial surveys for 1999 and 2000 (4,000 factories each year),
general analysis reports of industry situation in 1999 and 2000, reports on Thailand's Total Factor



                                                 - 24 -

Productivity in 1999 and 2000, and data system development. The survey results and the reports
from both projects have been used for short term and long term policy making and have been
disseminated to interested public.

3.2 Public Policy Framework

9.1.32. In order to improve public policies to support a framework for competitiveness, the
NESDB has undertaken two sub-projects. First, the Cost Structure of Major Thai Industries
was intended to establish a reference point on the cost structure of major industries to which
policy makers can refer during the development of industrial policies as well as to identify key
factors influencing the cost structure of Thai industry. The project completed the cost structure
database of seven major industries, namely food, electronic appliances, garments, automotive,
plastic products, rubber and leather goods, and also gave policy recommendations. The result of
the study has been used as part of the consideration for the real product costs leading to the
increasing of overall efficiency and competitiveness of Thai industry. Second, the Cost Structure
Study of Land Freight Transport has provided the cost calculation model of land freight
transport (i.e. truck and train) from one area to another. This model was a primary model because
of the budget and field survey constraints. Apart from this, the NESDB's officers were trained to
use the model to analyze transportation-related projects. So far, the MOT has taken the study into
account when considering the real costs of land, water and railway transportation services.

3.3 Customs Modernization

9.1.33. There were two sub-projects assisting the Customs Department (CD) in modernizing
customs administration. The Customs Administrative Reform project was aimed at preparing a
master plan and a full implementation plan for administrative reform, supporting the CD in
implementing the master plan and training of the CD staff in some specific subjects related to the
master plan. All required documents were submitted. However, the last two payments were
lowered for Baht 1.83 million due to some incomplete contents of the Master Plan Report and the
Assignment Completion Report.

9.1.34. The second sub-project was the Development of Import Valuation System aimed at
assisting the CD in assessing and improving its import valuation information system (IVIS) and
database, as well as developing and implementing a methodology to provide adequate
international pricing data sources to expedite the clearance of goods and deter under-valuation
practices. In implementing this project, the Consultant could not complete or amend the work of
Phase 2 and 3 in time. As a result, the CD readjusted the payments for Phase 2 and 3 and
terminated the contract. The remaining tasks of the project (Phase 4 and 5) will be continued
using the CD's own budget.

Component 4 : Project Coordination and Implementation

9.1.35. Two activities performed by the PIU of the FPO were the Project Management and the
Procurement of Goods for Project Execution. Consultants and PIU staff were hired to support
the management of the project as well as to coordinate with other PIAs to ensure successful



                                                - 25 -

implementation of activities under the different project components. Training, office equipment
and miscellaneous expenses were provided to facilitate the management of the project.

Performance of the Bank

9.1.36. Overall, the Bank's performance from the FPO's viewpoint was highly satisfactory. From
the beginning to the end of the loan, the Bank successfully maintained good working relationships
with the FPO. During project implementation, the Bank personnel especially the Task Manager
and staff in Thailand provided appropriate and valuable advice to the PIU and PIAs on project
management in all aspects. The Bank's assistance contributed greatly to the success of the project
management in line with the project objectives.

Future Operation

9.1.37. As the results of the technical assistance in EMAL are enormous, the future operation of
the project will be the process of turning these studies into concrete actions. In this regard, many
of them have already been applied in the participated agencies, for example, the IT Master Plan
for the Treasury Department of the TD, the Administrative Renewal of the OCSC, and the
Modernizing Budget Management of the BOB.

Lessons Learned

9.1.38. The experiences and lessons learned from EMAL project can be used as a guideline for
future project designs and implementations. They can be summarized as the followings:

9.1.39. High turnover of PIU staff and staff shortage during the end of the project. During the
project period, the PIU had a rapid turnover of staff. This was because the staff were hired on a
temporary basis. Moreover, the temporary staff, who were funded by the loan, were scheduled to
leave at the end of the loan whereas the disbursement process and evaluation report preparation
remained for four months after the loan closing date. These conditions affected the project
management and the transition to loan closing. The problems should be solved by assigning more
government officers to work at the PIU.

9.1.40. Inspection of Project outputs. Effective inspections of project outputs were an important
factor to ensure the quality of each sub-project. For EMAL, each project steering committee
examined the deliverables carefully and would not approve the outputs unless they met the project
objectives and all requirements stated in the TORs.

9.1.42. Lastly, this project can be regarded as a good practice for executing a technical assistance
project.

There are two annexes to the government's contributions as follows:




                                                 - 26 -

                                              Annex 1
                     Project Components and Project Implementing Agencies (PIAs)

  Number                                      Title                           PIA
Component 1 Streamlining Economic Management
            1.1 Macroeconomic Analysis
 1          Data Management                                                   FPO
 2          Fiscal Policy Research Institute                                  FPO
              - Thailand's Competitiveness Study Project
 3          Debt Monitoring                                                  PMDO
 4          Electronic Library Development Project                            FPO
            1.2 Public Resource Management
 5          Public Expenditure and Investment Review                          BOB
 6          Modernizing Budget Management                                     BOB
 7          Government Payment System                                         CGD
 8          IT Master Plan for the Treasury Department                         TD
 9          IT Master Plan Update                                              TD
10          Tax Administration                                                 RD
11          Automated Audit System                                             RD
12          Automated Audit Selection System                                   RD
13          Tax Identification System (PINTHIP)                                RD
14          Modernization of Documentation and Information System and          ED
            Establishing New Computer Cabling System for Excise-Net
15          Excise Revenue Forecasting in Micro-economic Model                 ED
16          GFS Data Management System
            1.3 Administrative Renewal
17          Administrative Renewal ­ Phase 1                                 OCSC
            Public Relations Program (24 sub-projects)                       OCSC
            TV Talk Show
18          - Phase I                                                        OCSC
19          - Phase II                                                       OCSC
20          - Phase III                                                      OCSC
21          - Phase IV                                                       OCSC
22          - Phase V                                                        OCSC
23          - Phase VI                                                       OCSC
            TV Documentary
24          - Phase I                                                        OCSC
25          - Phase II                                                       OCSC
26          - Phase III                                                      OCSC
            Radio Documentary
27          - Phase I                                                        OCSC
28          - Phase II                                                       OCSC
29          - Phase III                                                      OCSC
            Programmercial in Television Program
30          - Phase I                                                        OCSC
31          - Phase II                                                       OCSC
32          - Phase III                                                      OCSC
            Printing Media
33          - Phase I                                                        OCSC




                                                - 27 -

34           - Phase II                                                                OCSC
             Live Radio Program
35           - Phase I                                                                 OCSC
36           - Phase II                                                                OCSC
             VDP Presentation
37           - Phase I                                                                 OCSC
38           - Phase II                                                                OCSC
             Seminar Tours
39          - Phase I                                                                  OCSC
40           - Phase II                                                                OCSC
41           Website                                                                   OCSC
42           Planning the Establishment of Ethics Promotion Center                     OCSC
43           Result-based Management Application Enhancement Project                   OCSC
44           CAPAM Biennial Conference (Malaysia)                                      OCSC
45           Public Sector Reform Advisor                                              OCSC
46           The Essay Contest of the Clean, Open, and Transparent Thailand Project    OCSC
47           The Clean & Transparent Youth Project                                     OCSC
Component 2  Public Enterprise Reform
            2.1 Framework Development                                                  SEPO
48           Public Enterprise Reform                                                  SEPO
49           A Review of Telecommunications Concession Conversion Proposals            SEPO
50           Transport Reform Study Phase II                                           SEPO
51           APEC Privatization Forum 1999                                             SEPO
52           APEC Privatization Forum 2000                                             SEPO
            2.2 Institutional Development
53           Public Relations Program Supporting the Establishment of Independent      SEPO
             Regulatory Agency
54           Improving Incentive and Compensation System of SOE Employees              SEPO
            2.3 Privatization Preparation
55           Short-term Financial Strategy Development Project                         SRT
56           SRT Restructuring                                                         SRT
57           Study of Corporatization of the Express Transportation Organization of    MOT
             Thailand (ETO)
            2.4 Performance Monitoring and Evaluation
58           IT Development Project Phase II                                           SEPO
59           Designing and Building the Thailand Privatization Website                 SEPO
Component 3  Industrial Competitiveness Strategy
            3.1 Industry Survey
60           Industry Survey ­ Part 1                                                  OIE
61           Industry Survey ­ Part 2                                                  OIE
            3.2 Public Policy Framework
62           Cost Structure of Major Thai Industries                                  NESDB
63           Cost Structure Study of Land Freight Transport                           NESDB
            3.3 Customs Modernization
64           Customs Administration Reform                                             CD
65           Development of Import Valuation System                                    CD
Component 4  Project Coordination and Implementation
66           Project Management                                                        FPO
67           Procurement of Goods for Project Execution                                FPO




                                                 - 28 -

                                                       Annex 2
                         Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Appraisal Estimate)
                                                (US$ million equivalent)

                                         Procurement Method
Expenditure Category                            ICB                      NCB      OtherNBFTotal
                                                                                              Cost
1. Consultant's Service                          -                         -             16.6-16.6
                                                 -                         -          (11.9)-(11.9)
2. Training                                      -                         -               2,2-2.2
                                                 -                         -            (1.9)-(1.9)
3. Equipment                                     -                         -               0.1-0.1
                                                 -                         -            (0.1)-(0.1)
4. Unallocated                                   -                         -               1.1-1.1
                                                                                        (1.1)-(1.1)
Total                                                                                    20.0-20.0
                                                                                      (15.0)-(15.0)


                 Project Costs by Procurement Arrangement (Actual/Latest Estimate)
                                         (US$ million equivalent)

                                         Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category                        ICB                      NCB      OtherNBFTotal
                                                                                       Cost
1. Goods                                         -                      (0.2718)  (1.5812)-(1.854)
2. Consultant's Service                          -                         -      (10.638)-(10.638
                                                                                          )
3. Training                                      -                         -      (0.0231)-(0.0231
                                                                                          )
4. Incremental Operating Costs                   -                         -      (0.0045)-(0.0045
                                                                                          )
Total                                            -                         -      (11.9788)-(12.25
                                                                                        20)




(b) Cofinanciers:
There were no cofinanciers.

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):
There were no other partners.

10. Additional Information




                                                 - 29 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Please see Annex 7 for Outcomes and Results




                                             - 30 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                Appraisal    Actual/Latest Percentage of
                                                                Estimate      Estimate      Appraisal
                       Component                               US$ million   US$ million
Part 1. Streamlining economic management                           5.00            6.66           133
Part 2. Public enterprise reform                                   6.80            3.73            55
Part 3. Industrial competitiveness strategy                        2.70            2.30            85
Part 4. Project coordination and implementation                    0.50            0.30            60

Total Baseline Cost                                               15.00          12.99
 Physical Contingencies                                            0.00            0.00
 Price Contingencies                                               0.00            0.00
                          Total Project Costs                     15.00          12.99
                   Total Financing Required                       15.00          12.99
Note:
1. Details may not add to total due to rounding.
2. Figures are amounts to be financed by the Bank loan only

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Appraisal Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)
                                                                         1
                                                   Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                  2        N.B.F.   Total Cost
                                                                      Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
2. Goods                             0.00             0.00             0.00         0.00        0.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)
3. Services                          0.00             0.00             0.00         16.60      16.60
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.00)       (11.90)    (11.90)
4. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             2.20         0.00        2.20
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.90)        (0.00)     (1.90)
5. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             0.10         0.00        0.10
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (0.10)        (0.00)     (0.10)
6. Miscellaneous                     0.00             0.00             1.10         0.00        1.10
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (1.10)        (0.00)     (1.10)
   Total                             0.00             0.00             3.40         16.60      20.00
                                     (0.00)           (0.00)          (3.10)       (11.90)    (15.00)
Note:
1. Details may not add to toal due to rounding.
2. Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.

Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (Actual/Latest Estimate) (US$ million equivalent)

                                                  Procurement Method
    Expenditure Category              ICB             NCB                         N.B.F.    Total Cost
                                                                     Other
1. Works                             0.00             0.00            0.00          0.00       0.00
                                     (0.00)          (0.00)          (0.00)        (0.00)     (0.00)



                                                   - 31 -

2. Goods                                                 0.30               0.00            1.60      1.90
                                        ()                ()                 ()               ()     (0.00)
3. Services                           0.00               0.00              10.64            0.00     10.64
                                        ()                ()                 ()               ()     (0.00)
4. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00               0.02            0.00      0.02
                                        ()                ()                 ()               ()     (0.00)
5. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00               0.01            0.00      0.01
                                        ()                ()                 ()               ()     (0.00)
6. Miscellaneous                      0.00               0.00               0.00            0.00      0.00
                                        ()                ()                 ()               ()     (0.00)
   Total                              0.00               0.30              10.67            1.60     12.57
                                     (0.00)             (0.00)             (0.00)           (0.00)   (0.00)
Note: Figures may not add to total due to rounding.
1/Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the . All costs include contingencies.

2/




                                                     - 32 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits

Not applicable




                                      - 33 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                       No. of Persons and Specialty                Performance Rating
                                           (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)         Implementation Development
                    Month/Year      Count            Specialty                        Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
               September 1997                 2    2 Economists                          S               S



 Appraisal/Negotiation
               November 1997                  4    2 economists, 1 SOE expert,           S               S
                                                   1 lawyer


 Supervision

               12/15/1997                     3    TASK MANAGER (1); TEAM                S               S
                                                   ASSISTANT (1);
                                                   PROCUREMENT (1)
               10/29/1999                     3    TASK MANAGER (1); LEAD                S               S
                                                   ECONOMIST (1); TASK
                                                   MANAGER/SOE REFOR (1)
               Supervision was
               done in the field as
               the Task Manager
               was in Bangkok

 ICR
               July 2003                      1     1 Economist                          S               S



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                        Actual/Latest Estimate
                                        No. Staff weeks                   US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation                 ) 134.9                           404.7
  Appraisal/Negotiation                  ) see above                       see above
  Supervision                                  447.8                        1,343.4
  ICR                                           10.0                            30.0
  Total                                        592.7                        1,778.3
Note: SAP data only show a combined figure for Identification/Preparation and Appraisal and Negotiation.




                                                    - 34 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                                    Rating
   Macro policies                                      H      SU    M  N  NA
   Sector Policies                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Physical                                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Financial                                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Institutional Development                           H      SU    M  N  NA
   Environmental                                       H      SU    M  N  NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction                          H      SU    M  N  NA
            Gender                                     H      SU    M  N  NA
            Other (Please specify)                     H      SU    M  N  NA
   Private sector development                          H      SU    M  N  NA
   Public sector management                            H      SU    M  N  NA
   Other (Please specify)                              H      SU    M  N  NA




                                                    - 35 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)

6.1 Bank performance                                        Rating

   Lending                                                    HS     S       U      HU
   Supervision                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU

6.2 Borrower performance                                    Rating

   Preparation                                                HS     S       U      HU
   Government implementation performance                      HS     S       U      HU
   Implementation agency performance                          HS     S       U      HU
   Overall                                                    HS     S       U      HU




                                                    - 36 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents

Annex 7. EMAL: Summary of Outcomes and Results

Component                            Instruments/Actions                Outcome/Results
   1. Streamlining economic
   management
1.1. Macroeconomic analysis and data·          Bolster macroeconomic   · The "Macroeconomic Assessment Outlook
     management                     analysis, data collection and      component was merged with the Data Management
                                    management, fiscal projections and component as both have common objectives and
                                    debt monitoring.                   similar expected outcomes.
                                                                       · The data management project financed the
                                                                       design of a central macroeconomic database,
                                                                       minimizing data redundancy, and supporting
                                                                       economic management activities and
                                                                       administration, allowing the sharing of
                                                                       data/information among core economic agencies.
                                                                       · Debt recording and management system for
                                                                       Thailand or Debt monitoring project funded
                                                                       PDMO and equipped with computer software and
                                                                       hardware to monitor public debt and debt
                                                                       management.
                                                                       · The Fiscal Policy Research Institute was
                                                                       established as a government think-tank within the
                                                                       Fiscal Policy Office of the Ministry of Finance.
                                                                       · The FPO library was upgraded into an electronic
                                                                       one with improved database and information
                                                                       management process for MOF users.
1.2. Public resource management     ·          Prioritize public       · Public Expenditure and Investment Review was
                                    expenditures, retool budget        completed in June 1999 and its recommendations
                                    management and payment systems,    were presented to the government. The Bureau of
                                    increase transparency of tax       the Budget adopted the report's recommendations
                                    administration.                    in its allocation exercise of the national budget and
                                                                       to develop government budget management as part
                                                                       of the Public Sector Management Reform Plan.
                                                                       · Modernizing Budget Management, completed in
                                                                       June 1999, strengthened public expenditure
                                                                       planning for more efficient allocations consistent
                                                                       with the development. This subcomponent also
                                                                       supported the development of a result-oriented
                                                                       budgeting system and advancing budget
                                                                       decentralization, now required for all public
                                                                       agencies from 2003 forward.
                                                                       · Government Payments System supported the
                                                                       building of an effective disbursement system for
                                                                       budget control and administering expenditures
                                                                       consistent with established program and policies
                                                                       priorities, adopted by the Comptroller General's
                                                                       Department.
                                                                       · IT Master Plan for the Treasury Department
                                                                       strengthened the management efficiency of the
                                                                       state information system in the Treasury
                                                                       Department.
                                                                       · The Revenue Department implemented four
                                                                       activities: (i) Tax Administration; (ii) Automated
                                                                       Audit System; (iii) Automated Audit Section
                                                                       System (AASS); and Tax Identification System
                                                                       (PINTHIP). All four activities have been in



                                                           - 37 -

                                                                operation for the Revenue Department.
                                                                · Modernization of Documentation and
                                                                Information System and Establishing New
                                                                Computer Cabling System for Excise-Net were
                                                                completed, the system was installed and made
                                                                operational. The Excise Department has used this
                                                                system to improve the effectiveness of the excise
                                                                tax collection and better Tax record management
                                                                · Excise Revenue Forecasting in Micro-Economic
                                                                Model was completed by FPRI for the Excise
                                                                Department and serves as an effective tool for the
                                                                Department to project excise tax revenues,
                                                                formulate and propose appropriate/realistic excise
                                                                tax policies to policy makers.
                                                                · GFS Data Management System serves as a
                                                                centralized system to compile all government
                                                                financial statistics from related agencies to meet
                                                                the need for these statistics. However, the system
                                                                will need fine-tuning in order to make it more
                                                                useful.
1.3 Administrative renewal   ·           Modernize public       For greater transparency and budgetary flexibility,
                              administration with increased     OCSC implemented the Administrative Renewal
                              decision-making for managers for  Project. This included several sub-components, (i)
                              budgetary allocations and staff   the result-based management system; (ii)
                              redeployment.                     rightsizing the civil service; (iii) human resources;
                                                                and (iv) senior executive services.
                                                                · The result-based management system was
                                                                proven successful in improving the quality of the
                                                                civil service at the Department of Insurance of the
                                                                Ministry of Commerce. This system was expanded
                                                                to the other seven departments of the ministry and
                                                                helps to ensured linkage of performance in this
                                                                ministry.
                                                                · Other activities funded by this sub-component
                                                                included participation of OCSC staff in the 1998
                                                                Biennial Conference of the Commonwealth
                                                                Association for Public Administration Management
                                                                (CAPAM) in Malaysia
                                                                · A proposal for the establishment of an Ethics
                                                                Promotion Center was prepared and this Center
                                                                has now been set up under the supervision of the
                                                                OCSC.
                                                                · Public relation programs designed to raise public
                                                                awareness and understanding of the public on the
                                                                administration and to encouraged the public to be
                                                                more aware of corruption problem and to
                                                                participate in the anti-corruption campaign.
                                                                · This sub-component also funded the service of a
                                                                Public Sector Reform Advisor who assisted the
                                                                government in formulating a coherent package of
                                                                policy measures and action plan for public sector
                                                                reform in the long-run.
2. Reforming state-owned
enterprises
2.1 Framework development    ·           Develop best practice  The final Privatization Master Plan was approved
                              policy parameters for SOE         by the Cabinet on September 1, 1998, presenting
                              development, plus corresponding   objectives, roles and responsibilities for state
                              legal and regulatory framework.   enterprises restructuring and privatization,
                                                                providing legal basis for corporatization and



                                                     - 38 -

                                                                      privatization, and including privatization plan for
                                                                      the following sectors, telecommunications, water
                                                                      supply, transport, energy, and others.
2.2 Institutional development   ·           Streamline administrative The institutional strengthening includes better
                                functions, rationalize organization   management of the database on SOEs, softwares
                                set-up and strengthen technical       and hardwares for the computerization and
                                proficiency and regulatory capacity   management of SOE records. These databases
                                within overarching shift of           allowed for more reliable information for better
                                government from operator to           analyses and assessments of the SOE sector and its
                                regulator                             privatization process.
2.3 Privatization preparation   ·           Initiate company specific · Initiation of company-specific restructuring and
                                restructuring and privatization plans privatization plans for best operational
                                for best operational performance      performance. The State Railway of Thailand
                                                                      (SRT) was one of the chosen company for the
                                                                      privatization process.
                                                                      · Express Transportation Organization (ETO) of
                                                                      Thailand corporatization study implemented by the
                                                                      Ministry of Trade (MOT).
2.4 Performance monitoring and  ·           Upgrade performance       · Support State Enterprise Policy Commission
evaluation                      evaluation and corporate governance (SEPC), later renamed State Enterprise Policy
                                through business based performance Office (SEPO) in improving its capacity to monitor
                                contracts and supervision system.     and assess SOE performance.
                                                                      · Establishment of the Thailand Privatization
                                                                      Website in the early 2000s to provide information
                                                                      on public sector reform.
3. Strengthening industrial
competitiveness
3.1 Industry survey             ·           . Conduct systematic      · The Industrial Survey ­ Part I, carried out by the
                                surveys and analysis of industrial    Industrial Information Center of the Office of
                                competitiveness, skills development Industrial Economics (OIE) at the Ministry of
                                and technology upgrading              Industry (MOI), collected industrial database
                                                                      information on Thai industries. Output consists of
                                                                      the 1998 in-depth industrial survey covering about
                                                                      600 factories of five sectors, garments, textiles,
                                                                      electronics, food processing, and auto parts.
                                                                      · The Industrial Survey ­ Part II Collected data
                                                                      for 1999 and 2000 with a view to institutionalize
                                                                      the survey process for about 4000 factories a year,
                                                                      and to prepare comprehensive reports analyzing the
                                                                      industrial situation and assessing the trends in the
                                                                      industries of Thailand.
3.2 Public policy framework     ·           Create public policies to · Competitiveness Study: Cost Structure of Major
                                support a framework for               Industries in Thailand sought to establish a
                                competitiveness                       reference framework for the cost structure of the
                                                                      Thai industries and the cost structure of seven
                                                                      major industries, i.e., food, electronic appliances,
                                                                      garments, automotive, plastic products, rubber and
                                                                      leather goods with policy recommendations for
                                                                      these industries.
                                                                      · Study on land freight transport considered the
                                                                      model for cost calculation for land freight
                                                                      transport.
3.3 Customs modernization       ·           Monitor progress of       · 1st component -- Customs Administrative
                                streamlining customs and increase     Reform: preparation of a master plan and its
                                tariff collection.                    implementation plan.
                                                                      · 2nd component -- Customs evaluation and
                                                                      improvement of import valuation information
                                                                      system and database, and including the



                                                       - 39 -

                                                                development and implementation of a methodology
                                                                for providing international pricing sources to help
                                                                expedite the clearance of goods while deterring
                                                                undervaluing practices. This component was not
                                                                complete as the services of the consultant were
                                                                inadequate for the purposes specified by the
                                                                Customs Department. The Customs Department
                                                                intended to complete these activities using its own
                                                                budget.
4. Project coordination and   ·        Reinforce strong project  Establishment of a Project Implementing Unit
implementation                 implementation under FPO.         (PIU) under FPO to assist in implementing the
4.1     Consulting services   ·        Provide expertise for     activities called for in this operation, providing
4.2     4.2 Equipment          procurement, project              expertise for procurement and implementation for
                               implementation                    the project implementing agencies (PIAs), and
                              ·        Provide office            acting as the supporting and coordinating agency
                               equipment, translation            for the project.
                                                                 From the beginning of the project, the PIU
                                                                 experienced some challenges and difficulties in
                                                                 carrying out its activities that involved extensive
                                                                 coordination among many government agencies
                                                                 and good knowledge of the Bank's operating and
                                                                 procurement guidelines.
                                                                 As the project was being implemented, the process
                                                                 improved and there was gradually better
                                                                 coordination and cooperation that came with
                                                                 learning by doing while the individual PIAs also
                                                                 improved their knowledge about Bank's
                                                                 requirements for project implementation.
                                                                 However, given the fact that there was a
                                                                 continuous high turnover among the PIU staff, the
                                                                 challenges remained for the unit to carry out
                                                                 smoothly its responsibilities over the life of the
                                                                 project




                                                    - 40 -

- 41 -

