Report No. PID6877
Project Name                     Thailand-Economic Management Assistance...
Project
Region                           East Asia and Pacific
Sector                           Economic/Financial Management
Project ID                       THPE54799
Borrower                         Kingdom of Thailand
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Rama 6 Road
Bangkok 10400, Thailand
Tel.   (66-2) 273-9021
Date this PID prepared           September 1, 1998
Project Appraisal Date           January 29, 1998.
Board Date                       February 22,1998
Background
The project is a strategic follow-up to Bank assistance to the Government
following the recent financial and foreign exchange crisis. It is part of a
broader effort supporting Thailand's stabilization and structural adjustment
program to restore sustainable high rates of economic growth. It complements
the standby facility provided by the IMF and the emergency financing package
from bilateral and multilateral sources. The project is the second of two TA
loans to buttress this assistance. A Financial Sector Implementation
Assistance Loan was approved by the Board on September 11, 1997, underpinning
several consecutive fast-disbursing policy-based loans designed to implement
the macroeconomic program. A Finance Companies Resolution Loan was presented
to the Board on December 23, 1998 which focuses on resolving the suspended
finance companies. An Economic and Financial Sector Adjustment Loan (EFAL)
covers broader structural measures to restore the conditions for rapid
economic growth. A Public Sector Reform Loan to improve revenue and
expenditure management is under preparation. The Economic and Financial Sector
Adjustment Loan strengthens the capacity of the Government for economic
management and research, supports the privatization agenda and strengthens
public policy for enhanced competitiveness.
Project Description
The Economic Management Assistance Loan is designed to bolster the
Government's capacity for implementing broader medium term structural reforms.
It aims to strengthen economic management in economic analysis, public
finance and public administration; support the reform of state enterprises and
public administration; dismantle structural obstacles to investment efficiency
and sharpen Thailand's international competitiveness by strengthening the
enabling environment for private sector operations.
To meet these objectives, the Government would require assistance
to:     (1) to formulate a coherent macroeconomic and fiscal strategy through
macroeconomic analysis and data management, public resource management, and
public administration; (2) to reform state-owned enterprises by supporting



the Government's program for divesting public enterprises, designing an
adequate regulatory framework and improving the performancemonitoring of SOEs
retained in public ownership; (3) to sharpen industrial competitiveness of the
private sector by improving the industrial sector knowledge base, upgrading
industrial technology and facilitating trade; (4) to improve project
coordination and implementation by strengthening institutional capacity.
Project Implementation
The implementation period of the Loan would cover a period of
approximately two and a half years to complement the proposed structural
adjustment lending to be provided by the World Bank. The executing agency
under the project would be the Ministry of Finance (MOF).
A Project Implementation Unit (PIU) supports the Ministry of Finance in
managing the project, and in coordinating and following-up activities under
the different project components to ensure successful implementation. The PIU
is attached to the Fiscal Policy Office (FPO) within the Ministry of Finance.
It is be directed ex officio by the Director General of FPO. A senior staff
from FPO acts on a part-time basis as Deputy Director with powers to hire and
request disbursements from the Bank. A Project Manager appointed by the
government in agreement with the World Bank is in charge of day-to-day project
implementation. A Project Implementation Advisor assists the Project Manager
in preparing consultant contracts and in monitoring the work under the various
project components to ensure technical quality. Specialized expertise is
financed for the PIU to handle the administrative, procurement auditing and
accounting needs of project execution.
Under the coordination of the Fiscal Policy Office, several
implementation agencies are the focus of the project activities, including
various departments of the Ministry of Finance (FPO, Comptroller General,
Revenue Department, Excise Department, Customs Department), the Bureau of the
Budget, the Civil Service Commission, the National Economic and Social
Development Board (NESDB), and the Ministry of Industry. Each implementing
agency has assigned a counterpart for the project. A Project Steering
Committee comprising these department representatives convenes regularly under
the chairmanship of the Director General of FPO to give overall policy
guidance and to monitor progress of project implementation. The Project
Steering Committee would normally have a different membership than the
Steering Committee of the World Bank-supported Financial Sector Implementation
Assistance Loan. On the World Bank's side, supervision is carried out by the
Country Management Unit based in Bangkok in coordination with more specialized
staff in units at headquarters.
Project Benefits
The project aims to strengthen the Government's institutional
capabilities and to prepare some key structural changes required to resume
high rates of sustained economic growth. It will help to strengthen the
analytical and technical basis for economic policy making, budget management
and resource allocation, improvements in public administration and structural
changes in the public enterprise sector; it will also help strengthen the
enabling environment for the private sector by providing infrastructure
services.
This assistance to reinvigorate Thailand's competitive position in the
global market place will benefit the Thai population at large by helping the
- 2-



country regain its growth momentum. By strengthening the government's
financial position, reducing the direct infrastructure service it provides
and streamlining public administration, the project would also help refocus
the public sector on lower income groups which are bound to bear the brunt of
the costs of short-term economic adjustment.
Contact Point:                    The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No. (202)458 5454
Fax No. (202) 522 1500
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending September 25, 1998.
- 3 -



