RESTRICTED
Report No.  P-559
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL ]3ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
R:EPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED LOAN TO THE
RED NACIONAL
DE LOS
FERROCARRILES ESPANOLES
July 20, 1967



REPORT A1JD RECOINMDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS O13 A
P±iOPOSED LOAN TO THE
RED NACIONAL DE LOS FERROCARRILES ESPANOLES
1.      I subrait tVe followin, report and recomnendi.tibn on a proposed loan
in an amount in virious currencies cquivilcnt to US ;50 million to the Red
::.cional de los Forrocg:rriles Espavloles (iDJF), the Spanish National Railway.
PART I - HISTORICAL
2.      In the Loan Agreement of July 31, 1964 with RENFE, the Bank
indicated its willingness to consider further lending to RENFE, pro-
vided there was satisfactory progress in implementing its 1964-73
?bdernization Program. Early in 1966, the Government and RENFE asked
the Bank to consider a second loan to RENFE. A supervision missisn in
June, 1966 concluded that RENFEts progress justified this request and
in November an appraisal mission visited Spain. Following visits to
the Bank by REIFE staff in March and May 1967, negotiations were held
in the last week of June 1967. The Spanish delegation was headed by
the Undersecretary of the Treasury, .  Jos6 Maria Latorre Segura; other
principal negotiators were the Undersecretary of Public Works,
Sr. Santiago Udina I4ar-torell, and the President of RENFE, Sr. Carlos
Mendoza.
3.      The proposed loan, if approved, would be the fourth in Spain,
bringing total Bank lending to $188 million. The following is a sum-
mary statement of Bank loans in Spain as of June 30, 1967:
Loan                                          Amount       Undisbursed
Number     Year     Borrower    Purpose            (US $ MilioT
360        1963     Spain       Highways       33.0         17.8
387        1964     RENFE       Railways       65.o          23.6
429        1965     Spain       Ports          40.0          27.1
Total now outstanding     138.0
Amount sold                  2.8
Total now held by Bank    135.2
Total undisbursed                        68.5
4.      Disbursements have been slower than planned. For the highway
project, this was due to the time required to work out bidding and con-
tracting procedures and to secure rights of way, as well as to delays



- 2 -
in design work and in advertising bids. These problems have in large
part been resolved and. construction has progressed satisfactorily over
the last 18 months. I'he project was 50 percent canplete by the end of
1966 and it is expected that all work will be finished before the
closing date of July 15, 1568. For the first RENFE loan, all orders
have now been placed, but the closing date has been deferred 18 months
to the end of 1968. I'he main reasons for delays in procurement have
been the time taken by Government to enact legislation approving the
4odernization Plan, a step which had to be taken before the loan be-
came effective and contracts were placed; RENFETs inexperience with
international competitive bidding which meant that tender procedures
took longer than expected; and an underestimate of delivery times re-
quired for railway equipment. These difficulties, largely beyond
RENIFEts control, have now been overcome. Construction of the ports
project is somewhat behind schedule and the Government has recently
been asked to review the schedules and advise the Bank of the measures
to be taken to ensure that -ork is completed during the remaining two
years of the project.
5.      The IFC has two investments totalling $4 million in Spain.
One is for $3.4 million in FEMSA, which produces automotive electrical
equipment; a $2.5 million loan was made in 1962 and $0.9 million of
equity participations were purchased in three stages in 1962, 1964
and 1966. The second investment is a $0.6 million equity in BANDESCO,
a development bank, half of which was made in 1963 and half in 1964.
Other industrial projects have been examined since 1964, but no further
investments have been made or are currently contemplated.
6.      No further proposals for Bank loans are expected to be presented
to the Executive Directors in the present fiscal year. Spain has
received no IDA credits.
7.      In discussions with the Government on lending in Spain, the
Bank has urged the desirability of settling the Barcelona Traction
Case which continues to be before the International Court of Justice
at the instance of Belgium. It concerns the bankruptcy and forced
liquidation in 1945 of a large public utility holding company incorpor-
ated in Canada in which Belgian interests own a majority of shares.
In July 1964, after rejecting Spaints preliminary argiments that it
lacked jurisdiction, the Court established a schedule for filing
briefs on the merits by the two parties  which was subsequently
extended to April 1967 at Spain's request. Later, at Belgium's
request, the Court extended the deadline a further six months.



- 2 -
in design work and in advertising bids. These problems have in large
part been resolved and construction has progressed satisfactorily over
the last 18 months. The project was 50 percent canplete by the end of
1966 and it is expected that all work will be finished before the
closing date of July 15, 1568. For the first RENFE loan, all orders
have now been placed, but the closing date has been deferred 18 months
to the end of 1968. The main reasons for delays in procurement have
been the time taken by Government to enact legislation approving the
Aodernization Plan, a step which had to be taken before the loan be-
came effective and contracts were placed; RENFEls inexperience with
international competitive bidding which meant that tender procedures
took longer than ex-pected; and an underestimate of delivery times re-
quired for railway equipment. These difficulties, largely beyond
RE4FE's control, have now been overcome. Construction of the ports
project is somewhat behind schedule and the Government has recently
been asked to review the schedules and advise the Bank of the measures
to be taken to ensure that work is completed during the remaining two
years of the project.
5.      The IFC has twro investments totalling $4 million in Spain.
One is for $3.4 million in FEMSA, which produces automotive electrical
equipment; a $2.5 million loan was made in 1962 and $0.9 million of
equity participations were purchased in three stages in 1962, 2964
and 1966. The second investment is a $0.6 million equity in BANDESCO,
a development bank, half of which was made in 1963 and half in 1964.
Other industrial projects have been examined since 1964, but no further
investments have been made or are currently contemplated.
6.      No further proposals for Bank loans are expected to be presented
to the Ececutive Directors in the present fiscal year. Spain has
received no IDA credits.
7.      In discussions with the Government on lending in Spain, the
Bank has urged the desirability of settling the Barcelona Traction
Case which continues to be before the International Court of Justice
at the instance of Belgium. It concerns the bankruptcy and forced
liquidation in 1945 of a large public utility holding company incorpor-
ated in Canada in which Belgian interests own a majority of shares.
In July 1964, after rejecting Spain's preliminary arg'iments that it
lacked jurisdiction, the Court established a schedule for filing
briefs on the merits by the two parties    which was subsequently
extended to April 1967 at Spain's request. Later, at Belgium's
request, the Court extended the dead7ine a further six months.



- 3 -
P ART II  DESCRIPTION OF THE PROPOSED LOAN
8.      Borrower:             Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles
Espanioles (RENFE);
Guarantor:             Spain;
Amount:               Various currencies equivalent to $50 mil-
lion;
Purpose:              To assist in financing the second stage
(1967-68) of the 1964-73 Podernization
Program of RENFE;
Amortization:         Term of 15 years with a grace period of
h years; payments in 23 semi-annual
instalments beginning on October 15,
1971 and ending on October 15, 1982;
Interest Rate:        6 percent;
Commitment Charge:    3/8 of 1 percent.
PAIT III _ THE PROJECT
9.      An appraisal report entitled "Appraisal of the Revised
Modernization Program (1964-73) of the Spanish National Railway (RENFE)"
(TO-595a) on the proposed project is attached.
10.     Spain has an extensive system of land transport, its principal
routes radiating from Iladrid to other important cities, with lateral
connections between them and extensive local and branch lines. There
are many ports with important coastal and overseas traffic.   Air trans-
port, especially for pzassengers, has increased rapidly in the last
decade, favored by the slowness of land transport and the long distances
between major cities.  RENFE has all 1,668 mm gauge (516") lines in
Spain, -with a total length of 13,u0O kilometers. There are also some
small narrow gauge line!s, none of which is operated by RENFE.
11.     RENFE is in keen competition with road transport, especially
for freight. IWith the doubling of GNP since 1956, there has been
a rapid increase in traffic. However, railway freight traffic has
remained virtually stable, its share declining from 1/3 to 1/6 of the
total. Total passenger traffic increased fourfold in the decade,
and RENFEIs traffic rose 50 percent in 1962-66. However, the dynamic
expansion of highway traffic, with the rapid growth in the number of
private motor vehicles, has reduced RENFEIs share from 1/2 to 1/5.
At the instance of the Bank, the Government is now making studies with
a view to discontinuing service on uneconomic railway lines and is
taking legal and administrative measures to place road-rail competi-
tion on a more equal basis in respect of fiscal policy. At the same
time, the modernization of RENFE is enabling it to compete more effect-
ively. Indeed, the 1964-73 Modernization Program is designed to trans-
form the Spanish Railways from an inadequate and financially unsound
system into one which is modern and efficient and operates on a com-
mercial and financially viable basis.



12.     The first step, in conjunction with the 1964 loan was for the
Government to enact a statute establishing RENFE as a public corpora-
tion to be operated along commercial lines. The Government owns all
the capital of RENFE and appoints the Board of Directors which is res-
ponsible to the Government for the administration and management of
RENFE. The statute confers a large degree of autonomy on RENFE but
reserves specific powers to the Government, notably in relation to the
rate and fare policy, line closing and new line construction, and
approval of the operating and investment budgets and proposed borrowing.
The Chairman and General IManager, both appointed in 1962, are able and
energetic. The senior staff is well qualified and recruitment and
training are proceeding well.
13.     The IMlodernizat.ion Program consists of an Investment Plan and
of a number of measures designed to increase the efficiency of RENFERs
operations, to improve its financial position and to provide for bet-
ter transport coordination, including regulation of road transport.
These measures were specified in a Plan of Action agreed between the
Government and RENFE a.nd the Bank in 1964.
14.     The Government. and RENFE have in general made satisfactory pro-
gress in implementing the Plan of Action as well asthe Investment Plan,
but on some measures progress has been slow. The Government's efforts
towards transport coordination, including studies and related deci-
sions on taxes and fuel prices, have lagged. Secondly, RENFE has been
unable to maintain during 1966-67 the pace of financial improvement of
1964-65, largely because in a period of inflationary pressures it has
been difficult to offset wage and other cost increases promptly by
adjustment of rates and fares. However, the Government has recently
approved a substantial. rate increase (about 7 percent) effective July 1,
1967; and during negotiations it agreed to grant RENFE greater freedom
in adjusting rates 2nd. fares by fixing annually and in advance the
limits within which RENFE may revise its charges so as to offset in-
creases in costs and reach its financial objectives.
15.     The cost of the Ten-Year Investment Plan, originally estimated
at Pts 62 billion, has been increased to about Pts 72 billion ($1.2
billion equivalent). About two-thirds of the increase reflects price
increases and the balance accelerated dieselization, The Investment
Plan is technically sound, its financing is reasonably assured and RENFE
is capable of carrying it out. The essence of the economic justifi-
cation for the Plan is that a significant part of Spaints traffic, con-
sisting of bulk commodities moving in carloads or even trainloads,
can be carried most economically by rail. The Plan will substantially
reduce railway operating costs, improve the quality of service and pro-
vide additional capacity for increased traffic. The rate of return on
the planned investment, which is estimated at 17 percent, is satisfactory.
16.     The project to be financed by the proposed loan would consist
of the two years, 1967 and 1968, of the revised Modernization Program



and the loan would amoount to about one-fifth of REiUFEs procurement
during this period, primarily for electric locomotives, passenger and
freight cars, and track materials and equipment. The bulk of the financ-
ing will come from RENFETs retained earnings and the capital contribu.
tion of the Government which has undertaken to provide all necessary
funds for the execution of the project.
17.     All goods financed by the proposed loan would be acquired on
the basis of international competitive bidding. As for the 1965 ports
loan, it is proposed that the margin of preference accorded to goods
produced in Spain be 15 -percent or theactual rate of customs dutie
whichever is the lower, Customs duties on imported items at present
range between 11 percent for wagens and coaches and 32.5 percent for
locomotives. Bid comparisons would be made after adding the margin of
preference to the c.i.f. price of imported goods including the equali-
zation tax on imports (Impuesto de Compensaci6n de Gravamenes Interio-
res). The ICGI, generally 11 to 14 percent for imported railway
equipment, is an excise tax designed to impose on imported goods the
same indirect tax burden as is levied by the Government on similar
goods manufactured in Spain. Since Spanish suppliers are expected
to bid on most contracts, it is not  ssible to estimate in advance the
foreign exchange component of the proposed loan. For the project as
a whole, the foreign exchange component is expected to be larger than
the amount of the Bank loan.
18.     The project also includes a revised Plan of Action (as detailed
in Annex II of the Appraisal Report) which incorporates those measures
of the original Plan still to be completed, together with additional
measures for transport coordination and for improvement of RENFE1s
operations and finances. The principal changes entail payment in
advance by the Government of sums due to RENFE for operating and capital
purposes; maintenance of adequate working capital; accelerated reduc-
tion of staff; studies of additional light-traffic lines and stations;
and a revised and expanded list of studies and measures on transport
coordination.
19.     The revised financial objectives of RENFE take into account
both its present problems stemming from the recent large wage increases
and the relief which is to be expected from the Government's assump-
tion of certain pension payments and from accelerated dieselization and
reduction of staff. The Bank has therefore agreed to extend the time
for reaching the first stage of RENFE's financial improvement bover-
ing cash operating expenses including interest) from 1968 to 1969.
On the other hand, the Government and RENFE will take all necessary
action to reach the second stage (which includes coverage of deprecia-
tion) in 1970 instead of 1971, and to attain a rate of return of 4.5
percent (instead of 3.6 percent) by 1973.
20.     Considering the scope of the reforms being carried out, RENFE
has already made substantial progress towards becoming a modern and



efficient railuay system operating on a commercial and financially viable
basis. While it has benefited from the general economic expansion of Spain,
the principal factor has been the energetic measures taken by the Govern-
ment and management to achieve major improvements in equipment, operations
and financos. It is natural that continued progress along these lines
should be somewhat more difficult, but the Government and RENFE have con-
firmed their intention to take the necessary measures, even on a more
exacting basis than first agreed with the Bank, and it is realistic to
expect such progress to be achieved.
PART IV - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
21.     The Draft Loan Agreement between the Bank and RENFE, the Draft
Guarantee Agreement between Spain and the Bank, the Report of the Committee
provided for in Article III, Section 4 (iii) of the Articles of Agreement
and a Supplemental Letter concerning the finances of RENFE (see paragraph
19) are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
22.     The proposed loan Agreement confonTs to the general pattern of
Bank loan agreements with railway enterprises.   In Section 5.15, RENFE
agrees to talce all necessary action to provide sufficient revenues to
meet the three stages of financial improvement, as described in para. 19,
by agreed dates. The loan may be declared repayable immediately if any
substantial change in the Statute of RENFE is made without the Bankts
agreement (Section 5.o2). The only condition of effectiveness in addition
to those provided for in the Loan Regulations is that the revised Invest-
ment Plan has become effective through adoption of the necessary legal
measures (Section 7.01). The date provided for in Section 7.02 as the
latest date by which the Loan Agreement must become effective is December
31, 1967.
23.     The Guarantee Agreement is in the usual form.   Section 2.02 con-
tains a provision of fundls covenant. In Section 3.06(b), the Guarantor
undertalces to carry out the Investment Plan and-the Plan of Action and not
to amend them without the agreement of the Bank. Section 3.07, which
parallels Section 5.15 of the Loan Agreement, commits the Government to
take such steps as may be required to provide RENFE with revenues suf-
ficient to meet the three stages of financial improvement by agreed dates.
PART V - THE ECONOMY
24.     An economic report on "Current Economic Position and Prospects of
Spain" (EA-165a) was distributed to the Executive Directors on December
15, 1966 (R-66-165).
25.     Spain is undergoing a period of adjustment in a long-term develop-
ment effort which began in 1960-61. The strains of the rapid growth



of 1961-66 continue to show. Restrictive government policies of 1966-67
have induced slower growth and a feeling of uncertainty in business cir-
cles; inflationary pressures are reflected in movements of the price in-
dexes; exchange reserves declined somewhat more in the first 5 months of
1967 than in the same period of 1966. Ir addition, there are structural
problems in agriculture, industry and public finance, which are examined
in detail in the economic report. Finally, the political uncertainties
associated with the constitutional changes being made in the wake of the
December 1966 referendum (envisaging the appointment of a head of govern-
ment separate from the head of State) have not made it easier for the Gov-
ernment to cope with the current situation.
26.     Since 1965, demand pressures have led to price increases and to a
large increase in the trade deficit. Between the end of 1963 and the end
of 1966, retail prices rose 30 percent, and a further 3 percent in January-
I-lay, 1967. Since the latter part of 1965, commodity exports, tourist re-
ceipts and private transfers, though rising rapidly, have not kept pace
with imports, There was a current account deficit of about $500 million
in 1965 and $650 million in 1966. In spite of a reduction in the trade
deficit, during January-.May 1967, reserves decreased by $223 million as a
result of a decrease in the surplus on services. Part of the decrease in
reserves during the first months of the year is seasonal; nevertheless, a
loss of reserves during 1967 as a whole is to be expected.
27.     In 1966, the Government reduced its investment plans and introduced
a more restrictive credit policy in order to curb inflation. The slowing
down of the rise in public investment has been in line with the recommend-
ations of the Bankts economic report. Private investment, which had been
rising rapidly, has now levelled off, there are signs of slackening de-
mand, especially for capital goods, and industrial output appears to have
stabilized. The first five months of 1967 have recorded a 14 percent in-
crease in merchandise exports and a 5.5 percent reduction in imports, as
compared with the same period in 1966.
28.     At this stage, Epain should direct its restrictive policies main-
ly to affect consumption, while investment should be increased. A greater
tax effort should be made in order to direct resources from consumption
to investment. In spite of some improvements, especially in the tax
structure, the tax reform of 1965 has not come up to expectations, and
this failure appears to have been, for some time, one of Spain's major
problems. The 1966 economic mission urged an increase in taxation, reform
of budget procedures and of the tax structure and its administration, and
a review of interest rates policy. Total public sector revenue however
remained at 15-16 percent of GNP during 1963-65. It has apparently not
increased in 1966 and no improvement is envisaged in 1967. Although
public investment is in fact covered by public savings, an increase in
both would, at this stage, be desirable as a basis for sustained growth
without inflation. In addition there is the problem of financing the
increased requirements of the official credit institutions. Placement of
bonds issued for this purpose, largely with banks, has proved more and
more difficult. At the same time, national savings are substantial, con-
tributing 21-22 percent of GINP in each of the years 1963-66. With gross



-8-
investment of 23-25 percent of GNP, the net foreign contribution has been
2-4 percent of GNP, the somewhat higher levels occuring in 1965 and 1966.
29.     While investments should be increased, they should at the same
time be made more selectively on the basis of economic criteria. One in-
strument for securing better selection of investment would be to continue
the process of import l-iberalization and expose the economy to greater com-
petition from abroad.
30.     Policies under the Development Plan for 196h-67 have successful-
ly promoted rapid industrial development, although at a high cost. On the
other hand, developments in agriculture have not been satisfactory, as
was brought out in the 1L966 report of the Bank/FAO Agricultural I'llission.
The public investment targets of the Plan have not been re-.listic; they
are based on 1962 prices and have been included in Government budgets
wTithout modification.  The Cooperation between the Planning Commission and
the itinistry of Finance has been inadequate. Indeed, despite the exist-
ence of the Planning Coimmission, coordination of economic policies is in
need of improvement. ALso in a number of cases the policies spelled out
in the general directives of the Plan have not been implemented.
31.     A preliminary draft of the Second Development Plan, 1968-71, is
now aiming at an annual growth in output of 6 percent. Growth at this or
a somewhat lower rate will require a further large rise in imports, par-
ticularly if trade liberalization is to be maintained or increased. Re-
ceipts from exports and tourism may be expected to rise further, but much
will depend on the outcome of the forthcoming negotiations with the EEC,
and on general conditions in EEC countries which are Spain's major markets
and the source of large private remittances by Spanish emigrants. The
continuation of a satisfactory level of investment will require a consider-
able new capital inflow. Foreign exchange reserves represent about three
months' imports; further substantial loss of reserves would not be
desirable.
32.     Long-term capital imports rose from about $250 million in 1964
to nearly $400 million in 1966 Lad a further increase is expected this
year.   Foreign funds went to the private sector, mostly in the form of
direct, portfolio and real-estate investments, or to private and government
enterprises through loans by the Export-Import Bank, mostly for the steel
industry, for power and for Iberia Airlines. To date, there have not been
any public bond issues abroad and no direct issue by the Government is
currently planned. The East Coast Autopista authority, however, has just
made the first of several government-guaranteed issues of bonds of about
$20-$30 million equivalent which it plans for the next few years. The
$20 million loan, which was offered for sale outside the United States, is
for 20 years with an issue price of 99.5 percent at 7 percent interest to
yield 7.05 percent to maturity.
33.     External medium- and long-term public debt outstanding in mid-1966
was about $440 million, including amounts undisbursed; a further $160 mil-
lion has since been borrowed from the Export-Import Bank. Debt service



- 9 -
will rise to about $75 million (3 percent of export earnings) in
1969-71.
34.     There is a need for Spain to mobilize more funds for investment,-
foremost by increasing taxation and secondly through a more extensive re-
course to the international capital market. However, in the light of its
general economic performance, need for foreign capital and ability to serv-
ice debt, Spain is justified in seeking Bank assistance and is credit-
worthy for the amount of the rroposed loan.
PART VI - COMPLIANCE IWITH ARTICLES OF AGREENENT
35.     I am satisfied that the proposed loan would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Bank.
PART VII - RECOMMEDATION
36.     I recommend that the Executive Directors adopt the following
resolution:
RESOLUTION NO.
Approval of loan to Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles
Espafioles in an amount equivalent to U.S.$50,000,000
to be guaranteed by Spain.
RESOLVED:
THAT the Bank, grant a loan to Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles
Espafioles to be guaranteed by Spain, in an amount in various cur-
rencies equivalent to fifty million United States dollars
(U.S.$5o,ooo,ooo), to mature on and prior to October 15, 1982, to
bear interest at the rate of six per cent (6%) per annum, and to
be upon such other terms and conditions as shall be substantially
in accordance with the terms and conditions set forth in the form
of Loan Agreement (Second Railway Project) between the Bank and
Red Nacional de los Ferrocarriles Espafioles, and the form of
Guarantee Agreement (Second Railway Project) between Spain and
the Bank, which have been presented to this meeting.
George D. Woods
President
Attachment (1)
Washington, D.C.
July 20, 1967



