Document of
The World Bank                   mm.
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-2662-NI
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
FOR AN
URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
November 29, 1979
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only In the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit       =   Nicaraguan Cordoba (C)
US$                 =   ¢ 10.00
¢ 1                 =   US$0.00
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS
BAVINIC    -    The Housing Bank of Nicaragua
BDN        -    Development Bank of Nicaragua
CABEI      -    Central American Bank for Economic Integration
FED        -    Special Development Fund
FIR        -    International Reconstruction Fund
FRN        -    Trust for National Reconstruction
IDB        -    Inter-American Development Bank
INAA       -    National Water and Sewerage Authority
INE        -    National Power Authority
JMR        -    Municipal Reconstruction Boards
MIC        -    Ministry of Industry and Commerce
MTOP       -    Ministry of Transport and Public Works
MIVAH      -    Ministry of Housing and Human Settlements
USAID      -    United States Agency for International Development
VIMPU      -    Vice-Ministry of Urban Planning
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
NICARAGUA
URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:           Republic of Nicaragua.
Amount:             US$22 million equivalent
Terms:               Standard
Relending Terms:    US$3.2 million of the credit would be relent to the Banco
Nacional de Desarrollo (BDN), acting for the Fondo Espe-
cial de Desarrollo (FED) for a term of 20 years including
5 years' grace, at an interest rate of 3 percent per
annum; the Borrower would assume the exchange rate risk.
These funds would be rediscounted by FED through parti-
cipating institutions at an interest rate of 6 percent-
8 percent per annum. The ultimate beneficiaries would
receive the funds at an interest rate of not less than
12 percent per annum (FED's proposed rate is 13 percent
per annum), for terms varying from 4 years to 10 years
including grace periods not exceeding 3 years.
Project
Description:      The project would assist the Government in its reconstruc-
tion efforts following the recent civil war. It is de-
signed to address emergency urban problems, to have a
substantial employment and income generation impact, and
to be implemented so that disbursements will be completed
within 18 months. The project would: (a) meet immediate
physical reconstruction needs in six heavily damaged
cities; (b) provide financing for the rehabilitation of
the small-scale commercial/industrial sector in the cities
affected by the war; and (c) assist in alleviating the
severe shortage of public transport in Managua. Speci-
fically the proposed components are:
1.   Municipal Reconstruction (US$6.8 million):   to repair
and improve infrastructure, replace destroyed
municipal physical plant and equipment, and recons-
truct and rehabilitate urban services.
2.   Credits for Rehabilitation of Small-Scale Enter-
prises (US$3.2 million): loans to small-scale firms,
cooperatives and micro-enterprises for (i) construc-
tion and repair of commercial and industrial buildings
and workshops; and (ii) replacement of equipment and
working capital.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of theirofficial duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



- ii -
3.   Rehabilitation of Managua's Public Transport System
(US$12 million): to replace about 140 buses and 150
micro-buses, provide spare parts, maintenance facil-
ities, and safety equipment; improve about 29 km of
pavement on bus transit routes; and provide technical
assistance in urban transport planning and to the
newly formed Managua municipal transport company.
The project will be implemented under unusual circum-
stances: it was developed rapidly in order to meet emer-
gency reconstruction needs, has been prepared during a
period when Government policy directions are still being
formulated, and will be implemented by institutions which
have undergone major restructuring following the civil war.
In order to lessen risks, the project relies on existing
institutional mechanisms to the maximum extent possible.
While, for example, the newly created Municipal Boards
will have an important role in the municipal reconstruc-
tion component, a technical unit in the Housing Ministry
(MIVAH) with personnel experienced in project execution
will play the major role. Also, the project can meet only
a part of reconstruction needs and has been designed with
sufficient flexibility to allow for selection among a
variety of possible subprojects. In transport, the readi-
ness of the Public Works Ministry (MTOP) to encourage
operations on a commercial basis together with the pro-
posed technical assistance to the new municipal transport
company enhances the probability of successful implementa-
tion.



Estimated Costs:                                      (US$ million)
Foreign    Local      Total
(a) Municipal
reconstruction        4.2        3.8        8.0
(b) Rehabilitation of
small enterprises     1.2        2.8        4.0
(c) Managua transport
rehabilitation       12.0       .2.0       14.0
TOTAL            17.4        8.6       26.0
Financing Plan:                                        (US$ million)
IDA    Counterpart    Total
(a) Municipal
Reconstruction        6.8        1.2        8.0
(b)  Rehabilitation of
Small Enterprises     3.2        0.8        4.0
(c)  Transport            12.0        2.0       14.0
TOTAL            22.0        4.0       26.0
Estimated                                             (US$ million)
Disbursements:                         Jan/June       July/Dec     Jan/June
1980         1980           1981
Semi-Annual:            7.2         10.2            4.6
Cumulative:             7.2         17.4           22.0
Rate of Return:      Not applicable
Staff Appraisal
Report         :   None.  This is a combined President's and
Staff Appraisal Report.






INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT TO THE
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA FOR AN URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
1.        I submit the following Report and Recommendation on a proposed
credit to the Republic of Nicaragua for the equivalent of US$22 million
for an urban reconstruction project. The credit would be on standard IDA
terms. Of the total credit, US$3.2 million would be relent through financial
intermediaries to small-scale enterprises for up to 10 years, including up
to three years of grace, with interest expected to be 13 percent per annum.
PART I - THE ECONOMY 1/
2.         After years of sporadic guerrilla activity and almost a year of
intermittent but violent insurrection, the Government of Nicaragua was replaced
in July 1979 by revolutionary forces led by the Sandinista Liberation Front.
A 5-person Junta of National Reconstruction was immediately established, an
agreed program of policy goals announced, and order quickly restored. In
response to requests for assistance a Bank mission visited Nicaragua in
September to review the new situation and consider new lending of an emergency
nature that would assist the recovery effort. The economic section of this
report reflects the mission's analysis.
3.         During the Revolution an estimated 35,000 persons lost their lives.
The main battlefields were Nicaragua's towns, and many civilians were killed
in the intense battles during September 1978 and May-July 1979. Damage to
physical structures and equipment has been estimated at US$185 million.
While an additional US$250 million in inventories were stolen, burned, or
otherwise lost to the original owners, all but US$60 million was probably
used or sold by the new owners, thus reducing the total physical loss to the
economy to about US$245 million, lower in cost than the Managua earthquake
of 1972 but over one-tenth of 1978 GDP.
WAR DAMAGE
(US$ Million)
Physical
Structures    Equipment    Stocks
Industry                  15.0          35.0        60.0
Commerce                  18.0          22.0       160.0
Agriculture                 3.6          1.8        28.0
Infrastructure            60.5          24.7         1.0
Other                      --            4.0         1.0
Total                  97.1          87.5      250.0
1/   This section is identical to the section on the economy in the President's
Report for the Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project
(P-2661-NI), dated November 29, 1979.



- 2 -
The towns of Esteli, Leon, Masaya, and Matagalpa were particularly hard-hit;
Esteli lost an estimated one third of its downtown housing unit-. National
Guard posts, often located in urban centers, were the focus of much of the
fighting; this led to destruction of many nearby shops, restaurants, houses,
and other service establishments. Most of the inventory losses stemmed from
looting. As all semblance of order ended mobs looted stores and industries
of massive amounts of finished goods, raw materials, and equipment. The
planting of some key crops was also deferred, and this has adversely affected
rural incomes, production and exports.
4.        The effect of this wartime destruction is reflected throughout the
economy.  The sacking of shops and stores reduced :ma!y zommercial firns to
insolvency; some damaged, looted, or burned industrial establishments were
also financially affected. More important in financial terms, however, was
the capital flight from Nicaragua. As noted above most of the looted goods
remained within the economy. During 1978 and 1979, however, massive capital
flight of up to US$500 million occurred, and many firms are illiquid because
of it. These insolvencies in turn led to massive loan defaults and the
insolvency of domestic commercial banks. Taxes and utility bills were not
paid in June and July; neither was the Government's civilian work force. The
Central Bank had only US$3.5 million in gross foreign exchange on July 19;
net foreign reserves were negative by US$215 million; and most external debt
service had been in arrears since January.
5.        The immediaie consequences of this physical and financial destruc-
tion are quite severe. Nicaragua's real GDP dropped 8 percent in 1978; during
1979 it may drop more than 26 percent. Even if there is an expected recovery
of 18 percent in 1980, the foregone income (compared to a conservative growth
rate of 4 percent) is well over US$1 billion for the years 1978-80. While all
sectors of the economy were affected, industry, transport and commerce dropped
most as the physical damage was also accompanied by severe import constraints
and domestic trade and communications bottlenecks. Agriculture suftered less,
but the 1979 cotton crop was ruined and the rice crop adversely affected as
most fighting occurred during key planting times. Livestock inventories,
particularly chickens and cattle, were depleted.     It is estimated that
Nicaragua's per capita GNP will fall to US$570 (US$1978, Atlas basis). Volun-
tary guard duty and clean-up campaigns have absorbed some of the potential
unemployed, but the actual unemployed are still probably at least one quarter
of the urban work force.
6.         Faced with this situation the new Government of National Reconstruc-
tion has undertaken action on a variety of fronts. It issued a policy state-
ment shortly before it took power that has served as its guide so far. The
Government has decided on a mixed economy with government, private, and
joint government-private sectors in as yet undefined areas. It gives high
priority to immediate recovery efforts, dividing them into two phases, an
emergency program and an immediate recovery plan.     The emergency program
consists of food and medical distribution, recovery of public services and
clearing of bombed neighborhoods. The recovery plan stresses output and
employment expansion; reorganization of the balance of payments, debt, and
public finances; and complementary monetary policies. A longer-term plan for
reconstruction and socio-economic development is being prepared.



- 3 -
7.        The emergency program has been completed efficiently and rapidly.
Immediately after the victory, most municipal residents began the cleanup
process. Within a month streets and sidewalks were cleared of rubble and
barricades, the wounded were hospitalized, power, water, and telephones
were operating, and the normal processes of Government had been restored.
Given the lack of foreign exchange and fiscal resources, most labor was
voluntary, with neighborhood commmittees organizing the participants. While
these committees have been extremely effective in clearing streets and re-
pairing some partially damaged houses, the reconstruction of more heavily
damaged homes, industries, shops, and public buildings will take considerably
more time and resources. The rebuilding-of commercial inventories, re-equipping
and reconstruction of industries will require substantial foreign
exchange.
8.        One of the first acts of the new Government was to confiscate the
assets of the family of ex-President Somoza and his most immediate associates
as well as to nationalize the insolvent banking system 1/. As a result, the
State now owns about one third of the nation's crop land, which in the past
produced large amounts of sugar, cattle, rice, and tobacco. Over 160 here-
tofore private firms now belong to the public sector. Except for slaughter-
houses and fish processing firms, the expropriated agroindustrial companies
have been placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Agrarian Reform.
Most of the rest have been placed temporarily with a Trust for National
Reconstruction (FRN). Added to these new State assets are all the nation's
domestic commercial banks, finance companies, and savings banks and insurance
companies. Expropriated restaurants, supermarkets, shops, and other service
establishments as well as the nationalization of much agricultural trade have
made the State responsible for about 10-15 percent of the value added in
commerce and other services. In total, the public sector of Nicaragua now
probably accounts for at least 40 percent of the nation's GDP. In acquiring
these substantial assets, of course, the Government also assumed their lia-
bilities, a debt that is still being calculated.
9.        The immediate constraints on economic recovery now stem from public
finance, monetary, and balance of payments problems. The new Government has
repeatedly stressed that it intends to follow prudent fiscal and monetary
policies, but because of the disruption in Government operations from June
through August, the current fiscal and monetary situation remains unclear.
A number of new agencies and ministries have been established and some old
ones disbanded or revised. A new Ministry of Agrarian Reform not only has
responsibility for the cooperatives being established on confiscated lands,
but it will direct most new state-owned agroindustries. The old housing bank
has been terminated and much of its staff moved to a new Ministry of Housing
and Human Settlements. The Planning Office was elevated to a Ministry; and the
International Fund for Reconstruction (FIR) has been established to coordinate
1/   The Government is purchasing the shares of the banking system with 5-year
bonds; the Somoza holdings were confiscated outright; but some other
corporations (Somoza minority holdings, abandoned firms) have been legally
intervened, expropriated, or requisitioned.



- 4 -
all foreign borrowing, debt re-negotiation, and relations with multilateral
agencies. The state-owned commercial and development banks were combined
with the staff of the Special Development Fund (FED) of the Central Bank to
form a new Development Bank of Nicaragua (BDN). The National Guard has been
disbanded and a new popular army established from the revolutionary forces.
Both the army and a complementary militia receive only subsistence wages.
10.       Because there was no official payments schedule for the new Govern-
ment structure, the Central Bank (CB) was authorized to make direct payments
to each Ministry or Agency for all necessary expenditures until October, when
the Ministry of Finance established its first, tentative quarterly budget.
The goal is to match operational expenditures with anticipated receipts, but
even in late September expenditure obligations of many new ministries and
agencies remained unclear. The quarterly budget system may remain in effect
through 1980.
11.       The Government is expected to announce shortly new regulations to
increase tax receipts in the short-run, including a moratorium period to pay
taxes in arrears, a resumption of the export taxes on traditional exports
and increased tariffs on luxury imports. The salaries of many senior officials
were reduced drastically by imposing a US$1,000 monthly salary ceiling. The
Government is now carefully considering its salary policy for all public
sector workers.  The effect of these measures     is still not clear, but one of
its major purposes clearly is to bring a disastrous fiscal situation under
control. In the first half of 1979 Central Government savings were negative
and its deficit was 80 percent higher than that of the first semester of 1978.
The Government hopes to reduce the deficit for all of 1979 to about q1 billion,
almost 19 percent below that of 1978 but still about 7 to 8 percent of GDP.
Because of the new army's low wages, the two months loss of wages, and reduc-
tion of the civilian work force, the deficit may be less, and financed mostly
from noninflationary external aid. The reduction in the 1979 deficit is
possible only because capital outlays will be below one quarter of the 1978
level. The Government intends to continue the austerity measures at the same
level in 1980.
12.       The future financial needs of both the traditional and new public
enterprises remain uncertain. Most public utilities were unable to collect
receipts during a two to three month period; even in September their collec-
tions were poor because of bankruptcies and deteriorated management. Since
many of these utilities have considerable external debts, the Government's
efforts at arranging debt relief will also have a considerable effect on their
cash flow needs for 1980-81. The Government wants its productive enterprises
to be guided by principles that stress economic efficiency. Nevertheless, for
the immediate future other goals, such as employment retention or generation
and a more egalitarian wage structure, may take precedence. Until the finan-
cial position of these entities is clarified decisions as to tradeoffs between
these goals have been deferred.
13.       The nationalized commercial banks are now technically insolvent.
In effect, they have lost most of their capital and reserves and at present



-5-
are dependent on the Central Bank or foreign funds for liquidity. Government
policy is to reverse the recent emphasis of credit allocation. Between
April 1978 and April 1979, internal banking credit to the private sector
increased by a modest 11 percent while net credit to the public sector
quintupled. The banking system's resources came from abroad; foreign loans
doubled and net foreign reserves fell. In sum, external loans to the banking
system, mostly to the Central Bank, were used to finance credit expansion
to the public sector.
14.       The Government now hopes to channel the greater portion of future
credit to productive sectors, public or private. This will be difficult. The
looting, burning, and destruction that reduced many firms to insolvency have
greatly reduced the values of the commercial banks' loan portfolios. In an
effort to both reduce the money supply as well as penalize those who had taken
currency out of the country, the Central Bank forced holders of bills worth
US$50 or more to exchange them immediately for six-months savings certificates.
This reduced the bills outstanding by almost US$39 million, thus permitting a
noninflationary credit expansion of that amount. Despite the enormous diffi-
culties confronting the banking sector, depositors appear to have maintained
confidence in the system. The outflow of deposits has reversed itself and
there are indications of slight increases in deposits through September 21,
1979. Demand for credit by mid-September was slow since the commercial banks
were just opening again for business and it was well known that their lending
capacity was limited. The Government is eager to channel concessionary aid
into credit expansion since rediscounting by the Central Bank to provide
sufficient credit to finance the reconstruction effort could be highly infla-
tionary unless it is supported by foreign borrowing which would permit an
expansion of supply through imports.
15.       The most severe problem stems from the balance of payments.    In the
first semester of 1979 there was a balance of payments current account surplus
of $180 million, a stagnation of official capital flows and a substantial out-
flow of private capital about equal to the current account surplus. About 15
percent of annual GDP flowed out to unknown, private recipients in 6 months.
Between July and December of 1979 the picture is expected to shift dramatically.
A current account deficit of about US$40 million can be expected in the second
semester. With substantial assistance from abroad--about US$70 million in
grants and more than US$100 million in soft loan disbursements--the new Gov-
ernment is importing badly needed food, medicine and other basic items. For
1979 as a whole, we expect a current account surplus of about US$140 million
and a modest increase in reserves, because of a sharp drop in imports and a
deferral of most interest payments on the country's external debt . In real
terms annual imports may be more than a quarter below the 1978 level, and
almost half the 1977 level. Net international reserves will likely be minus
US$500 million by the end of 1979, if arrears in short-term debt are added.
16.       The new Government has received a relatively quick response to its
requests for concessional, external assistance. Among the first to respond
were the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), and the Government of Venezuela.
Within days the IDB, with the agreement of the Government of Venezuela, had
deposited in the Central Bank of Nicaragua US$20 million from its Venezuelan



- 6 -
Trust Fund for supplementing gross foreign exchange needs. By mid-August the
IDB had adjusted its undisbursed loans, and by mid-September it had approved
loans for agricultural and industrial rehabilitation of US$61.5 million in-
cluding US$25 million from the Venezuelan Trust Fund; cofinancing by the
International Fund for Agricultural Development (IFAD) added US$12 million.
The U.S. Government had begun an emergency air lift of medical supplies and
has continued to provide foodstuffs since. The UN relief agencies, Red Cross,
and nearby countries--particularly Costa Rica and Cuba--also were quick to
provide emergency assistance. The list of assisting agencies and countries
has grown rapidly. The Central American Bank for Economic Integration (CABEI)
has recently adjusted its outstanding loans has made a US$12.5 million loan to
reactivate a program for the control of coffee leaf rust and has begun
discussions of other future projects. The UNDP Program for the next few years
has been supplemented by the United Nations General Assembly; the resources
that can be applied to Nicaragua now exceed US$5 million. Grants have also
been forthcoming from the European Economic Community and Organization
of Petroleum Export Countries Special Fund. Among the major bilateral
donors have been Germany (with a commitment of approximately US$39 million in
grants for a 2-year period), Peru, Sweden, Canada, Norway, the Netherlands,
Spain, and Mexico. The Central American countries have both individually and
collectively, through their regional monetary agency, extended general export
credits to Nicaragua. These have been particularly helpful in ensuring that
some trade continued in the Central American area.
17.       Very little external debt service payments will be made in 1979.
The mission estimates cumulative payment arrears during 1978 and 1979 at about
US$215 million for the public sector and US$115 million for the former Nicara-
guan private sector. An additional US$315 million in short-term arrears would
bring total arrears to over US$645 million. Debt service payments due in 1979
for public and publicly guaranteed debt, not counting obligations associated
with the firms and banks newly in the public sector or short-term obligations,
would equal about 35 percent of expected receipts from exports of goods and
nonfactor services; about 85 percent of it is payable to commercial banks.
18.       The short-term balance of payments problem is exacerbated by the
poor prospects for 1980 exports. While coffee receipts should continue to
grow despite the expected decline in price and exports to the Central American
Common Market should recover well, cotton receipts may be down US$100 million
compared to 1979 because the July/August plantings were disrupted severely by
the war. Because of the severe foreign exchange constraint, imports must be
limited. For 1980, it is estimated that while real GDP will remain 20 percent
below the pre-war year of 1977, real imports must be limited to 27 percent
below 1977 levels if a modest level of gross reserves is to be gradually
rebuilt.
19.       Balance of payments projections for 1980 and 1981 can only be illus-
trative. Nevertheless, based on the Bank mission's estimates of GDP, import,
and export growth, the projections show net external assistance requirements
of about US$670 million for these two years. Of this amount, it is anticipated
that extraordinary grants averaging US$25 million yearly and disbursements of
US$190 million and US$110 million might be possible in 1980 and 1981, respec-
tively, from new loans and accelerated disbursement schedules 0!1 ongoing
loans agreed to during the second half of 1979. Depending on the level of



foreign investment and private inflows of capital during the next few years,
up to an additional US$320 million could be needed in net capital flows (i.e.,
excluding grants) in 1980-1981.
Current Account Balance of Payments, 1977-1979 and Net External Assistance
Required 1980-1981
(US$ Million)
Actual           Est.        Projected
1977      1978        1979     1980     1981
Merchandise Exports, FOB              636.8      646.0      580       540       730
Merchandise Imports, FOB             -704.1     -546.8     -420      -675     -830
Balance                          -67.3      99.2       160      -135     -100
NFS Receipts                          105.3      113.0       80        85       115
NFS Payments                         -146.7     -139.2     -155      -140     -175
Balance                          -41.4     -26.2       -75       -55      -60
Resource Balance                     -108.7       73.0       85      -190     -160
Interest Payments                     -49.5     -50.7       -11      -140 1/   -60 1/
Profit Remittances                    -28.5     -22.4         -         -         -
Transfers                              11.0       10.0       70        50        20
Current Account Balance              -175.7        9.9      144      -280     -200
Change in Net Reserves 2/
(- =increase)                  -56.6    -224.3      -30        -60      -80
Net Capital Flows Required                                           -340      -280
1/   Excludes interest payments and arrears on private debt.    For 1980 includes
interest arrearages on public debt for 1978 and 1979 of approximately
US$72 million. No penalty interest is calculated on arrearages of
principal or interest.
2/   After 1979, increases in reserves required to bring gross reserves to
equivalence of three months imports, CIF, by the end of 1981.
Note: If interest payments due on debt-considered private before July 19, 1979
with an original maturity of one year or more were included as paid obligations,
it would raise financial requirements by US$20 million yearly assuming it were
rolled over.
20.       Nicaragua's creditworthiness for normal Bank lending is extremely
limited. Its outstanding debt of US$1.5 billion at the end of 1978 (medium-
and long-term external debt of US$1,113 million and US$400 million in short-
term debt) was about 80 percent of GDP. The known arrears in short-term debt



- 8 -
amounted to US$315 million. When the arrears in medium- and long-term debt
are added, the total projected arrears in debt service at the end of 1979 are
estimated at US$645 million. Debt service payments falling due in 1980 and
1981 are projected at US$230 million and US$180 million, respectively. Even
assuming no carry-over of arrears into 1980, the projected debt service ratio
would be about 35 percent. Some form of restructuring of Nicaragua's debt
will be required over the next few years. This rescheduling would be in addi-
tion to the estimated external borrowing of over US$300 million per year. The
authorities realize that an economic program is necessary as part of this debt
exercise. It is anticipated that such a program will be formulated, presented
and discussed with its creditors and aid donors in early 1980. In the mean-
time, it is apparent that Nicaragua's extremely weak balance of payments situa-
tion and reduced income mean that a major share of the substantial assistance
needed from institutions such as the World Bank for emergency reconstruction
and rehabilitation should be on concessional terms and thus result in average
terms as soft as possible. The balance of payments situation combined with
an extremely difficult fiscal situation (see paragraphs 9-12 above) also
justify official assistance in excess of the foreign exchange component of
individual projects.
Longer-Term Prospects
21.       While Nicaragua's immediate and medium-term prospects are dominated
by the recovery problems, its longer term prospects will depend on the new
Government's ability to implement its economic and social goals effectively.
Nicaragua has good agricultural potential; it has the highest ratio of arable
land to population in Central America, a relatively good infrastructure,
and an urban population dispersed relatively consistently with the country's
spatial advantages. The country's longer run growth prospects will depend
heavily on the Government's approach to attaining its income distribution
goals and its management of the greatly enlarged public sector. It is too
soon to make judgments in these areas now; the following discussion only
outlines the key issues the Government must confront.
22.       First, the domestic savings need of the economy will be large.    Even
after a possible debt rescheduling, the Government will not only encounter
difficulties in borrowing new significant funds from non-official sources, it
may wish independently to limit such borrowings to avoid exacerbating its debt
service. The Government has already firmly stated it will not place a great
reliance on foreign savings for financing development. Secondly, the greater
size of the public sector and the enlarged Government control over the bank-
ing system means public policy will be crucially responsible for marshalling
domestic savings. As much as one third of past corporate savings was probably
generated by firms now in the public sector. The reduced investment oppor-
tunities for the upper classes and the Government's income distribution goals
mean that Government and public enterprises, rather than households, must
directly generate greater savings. This will be difficult to achieve unless
the efficiency of Government programs is high and State enterprises are run
profitably. Finally, not only will the Government control about one half of
industry and some key marketing areas, but also from one-third to one half



- 9 -
the nation's farmers may be using state land and producing consistent with
Government-determined priorities. This situation means the state must assume
the major, direct responsibility for ensuring that investment and production
are conducted efficiently.
23.       Secondly, the Government is determined to improve the lot of
Nicaragua's poor. It expects to do this by stressing agricultural develop-
ment and the provision of social services (health, nutrition, education) to
all rural residents. The speed, cost, and success of measures developed to
implement these goals will be crucial indeed. It may be difficult to develop
agricultural activities in new regions of the country until the present,
greatly changed agricultural production system is adequately redesigned
and operating well. Some other countries in the hemisphere have quickly
encountered fiscal constraints when they expanded urban-designed social
programs to rural areas; some have tried to improve urban programs as they
expanded rural ones and found themselves constrained equally rapidly. The
Government is aware that it must successfully link its growth and equity goals
to increasing productivity and efficiency or it may jeopardize both of them.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS 1/
24.       Nicaragua has received to date 24 Bank loans and two IDA credits
for a total of US$185 million. The last operation, a loan of US$3 million
for a rural sanitation project was signed on February 9, 1978. Annex II con-
tains a summary statement of Bank loans, IDA credits and IFC investments as
of October 31, 1979, as well as notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
Because of major fiscal difficulties that emerged during 1978 and the disrup-
tive effects of the civil war that began in the latter part of that year, the
Bank has not lent to Nicaragua since early 1978. In mid-1979 it concluded
that meaningful project activities and adequate supervision of ongoing proj-
ects were no longer possible. The Board was informed on July 16 (R79-192) that
no further disbursements on existing loans and credits would be made. The
Government of Nicaragua was subsequently replaced by a Junta of National
Reconstruction. The Junta requested emergency assistance from the inter-
national community to facilitate recovery from the economic disaster caused
by war time devastation and looting as well as by large outflows of capital.
In response to this request a Bank mission visited Nicaragua in September to
review the overall situation and priorities, to recommend changes in outstand-
ing loans, and to develop with the new Government proposals for emergency
lending to assist in the recovery effort. The operations recommended today
are the result of the work of that mission. The mission also recommended
to the Board revision of ongoing loans (R79-264) which were approved on
October 29. Disbursements on existing loans and credits were resumed in
November. As of October 31, 1979, a total of US$40.2 million remained to
be disbursed.
1/   This section is identical to the section on Bank Group Operations in
the President's Report for the Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilita-
tion Project (P-2661-NI), dated November 29, 1979.



- 10 -
25.       In the past the objectives of the Bank/IDA program in Nicaragua
have been (a) to support the Government's export diversification efforts;
(b) to help build viable institutions in key sectors such as water supply
and electric power; (c) to help spread the benefits of growth to more people
through lending such as for education, rural sanitation, agriculture, and
water supply. The Bank Group also assisted in the reconstruction effort
after the devastating earthquake of 1972.
26.       Because of the Government's preoccupation with emergency reconstruc-
tion requirements it has not been possible to develop with the new Government
a long-term lending program for the Bank Group. A new public investment pro-
gram is now being formulated, and the Government expects to invite the Bank
to begin discussions of new projects in early 1980. In preliminary discussion,
the Government has indicated interest in Bank participation in the rural and
energy sectors as well as continued involvement with major sectoral institu-
tions (power and water supply) with which the Bank has had a long-standing
relationship. The Bank group's lending activities to Nicaragua are being
closely coordinated with other donors such as IDB, CA.BEI, USAID and other
bilateral agencies.
27.       IFC's first operation in Nicaragua involved a FY68 loan and equity
investment of US$1 million and US$1.07 million, respectively, in a textile
plant, Textiles Fabricato de Nicaragua, S.A. IFC's equity participation was
sold in FY74 to local shareholders. In FY76 IFC provided US$6.5 million in
long-term debt to Nicaragua Sugar Estates Ltd., a sugar mill, to help expand
their production capacity and develop new cane fields. Also in FY76 IFC made
a loan and equity investment of US$700,000 and US$200,000, respectively, to
help finance the construction of the Camino Real Hotel. An IFC mission has
visited Nicaragua after the change of Government. The mission was able to
determine that IFC's three investments in Nicaragua received minor damages but
were not destroyed during the civil war. The necessity for rescheduling the
existing loans is now being analyzed. A further mission is planned for
discussions with the new Government regarding assistance to private industry.
PART III - THE URBAN SECTOR
Before the War
28.       Nicaragua's urban problems would be severe even without the recent
devastation since the growth of cities has exceeded the ability to provide
employment and services. The population of Managua in recent years has
grown at 6.5 percent per year and that of secondary cities at an average rate
of 4.4 percent per year. Just over half the country's population already
lives in urban areas, and a large share of the urban population is unemnployed
and poor. In 1977, 36 percent of households in Managua, and between 46
percent and 59 percent of households in the six major secondary cities had



- 11 -
cities had monthly incomes below US$100. 1/ Many urban families lack adequate
housing and basic urban services. In the absence of national planning for
urbanization or the provision of housing, public investment was concentrated
in Managua, and BAVINIC, the national housing bank, provided little housing
for the poor. Municipal governments have traditionally suffered from poor
administration and lack of financial support. Urban transport services have
also been very deficient in part due to lack of planning.
29.       The 1972 earthquake, which destroyed much of Managua, aggravated
an already unsatisfactory situation. While the earthquake reconstruction
effort incorporated a nominal strategy to decentralize urban growth, it had
the effect of further concentrating investment in the capital city. Most of
the new investment in housing, infrastructure, and services since 1972 has
been confined to the repair of the earthquake damage.
30.       The public transit system in Managua was run by a number of private
operators with franchises for specific routes. While self-supporting, it
provided poor and unreliable service. The bus fleet, 695 in 1978, was in bad
condition due to lack of preventive maintenance and spare parts, and to the
poor condition of the street pavement. As a result, the system was already
unreliable and unsafe. The National Transport Council had the responsibility
for the technical, economic, and administrative regulation of Managua's
transportation system. However, it spent most of its resources on motor
vehicle registrations and licensing. There was no effective public transit
planning in Managua. New services were provided and existing routes were
modified largely on an ad hoc basis. After the earthquake, 144,000 people
moved out of the city, and bus transit patronage fell. The operating costs of
the transit system rose appreciably as both round trip distances and trips on
unpaved roads doubled. Within a year, ten of the thirteen existing bus
companies were on the verge of bankruptcy. As bus operators went out of
business, new concessions were given, fares were increased, and service
declined further. A study completed in late 1973 concluded that bus routes
required redesign and paving.
War Damage
31.       The recent war resulted in heavy human and material losses and the
displacement of nearly a quarter of the country's population. As a result of
the prolonged intensive fighting, considerable parts of most major cities
were damaged or destroyed. Substantial amounts of housing, infrastructure,
and commercial and industrial plants were either totally destroyed or seriously
damaged.
32.       The areas suffering most extensive destruction were the central
commercial/administrative centers and the low-income settlements (barrios).
In these barrios where precarious dwellings have always been constructed
with recycled materials and timber, the war damage is extensive. Prior to
1/   Source:  Direccion de Planificacion Nacional:   "Analisis del Sistema
Urbano Regional de Nicaragua, 1977."



- 12 -
the war, their residents had limited access to urban services, formal employ-
ment and credit facilities for shelter or economic activity; the war has
made matters worse.
33.       Outside Managua, the heaviest damage occurred in six major second-
ary cities. Esteli (150 km north of Managua) suffered the worst damage along
with a population decline from 42,000 to 34,000. Its main commercial center
was devastated by aerial bombing and rocket fire. About 130 commercial struc-
tures, a hotel, six tobacco processing factories, and four other industrial
plants were destroyed or heavily damaged. Most of the commercial establish-
ments are insolvent following the looting and fire. Municipal buildings, the
central market, municipal infrastructure, and vehicles were also heavily
damaged. Five schools were damaged, the San Juan de Dios Hospital (200 beds)
was burned. Over a third of the housing (980 dwellings) in the city center
was heavily damaged. The total damage to over 1,140 structures is estimated
to be at least US$35 million including equipment, fixtures, and furniture.
34.       In Leon (90 km northwest of Managua) with 100,000 inhabitants,
damage was concentrated in the commercial center around the cathedral and
the National Guard Post, where 10 square blocks require total reconstruction.
Over 100 large shops and stores representing one-third of all commerce were
damaged or totally destroyed. Educational facilities , municipal offices,
markets, infrastructure, and equipment were damaged or destroyed. In addi-
tion, over 800 dwellings were damaged. The total damage to more than 930
buildings is estimated at over US$27 million.
35.       Masaya (26 km southeast of Managua) with 53,000 inhabitants was
heavily damaged in the center around the National Guard Post and the main
church. About half of the main commercial area was destroyed and there was
scattered damage to individual houses and businesses in the peripheral barrios.
The total damage to 320 buildings is estimated at US$19 million. Matagalpa (127
km north of Managua) with 30,000 inhabitants was heavily damaged in a 20 block
central area where most of the buildings were leveled. The total damage to
366 buildings is estimated to be over US$11 million. In Rivas (109 km south-
east of Managua) with 22,000 inhabitants, the war damage was concentrated in
18 blocks around the National Guard Post. About 365 dwellings were damaged;
total damage to more than 400 buildings is estimated to be US$9 million.
Chinandega (129 km northwest of Managua) with 48,000 inhabitants, was damaged
in September 1978. The greatest damage was around the main square. Total
damage to more than 200 buildings is estimated to be US$6 million.
36.       While the physical damage to urban infrastructure is quantifiable,
it is difficult to measure the resulting unemployment. Before the war,
approximately 40 percent or urban employment was generated by the activity
of small-scale enterprises (SSEs).   Many of these were located in the barrios
of Managua and other cities affected by the fighting. While the Government
is still in the process of surveying the damage done to these enterprises,
the situation in Esteli, Nicaragua's northern industrial center, reflects
its extensive nature. There, some 90 percent of the smaller enterprises
were rendered inoperative by physical damage to workplaces or by the destruc-
tion or depletion of inventories. Post-war unemployment is estimated at
about 60 percent in most of these barrios. Small entrepreneurs have been



- 13 -
unable to reactivate. In addition, the looting and burning of inventories
during the war left many commercial establishments and industries bankrupt.
37.       The fighting completely disrupted urban transport.   About 346 units
(roughly 50 percent) of Managua's bus fleet were destroyed, and about 250
units were severely damaged. With the scarcity of buses, repair facilities
and parts, Managua's public transportation system is chaotic. About 400
pick-up trucks have been converted to transport passengers, but service is
limited, erratic, and hazardous.
Government Response
38.       Responding to the effects of the war, the Government has instituted
an emergency plan that lists the following urban reconstruction priorities:
generation of employment; reconstruction of cities, towns, and low-income
neighborhoods affected by the conflict; and the restoration of public services
such as transport, energy, water, and telecommunications. Because the war
directly affected most of Nicaragua's important secondary cities, the Govern-
ment has moved quickly to mount a regional/municipal development program.
Several institutional changes have taken place. A newly formed Ministry of
Housing and Human Settlements (MIVAH), which has brought together the Housing
Bank of Nicaragua--BAVINIC--and the Vice Ministry of Urban Planning--VIMPU,
has acted on the Government's emergency and reconstruction plans by establish-
ing regional urban planning offices to implement the new policy of addressing
urban development needs nationally as an integral part of the reconstruction
effort. Through regional offices, a mechanism of coordination has been created
with other agencies for the reconstruction effort of local municipalities.
While this is a new ministry, most of the experienced technical and adminis-
trative staff from both BAVINIC and VIMPU have been retained. By combining
the planning/regulatory functions of VIMPU with the operational/implementing
arm of BAVINIC, MIVAH should resolve a long-standing institutional constraint
in the delivery of housing and urban services. The planning branch of the
Ministry has already initiated an inter-institutional coordination effort for
all reconstruction activities. Meetings with representatives of all relevant
ministries and agencies are held bi-weekly at MIVAH.
39.       The new Ministry of Transport and Public Works (MTOP) has integrated
the national transport planning and regulatory functions. Some staff from the
previous transport regulatory board have been retained. The Ministry will,
for the first time, administer national transport policy for land, sea and
air, with jurisdiction over all forms of passenger and freight transport.
The new National Water and Sewerage Authority (INAA) has brought together the
two agencies previously serving Managua and other urban areas. It is, there-
fore, in a position to administer water, drainage, and sewerage programs at
a national level. Most staff from both agencies have been retained.
40.       The Municipal Reconstruction Boards were selected in all cities
following the war to administer the municipalities until formal elections are
held. The municipalities have not had financial resources at their disposal
since the war, and few of the board members have had any prior municipal
experience. They have been able to operate, however, because of the close



- 14 -
contact they maintain with the neighborhood committees (para. 7) and assist-
ance they receive from technical groups of local professionals, students,
and others. There is no doubt, however, that an enhanced and permanent
administrative and technical capability is badly needed in all municipalities.
This should be one of the objectives of any future urban development program.
41.       These institutional restructurings, while untested, should help
the Government to design and implement urban development programs. Other
relevant institutions have remained substantially unchanged: the Special
Development Fund (FED) which serves as a second tier institution for industrial
development has been transferred from the Central Bank (CB) to the Development
Bank of Nicaragua (BDN); commercial banks now operate within a framework of a
nationalized banking system; ENALUF, the power authority, has been renamed
National Power Authority (INE). However, there are institutional deficien-
cies; for example, BAVINIC has been dismantled and, while its implementation
arm has been transferred to MIVAH, no alternative financial channel for
housing credit has been proposed to date.
42.       The new Government, through its restructured ministries and the
Municipal Reconstruction Boards, has mobilized an emergency clearing and
rehabilitation effort in all cities affected by the war (para. 7). Local
committees, organized over the past year, have played a critically important
role following the end of the fighting. Since that time, they have been
responsible for clearing the rubble left by the bombing of the cities and
for surveying the conditions, needs, and resources at the local level, as
well as for initiating small projects without any financial resources. The
committees are organized with block, barrio, and city representatives, who
transmit information about their block's or barrios' needs to the citywide
Central Committee and/or the Municipal Board. In all the cities and towns,
this information has formed the basis for the planning that has subsequently
been done at the municipal level. The committees are also a vehicle for
the implementation of subprojects, and will be a key planning and implement-
ing instrument in future urban development programs.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
43.       The project was identified and appraised during a mission that
visited Nicaragua from September 9-26, 1979. Negotiations were held in
Washington on November 19-21. The principal Government representatives
were the Minister/Director of FIR, the Vice Minister of MTOP and the
Director of FED.
Project Design and Objectives
44.       The September Bank Group mission worked closely with the Ministry
of Transport and Public Works, the Ministry of Housing and Human Settlements,
the local Municipal Reconstruction Boards, and relevant line agencies. With
them, it reviewed the Government's reconstruction priorities and identified
an emergency urban reconstruction project that would provide immediate assist-
ance in rehabilitating cities affected by the war, and also establish an



- 15 -
institutional basis for medium- and long-term reconstruction and development.
The project is part of a coordinated effort to meet urban development needs
by incorporating local planning and administration. Drawing on the Bank
Group's experience with past reconstruction efforts (in particular the Earth-
quake Reconstruction Project supported by Credit 389-NI), which suffered
considerable delays in implementation, 1/ the Government and IDA have adopted
a new approach in designing the project. Past experience shows that because
of their relative complexity, large-scale shelter projects are not easily
carried out as emergency operations. Therefore, the proposed project has
been conceived, taking into account the following considerations:
(a) The Government's highest priority is for projects that are
fast to implement to produce a rapid impact on employment
and transfer of foreign resources. The project would avoid,
to the extent feasible, potentially delaying characteristics
such as land acquisition and complicated engineering require-
ments. Procurement flexibility would be maximized, and
adjustments within disbursement categories and between
components would be readily allowed to take into account
unexpected developments during implementation.
(b) The components and subcomponents would be simple to implement
and be similar to work previously carried out by the institu-
tions involved. While this should reduce implementing risks,
some institutions are new or have been restructured and have
been operating for less than three months. Their policies
have yet to be defined and their institutional effectiveness
is not yet confirmed. Therefore, the institutional arrange-
ments proposed are based on limited experience to date, but
these seem to be viable given the project's relative simpli-
city.
(c) The reconstruction needs exceed the available resources,
therefore, the size and scope of each component would be
adjusted to emergency priorities and local implementing
capacity.
(d) This project will be a first phase of other reconstruction
efforts; as such, it will help to define strategies and
further needs for institutional development.
1/   The Reconstruction Project included a sites and services program for
about 5,100 plots in four cities. Mainly due to the post-earthquake
situation, land was difficult and costly to acquire and cost escalation
of construction materials was unusually high. The implementing agency
had little relevant experience; its housing policies and construction
norms were not appropriate to sites and services programs. The project
nevertheless has demonstrated the viability of sites and services in
Nicaragua and has become the basis for a new housing policy focused on
the urban poor.



- 16 -
(e) Component design is based on assumptions because of limita-
tions in the quality of data, and because other quantitative
information is not available.
(f) While the project addresses the direct physical and economic
effects of the war, certain basic infrastructure upgrading
is required to be associated with some reconstruction items
because of serious deficiencies in some infrastructure prior
to the war.
(g) The project would be developed in light of expected areas of
emphasis of other external agencies in the first phase of
reconstruction. In Managua, substantial reconstruction
activity is already underway and is being assisted by AID.
IDB is planning a substantial program for housing nationwide.
A recently approved IDB loan and the proposed Bank Group
financing for industrial rehabilitation (being presented
together with the Urban Reconstruction Credit) will assist
in reconstruction and rehabilitation of medium- and large-
industrial enterprises.
(h) The project would provide support in as many of the critical
subsectors as possible.
45.       The project would have three components:     (A) about US$6.8 million
would be used for Municipal reconstruction; (B) about US$3.2 million would be
onlent to finance the rehabilitation of small-scale enterprise; and (C) US$12
million would be used to finance the rehabilitation of the public transport
system in Managua.
(A) Municipal Reconstruction
46.        The Municipal Reconstruction component consists of emergency civil
works subprojects and the replacement of destroyed municipal vehicles and
equipment in the six most severely damaged secondary cities. The scope,
size, and content of the component, including proposed subprojects, have been
based on site inspections by the Bank Group mission and the urban planning
teams of the Ministry of Housing and Human Settlements (MIVAH), adjusted after
discussions with the Municipal Reconstruction Boards and local committees.
MIVAH has prepared a final proposal for each city based on criteria and guide-
lines agreed with the Bank. The proposed items of civil work for each town
are small (under US$250,000) and are designed for labor intensive implementa-
tion. As emergency works, the proposed subprojects satisfy the minimum re-
quirements for first-stage repair of infrastructure and municipal buildings
as well as providing a minimal level of urban services through the procurement
of municipal vehicles and equipment.
47.       The following types of subprojects would be included in the infra-
structure repairs: Street improvements: Repaving and repair of main streets
torn up during the war, improvements to culverts and regrading. Street Light-
ing: Poles, lights, wiring and accessories would be replaced in towns that
received heavy damage to their public street lighting to restore service to



- 17 -
a minimum level of public lighting along the main streets.   Water supply and
distribution: In addition to the repair of damage caused by the fighting to
municipal water systems, emergency corrective measures would be taken to
bring the supply of water to a minimum safe standard. Based on field surveys
by INAA and the mission, new wells would be provided in Matagalpa and Esteli
as emergency supply, since the present supply is contaminated. In other
towns, minimum upgrading by replacement of worn out pumps, valves, and parts
would be provided. Damaged balancing tanks and a few main supply lines will
be repaired or replaced. Included in this component would be the financing
of an urgently needed water supply study for Matagalpa to be undertaken by
INAA under terms of reference which have been agreed. Drainage and Flood
protection: Simple, labor-intensive improvements to drainage and flood pro-
tection are pre-requisities to other infrastructure improvements in some
towns.
48.       Buildings for maintenance, storage and repair of vehicles and
equipment that were destroyed in five towns would be replaced by semi-
prefabricated buildings. Wholesale and retail markets in all six towns
were seriously damaged or totally destroyed. First-stage markets would be
provided. All six towns suffered heavy damage to their municipal refuse
collections and maintenance vehicles. Each would be provided with refuse
collection vehicles, dump trucks, and small bulldozers (for grading and
filling of the sanitary landfill), road bed compactors, trucks, and concrete
mixers as needed.
49.       Temporary central office for INAA:   The project would provide INAA
with temporary offices on part of a Government-owned site in Managua to re-
place the offices of Aguadora, one of its predecessor agencies, which were
destroyed in the war. Small pre-fabricated panel buildings would be provided
and would house most of the personnel of the agency. The new facility would
serve INAA's needs for five or six years until permanent headquarters are
constructed. The pre-fabricated buildings would then be disassembled for
re-erection at one of the INAA regional offices.
Cost and Financing
50.       The total cost of the proposed component is US$8 million, of which
foreign costs are estimated to be US$4.2 million. These estimates are based
on prices of September 1979 and include an average of 15 percent for physical
contingencies, and price contingencies based on rates of escalation of 9
percent for 1980 and 8 percent for 1981 for all costs. The proposed credit
would provide US$6.8 million to finance all foreign costs and US$2.6 million
of local costs. Local cost financing is justified for the reasons stated in
paragraph 20 above. The remaining US$1.2 million required for this component
will be provided by the borrower.
Implementation
51.       Implementation would be coordinated and supervised by MIVAH's two
departments--Planning and Operations. Within the Planning Department, the
Urban-Regional Development section will be responsible for preparing, with the
Municipal Boards, the selection and technical preparation of subprojects. A
technical unit staffed with well trained and experienced personnel has already



- 18 -
been set up for this purpose, 1/ and the task of pre-qualifying priority sub-
projects that are compatible with each city's reconstruction plan has been
essentially completed. These teams would be maintained to assist in detailed
planning (Section 3.03 of the draft Credit Agreement). The Operations Depart-
ment will be responsible for the administrative and financial aspects of
project implementation and for maintaining a qualified and experienced project
coordinator and staff for this purpose (Section 3.03(c) of the draft Credit
Agreement). Final design of prequalified subprojects will be carried out by
five regional technical units operating in the field, and be submitted to
MIVAH for final approval. In addition, the MIVAH teams would provide technical
assistance to the local Municipal Boards for planning and implementing longer
range rehabilitation programs. This arrangement would establish a working
relationship between MIVAH and some of the country's most rapidly growing
towns.
52.       The MIVAH planning teams reviewed with the mission the proposed
components and cost estimates which have served as their planning guidelines.
Detailed reconstruction plans for each town have been completed for IDA review.
They include a detailed program and a schedule for the preparation of final
design of all the subprojects, interministerial and institutional coordina-
tion agreements for implementation and operation, the manpower requirements
for technical assistance and administration, and a completed implementation
schedule for the IDA-financed project. This plan, while serving as a guide
for the emergency reconstruction, also includes middle-range redevelopment
plans for each town. Each plan has been reviewed by the respective Municipal
Board and local neighborhood committees to ensure their participation in the
planning process. Contact between the Municipal Board and MIVAH technical
teams is maintained in each city during the final planning and design phase.
53.       Requirements for local counterpart staff have been identified and
agreed for each Municipality. Local planning and municipal management and
operations capabilities will be strengthened. The agreed staff should be
appointed no later than September 30, 1980 (Section 3.04 of the draft Credit
Agreement). This is necessary not only for operating the emergency facilities
but to prepare realistic capital improvements programs for the medium range
and long-range programs.
54.       INAA would be responsible for the implementation of the water supply
distribution subprojects and the construction of their temporary central
office. This would be a locally procured prefabricated structure to be
erected by INAA itself. Supervision would be by in-house engineering staff.
INE would implement the street lighting repairs.
55.       With the exodus of many large contractors, the construction industry
has been reduced to only a few large and 17 small but experienced firms in
1/   The Planning Department of MIVAH has organized three emergency planning
and design teams; each will have a coordinator to integrate the proposals.
Based on a comprehensive diagnostic survey, each team will be responsible
for the preparation of the detailed reconstruction plans for two of
the urban centers distributed as follows: (a) Masaya and Rivas, (b)
Matagalpa and Esteli, and (c) Leon and Chinandega.



- 19 -
civil works and municipal infrastructure. The proposed civil works component
of municipal water supply, paving, drainage, markets, maintenance buildings
and fire and emergency aid stations are all within the capability of at least
eight firms. However, since all the commercial banks and local insurance
companies have been nationalized and have liquidity problems, contractors
cannot obtain bank guarantees or performance bonds normally required for such
work. Risks will be reduced by prequalification of contractors. Consortiums
or joint venture proposals would be encouraged. Also, once bank guarantees
and performance bonds become available again, bidding documents thereafter
issued under the project would require contractors to obtain such guarantees
or bonds.
56.       Plants producing construction materials have adequate capacity to
meet expected demand for this project and suffered little damage during the
fighting. These enterprises are working well below capacity. This is mainly
due to the current low level of demand. They are experiencing financial
problems which could affect their ability to expand output if demand were
to rise. Some financial requirements could be met under the proposed Agri-
cultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project also being presented to the
Executive Directors.
Procurement and Disbursement
57.       Procurement of maintenance vehicles by MIVAH and lighting fixtures
and materials (other than poles) by INE would be under international com-
petitive bidding in accordance with the Association guidelines for procurement.
Because civil works contracts are expected to be less than US$250,000, it is
doubtful that foreign firms would be interested in bidding. Given the scat-
tered locations, varied components, and anticipated phasing of subprojects,
it is not practical to group contracts into packages. Civil works contracts
would, therefore, be placed under local competitive bidding procedures which
are acceptable to IDA by MIVAH for municipal infrastructure and buildings
and INAA for water supply. Participation by international contractors is
not precluded; tenders would be locally advertised. Local bidding under
procedures acceptable to IDA would also be used by INE to procure poles. The
local Municipal Boards will implement minor works such as street improvements
by force account with supervision by the MIVAH Division of Project Construction.
58.       Credit disbursements for this component would be as follows:
(a) 100 percent of foreign expenditures for directly
imported vehicles and equipment and 85 percent of
local expenditures for locally procured vehicles
and equipment;
(b) 75 percent of expenditures for civil works and
studies; and
(c) 100 percent of total expenditures for technical
assistance.



- 20 -
IDA would reimburse MIVAH for eligible local expenditures for civil works under
this component through a revolving fund to be established in the Central Bank
for MIVAH. The initial disbursement to this fund by IDA would be US$750,000
equivalent. This disbursement would be subject to (1) receipt of documentation
indicating that a special account for the revolving fund had been established
in the Central Bank, and (2) that the Government had deposited its share,
US$250,000 equivalent, in the fund. Subsequent disbursements to the revolving
fund would be made, against statements of expenditures, certified by MIVAH, to
reimburse MIVAH for 75 percent of payments made from the fund. Supporting
documentation would be retained by MIVAH for review during Bank supervision
missions. Disbursements for vehicles and equipment, and technical assistance
would be fully documented. Some emergency municipal street improvements, drain-
age, street lighting, warehouse and storage buildings and purchase of some
municipal office furniture would be undertaken after October 15, 1979 by the
Municipal Boards. Retroactive financing of about US$1.2 million is recommended
for these works and purchases and for the construction of the temporary build-
ing for INAA. Full disbursement of the component is expected by July 1981.
B.   Rehabilitation of Small Enterprises
59.       This component would provide credit and technical assistance for the
rehabilitation, expansion and development of small enterprises. Although in
dollar terms the war has had its greatest impact on medium- and large-scale
firms, small enterprises have also been seriously affected by the hostilities.
Their reactivation and expansion, a high government priority, can play an
important role in Nicaragua's recovery and longer-term development by provid-
ing a large number of employment opportunities for relatively small amounts of
capital invested. In addition to being labor-intensive, small enterprises are
usually geographically dispersed, and thus promote a more equitable regional
income distribution. These enterprises require working capital financing to
replace inventories in order to resume operations, and medium- and longer-term
capital to repair or replace equipment and to provide the opportunity for
future growth and expansion. These needs are not being met as normal credit
mechanisms have been completely disrupted.
60.       The proposed line of credit would also finance the needs of micro-
enterprises (usually one-person or one-family operations), cooperatives, and
other forms of associated enterprises in the productive, commercial and serv-
ice sectors. Many of these businesses are located in marginal barrios and
have had no access to credit or technical assistance through formal channels.
It is anticipated that the majority of the loans would be for short-term
working capital needs but a good number of larger credits will likely be
extended longer-term for the repair or reconstruction of retail shops and
workshops damaged in the war. While all urban centers qualify for enterprise
support, priority will be given to those cities most affected by the fighting.
Cost and Financing
61.       Because of the diversity of the working capital and equipment needs
to be financed, it is not feasible to estimate project costs in advance.
Approximately US$3.2 million from the proposed credit will be made available
to FED for a term of 20 years including 5 years of grace at an interest rate



- 21 
of 3 percent per annum; the Borrower would assume the exchange rate risk. In
addition, US$0.8 million will be provided from local sources: US$0.4 million
paid by the Government and US$0.4 million contributed by the participating
commercial banks.
Implementation
62.       The proposed line of credit will be administered by FED, which has
extensive experience in the financing of small-scale enterprises. 1/ In 1975,
FED established a special program for financing small enterprises funded with
US$3.2 million'from the USAID and another US$3.2 million from the Government.
About 3,000 loans were made through commercial banks which appraised and
supervised the subloans. The USAID funds were fully disbursed by April 1978.
The program has channelled a total of nearly US$9 million to small enterprises,
including second-round lending. The proposed component will build on this
foundation.
Lending Policies and Procedures
63.       FED will lend through participating banks to the ultimate benefi-
ciaries. Participating banks are expected to contribute from their own
resources an average of 10 percent of the total cost of subprojects. Several
commercial banks have set up specialized departments which already have con-
siderable experience with FED's small-enterprise program and are expected to
continue with this type of lending under an updated agreement formulated at
the outset of the program. Prior to disbursements for any participating
institution, the eligibility of the institution and proposed subsidiary
agreement between FED and the institution will be approved by IDA (draft
Credit Agreement, Section 1.02(i) and Schedule 1, para. 4(ii). While the
financial intermediaries will be responsible for the appraisal, approval and
supervision of sub-loans, the FED staff will provide assistance and will
monitor the program.
64.       Although the same implementation mechanism is envisaged for loans
to micro-enterprises, these enterprises would require technical assistance
in order to participate in the program. For this purpose, FED and the com-
mercial banks propose to utilize a procedure similar to that which is being
1/   For discussion of FED, see paragraphs 72-78 of President's Report for
the Agricultural and Industrial Rehabilitation Project (P-2661-NI),
dated November 29, 1979.



- 22 -
tested in an ongoing pilot program of BDN. 1/ Participating micro-
entrepreneurs would be assisted in preparing their applications by a program
administrator who would group together several such applications from a
particular locality and would present them to a technical committee, which
will include the participating bank's credit officer, the program administra-
tor, a representative of the Municipal Board, and the local representative of
the Ministry of Industry and Commerce (MIC) who will assess the technical
aspects of the loan proposal. Appointment of a satisfactory technical commit-
tee and program administrator will be a condition of eligibility for a Muni-
cipality to participate in the micro-enterprise program (para. 2.05 of the
draft Project Agreement). As in the pilot program, the MIC representatives
will be drawn from the Direccion de Industria, which until recently was
located within the Central Bank.
65.       Small productive and service enterprises and production cooperatives,
broadly defined by FED as those with less than US$60,000 in fixed assets, will
be eligible for financing up to US$40,000. Small commercial businesses, with
no more than US$60,000 in fixed assets, will qualify for a maximum loan of
US$15,000. Eligible micro-enterprises are those with less than US$6,000 in
total assets and less than six employees. Maximum loan size to micro-
enterprises is US$2,000.
Lending Terms
66.       Lending terms will vary depending on the nature of the activity,
the expected life of the structures and equipment being financed and the pro-
jected capacity of the beneficiary to repay, but are not expected to exceed
10 years for fixed investments and 4 years for working capital; loans to
micro-enterprises are not expected to exceed 5 years for fixed investments and
3 years for working capital. Grace periods will range from up to six months
for three-year loans to up to three years for 10 year loans. The interest
1/   Immediately following the war, a program of support for food-producing
micro-enterprises was initiated jointly by one private and two public
institutions in conjunction with municipal governments. With US$300,000
from private German sources, the private, nonprofit Instituto para
la Promocion Humana (INPRHU) has established programs in Diriamba and
Masaya. INPRHU has planned these programs with the Ministry of Industry
and Commerce (MIC) and with the Municipal Board of each city. BDN
serves as the financial institution, transferring funds to and from
the accounts of the Board and the borrowers as authorized by a program
administrator, and operating a revolving loan fund. MIC provides
technical services, and the local committees provide information on
community and enterprise needs and priorities. Over a hundred loans--
mostly for short-term working capital needs in amounts generally less
than US$500--were made in the program's initial two weeks of full opera-
tion, and loan repayments have already begun.



- 23 -
rate to all beneficiaries would be not less than 12 percent per annum (FED's
current and proposed rate is 13 percent per annum). 1/ Financial inter-
mediaries will receive funds from the program at between 6 and 8 percent
which would allow them a spread of up to 7 percent to cover costs and the
commercial risk, the specific spread to be inversely related to the size of
the loan. Details of terms and conditions of lending and discounting are
contained in "Policies and Procedures for the Program of Reconstruction and
Rehabilitation of Small Enterprises," which has been reviewed and found
satisfactory. FED itself is expected to receive funds from the Government
at 3 percent. The loans will be made and repaid in Cordobas; about two
years after effectiveness, the Borrower and the Association would review the
terms for relending of loan repayments and agree on any necessary changes
(Sections 2.01(c) of the draft Project Agreement).
Procurement and Disbursement
67.       Procurement and disbursement procedures would conform to IDA poli-
cies for IDF projects. FED would monitor the intermediaries' application of
these procedures. IDA would reimburse FED through a revolving fund to be
established in the Central Bank for FED. The initial IDA disbursement to
the fund, to be made after documentation is received showing that a special
account has been established for the fund, will be US$800,000 equivalent.
Subsequent disbursements to the fund would be made to reimburse FED for 100
percent of FED disbursements for subloans, subject to a limit of 80 percent
of total expenditures made by final subborrowers for each subproject. Sup-
porting documentation for these expenditures will be retained by FED and made
available to the Bank for inspection. The end date for submission of appli-
cations under the component would be March 31, 1981. Full disbursement of
the US$3.2 million is expected by July 1, 1981.
C.   Managua Public Transport Rehabilitation
68.       This component is intended to provide the minimum requirements for
urgent rehabilitation of the urban transport system of Managua, which was
badly damaged during the war (para. 37). It is the first phase of a longer
term effort that should include at a later stage the completion of the reha-
bilitation of the bus fleet and the reorganization of the urban transport
system. The short-term objectives are to partly replace damaged buses and
improve the supporting infrastructure and organization to reduce the need
for additional vehicles. The component includes:
(a) purchase of about 140 regular buses and 150 micro-buses;
(b) purchase of spare parts for the new and existing bus
fleets;
1/   The real cost of borrowing based on these interest rates is unknown.
While consumer prices rose 28 percent between April 1978 and April
1979, the price changes since then are unknown. Inflation, however,
may have decelerated because of the real income drop after May 1979,
the currency reduction of September, and prudent fiscal policies since
(see discussion in Part I above).



- 24 -
(c) provision of facilities, equipment, and technical assistance
for bus maintenance;
(d) improvement of the pavement of about 28 km (20 percent)
of Managua's bus transit routes and provision of safety
equipment; and
(e) provision of technical assistance to improve the bus route
design, vehicle assignment and fare policies of Managua's
transport system, develop appropriate organizational arrange-
ments and prepare a long-term program.
69.       The project would finance the supply of about 140 regular (50 to
60 seat) units, and about 150 micro (20 to 30 seat) units to partly replace
596 buses destroyed or damaged during the war. The number of units proposed
would allow maintenance of minimum service during the next two years and is
based on a 1978 demand study and a detailed examination of existing routes
with a view to improving vehicle assignments by changing length of route,
speed and frequency of service.
70.       Poor maintenance has contributed in the past to the short life of
the bus fleet. The component would finance spare parts for the new units and,
whenever feasible, for the most common bus types represented in the present
fleet. In addition, equipment and technical assistance would be provided
to build, organize, and operate maintenance shops and provide preventive main-
tenance. The useful life of buses would also be much increased through im-
proved road conditions. About four to five kilometers of routes in peripheral
areas and about 20 kilometers of routes in central Managua would be paved.
(Safety equipment would also be provided along the network.) These repairs
and proper future maintenance of the network should reduce vehicle operating
costs by nearly 24 percent.
71.       Short- and long-term programs are needed to rationalize and redesign
the bus routes and fare policy of Managua's urban transport system. The short-
term program includes redesign and shortening of at least three of the 13 main
bus routes, route assignments of buses and microbuses, and paving improvements
of critical segments of bus routes. Also included are review of Government
prepared specifications for bus procurement and preparation of specifications
for the purchase of maintenance-shop equipment. The short-term program has
been carried out by UNDP financed consultants supported by IDA staff. The
credit would finance the preparation of the long-term program which will focus
on policy actions related to the organization of the proposed state-controlled
urban transport company (para. 73) and on the planning of transit services and
pricing policies. It will also include technical assistance to the management
of the new company.
Cost and Financing
72.       The cost of the proposed component would amount to US$14 million
including US$2 million of local costs, as shown in following table:



- 25 -
Foreign    Local    Total
i)   Purchase of buses             7.8       1.0        8.8
ii)   Purchase of spare parts       1.8        .05       1.85
iii)   Maintenance equipment          .7         .2        .9
iv)   Technical assistance           .3        -          .3
v)   Bus route paving and
safety improvements        1.0        .7        1.7
vi)   Contingencies                  .4         .05       .45
Total              12.0       2.02     14.0
Cost estimates for buses, spare parts, and maintenance equipment are based on
foreign and local costs obtained by the appraisal mission from foreign suppliers
and local sources. Cost estimates for bus units have been made for basic
vehicle specifications and an average US$35,000 for regular units and US$25,000
for microbuses. An estimated 45 man-months of consultant services would be
required, at an average gross cost of US$6,500 per month. Cost estimates for
bus route paving have been based on an MTOP's appraisal of war damages to the
bus routes and assume that MTOP's equipment and labor intensive construction
will be used. Base cost and price escalation assumptions are identical to
those given in para. 50. Physical contingencies were not included because
quantities would be adjusted to conform to the cost estimate.
Implementation
73.       Implementation will be the responsibility of MTOP which will work
in coordination with Managua's Reconstruction Board. The Government is in
the process of establishing an Urban Transport Company for Managua. This will
be a public company operating as a semi-autonomous organization with indepen-
dent commercial management, under the institutional responsibility of MTOP.
Qualified individuals, would be recruited for the key management positions
(General Manager, Senior Financial and Technical Managers) no later than
March 31, 1980 (Section 3.06 of the Draft Credit Agreement). In addition ad-
visors with experience in management of transport companies of similar size
would be part of the technical assistance provided under the credit. The
Government has proposed that the company will receive all the bus units and
other elements supplied under this credit. It has indicated the intention to
permit the private bus owners to continue operating in the system after the
new company is formed. (They would be eligible to borrow for bus purchase
under the small enterprise component of this credit or the industrial compon-
ent of the proposed Bank Group-financed Agricultural and Industrial Rehabili-
tation project.) MTOP has agreed to implement a preventive maintenance
program to which all buses (publicly or privately owned) would be given access
under the supervision of a qualified engineer fully trained in preventive
maintenance. Maintenance would be decentralized in suitably equipped depots
serving not more than 120 buses each with qualified management (Sections 3.06
of the draft Credit Agreement),.
74.       The Managua Reconstruction Board, under the supervision (and with
the equipment) of MTOP, would be responsible for the emergency street improve-
ments under force account. MTOP in coordination with the Central Bank would
order and import from the suppliers of the original bus units the required
spares for related bus units.



- 26 -
Procurement and Disbursement
75.       The purchase of vehicles, spare parts and maintenance shop equip-
ment will be carried out by contracts awarded through international competi-
tive bidding, in accordance with IDA's guidelines for procurement. Consul-
ants for technical assistance would be contracted using standard procedures
of the Bank; the terms of reference and contracts would be approved by IDA.
76.       The proceeds of the credit would be disbursed as follows:
(a) 100 percent of the foreign exchange cost of buses, equipment,
spare parts and consultant services; and
(b) 75 percent of the total cost of bus route improvements.
Disbursements for buses, maintenance and safety equipment, consultants'
services and spare parts would be fully documented. Disbursements for bus
route paving would be against statements of expenditure certified by MTOP.
Supporting documentation would be retained by MTOP for review during Associa-
tion supervision missions. Retroactive financing in the amount of US$50,000
is recommended for expenditures after October 15, 1979 for emergency street
improvements and spare parts. Full disbursement of the component is expected
by July 1981.
Project Accounts and Monitoring
77.       MIVAH and MTOP would maintain project accounts for the urban recon-
struction and transport components respectively. FED would maintain separate
accounts for both the small-scale enterprise and micro-enterprise programs.
These accounts would be audited annually by independent accountants accept-
able to IDA. FED would present annual income statements, balance sheets
and statements of sources and applications of funds together with the annual
audit report.
78.        Each implementing institution will be responsible for routine
monitoring and evaluation of its own activities. Each will provide IDA with
a quarterly report, the format of which will be designed in consultations with
IDA staff. In addition, there will be a special evaluation of the FED program
to be undertaken six months after effectiveness to assess the fluidity of the
mechanisms used for the micro-enterprise program. This will be jointly
carried out by FED and MIC and is to be financed as part of the Government's
counterpart contribution (Section 4.04 of the draft Credit Agreement).
Project Risks
79.       The proposed project has been formulated and will be implemented
under unusual circumstances: the time devoted to its preparation was rela-
tively short; the details of some of its components are fewer than is typical
of Bank projects; the institutions responsible for its implementation have
undergone major restructuring; the timetable for its execution is compressed;
and the country environment is characterized by considerable uncertainty.
These risk factors, however, were an important element of the project design



- 27 -
process. As a result, a number of safeguards have been built into the project.
Although the newly created Municipal Boards will play an important role in
the implementation of the urban infrastructure works, a technical unit within
MIVAH, staffed with personnel experienced in project execution, will play the
major role. Also since the programmed assistance falls so short of the veri-
fied reconstruction needs, there should be many uncomplicated, fast-implementing
alternative subprojects to which the IDA financing could be applied. Private
contractors may be slow in reactivating to participate in the urban reconstruc-
tion efforts but the risk of a possible shortfall in this area is minimized as
subproject work is sufficiently uncomplicated to allow much of it to be done
by force account. The small-enterprises credit component is to be implemented
through a financial system characterized by uncertainty and ongoing reorgani-
zation. The demand for credit by the various subborrower categories has been
difficult to estimate. Nonetheless, the overall need for such a program is
well established, the FED has successfully managed a similar program over the
last few years, several of the commercial banks still have staff experienced
in small enterprise lending and the project itself has been designed so as
to put no limits on lending by type of borrower and to preserve maximum
flexibility. In transport, the risk derives from the tendency of large
centralized bus companies to be less efficient than smaller owner-operated
units. MTOP's readiness to encourage operations on a commercial basis
together with the proposed technical assistance for the new public sector bus
company enhances the probability of successful project implementation.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
80.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Republic of
Nicaragua and IDA, the Project Agreement between BDN representing FED and IDA,
and the Report of the Committee provided for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of
the Articles of Agreement of the Association are being distributed to the
Executive Directors separately. The most important features and special
conditions of the credit agreement have been included in Part IV and are
summarized in Section III of Annex III of this report. Special conditions
of disbursement are: (i) the establishment of two special accounts (revolv-
ing funds) in the Central Bank, one for FED and one for MIVAH; (ii) the
appointment of a technical committee in each municipality for the micro-
enterprise subcomponent in that city; and (iii) the eligibility of an inter-
mediary institution to participate in the small enterprise component and
subsidiary agreement betweeen FED and the institution will have been approved
by IDA.
81.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMMENDATION
82.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
development credit.
Robert S. McNamara
President
Attachments
November 29, 1979



-28 -                                                 AN=     21:XI
TASLE 3A                                           Page 1 of 8
NICA!Aru4 - SOC:AL INDICATORS DATA 5MElT
IEFENENCE GROUPS (ADJUS E: AVERACES
LAND AJRA (THOUSAND SO. KM.)                    NICAJRACUA                     -   oST UzctN  TSTI'ATE) - 
TOTAL             130.0                                                    SAM          iAlIE    NEX   41C4ER
AORICULTUrAL       48.9                                 MOST RECENT      GEOCRAPNIC     INCOftE     INCOME
1960  /b     1970  b ESTI7MATE /b      REGION /c   CaoiUP /d    CROUP
GN? PER CAPITA (USS)                  250.0        480.0     570.0 -         1124.4      1097.7       1942.6
tSERCY CONSSLPTIO4 PEf CAPITA
(KILOGRA"S OF OOAL EQUIVALENT)      174.0        418.0     478.0            943.1       730.7      3b46.7
POPUATION AND VITAL. STATISTICS
POPULATION, .SID-YEAA (MILLIONS)      1.4          1.9       2.4
UUAN POPULATION (PERCENT Or TOTAL) '1.4           47.2      30.2             19.3        '9.0        11.2
POPSLATION PROJICTIONS
POPULATION IN YtAt 2000 (MILLIONS)                         2.0
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                           9.0
TE     STATIONAR2 POPUATION IS RLACID                   2110
POPULATION DESSITY
PER SQ. Vs.                         I1.O        15.0      18.0             23.3        46.6        28.2
Pt& 5o. IOM. ACRICULTURAL LAND     30.0         39.0      49.0             80.3       140.7       100.5
POPULATION AGE STWItCTUTE (PERCENT)
0-IS YRS.                          47.8         48.6      48.4             40.9        41.3        35.4
15-6S YRS.                          49.7         49.0      49.2             54.4       55.3         56.3
65 YRS. AMD A0Vt.                    2.5          2.4       2.4              3.9         3.5         S.l
POPULATION C0OM10 RATE (PtRCENT)
TOTAL                               2.9          3.0       3.3              2.4         2.4          1.7
UR8AN                               4.2          4.2       4.5              3.7         4.3         3.0
CRUDE SIRTNP RATE (PER TrHOUSAND)    51.0         49.3      45.0             32.8        31.1        27.5
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)       19.0        16.8      13.0              8.5         9.2         9.1
GROSS REPRODUCTION SATE               2.3          3.3       3.3              2.4         2.2         1.8
FAMILY PLANNI4G
ACCEPTORS. ANNUAL (THOUSANDS)        ..         10.1      15.6
USERS (PERCENT OF 4ARRIED WCIvN)      ..          ..      19.0             17.7       34.7.
FOOD AND NUT`t71ON
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
P!R CAPITA (1969-71-100)           81.8        100.0     105.0             99.4       104.4       102.0
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIRES !r:S)                   93.0        106.0     106.0            107.0       105.0       120.5
Pt0TEINS (CRAlS PER DAY)           58.0         70.0      68.0             60.4        64.4        80.9
Of WHICN ANIMAL AND PULSE        38.0         33.0      38.0             28.3        23.5        31.3
CHILD (ACES 1-4) iORTALITY LATE      30.0           ..       17.0             6.7         8.6          5.1
HEALTH
LIF! EXPECTANCY AT SIRTH (TEARS)     47.0         50.4      33.0             63.6       60.2         65.6
INFANT 30RTALITY SATE (PER
THOUSAND)                               ..       122.0         *             76.1        46.7        45.S
ACCESS To SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                ..           ..      70.0             63.4       60.8         69.4
UR8AN                                ..           ..     100.0             79.5        75.7        85.1
RURAL                                ..           ..      34.0             38.6        40.0        43.0
ACCESS TO tXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OP POPULATION)
TOTAL                                             ..        ..             58.8       '6.0         70.1
5R5AM                                 ..          ..        ..             77.3        46.0        88.3
RURAL                                *-          8.0      24.0             24.S        22.5        33.2
POPULATION PER PSYSICA24           2700.0       2060.0/f  1540.0           1841.9      2262.4      1343.2
POP'TLATION PER NlRSINC PERSON         ..       4860.0     760.0            933.7      1195.4       765.0
POPLLATION 7ER NOSPLTAL 3ED
TOTAL                             440.0        410.0     400.0            563.4      033.4        197.6
URSA!l                               ..        220.0     220.0            279.4       153.1       Z60.2
ISUAL                                ..       2310.0         . 1340.9               2732.4      1055.0
A2MtSSIGNS PER 4WSPTAL 3ED              ..          ..         ..            25.7        22.1         17.3
HOUS :NC
AV Et.CE SIZE OF HOUSEiOLD
TO TAL                              '.*Lz                  *        - * -   5.3         5.3    .     .7
40                        S                 .      .         .. .           4.8         5.2    S
IURAL                               6.3                      ..              .3         5.4         5.1
ASVEACE qLVSER -r Pt50N5 ?PI ROVCK
O-AL                                2.354        2.9        ..               .          13.9        1.1
UII AN                              .2,           ..        ..                          .6          1..2
&Q&AL                               3.2T... 1.5                                    1    .5          1.2
ACCESS TO .LET.SICITY (PERCENT
OFP T4ELLLNCS)
^T2AL                              33.0         41.3        ..             54.3       50.0    o     o.O
CR54.4                             71.0        76.7         ..             80.1        2L.7        85.1
RWkAL                               4.0          -.0           .0..          .         1;7.3
1/ Atlas basis in US dollars of 1978, but for 1979 GNP.                                            This estimate of a
recent Bank mission differs considerably from the I:ost recent Atlas estimate
of $840, which was for 1978 GNP, before output dropped considerably as a
result of the revolution and the Cordoba was devalued by 43 percent.



- 29 -
ANNEX I
TABLE 3APae2o
NICARLA - SOCIAL tXDECArORS DATA SHEEt             Page 2 of 8
YtCAILACUA             GRE7CI CR0I.PS              A 1 S ED A'R &ZS
*fICARAA                    - !OST RECENT ES::AA-,-.) -
tOST RECENT     CEOCRAPHIC    L'ICOME     D4COKE
1960 /b     1970 /b ESTIMATE tb,    RECION /c   CROUP !d    CROLUP /
EDUCAT ION
ADJUSTED CNROL' ZENT RATIOS
PRIM1ARY:    TOTAL               66.0        83.0      85.0          107.3      L02.5       101.7
'tALE                61.0       82.0      83.0           109.1      108.6       110.0
TlEHALE             66.0        84.0      86.0           107.4       97.1       92.8
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                7.0        18.0      21.0           40.5       33.5        51.2
KALE                  9.0        19.0     21.0            40.4       38.4        56.4
FE'ALE               6.0        17.0      20.0            39.0       30.7       43.7
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (Z OF SECCNDARY) 24.0         9.0       9.0            18.5      11.5        18.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIfARY                          35.0        39.0       ..            37.1       35.8        27.1
SECONDARY                        13.0        26.0        *-           17.9       22.9        25.3
ADULT LITERACY RATE (PERCENT)        ..        53.0      57.0           77.4       64.0        86.1
CONSU2PtON
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        5.0        17.0      16.0           29.1       13.5        53.4
UADIO RECEIVERS ?ER THOUSAND
POPULATION                       53.0        55.0      60.0          172.1      122.7       225.9
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                        3.0        28.0      36.0           67.9       38.3       102.6
NEWSPAPER ("CAtLY CENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCLLATION PER
THOUSAND POPJLAtCN                   ..        28.0      26.0           76.1       40.0        78.5
C1INEMA ANNUAL AT"ENDANCE PER CAPITA  5.0        ..       ..             4.2        3.7         3.6
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)     430.0       550.0     660.0
PMiALE (PERCENT)                 17.1        20.3      21.3           21.5       25.0        24.5
ACRIC'LTURE (PERCENT)            62.3        31.3      &4.0           30.2       43.5        28.9
INDUS-RY (PERCENT)               16.0        15.5      14.0           23.8       21.5        30.6
PARTICIPATION LATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              31.0        30.0      29.8           30.9       33.5        33.8
KALE                               51.7        48.4      47.3           47.3       48.0        51.3
F2 E'ALE                           10.5        12.0      12.6           13.3       16.8        16.3
ECONOKIC DEPENDENCY RATIO             1.6         1.8       1.7            1.5        1.4         1.3
INCOME DISTRISU-tON
PERCE.YT OF PRI7A E INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 P'RC-YT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..        42.4/h      ..           23.7       20.8
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSE'tOLDS  ..        65.47h      ..           58.7       52. 1       57.6
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..         3.17h      ..            2.9        3.9         3.4
LOttEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS   ..         8.77       ..            9.9       12.6        11.0
POVER-Y AIRCTET GROtPS
ES,t'tA7ED ABSOLUT  POVERTY INCOKE
LEVEL (US; PER CAPITA)
URBAN                              ..         ..      250.0          265.6      270.0
RURAL                              ..         ..      175.0          185.1      183.3
ESTIS'ATED RELATtVE POVERTY INCO2E
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
LURAN                              ..          ..     351.0          396.3      282.5       550.0
RLURAL                             ..         ..      147.0          308.1      248.9       403.4
ESTIIIATvD POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY :NCOE L'ZVEL (PERCENT)
L'XSAN                             ..         ..       19.0           35.2       20.5
RL2AL                              ..         ..       27.0           .6.6       35.3
Yat available
Yoc tpP Lc3b1.
YOTES
/a    The ad justd group averages for *Ach indicator are Popul1&-on-w*eKht*d gooeotric means, excluding .he
.xtcr.xe  !-A.s of :-e LndLCJtor nd th. cosc poculaced country fn ich Rgroup .  oveeraga ,f countries
among 'he trdlcacors depends on aval;abilLty ot date and jS  ot unlforr.
'b    nless achorvLse noted, IJEt !,r  460  fetar to any year beE.een 1959 and 1961; for 1970. )eE-en 1969
and 1971; and for 4oec Recenc Esz:L,ce, btwveen 1974 And 1977.
'c LAcin 9nerics S CAriNban     '   Lnt*ersedlac. middle rncome ($551-1185 per spLta, 197$);  ,' a pger
=dJdl  Income (21136-2'00 per zspLta. 1976);  /1  RegIstered  not all praccising to the zountry
a   1963;   'h Rural populaction only.
August. 1979



- 30-                                                          ANNEX I
'MMM       OFWI      MCI                                                    Page 3 of8
DeetAteahthe dta e- din  fro  eo--.s gsnrsly Judged the met sth,oriteti    end reliable, *It e.ald eAUo he noted that they cay ot be tatee--
it1iycopra          becaus of tho lack of etenderdlsd defisti. and concpt. sas bsp &ifferet coutries is collecting the data. The data are, nontheless,
use ful tc deaeibe orders of agnitude, indicate tr.nde, end chstrmctere, certain mior dlffermaces betwee cosntrise.
The IQ4flgroys5fl          for etc  Iodic-t-rar popsltoawih       geoustric esams, mac:iudleg the ecten  vausof the todicator end the ocot pploated
couiijWiiWjioijba     to leek of data, group enrages of el indleatore for Cepitsl 8H7urps Oil  Wprtere end of indicator of Accee. to wster sod Eucreta
Disposal, Housing, 1e- Dietribution en ihvsrty for other eouetey groupWsren poplatiom-eigghted geetric seens etihout eccitnion, of the cotree values end
the ent poisslted coutry.  Hs                of emntise       the Indle                          Y.ealailt  f dateed  . so unfor vetico:i most be -ueri.ed
in e.lating averse.s of ons titm ertlhseam                e                   asfu  sers tes    f exetd         e   kscyrs       theele    ofrs
Idcator t atinsmoe the country end ra   rreteya..
LAW ARM   )th-uend eqa..)                                                     dceet      ussilpel(ecn            fpp    tc)   - .totl   hn    n   ua
WtlZTtal_eufec   ens compri.ing lend arI,ea en  iled  atrs                 D   r of people (total wh,   end :rurl)sevdt   y  ureaipoala
~fl.ut-rl -    ost recent estimate of egriculteral araused teeporsily        percentagee of their repctive ppuletoss., Ecreta diepesal my ioolude
or permanetly for roPe, psetoree, msket end kitche  gardens or to           the colleetion end disposal, vih or ithout trea.tment, of hne  -uerte
lie fellow                                                                  end waste-ater by eater-borne eyet- or the -e of pit pr,ivies end -Atmlia
isetallatlose.
MP   _aPITA ~   GIii per -epita ectistes st-ears   aket prcs              oaaAe.r~qsin-Ppulatill divi1ded by o-b-e of pr-tlvloe physlician
TMco aehyemcovrsommthod -e World Peek Atlas (1976-78 baste)                  jIfiYY            dI.al sool at "lest       ee.1
196, 1970, end 1978 data.                                                   PN   lalo  pe heig     oro   - Population divided by ou-terof preotictg nab
aMfgY1CcrnlMpc    PERI CAPITA - Aoo-a conuption of camrciat .esrgredfml                     raut     ai. prectical maseed -s.siten       oes
(coa en   iete,ptrol"am    satre gas end hydro-, mclea sod gn-Pe                 tlac  perHoptalBd-totl urbe. end rura         - Pcjoslstioo (total, urboc,
theea.l lectIcIt)it kilogreme of coal equlvelent per c-p1ts; 1960        sdrrldvddb            hi rsetv          e   fheia      beds avilable_in_
1970, nod 1976 data.                                                          puhblo end private geeral nod spe,,ialled hoetpital end -ehabilitetc  enes
Hospitals ar etablieiheots per   .netly staffed by at bea..t on psyoioino
POPULiATION AND VcTAL STATISTIiCS                                               c,tebltshmeots providing priocipally custodial car ar cot tnvluded  Rural
Total Poial   Itio  5dYa Imlln)- As of July 1; 1960, 1970, end                hosp itals, howeve, macdude health nod sedice1 ceter not Per--etly -tu-i
19117 dt..                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~by a physic,ian (but by a medical asiest,  ure,  eldoif, eItc. ) thitI offer
Urbs  Ruosa-ti"s (percetoftal-Rti of urbe        to total populstloo;         ce-patient enocudetIce end pr-olde u limitedI rag  o  dln   tc,l,tt-
diffret defotoso        re   -ra    y affect eumparaility of data         AdnlsetILI  pr Roe PItAl Red - Total numbe of ad.I.sio. to . or dierbugo'o
smeg countries; 1960, 1970, nod 19,75 data.                                 hospitaa dicide  by the outer of beds.
Potelat ice ProJeotlose 
RP.-  aI. o!2 L. V.-    Curreol t petltivo projevtioos ar bused so      HOUSING
17total pepulatico by age nod=s  nd their eortality nod fertility     Aveerge lice of Houshold (oren Ic bsuoeb-hld) t-.tta. trbiat and rurlI
rats.  rojctic prsetero for  ortlity rates comprise of three          A oshold ..o.Ist   ofagoP of indiidtuals cII sha     lIoio qater-
levels assuming ?iPfe e-p-t-ny at bir,th increaing with coutry,s          their, ale eelu. A bore      rldger my or coy not    ~ i-ett-od Ii tie
per cpits iecoe ir-e, nod female life espctancy steil.lng at              hcuehold for statistical P-rP.ses.
7.5 yearn. The prent-r for fertility rate aLso -hav tore. level          Avesrnm    e   faras     e room-_total when     nod rura  - dA-ugeconc-
acuing deo1i- In fertility -codintg to tecu  leve nod past                of person  prr coin all _hn,ed rra occpied cocrot-otideitrA
fenil  n-ing Perfor-     . tech ocnryI   "he    .uigo-d cee of these      repctvly,      De1iags eovludr, non-p.rsaeot sttr-Ire  nod u--ci- icc
nie  ob tsalo  of-otality ndferutiity trend. for projeettic           A.cces to E  lecrilty (peret of doelIi7nna) -to1_tal.bonu  no  rorn.I-
Stetio-d   ovisslation - In a stationary poplation there is Ic groth         total, urha, end rura doe11ingo, respcti-ely.
sInce- the, birth rate Is equal to tie death rae o  lso the age
'otrut_r  rnIns- I oositt. Th'Ic aahieved ony  fter fertIlity rates    EIlEATIOR
decline to the repinooot leve of -it tuet reprduction eto hobo           Adjusted EnrolImet Ratios
-a1h g_nertI_ of_n-       re__oe   itel  etly.  M.e stetloaey pep,-        PrMresho- totl"l'           o   ece-Oooctl          nea.    -ce'ci
ato  i- or un eti =te  soth  ass th thrprjected ch rceitc                  e   falee      tthe primaylve     opecctan       f vl.'_ie    rer
of the popuatio  intheyear 20000, nod the cute, of decline of fertility     o,chool-oge poplstiovs; normaly inoludee ,hil dre  sc.-d (.-ii y,.,. .ui
raetorPlaeen.   eel                                                      djusted for differen  Ilngthu of prtaer  eduvati-,; iei. tt    i
Year tatoar   uotlon,~ult.  is reahed - The, yea  en etotionary populatln    universal educa.tion - voo -n so  eaed 100 p,,,c   ny,   ie   ai 
niehsbenrahed.                .                                       ro  eowo    bv theofcilsholue
re  c. in.. Pld-year poputoiso per squar kilo-t-ee  (Is hectaes o           euction rrqu1 rrat leat fou yeas    `o a     -cocr  cI,  p   "i.iill
Pvcus ha,         ..i.ltra lend - Compte,d no bc- for agicultural lend        usualy o12 to 17 yrofag;crepc-denecri-c-..i t
only.                                                                        eucluded.f 
Peoulatio  o   t-rcac     ret) .Childre    (0-14 yeas)Vurtg-g-tcti-na                    enrolmet (peren.ctfse--dary) -d.nioa         ,1   t  i.li 
(15-b4 pear), no  rtie   (    eased cone no percntages iof oldy-yer           tco     l  loduere,ootrprgcoot1o-u,ic-.i.iit                     -ia
WPuulstii.n 1960, 1970. nod 1977 data.                                        dpat_rt     f codur        titutoos..
Pecultion  coothRate  percet) -tota  - Annua cr-th r-te- of totd  mid-  Pupiil-t-ahcrli    pr 'ar    nod  .....doy - i'i.it od-,i'Ie1' I-i
year" poatloo    o  190h,t90      ,nd 1970-T7.                                prIonry end orcodar  iceo-iiddbyom,-s .                      Iie
topulation G ruoth tate ~F 4g et) - uirban - Annual jrothcratvo of urbo         epondiag te-l..
populations fur 1950  , 170-0 cod 1970to75. .                               Adult literay r-tc (ocr-t) - Lit-rt,, td,Iltt1il 1 ti- ..... ci'I'I rI' I .
Crude, irth Rate (pec tho--ed) - Annual1 lice bltoc prr thoostad of asd-        apercetage of total adult pojpilaito  st,co li yeocll il t
year pojulatiun; 1760, 1970), nod 1977 data.-
CrudeI Deat, Rate, (cer thoused) - Annua deaths per thouc-i ,I ci-y-ar     CONSUltti'fid
popiatlc; 160, 970,nod1977 date.                                     Pease -gr Curo (per theonod psptlatt..i) - to--oo.ctcI co-pI-,
tr'o vrdutc  tair - to-rg,.-tole  of dcgh~tcr_ on- stl II 'car            setting lv-o than  ight Perso.. ; volud- onan,r,ietc       i   tIi r
770M cod 1975.                                                              1,c               1'1I,,              .f Io;ictio      , -  e1. Ii'1-i,-
i-   t d Ia o     ar(5l yror      -1coiebrt-ttr        0- Ie             pho per tI.iuoaci,i po.utet Ii-cic  ti'I1.  I    P, ..  iTic. 
Necoyn,dper -tslttstil,o(tittno --rd-,g--   -    il0'.   .-io",,  -I-t'
P- stt tel-Oftilfiti                                                       vfdt-goreitvroortIcpc.cit.                   .( 
itie  offoodPvoiiiti'P-i.   -        l-toifi.e onttt               drcr    roei'ccId Ygtctou.                     0cc     i--li
cocoir.udct(io..t ''~.0 i'~       t  noicco-p-   ad I-     [lftbicpeccItncfueivcsc
nc.ite,oc-.si-tc.i.i(  Ogcctte produtiucit ePI,-ito.sctt'y   o ,iS; "e  1  .d   I
toit,ci0 tati. Os cucn  -cpooi- tic -vighot.         "    P"                 11,11 1-1"Y,
te  ~  .......h - ..2....Zz,..  -    -_ . ' i  i.v.- t d "eI.                      t I. Si
tetiol'y coilceoftycosuilltto. ot rotetut Icpe-- itI,lidy seight,s  ftoblIlg nopcctsei   lt   iii   'cc.
steIiiiuotr.I k,uet IvlcoitetoIltn 1 p-t                              .d1     y,    ne    o  e   .pcolg
e.t' ppty of fod is ct-itoel s            C    '-       C    '                                             It-i 
notoot at p..tsc  roicto, o ottob 1 geuco  hould he, aiet proteto.  c-eslrtoc0 A'I, p,.pctt.Io     cod I    Io otetciA5''"tio
Thvtc otnodords nrc toucr then thooc if 75 grano o~~f total icoteto end  ... irnooi.u  nuos
P', grunt o notta  pecctot. nonrueFur the scrld, pr-p-o      h y PAO     Fconomiv Deocod-y hati -     ,tol...fpyt all'.il -iie  P
Iii the Thiir. dorid oi'd tor-y.                                           the mbor forc itn age grop li 1.61 y-rct
"Por"   rot,  tos   o put"seo- to gea  crc- cup                       igoatoiitif-t
pi(2 Ioci. -tot--.-olcotfcoe  ,f- ot,dt-o-of houeholds
-no    1977. dote.                               Aboolute pover ty toton  iroelI tohlIt IoIcvt Ir-I beic- ulF'-i c toic1
An-In drools of iofno-t; onver coutittonotyadequste7" ditPl_o_tootte               10 Si    eltceo      to.
Accost.0   aedtr(eoc         ci occuatico.-  totl  uhe   nod rural          Ettinuted Prinoto- P.-erly toII  lee i--.-t               -.~    -. 
14-orr dfPeoPle (ota   uro,edrrl         ilrnssi        oest                  ua   eaiep-cety "o'ne       'icn t      ''     *   -
cl .t   p,lyI toc1d-n teentec norfac- unt-  or unt-raId hut           personal .os.r of the, -cutt,y ,t_a c-l io.triieu- fc.. I.e
iicoiototvstdunvr sch stl.t cr00 protected b-rholn, upringo,           Ith adj-t-et fc- higher cost di' liOlOg to~ -bnoorn
to.u cnitor  cetto  so p-rcettges  h torte rctPetioe. p.puItot-o. to  tEtica,ted PpculaticoMI. Aobs hato, P....ydtyclo,- level (ecotut ~ tI. .. ..-
en ihen see at pbli, fountain or   _ndpvetLvtd not WIrs then                 rural - Percent of popsIltio. ur,ban no  uri3u.% reOl   ct
20d otne- 'roes ~Ahose esy    Iv osderd as heitg otohtl eeoat
acscIf tInt I lose,  inrurl: areas  . re _1nLle.n .. ....l '-ply
Otit- too .ose -Iv or menle-  of the h,.'cshold ds cot hc- to, sp-d a-cdat'at                                               iia Puts. tI-il-o
disLoyc   lt 't port  I the day ir fe,tchi, the, fs.ily. -s u -ecedo                                      Ecocci Analysts endtfrdjecoti-cIciro
IaIs 1 979



- 31 -
ANNEX I
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT/DATA SHEET                                    Page 4 of 8
Actual                     Estimated                    Projected
1975     1976        1977      1978               1979                  1980         1981
A. National Accounts
(Mil.US$ at 1978 prices)
1. GDP                    2,122.6   2,239.8   2,362.3    2,171.8           1,591.5                1,876.9       2,136.2
2. Gains from TT.           -39.8     +94.8     +43.7       -                -58.8                  -77.9        -102.8
3. Gross Dom.Income       2,082.8   2,334.6   2,406.0    2,171.8           1,532.7                1,799.0       2,033.4
4. Imports                  828.4     854.3     918.4      686.0             508.1                  672.5         777.4
5. Exports-Volume           665.5     756.3     757.7      758.0             642.7                  594.7         758.3
6. Exports-TT. Adj.         625.7     851.1     801.4      758.0             583.9                  516.8         655.5
7. Resource, Gap-TT adj.    202.5       3.2     117.0      -72.0             -75.8                  155.7         121.9
8. Total Consumption      1,425.7   1,923.9   1,967.9    1,817.8           1,527.9                1,511.7       1,655.3
9. Investment               454.6     407.5     555.1      282.3             -71.0                  443.0         500.0
10. Domestic Savings         252.1     404.3     438.1      354.0               4.8                  287.3         378.1
11. GDP at Curr.US$        1,590.4   1,861.3   2,237.3    2,171.8           1,787.4                2,214.6      2,653.1
B. Sector Output
(Share of GDP at 1978 prices)
1. Agriculture              .234      .228      .219       .256              .292                   .274        .252
2. Industry                 .287      .285      .287       .283              .269                   .207        .215
3. Services                 .479      .487      .494       .461              .439                   .519        .533
C. Prices (1978 = 100)
1. Export Price Index       66.8      83.1     100.0       100.0            102.1                   104.0         110.2
2. Import Price Index       71.7      72.0      93.9       100.0            114.9                   122.7         130.8
3. Terms of Trade Index     93.2     115.4     106.5       100.0             88.9                    84.8          84.3
4. GDP Deflator (US$)       74.9      83.1      94.7       100.0            112.3                   118.0        124.2
5. Aver.Exch.Rate            7.0       7.0       7.0         7.0
D. Public Finance
(As % of GDP at curr.US$)
1. Current Revenue          20.3      20.2      23.8        19.2
2. Curr. Expenditures       17.4      17.4      20.5        20.9
Public Sect.Savings       3.0       2.8       3.3        -1.7
* Cap. Expenditures        11.2      10.8      14.3         6.3



- 32 -
ANNEX I
Pape 5 of 8
IM P O R T D E T A I L
ACTUAL                        ESTIMATED           PROJECTED
1975      1976       1977      1978           1979         1980       1981
CONSTANT 1978 SPRlCES
FOOD                                 31.7      35.3       35.7      31.2           39.5         46.4       23.2
OTH1E CONSUMER GOODS                155.4     157.8     173.6      116.7           60.3         86.2      134.5
PETROLEIrE, OIL, LUBRICANTS          90.3      95.4     105.6       89.0           73.3         80.9       85.7
OTHSP. INTERMEDIATE GOODS           208.1     211.1     234.2      217.8          159.7        248.6      259.4
CAPITAL GOODS                     235.3     239.1     293.8      139.2           73.5        150.0      201.6
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                 720.8     738.7      824.9     593.9          406.3        612.1      704.4
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                 672.4     689.1      749.4     546.8          365.4        550.9      634.o
NFS                               156.0     165.2     169.0      139.2          142.7        121.6      143.4
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS               828.4     354.3      918.4     686.0          508.1        672.5      777.4
PRICE INDEX (1978 = loo)
FOOD                                 64.9      68.8      86.o      100.0          114.0        140.0      151.1
O;HEB CONSUMER GOODS                 65.2      74.8      86.8      100.0          lo8.6        115.1      122.0
PETRCL1Ulfl:, OIL, LUBRICAiiTS       80.7      76.8      97.5      100.0          150.0        172.5      198.4
O-liLR NTlFERMEDIATE GOODS           84.0      81.4      107.8     100.0          104.3        110.4      118.1
CAPITAL GOODS                      62.6      60.4      86.8      100.0          108.6        115.1      122.0
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                  71.7      72.0       93.9     100.0          114.9        122.7      130.8
TOTAl. GOODS (FOB)                 71.7      72.0       93.9     100.0          114.9        122.7      130.8
NFS                                77.9      79.2       86.8     100.0          108.6        115.1      122.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                72.9      73.4       92.6     100.0          113.2        121.3      129.2
CIJR1iEllT VALUES
FOOD                                 20.6      24.3       30.7      31.2           45.0         65.0       35.0
Mli-iN COilSUFMER GOODS             101.3     118.0      150.7     116.7           65.5         99.2      i64.1
PE?ROI.Llfl', OIL, LUBRICANTS        72.9      73.3      103.0      89.0          110.0        139.6      170.0
OTHER INTEH14FDIATE GOODS           17)'.8    171.9      252.5     217.8          166.6        274.5      306.4
CAPITAL GOODS                     147.3     144.4      255.0     139.2           79.8        172.6      245.9
TOTAL GOODS (CIF)                 516.9     531.9      791.9     593.9          467.0        750.9      921.4
TOTAL GOODS (FOB)                 482.2     496.2      704.1     546.8          420.0        675.8      829.3
NFS                               121.5     130.8      146.7     139.2          155.0        140.0      175.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS               603.7     627.0      850.8     686.o          575.0        815.8     1,004.3



- 33 -
ANNEX I
Page 6 of 8
E X P O R T D E T A I L
ACTUAL                     ESTIMATED        PROJECTED
1915      1976       177      1978         1979       1980       1981
CONSTANT VAL[IES ( MILLIONS OF 1978 DOLLARS)
COTTON                               144.9     123.5     127.3     140.9        123.7       31.8      14o.8
COFFEE                               148.0     129.3     18G.8     199.6        203.2      230.4      250.6
SUGAR                                 18.1      29.9      19.9      19.6         15.0       23.1       23.6
BEEF                                  42.9      51.7      52.3     67.4          63.4       63.0       60.3
ALL OTHER GOODS                      207.4     253.5     256.1     218.3        162.4      171.2      187.3
TOTAL MERCHANDISE FOB                  561.3     650.9     636.4     646.o        567.7      519.5      662.6
NOWI-FACTOR SERVICES                   104.2     105.4     121.3    113.:         75.0        75.2       95.7
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                    665.5     756.3     757.7    758.0         642.7      594.7      758.3
PRICE INDEX ( 1978 = 100
COTTON                                65.9     105.7     118.3     100.0        117.3      126.4      137.6
COFFEE                                32.5      62.1     110.0     100.0         77.3'      69.2       83.2
SUGAR                                235.4     176.6     139.7     100.0        110.7      119.9      136.9
BEEF                                  62.9      72.7      71.3     100.0        133.1      111.1      111.7
ALL OTHERS                            77.9      79.2      86.8     100.0        108.6      115.1      122.0
TOTAL MERCHANDISE FOB                   66.8      83.1     100.0     100.0        102.1      104.0      110.2
NGN-FACTOR SERVICES                     77.9      79.2      86.8     100.0        108.7      115.0      122.0
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                     68.5      82.6      97.9     100.0        102.8      105.4      111.7
CURRENT VALUES (MILLIONS OF DOLLARS)
COTTON                                95.6     130.6     150.6     140.9        145.1       40.2      193.8
COFFEE                                48.1     119.4     198.8     199.6        157.0      205.5      208.6
SUGAR                                 42.6      52.8      27.8.     19.6         16.6       27.7       32.3
BEEF                                  27.0      37.6       37.3     67.4         84.4       70.0       67.0
ALL OTHER GOODS                      161.6     200.8      222.3    218.3        176.4      197.0      228.5
TOTAL MERCH{NDISE                      374.9     541.2     636.8     646.o        579.5      54o.4      730.2
NOD-FACTOR SERVICES                     81.2      83.5     105.3     113.0         81.5       86.5      116.8
TOTAL GOODS AND NFS                    456.1     624.7     742.1     758.0        661.0      626.9      847.0



- 34 -
ANNEX I
Page 7 of 8
BALANCE OF PAYMFNTS AND EXTERNAL ASSISTANCE
Actual                         Estimated            Projected
1975      1976       1977      1978               1979          1980        1981
A.  Summary of Balance of Payments
Merchandise Exports (FOB)          374.9     541.2      636.8     646.o              580            540        730
Merchandise Imports (FOB)          482.2     496.2      704.1     546.8              420           675         830
Trade Balance                   -107.3      45.0     .-67.3     +99.2             +160          -135        -100
Export of NFS                       81.2      83.4      105.3     113.0               80            85         115
Imports of NFS                     121.5     130.8      146.7    -139.2              155            140        175
Net Services                     -40.3     -47.3      -41.4     -26.2              -75           -55         -6o
Resources Gap (-)                 -147.6      -2.3     -108.7      73.0               85          -190        -160
Factor Income, Net                 -53.1     -71.7      -78.0     -73.1              -11           -140        -60
Profits, Net                     -23.8     -27.7      -28.5     -22.4               -              -          _
Interest, Net                    -29.3     -44.0      -49.5     -50.7              -11           -140        -60
Transfers, Net                      16.7      10.0       11.0      10.0               70             50         20
Current Account Balance           -184.o     -64.o     -175.7       9.9              144           -280       -200
Direct Investment, Net              11.0      14.0       10.0       7.0                0              0          0
Public M and LT Loans, Net         156.4      46.2      196.4      50.9               93.3         +340       +280
Disbursements                    171.1.     75.5      245.3     101.6              102.6           -          -
Amortization (-)                 -18.4     -33.4      -50.2     -52.2               -9.3           -          -
Loans Repayable in Local
Curency                          3.7       4.1        1.3       1.5                -             _          _
Allocation of SDR's                  -          -         -         -                  -             -          -
Short-Term Capital and NEI          23.2       52.5     -87.3    -292.1             -207.3            0          0
Net International
Reserves (- = increase)           -6.6      -48.7     -56.6     224.3              -30.0          -60.0
B.  Grant and Loan Commitments
Official Grant                      16.7       10.0      11.0      10.0
Total Public M and LT Loan         202.9      172.6     161.5     167.1
IBRD                                 5.0      11.0       22.0      13.1
IDA                                  6.O        0.0       0.0        0.0
Other Mutilateral                   51.9       37.2      27.1      41.1
Governments                        -59.8       68.6      46.9      80.8
of which CPE                         0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Suppliers                           12.2        0.1       6.3       3.5
Financial.Institutions              74.0       55.7      59.2      28.5
Bonds                                0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0
Public Loans NEL                     0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
Other M and LT Loans                 0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0
C.  Memoranda Itens
Grant Element of Total Commitments 19.3       19.7       11.6   -  24.2
Average interest (%)                 7.4       6.7        7.4       6.6
Average maturity (yrs.)             16.9      14.9       10.6      16.8



A!n7Ex I
Page 8 or B
Debt anc Creditworthiness
Ac t ua 1
1975     1976     1977     1978
A.  Medium and Long-Term (Disbursed only)
1.0  Total Debt Outstanding               595.5    653.8    867.4    1,113.0
2.0  Including Undisbursed                834.1    959.0  1,092.1    1,361.3
3.0 Public debt service                    55.0     72.9    iO0.5       97.1
3.1  Interest                              35.6     41.0     51.4       48.2
4.0 Other M and LT debt service             0.0      0.0      0.0        0.0
5.0 Total Debt Service                     55.0     72.9    100.5       97.1
B.  Debt Burden
1.0 Debt Service Ratio                     12.1     11.7     13.5       12.8
2.0 Debt Service Ratio                     17.3     16.1     17.4      .15.7
3.0 Debt Service/GDP                        3.5      3.9      4.5        4.5
C. Terms
1.   Interest on Total DOD/Total DOD        7.8      6.9      7.9        5.6
2.   Total debt service/Total DOD          12.1     12.2     15.4       11.2
D.  Dependency Ratios for M and LT Debt
1.   Gross Disbursements/Imports
(Including NFS)                     26.5     14.2     30.5       20.8
2.   Net transfer/Imports (DllCL NFS)      17.4      2.5     18.7        6.6
3.   Net transfer/gross disbursements      65.6     17.9     61.3       31.9
E.  Exposure
1.   IBRD Disbtursed/gross Total Disb.      8.7     15.1      5.4        4.9
2.   Bank Group Disb./Gross Total Disb.   .12.2     21.6      6.6        5.5
3.   IBRD DOD/Total DOD                     8.8      9.8      8.7        7.2
4.   Bank Group DOD/Total DOD              11.0     12.7     11.2        9.3
5.   IBRD Debt Service/Total Debt Service   9.9      8.5      7.4        7.2
6.   Bank Group Debt Service/Totlal
Debt Service                        10.1      8.8      7.6        7.3
Outstanding December 31, 1978
Aniount        Percent
F. External Debt (Disbursed only)
1.   IBRD                                             80.2              7.2
2.   Bank Group                                      103.3              9.3
3.   Other Multilateral                              140.6            12.6
4.   Governments                                     301.1             27.1
5.   Suppliers                                        25.6              2.3
6.   Financial Institutions                          383.9             34.5
7.   Bonds                                             8.3              o.8
8.   Total M and LT Debt                             962.8             86.5
9.   Other M and LT Debt                             150.2             13.5
10.   Total M and LT Debt                           1,113.0            100.0
11.   Total M and LT Debt (Including Undisbursed)   1,361.3            122.3
/1 Includes direct investment income.
/2 Excludes 1978-79 debt in arrears.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 4
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN NICARAGUA
A.   STATEMENT OF BANK LOANS AND IDA CREDITS (as of October 31, 1979)
Loan or                                                      US$ Million
Credit                                              Amount (less cancellations)
No.      Year      Borrower        Purpose          Total   IDA 1/ Undisbursed
Twenty Loans and Credits fully disbursed             91.3    3.6         -
840      1972    ENALUF            Power            24.0     -        0.3
389      1973    Government        Earthquake
Reconstruction   -      20.0       0.1
1244      1976    Government         Education       11.0     -        10.6
1402      1977    ENALUF             Power           22.0     -        17.5
1495      1977    Empresa Aguadora   Rural Sani-
de Managua          tation         3.0     -        2.6
1496      1977    Empresa Aguadora   Water Supp.
de Managua                        10.1     -        9.1
Total                                           161.4  23.6
of which has been repaid                       40.1   0.2
Total now outstanding                           121.3  23.4
Amounts sold                        5.6
of which has been repaid          4.5           1.1    -
Total held by Bank and IDA                      120.2  23.4
Total undisbursed                                                 40.2
1/   Includes exchange adjustments.



- 37 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 4
B.   STATEMENTS OF IFC INVESTMENTS (as of October 31, 1979)
Year         Obligor              Type of Business        Loan   Equity   Total
(US$ Millions)
1968    Textiles Fabricato        Textile Mill             1.0   1.07      2.07
de Nicaragua, S.A.
(FABRITEX)
FY76    Nicaragua Sugar           Sugar Mill               6.5     -       6.5
Estates Limited
(NSEL)
FY76    Posada del Sol            Hotel                    0.7   0.2       0.9
(Camino Real Hotel)
Total Gross Committed                                      8.2   1.27      9.47
Less Cancellation terms, repayments and sales              4.3   1.07      5.37
Total Committed now held by IFC                            3.9   0.2       4.1
C.      PROJECTS IN EXECUTION J/
Ln. 840   Eighth Power Project; US$24.0 Million of June 28, 1972; Effective
Date: March 30, 1973; Closing Date: June 30, 1979
The two main works of the project -- the steam power plant with asso-
ciated transmission lines, and the interconnection with Honduras --
were delayed about 20 months for several reasons: the need to make
repairs and install emergency facilities for power after the earth-
quake, late deliveries of equipment by suppliers, and late loan
effectiveness because of delay in signing the interconnection con-
tract with Honduras. The interconnection was placed in service in
October 1976, and the project originally appraised to cost US$34.7
million equivalent is now practically complete with an expected cost
overrun of about US$25.7 million. The cost overrun has been financed
by a US$16.1 million equivalent loan from the Venezuelan Investment
Fund and by tariff increases. ENALUF (now INE) has engaged consult-
ants to develop proposals for handling a silting problem at the steam
plant's cooling water intake, and implementation of the solution may
take another 12 months. Two Managua ring substations, and the line
connecting them, have not been completed. Now that project imple-
mentation is being resumed, an appropriate extension of the closing
date is being considered.
1/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding
projects in execution and to report any problems which are being
encountered and actions taken to remedy them, they do not purport
to present a balanced evaluation of strength and weaknesses in
project execution.



- 38 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 4
Cr. 389   Earthquake Reconstruction Project:    US$20.0 Million of June 6,
1973; Effective Date: August 7, 1973; Closing Date: September 30,
1979
The water supply and power components were completed without signi-
ficant delays or cost overruns. After initial delays in submitting
acceptable sub-projects, the industrial financing component pro-
ceeded well and was completed in 1976. Difficulties in site acqui-
sition was the principal cause of substantial delays in the housing
and education components, although both components were substantially
completed by the end of 1977. The remaining undisbursed balance,
allocated to the education component, is fully committed for comple-
mentary equipment and repairs to equipment and furniture in project
schools. Now that project implementation is being resumed, an
appropriate extension of the closing date is being considered.
Ln. 1244   Second Education Project; US$11.0 Million of June 15, 1976;
Effective Date: August 17, 1976; Closing Date: December 31, 1981
Project implementation was progressing satisfactorily until recent
political disturbances. Architectural designs, selections of con-
struction firms, and planning of in-service teacher training courses
had been completed. The new government has expressed its support for
the project, which is in line with its priority programs. However,
because of cost escalation, school reconstruction needs and severe
limitations on government revenues, it has deferred the agricultural
education/training component until completion of a recently initiated
assessment of manpower needs for agriculture and implementation of
the ambitious agrarian reform program, and the Bank has agreed to
include in its place a secondary school reconstruction program. This
reconstruction is designed to bring back to operational condition
about 22 schools built under the First Education Project which were
partially destroyed and looted during the political unrest. A six-
months extension of the Closing Date, to December 31, 1981, has been
granted.
Ln. 1402  Ninth Power Project:    US$22.0 Million of April 22, 1977; Effective
Date: October 27, 1977; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project was significantly delayed because of delays in hiring
consultants, difficulties in engaging contractors, and because
of ENALUF's increasingly tight financial situation. These diffi-
culties are in large measure a consequence of the political dis-
turbances. The cost of the project, originally appraised at US$32.3
million, is presently estimated at US$34.4 million. Modifications
have been agreed with the new Government and INE to reduce the Bank's
share of financing of the load dispatch center and to eliminate



- 39 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 4
Bank financing of aluminum conductors for the Costa Rica intercon-
nection line (with other external lenders expected to pick up the
difference), and to finance (1) a portion of local costs of the
transmission and distribution system and (2) reconstruction of
installations damaged during the civil war and replenishment of
INE's inventory of distribution equipment. The Closing Date has
been extended by 15 months, to June 30, 1982.                   ,
Ln. 1495 Rural Sanitation Project: US$3.0 Million of February 9, 1978;
Effective Date: July 10, 1978; Closing Date: June 30, 1982
In the aftermath of the civil work, no project execution is taking
place. The new Government, however, has indicated its desire to
continue the project. Once a reorganization of the Ministry of
Public Health and the development of specific policies regarding
rural sanitation are completed, the Government will present to
the Bank a proposed revised program to make use of the remaining
funds under the loan.
Ln. 1496 Managua Water Supply III Project: US$10.1 Million of January 30,
1978; Effective Date: May 26, 1978; Closing Date: December 31,
1981
Execution of the project was interrupted during the civil war, but
resumed in September 1979. The project will continue essentially
as originally envisaged eliminating some components but with the
elimination of a few components which are not of high priority under
current circumstances, i.e., 3 storage tanks and associated pumping
stations, purchase of a computer and construction of distribution
mains in certain parts of earthquake-affected downtown Managua.
The resultant savings in project cost will be used to finance re-
placement of equipment destroyed during the war, an increased share
of local costs, and interest during construction. The Closing Date
has been extended by six months, to December 31, 1981.



- 40 -
ANNEX III
NICARAGUA
URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
Section I - Timetable of Key Events:
(a)   Time taken to prepare project:
September 10 to November 1, 1979
(b)   Project prepared by:   Ministry of Housing, Ministry of
Transportation and Public Works and BDN
(c)   First presentation to the Bank:    September 10, 1979
(d)   Departure of appraisal mission:    September 9, 1979
(e)   Completion of negotiations:   November 21, 1979
(f)   Planned Deadline for Effectiveness:    February 1, 1980
Section II  -   Special Bank Implementation Actions
None
Section III - Special Conditions
(a)   Technical staff to assist municipal boards in carrying out the
project will be appointed by September 30, 1980 (para. 53);
(b)   The appointment by FED of a program administrator and technical
committees in each municipality under the micro-enterprise
subcomponent will be a condition of disbursement in each city
(para. 64);
(c)   As conditions of disbursement to the revolving fund under the
municipal reconstruction component, a special account for the fund
will be established in the Central Bank for MIVAH to finance civil
works, and the Government will have deposited US$250,000 equivalent
in the fund (para. 58);
(d)   As a condition of disbursement under the small enterprise component
a revolving fund will be established in the Central Bank for FED
(para. 67);
(e)   As a condition of disbursement for any participating institution
under the small enterprise component, the eligibility of the
institution and proposed subsidiary agreement between FED and the
institution will have been approved by IDA (para. 63);
(f)   Qualified individuals would be recruited for key management
positions of the Urban Transport Company by March 31, 1980
(para. 73); and
(g)   The FED and MIC will carry out a joint evaluation of the micro-
enterprise program six months after effectiveness (para. 78).



iBRD 14721
r8i-                 86                   a*5                  84-              \.        Nr N EMBEOR 197
NICAR AG UA                           H O N D U R A S 
URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                             W, ,.
Pon America.n HiBhwaYioto
-     Main poved roads  LEON  Citres mcluded in Project                L .jn,u,
All-weather roads (grwvel)  Depornmem  bo.ndoriesr
-  Dry weather roads  Internalon.l1 boundaries
Roilroods                                      ^                                              s  o  sI
Ports                                                        .r5CnSs0,O
-Z Rivers                                                    o'                    Taa'     au.
+  International airports
+  Secondary airports
o  20  CO  aa    0 teoeorntv                                              Puerto~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I C.b...,  1-
MILES            L.CC a r                                e  a n
4I) oo  go *;°                                                       9P 100  p,ortrOI,,3  P   I.ob.
o o                        + S:n\g  L   /  $:$         '_                        _              5eP
Fr~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ns0`_.9 -    .   13
'RXW2X~~~RS.:Z.                  <"':Xe;~- "''_ I    -                                   aibeo
G'If o~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~fML
Fonseca                                                          Pd,. dfi-r1g :N,,.i ,_
[h.~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L                                MAV.IZ= .zdI 
p S..0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AcFed
12ciPac i c
Ocean                                              /                   e4                   83el
'7                      SonJuandel Sug4^~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N   c   sEharA 0  g  Lx,a  Boy   of
1 9  Ceribbeen -11*  Boy@    t=                                 ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Punrogo'do
SAt9DO9ICA+OUA>                                                              5nJ-JAMAICA33 
°cron < < ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~C         O S  T  AR     'I C A \a






- 42 -
NICARAGUA - URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECI              -
TOWN OF ESTELI
-                      _e-4  
--  -1 -tAlF               \        )
timii
)          {:~~~~~~EN'RNI. lI0jMMb  AR. IA   - 6>S    
4          NI'I~~~LMCINGS--.uJ0H DARAC:E   | _ _ \ 
SUaII N NS--rNmN DAIA          \_
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   II
- T         111EACC1  PHAKISSIN, I-I
HllAI)S--P AVgO\                         
911APS--L]AGWEI  O)R  IlNPAVFI} 



NICARAGUA - URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJEC1                                                  NICARAGUA - URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT                 f
TOWN OF MATAGALPA                                                                         TOWN OF LEON
L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
N,~~~~~~~~~-
f ? CENTRAL DAMAAGE AREA                                                                         C _  LA
UIIIAI LIMITIA ,                                                            L MTvS t-
7        BUILDINGS--MINO*  DAMAGE_t ILINGS                                                               MINOR I---
CHURCHES~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ILCE
RODS--PRVEDS -                                                                                  E-
-   " A --IA bIESl'A\'l



L~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
10~~~~~~~
(r~~~~~~~r
773j~~~~~ ~ 



NICARAGUA -CURBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECTARAGUA - URBAN RECONSTRUCTION PROJECT
TOWN OF RIVAS                                  /                                TOWN OF CHINANDEGA   S 
X   / X  \ /   t      \       \     >      6 ~~~~~~~~~CNTRAL DAMAGE AREA
|  /            _       ,,>\               ~~~~~~~~~~BLDI.NG;S--MAJO)R DAFuACF  F Jtz  rl,:eb s. 
| / |---- \ \ \ qV-> ~~~~~~~~~BU'ILDING.S--MINO)R D)AMIA(E 3| ________
> I . \ * Cl(E RCE1Eh | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7;,;;t- 
t I \ \ RDI;DS--I'A\'ED j * | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~/ I IF-;.
0 \ RoAI)S--I)ZE!:.:t N.Ix 1wix L ~~~~~~~~~'KI '                      il| - t  ->t!t 



- 46 -
-   - -- - - - m-
Lj~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
S~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r         Jo  J
:   r .2.. *  ^se^ s 
w   ,l  * ;  t- - t=e  -- ,  F-s   .  -
L '~ ~~~~I
MAONGA TYIA INDUTERALCRIORRLO DAMAGE
, - -;-
~~~~_         _  _  _ __            Yw C^ l*!e>.-
;,    ~~~~~~       1- ,,      5 !,  ; ^ ' tti- S  /
H~~ -z                          * r L8
LEONAU -TYIA INDUTERIACORRLOT DAMAGE






-         l  -                 \
LEON!CENTRAL AREA DAMAGE
,~~~~~~~ -'                          -
~-                v/      N5; -- -...
LEON - CENTRAL AREA DAMAGE
I;-  - 
;~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ _
. ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ -  -



