CREDIT NUMBER 965 NI
Project Agreement
(Urban Reconstruction Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
Dated                              , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 965 NI
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                               , 1980, between
INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT  (SSOCIATION   hereinafter called   the
Association) and BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO (hereinafter called
BND).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between Republic of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the
Borrower) and the Association, the Association has agreed to make
available to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equiva-
lent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Development Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS pursuant to contractual arrangements to be entered
into between the Borrower and Fondo Especial de Desarrollo (here-
inafter called Fondo), three million two hundred thousand dollars
($3,200,000) of the proceeds of the Credit provided for the
purpose of carrying out Part B of the Project under the Develop-
ment Credit Agreement will be made available to Fondo on the terms
and conditions therein set forth; and
WHEREAS in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, BND has
agreed for Fondo to undertake the obligations hereinafter set
forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context shall otherwise require, the several terms defined in
the Development Credit Agreement and in the General Conditions
(as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Credit Program for
Rehabilitation of Small Enterprises
(Part B of the Project)
Section 2.01. (a) Fondo shall carry out Part B of the Project
described in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement with


﻿-2-
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative and financial practices.
(b) In the carrying out of Part B of the Project, Fondo
shall at all times follow the lending and operating policies and
procedures set forth in the Schedule to this Agreement, as such
Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Association and Borrower.
(c) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, Fondo
shall:
(i) make application to the Association on or before
September 30, 1981 for withdrawal from the Credit
Account for expenditures under Part B of the
Project;
(ii) until the Closing Date, utilize all funds repaid
by Beneficiaries of Sub-loans under Part B of
the Project to make further Sub-loans under the
Project; and
(iii) thereafter, utilize the funds referred to in (ii)
hereof and all subsequent repayments made by any
Beneficiaries of Sub-loans under this paragraph
(c) for further relending purposes consistent with
those of the Project, such relending to be made in
accordance with the lending and operating policies
and procedures set forth in the Schedule to this
Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Association
and the Borrower, and provided further that not
later than December 31, 1981, the Association and
the Borrower shall review the terms of such relend-
ing and agree on changes as necessary.
Section 2.02. Fondo shall enter into Subsidiary Loan Agree-
ments, satisfactory to the Association, with the Participating
Banks to: (i) define in detail the responsibilities, functions and
administrative procedures in respect of the carrying out of Part B
of the Project; and (ii) lend to the Participating Banks such
portions of the proceeds of the Credit as shall be necessary to
enable them to make Sub-loans in respect of Part B of the Project.
Section 2.03. Fondo shall exercise its rights under each of
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the


﻿interests of the Borrower, the Association, and Fondo and to
accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, Fondo shall not assign, nor amend,
abrogate or waive such Agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 2.04. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
contracts for the procurement of goods and civil works to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be procured in
accordance with the provisions of paragraph C.1 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.05. Fondo shall not disburse any funds from Special
Account B referred to in Section 2.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement for Sub-loans to Micro-Enterprises of any Municipality
until the Association has received evidence satisfactory to the
Association of the appointment of a qualified Program Adminis-
trator and the local technical committee for such Municipality
referred to in Part I.A (3) of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.06. Fondo undertakes that, except as the Associ-
ation shall otherwise agree, all funds repaid to Fondo by each
Participating Bank under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement (on or
before the maturities agreed thereunder) which are not required
for the repayment of principal of, or any other charges on,
the Credit shall be used for additional lending under Part B
of the Project in accordance with paragraph (c) of Section 2.01 of
this Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of Fondo
Section 3.01. Fondo shall conduct its business and operations
in accordance with appropriate business, financial and adminis-
trative practices and under the supervision of experienced
and competent management assisted by adequate, experienced and
competent staff.
Section 3.02. Fondo shall maintain an organization for
the execution of Part B of the Project satisfactory to the Asso-
ciation.


﻿-4-
Section 3.03. Fondo shall promptly inform the Association of
any condition which interferes with, or threatens to interfere
with, the accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, the
maintenance of the service thereof or the performance by Fondo of
its obligations under this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Fondo shall establish and maintain separate
accounts on its records to be used exclusively for Part B of the
Project and shall register in such accounts all receipts and
payments for or in connection with Part B of the Project, in
accordance with appropriate accounting principles and procedures
consistently applied which are satisfactory to the Association.
(b) Fondo shall: (i) have its accounts referred to in
paragraph (a) hereof and related statements for each fiscal
year audited, in accordance with appropriate auditing principles
consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the
Association; (ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association as
soon as available, but in any case not later than four months
after the end of Fondo's fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such
accounts and related statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements of Fondo and the
audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time reason-
ably request.
Section 4.02. Fondo shall include in the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements to be entered into pursuant to Section 2.02 of this
Agreement such provisions as shall be necessary to ensure that
each Participating Bank shall:
(a) establish and maintain separate accounts on its records
to be used exclusively for Part B of the Project and to register
in such accounts all its receipts and payments for or in connec-
tion with Part B of the Project, in accordance with appropriate
accounting principles and procedures consistently applied which
are satisfactory to the Association; and
(b) (i) have the accounts referred to in paragraph (a)
above and related statements for each fiscal year audited, in


﻿-5-
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Borrower and the Association, as soon as
available, but in any case not later than four months after the
end of such Bank's fiscal year, (A) certified copies of such
accounts and related statements for such year as so audited and
(B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and
in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning such accounts and related statements of such Bank and
the audit thereof as the Association shall from time to time
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement
becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of
the Association and of BND, for Fondo, thereunder shall terminate
on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate in accordance with its terms;
or
(ii) a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
BND of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted
to be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between


﻿-6-
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required
or permitted to be given or made at such party's address herein-
after specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                    248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Banco Nacional de Desarrollo:
Fondo Especial de Desarrollo
Edificio Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
Apartado Postal No. 328
Managua, Nicaragua
Cable address:                     Telex:
BANADES                           BNDCM-1035
Managua
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of BND may be taken or executed by
the Director of Fondo or such other person or persons as BND shall
designate in writing, and BND shall furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated speci-
men signature of each such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all collec-
tively but one instrument.


﻿-7-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names, and delivered in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO
By
Authorized Representative


﻿-8-
SCHEDULE
Lending and Operating
Policies and Procedures
I.   Sub-loans
A.   Eligibility and Procedures
(1) Approval of Sub-loans will be made on the basis of
an application showing, inter alia, that the proposed
Sub-project is technically feasible and financially
viable, that the capability of current management is
adequate and that the prospects for marketing the
products and services of the proposed Beneficiary are
favorable.
(2) Sub-loans to Small Enterprises and Production Associa-
tions will be made by Participating Banks in accordance
with their normal administrative procedures.
(3) Sub-loans to Micro-Enterprises will be made on the
basis of: (i) preliminary approval by a local technical
committee comprised of the Program Administrator, a
representative of the Municipal Board and a local
representative of MIC; and (ii) final approval by the
respective Participating Bank.
(4) A Small Enterprise which is engaged in a production
or service activity and which has not more than $60,000
equivalent in fixed assets, as defined by Fondo, will be
eligible for a Sub-loan in an amount not to exceed
in the aggregate $40,000 equivalent.
(5) A Small Enterprise which is engaged in a commercial
activity and which has not more than $60,000 equivalent
in total assets, as defined by Fondo, will be eligible
for a Sub-loan in an amount not to exceed in the aggre-
gate $15,000 equivalent.
(6) A Production Association which has not more than $60,000
equivalent in fixed assets, as defined by Fondo, will be
eligible for a Sub-loan in an amount not to exceed in
the aggregate $40,000 equivalent.


﻿(7) A Micro-Enterprise which meets the criteria established
by Fondo in agreement with the Association will be
eligible for a Sub-loan in an amount not to exceed in
the aggregate $2,000 equivalent.
B.   Terms and Conditions
Sub-loan Contracts will include, inter alia, the following
terms and conditions:
(1) Sub-loans will be made and will be repayable in
c6rdobas;
(2) repayment terms will reflect the capacity of the Benefi-
ciary to repay, the nature of the activity of the
enterprise and the expected life of the structures and
equipment being financed, and such terms will normally
not exceed 4 years for working capital and 10 years for
fixed investments, except that such repayment terms for
Sub-loans to Micro-Enterprises will normally not exceed
3 years for working capital and 5 years for fixed
investments;
(3) grace periods will be not more than 6 months, 1 year or
3 years for Sub-loans which have a term of 3 or 4, 5 and
10 years, respectively;
(4) interest on the outstanding principal of each Sub-loan
to a Beneficiary will be payable at the rate of not less
than 12% per annum;
(5) arrangements, acceptable to the Association, to secure
the repayment of the Sub-loan;
(6) the goods and services to be financed out of the pro-
ceeds of the Sub-loan will be used exclusively for the
purposes approved by Fondo;
(7) the right of the Association and Fondo to inspect the
sites, the improvement of which is financed by the
Sub-loan, any equipment, materials or inputs financed by
the Sub-loan, the business of the Beneficiary, the
operation thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
ments;


﻿- 10 -
(8) the right to obtain all such information as the Associa-
tion and Fondo will reasonably request relating to the
foregoing and to the operations and financial condition
of the Beneficiary;
(9) the right to require the Beneficiary to carry on his
business, with due diligence and efficiency and in
accordance with appropriate technical, commercial and
financial practices and standards, and to maintain
adequate records;
(10) the right to require the Beneficiary to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, to the extent
that Fondo determines it be necessary, any goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of such Sub-loan against
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery thereof to the place of use or installation and
against hazards incident to their use in the enterprise;
(11) the right to suspend or terminate access by the Benefi-
ciary to the use of the proceeds of the Sub-loan upon
failure by him to perform his obligations under the
Sub-loan Contract and, in appropriate cases, to pre-
mature the Sub-loan; and
(12) all such other provisions as necessary to enable the
Borrower to fulfill its obligations under the Devel-
opment Credit Agreement and to enable Fondo and the
Participating Bank to fulfill their obligations under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement, and to protect their
interests and those of the Association.
II. Subsidiary Loans
A.   Eligibility
Fondo shall select financial institutions and associations to
participate in the carrying out of the Project on the basis
of their: (i) past experience and performance in lending to
small enterprises; (ii) suitable financial condition; (iii)
managerial capabilities; and (iv) adequacy of the number and
qualifications of the technical staff.
B.   Terms and Conditions
Subsidiary Loan Agreements will include, inter alia, the
following terms and conditions:


﻿- 11 -
(1) Subsidiary Loans will be made and will be repayable
in c6rdobas;
(2) Subsidiary Loans will finance not more than 80%
of the amount of Sub-loans;
(3) interest on the outstanding principal of each
Subsidiary Loan will be payable at the rate of not
less than 6% per annum nor more than 8% per annum,
wt.ich rate may be amended from time to time by the
Borrower after consultation with the Association;
(4) the Participating Bank will repay the principal of
and pay the interest on Subsidiary Loans not later
than 15 calendar days after the dates that repay-
ments of principal and payments of interest on the
Sub-loans by which such Subsidiary Loans are
financed fall due;
(5) the Participating Bank will assume the risk of
non-payment for Sub-loans made by it;
(6) the right to suspend or terminate access by the
Participating Bank to the use of the proceeds of
the Subsidiary Loan upon failure by it to perform
its obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement
and, in appropriate cases, to premature the Subsi-
diary Loan; and
(7) the Subsidiary Loan Agreement will contain all
other provisions necessary to ensure that the
Participating Bank includes in the corresponding
Sub-loan Contract the terms and conditions referred
to in Part I of this Schedule.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the       -L day of
FOR SECRETARY


