                                              CONFORMED COPY




                OFFICIAL              CREDIT NUMBER 965 NI
                DOCUMENTS




Amending Agreement
     (Urban Reconstruction Project)



                  between



   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                   and



CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE NICARAGUA   -   CORFIN




         Dated October 8, 1980
                  NICARAGUA - CREDIT NUMBER 965-NI

                         AMENDING AGREEMENT

     Agreement, dated October 8, 1980, between International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association) and
Corporacion Financiera de Nicaragua (hereinafter called CORFIN).

     WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter called
the Credit Agreement) dated January 4, 1980, between the Republic
of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower) and the Associa-
tion, the Association has made a credit to the Borrower in an
amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-two million
United States dollars ($22,000,000),  on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Credit Agreement;

     WHEREAS by a Project Agreement (hereinafter called the
Project Agreement) dated January 4, 1980, between the Association
and Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (hereinafter called BND), BND
undertook to carry out Part B of the Project through Fondo
Especial de Desarrollo (hereinafter called Fondo);

     WHEREAS Decree No. 463 of the Borrower, dated July 2,   1980,
abrogated Decree No. 43 of the Borrower, dated August 15,
                                                             1979,
entrusting to CORFIN the operation of Fondo;

     WHEREAS, in consequence, CORFIN should replace BND as a
party to the Project Agreement;

     WHEREAS the Association and CORFIN have agreed to certain
changes in the Project Agreement, and, for such purpose, have
agreed to enter into this Agreement (hereinafter called this
Agreement), upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;

     NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:

                             ARTICLE I

     Section 1.01.   CORFIN hereby assumes,   and agrees to carry
out, through Fondo, Part B of the Project and to fulfill   all the
covenants, agreements and obligations of BND in the Project
Agreement contained and the Association hereby recognizes the
succession of CORFIN to the rights of BND under the Project
Agreement, all with the same effect as though CORFIN were substi-
tuted for BND as a party to the Project Agreement;
                                     -2-


      Section 1.02. CORFIN acknowledges that all action heretofore
taken under the Project Agreement by BND shall be valid and
binding on CORFIN as though CORFIN were BND and that, except as
expressly provided in this Agreement, the coming into effect of
this Agreement shall not affect any right acquired or obligation
incurred or the consequences of action taken or omitted to be
taken by the Association or BND under the Project Agreement.

                               ARTICLE II

     Section 2.01. The     Project Agreement is amended as follows:

     (a) Second WHEREAS clause. Delete "three million two hundred
thousand dollars ($3,200,000)" and substitute therefor "four
million two hundred thousand dollars ($4,200,000)".

     (b) Third WHEREAS clause and Sections 5.02 (a),                    5.02   (b)
and 6.02. Delete "BND" and substitute therefor "CORFIN".

     (c)  Section 2.05. Delete in           its   entirety,       renumbering
the subsequent Section accordingly.

     (d)   Section 6.01.   Delete:

           "For Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
            Fondo Especial de Desarrollo
            Edificio Banco Nacional de Desarrollo
            Apartado Postal No. 328
            Managua, Nicaragua

            Cable address:                        Telex:
            BANADES                                  BNDCM   -   1035
            Managua"

     and substitute therefor

           "For Corporacion Financiera de Nicaragua

            Edificio Oscar Perez Casar            Telex:
            Apartado Postal A-53                     1096"
            Managua, Nicaragua

     (e)  Paragraph I.A (2) of the Schedule. Insert in the first
sentence, between the words "Enterprises" and "and" the following:
",Micro-Enterprises".
                                  -3-


     (f) Paragraph I.A (3) of the Schedule. Delete in its en-
tirety, renumbering the subsequent paragraphs accordingly.

     (g) Paragraph I of Schedule. Insert in the title, after
"Sub-loans", the words "under Part B (1), (2) and (3).

      (h) Schedule. Insert new paragraph II, renumering the
subsequent paragraph accordingly. The new paragraph II shall
read:

        "II.     Sub-loans under Part B (4)

        A. - Eligibility and Procedures

                 (1)   Sub-loans for the repair of buses and micro-
                       buses and the purchase and utilization of
                       spare parts will be made only to transport
                       operators duly authorized to operate by
                       MT on the basis of (i) a proposal prepared by
                       one of the transport cooperatives,       (ii)
                       previous approval of the proposal by MT,
                       and (iii) final approval of the proposal by
                       the respective Participating Bank.

                 (2)   A transport operator will be eligible for a
                       sub-loan in an amount not to exceed in the
                       aggregate $7,500 equivalent.

        B.   -   Terms and Conditions

                      Sub-loan contracts will include, inter alia,
                 the following terms and conditions:

                 (1)   Sub-loans will be made and will be repay-
                       able in c6rdobas;

                 (2)   interest on the outstanding principal for each
                       Sub-loan to a Beneficiary will be payable at
                       the rate of not less than 12% per        nnum;

                 (3)   repayment terms will not exceed 5-1/2   years
                       including 9 months of grace period;

                 (4)   arrangements, acceptable to the Association,
                       to secure the repayment of the Sub-loan;
(5)    the right of the Association and Fondo to
       inspect the sites, the improvement of which is
       financed by the Sub-loan, any equipment,
       materials or inputs financed by the Sub-loan,
       the business of the Beneficiary, the operation
       thereof, and any relevant records and docu-
       ments;

(6)    the right to obtain all such information as
       the Association and Fondo will reasonably
       request relating to the foregoing and to the
       operations and financial condition of the
       Beneficiary;

 (7)   the right to require the Beneficiary to carry
       on his business, with due diligence and
       efficiency and in accordance with appropriate
       technical, commercial and financial prac-
       tices and standards, and to maintain adequate
       records;

 (8)   the right to require the Beneficiary to
       insure,  or make adequate provision for the
       insurance of, to the extent that Fondo deter-
       mines it be necessary, any goods to be
       financed out of the proceeds of such Sub-loan
       against hazards incident to the acquisition,
       transportation and delivery thereof to the
       place of use or installation and against
       hazards incident to their use in the enter-
       prise;

 (9)   the right to suspend or terminate access by
       the Beneficiary to the use of the proceeds of
       the Sub-loan upon failure by him to perform
       his obligations under the Sub-loan Contract
       and, in appropriate cases, to premature the
       Sub-loan; and

(10)   all such other provisions as necessary to
       enable the Borrower to fulfill its obligations
       under the Credit Agreement and to enable Fondo
       and the Participating Bank to fulfill    their
       obligations under the Subsidiary Loan Agree-
       ment, and to protect their interests and those
       of the Association.
*                                     - 5-


                                   ARTICLE III

         Section 3.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
    on the date upon which the Amending Agreement for the Credit
    Agreement becomes effective.

         IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
    their respective representatives thereunto duly authorized have
    caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names,
    and delivered in the District of Columbia, United States of
    America, as of the day and year above written.



                             INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION



                             By Is/   Suitbertus van der Meer
                                               Authorized Representative



                             CORPORACION FINANCIERA DE NICARAGUA-
                                  CORFIN



                             By /s/   Alf redo Cesar
                                                Authorized Representative



    Accepted by
    BANCO NACIONAL DE DESARROLLO



    By Is! Fernando Guzman Cuadra
       Authorized Representative
