CREDIT NUMBER 965 NI
Development Credit Agreement
(Urban Reconstruction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                                , 1980


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 965 NI
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMEFT, dated                             , 1980, between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA ( reinafteralled the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS, the Borrower has requested the Association to
assist in the financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement by extending the Credit as hereinafter provided;
WHEREAS, pursuant to Law No. 323, dated April 12, 1972, the
Borrower has created "Fondo Especial de Desarrollo" (herein-
after called Fondo), for the purpose, inter alia, of channeling
international, public and private resources into development
projects;
WHEREAS, Banco Nacional de Desarrollo (hereinafter called
BND) has been entrusted with the representation and management of
Fondo by the Borrower and, as such, BND conducts the activities
and operations of Fondo on behalf of the Borrower;
WHEREAS, Part B of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement will be carried out by Fondo and for this purpose
the Borrower will make available to Fondo part of the proceeds of
the Credit; and
WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis inter
alia of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon
the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth and in an agreement
of even date herewith between the Association and BND;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Development
Credit Agreements of the Association, dated March 15, 1974,
with the same force and effect as if they were fully set forth
herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the
General Conditions).


﻿-2-
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the
context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the
General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth
and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a) "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and BND of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to
the Project Agreement and all agreements supplemental to the
Project Agreement;
(b) "Banco Central" means Banco Central de Nicaragua;
(c) "Municipality" means the municipalities of Le6n,
Chinandega, Estelf, Matagalpa, Masaya and Rivas and "Municipal
Board" means the Municipal Reconstruction Board of each Munici-
pality of the Borrower;
(d) "MIVAH" means Ministerio de Vivienda y Asentamientos
Humanos;
(e) "MTC" means Ministerio de Transporte and Ministerio de
la Construcci6n;
(f) "MIC" means Ministerio de Industria y Comercio;
(g) "INE" means Instituto Nacional de Energla;
(h) "INAA" means Instituto Nicaraguense de Acueductos y
Alcantarillados;
(i) "Participating Bank" means any bank legally established
in Nicaragua, acceptable to the Association and Fondo, which
has entered into a Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
(j)  "Participating Entity" means any of the agencies of the
Borrower listed in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement and
which will carry out any part of the Project for the Borrower,
(Participating Bank and Participating Entity hereinafter referred
to collectively as "Project Entities");
(k) "Supplementary Agreement" means any of the agreements to
be entered into between the Borrower and any of the Participating
Entities referred to in the Annex to Schedule 2 to this Agreement;
(1) "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means any of the agreements
to be entered into between Fondo and any Participating Bank, and


﻿-3-
"Subsidiary Loan" means the loan provided for in each Subsidiary
Loan Agreement;
(m) "Small Enterprise" means a small-scale enterprise or
business engaged in a productive, service or commercial activity
with no more than $60,000 equivalent in fixed assets;
(n) "Micro-Enterprise" means a commercial, productive
or service enterprise with less than $6,000 in fixed assets;
(o) "Production Association" means a cooperative enterprise
or any other type of association whose members produce common
products;
(p) "Micro-Enterprise Program" means the program admin-
istered by BND to provide credit and technical assistance to
Micro-Enterprises;
(q) "Program Administrator" means the administrator of
the Micro-Enterprise Program for each Municipality;
(r) "Sub-loan" means a loan made or proposed to be made
by a Participating Bank under Part B of the Project, subject to
the lending terms and conditions set forth in the Schedule to the
Project Agreement;
(s) "Sub-loan contract" means the contract for any Sub-loan;
(t) "Beneficiary" means a Small Enterprise, Micro-Enter-
prise or Production Association to which a Sub-loan has been or is
proposed to be made;
(u) "Decree No. 22" means Decree No. 22 of the Borrower
dated July 25, 1979 creating BND, as such Decree may be amended
from time to time;
(v) "Law" means Law No. 323 of the Borrower dated April 12,
1972, under which Fondo was created, as such Law may be amended
from time to time;
(w) "Decree No. 43" means Decree No. 43 of the Borrower
dated August 15, 1979 under which the operation of Fondo was
entrusted to BND, as such Decree may be amended from time to
time;


﻿-4-
(x) Whenever reference in this Agreement is made to action
by BND or Fondo, it shall be deemed to mean action by BND taken
pursuant to authority of BND vested in it by Decree No. 43;
(y) "Fondo" includes the technical, financial and admin-
istrative organization, resources, staff and facilities used or to
be used by BND to operate Fondo;
(z) "Special Account A" means the account established in
the name of MIVAH and "Special Account B" means the account
established in the name of Fondo all in accordance with Section
2.02 of this Agreement; and
(aa) "c6rdoba" means the currency of the Borrower.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement
set forth or referred to, an amount in various currencies equi-
valent to twenty-two million dollars ($22,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended from
time to time by agreement between the Borrower and the Associa-
tion, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall so
agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and
services required for the Project and to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
(b) The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to open for
MIVAH, Special Account A, with respect to expenditures for civil
works under Part A of the Project, and for Fondo, Special Account
B, with respect to expenditures under Part B of the Project, on
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association. Disburse-
ments from Special Account A and Special Account B shall be made
exclusively to finance local expenditures for civil works under
Part A of the Project and local expenditures under Sub-loans under
Part B of the Project, respectively.
(c) The Association shall, promptly after receipt of: (i)
evidence satisfactory to the Association of the establishment of


﻿-5-
Special Account A; and (ii) evidence satisfactory to the Associa-
tion that the Borrower has deposited in Special Account A an
amount in c6rdobas equivalent to not less than $250,000, with-
draw on behalf of MIVAH from the Credit Account and deposit in
Special Account A an amount in c6rdobas not exceeding the
equivalent of $750,000 and shall thereafter, at the request of
MIVAH, further withdraw from the Credit Account, in accordance
with the provision of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and in respect
of Category (1) of the table set forth in paragraph 1 of such
Schedule, and deposit in Special Account A such amounts as shall
be required to reimburse MIVAH for 75% of payments made out of
Special Account A for local expenditures for civil works eligible
to be financed under this Agreement, but only to the extent that
the amount of any such deposit, together with any amount already
on deposit in Special Account A (including deposits made by the
Borrower in accordance with paragraph (g) of this Section) as of
the date of the request of MIVAH referred to above, shall not
exceed in the aggregate the equivalent of $1,000,000.
(d) The Association shall, promptly after receipt of evi-
dence satisfactory to the Association of the establishment of
Special Account B, withdraw on behalf of Fondo from the Credit
Account and deposit in Special Account B an amount in c6rdobas
not exceeding the equivalent of $800,000 and shall thereafter, at
the request of Fondo, further withdraw from the Credit Account, in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement and
in respect of Category (3) of the table set forth in paragraph 1
of such Schedule, and deposit in Special Account B such amounts as
shall be required to reimburse Fondo for 100% of payments made out
of Special Account B for Subsidiary Loans for local expenditures
under Sub-loans eligible to be financed under this Agreement, but
only to the extent that the amount of any such deposit, together
with any amount already on deposit in Special Account B as of the
date of the request of Fondo referred to above, shall not exceed
in the aggregate the equivalent of $800,000.
(e) The Borrower shall cause Fondo to furnish to the Asso-
ciation in respect of each payment out of Special Account A and
Special Account B such documents and other evidence as the Asso-
ciation shall reasonably request showing that the payment was made
on account of local expenditures for civil works required for Part
A of the Project or on account of Sub-loans made under Part B of
the Project for local expenditures, as the case may be.
(f) If the Association shall have determined that any of the
payments out of Special Account A or Special Account B: (i) was


﻿made for expenditures not eligible for financing under this
Agreement; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
pursuant to the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall, promptly
upon notice from the Association and prior to any further deposit
in Special Account A or Special Account B by the Association,
deposit in the respective Special Account an amount equal to the
amount of any such payment.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (c) above,
no further deposits to Special Account A shall be made unless the
Association has been furnished with evidence satisfactory to the
Association showing that the Borrower has deposited in Special
Account A an amount (other than the $250,000 equivalent referred
to in paragraph (c) above) equivalent to 25% of any amount re-
quested by MIVAH to be-withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited in Special Account A in accordance with the provisions
of paragraph (c) above.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods and civil works to be financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be governed by the provisions
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1981
or such later date as the Association shall establish.        The
Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later
date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association
a service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semiannually
on April 1 and October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount
of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each April 1
and October 1 commencing April 1, 1990, and ending October 1,
2029, each installment to and including the installment payable on
October 1, 1999, to be one-half of one per cent (1/2 of 1%) of
such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one
and one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America
is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the
General Conditions.


﻿- 7 -
Section 2.09. MIVAH, Fondo and MTC are designated as repre-
sentatives of the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action
required or permitted to be taken with respect to Parts A, B and C
of the Project, respectively, under the provisions of Section 2.02
of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Municipal Reconstruction Component
(Part A of the Project)
and of the Public Transport Component
(Part C of the Project)
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower shall carry out Part A of the
Project through MIVAH and the Participating Entities with due
diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate
administrative, financial, engineering and public utility prac-
tices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, faci-
lities, services and other resources required for the purpose. The
Participating Entities shall participate in the carrying out of
Part A of the Project as provided in the Annex to Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, as such Annex may be amended by agreement between
the Borrower and the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall carry out Part C of the Project
through MTC with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity
with appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and public
utility practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the
funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 3.02 (a) With respect to Part A of the Project, the
Borrower shall, through MIVAH, make available to each Partici-
pating Entity the proceeds of the Credit required by each such
Participating Entity for the carrying out of the respective part
of Part A of the Project under a Supplementary Agreement to be
entered into by MIVAH, acting on behalf of the Borrower, and each
such Participating Entity on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association, each such Supplementary Agreement to provide,
inter alia, for:
(i) the procedures for making available to each such
Participating Entity the portion of the proceeds of
the Credit made available to it thereunder and
other funds required for carrying out the res-
pective part of Part A of the Project;


﻿-8-
(ii) the definition of responsibilities of each such
Participating Entity in respect of the carrying out
of the respective part of Part A of the Project;
and
(iii) the organizational arrangements and provision of
adequate staff, resources and facilities to be made
by the Participating Entity for carrying out the
respective part of Part A of the Project.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Supple-
mentary Agreements in such a manner so as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes
of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate or waive
any Supplementary Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall cause, with respect to
Part A of the Project, MIVAH to:
(a) establish, adequately staff and maintain technical
units within its Vice Ministry of Planning to assist the Municipal
Boards in sub-project design, planning and execution;
(b) assign to its Vice Ministry of Operations the respon-
sibility for the administrative and financial aspects of Part
A of the Project;
(c) cause its Vice Ministry of Operations to select a
coordinator and the necessary staff for Part A of the Project;
and
(d) assign to the Division of Construction of its Vice
Ministry of Operations the responsibility for procuring, in
accordance with this Agreement, the civil works, vehicles and
equipment for such Part of the Project.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall cause, with respect to
Part A of the Project, the Municipal Board for each Municipality,
to employ, not later than September 30, 1980, the technical staff
required for purposes of Part A of the Project.
Section 3.05. In order to assist the Borrower and MTC
in the carrying out of their obligations under Part C (4) of the


﻿- 9 -
Project, the Borrower shall employ, or cause MTC to employ, on a
time schedule agreed with the Association, management and public
transport consultants whose qualifications, experience and terms
and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Associa-
tion.
Section 3.06. The Borrower shall cause, with respect to Part
C of the Project, Ministerio de Transporte to cause the newly
formed municipal    transport company in Managua to: (a) employ,
not later than March 31, 1980, a qualified general manager and
qualified senior technical and financial managers; (b) adopt and
put into effect a system of preventive maintenance for all vehi-
cles used for public transport in Managua and to place such system
under the supervision of an engineer adequately trained and
experienced in preventive maintenance systems; and (c) in respect
of such preventive maintenance system, establish depots, with
suitable facilities, workshops and equipment, for the carrying out
of maintenance of up to about 120 vehicles, and place each such
depot under separate management.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall cause, with respect to
Part C (3) of the Project, MTC to initiate, as soon as prac-
ticable, the paving and repair of essential parts of the bus
routes, and complete such works not later than June 30, 1980.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall cause the appropriate
Participating Entities to operate and maintain the public ser--
vices, including streets, streetlighting, water and drainage
systems, municipal markets, public safety facilities, and public
transport facilities and routes, which are being reconstructed or
rehabilitated under I-arts A and C of the Project.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records adequate to reflect in accordance with consis-
tently maintained appropriate accounting practices the operations,
resources and expenditures, in respect of Parts A and C of the
Project, of the departments and agencies of the Borrower respon-
sible for carrying out any part of Parts A and C of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Execution of the Credit Component
(Part B of the Project)
Section 4.01. Without any limitation or restriction upon
any of its other obligations under the Development Credit Agree-
ment, the Borrower shall cause Fondo to perform in accordance with


﻿- 10 -
the provisions of the Project Agreement and each Subsidiary Loan
Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable Fondo to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere
with such performance.
Section 4.02. (a) The Borrower shall make available to Fondo
the proceeds of the Credit for purposes of Part B of the Project
under a Supplementary Agreement to be entered into by the Borrower
and Fondo on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association,
such Supplementary Agreement to provide, inter alia, for:
(i) the proceeds of the Credit to be loaned to Fondo in
c6rdobas and to be repaid to the Borrower by
Fondo in c6rdobas;
(ii) the repayment by Fondo of the principal amount of
the Credit to the Borrower in approximately equal
semiannual installments commencing on a date not
later than five years after the date of the Supple-
mentary Agreement and ending twenty years after
such date at the rate of interest of three per cent
(3%) per annum; and
(iii) the relending to Participating Banks of the pro-
ceeds of the Credit allocated from time to time to
Category (3) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement, such
proceeds to be provided to Participating Banks for
the carrying out of Part B of the Project under
Subsidiary Loan Agreements on terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Borrower and the Association,
including those established in the Schedule to the
Project Agreement, as such Schedule may be amended
from time to time by agreement between the Associa-
tion and Borrower.
(b) The Borrower shall exercise its rights under such
Supplementary Agreement in such a manner so as to protect the
interests of the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish
the purposes of the Credit, and, except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abro-
gate or waive such Supplementary Agreement or any provision
thereof.


﻿- 11 -
Section 4.03. The Borrower shall exercise and shall cause
Fondo to exercise its rights under the Supplementary Agreement
referred to in Section 4.02 hereof in such a manner as to protect
the interests of the Borrower, Fondo, and the Association and
to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign,
amend, abrogate or waive such contractual arrangements or any
provision thereof.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall: (a) cause Fondo and MIC
to commence, not later than 6 months after the date specified in
Section 7.01 of this Agreement, a joint evaluation of Fondo's
program for lending to Micro-Enterprises and Production Associa-
tions; and (b) provide the necessary funds and resources needed
for this purpose.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01. (a) The Borrower shall cause MIVAH, Fondo, and
MTC to establish and maintain separate accounts on its records to
be used exclusively for such Part or Parts of the Project each of
them participates in and shall cause such Participating Entities
to register in such accounts all receipts and payments for or in
connection with such Parts of the Project, in accordance with
appropriate accounting principles and procedures consistently
applied which are satisfactory to the Association.
(b) The Borrower shall cause MIVAH, Fondo, and MTC to: (i)
have their accounts referred to in paragraph (a) hereof and
related statements for each fiscal year audited, in accordance
with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish
to the Borrower and the Association as soon as available, but in
any case not later than four months after the end of the fiscal
year of each such Participating Entity, (A) certified copies of
such accounts and related statements for such year as so audited
and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope
and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably
requested; and (iii) furnish to the Association such other infor-
mation concerning such accounts and related statements of such
Participating Entities and the audit thereof as the Association
shall from time to time reasonably request.


﻿- 12 -
Section 5.02. The Borrower shall cause Banco Central to: (a)
have Special Account A and Special Account B referred to in
Section 2.02 of this Agreement for each fiscal year audited, in
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(b) furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any
case not later than four months after the end of each such year,
the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in
such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested;
and (c) furnish to the Association such other information con-
cerning Special Account A and Special Account B referred to in (a)
above and the audit thereof as the Assocation shall from time to
time reasonably request.
Section 5.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make
adequate provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit against hazards inci-
dent to the acquisition, transportation and delivery thereof to
the place of use or installation, and for such insurance any
indemnity shall be payable in a currency usable by the,Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall cause all goods and services financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit to be used for the Project.
(c) The Borrower shall furnish, or shall cause the appro-
priate Participating Entities to furnish to the Association,
promptly upon their preparation, the plans, specifications,
reports, contract documents and construction and procurement
schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(d) The Borrower shall, or shall cause MIVAH, Fondo, and
MTC to: (i) maintain records and procedures adequate to record
and monitor the progress of the Project (including the cost and
the benefits to be derived from them), to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to
disclose their use in the Project; (ii) enable the Association's
accredited representatives to visit the facilities and construc-
tion sites incluled in the Project and to examine the goods
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant
records and documents; and (iii) furnish to the Association at
regular intervals all such information as the Association shall


﻿- 13 -
reasonably request concerning the Project, their cost and, where
appropriate, the benefits to be derived from them, the expenditure
of the proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed
out of such proceeds.
(e) Promptly after completion of the Project, but in any
event not later than six months after the Closing Date or such
later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower
and the Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish, or
cause to be prepared and furnished, to the Association a report,
of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall reason-
ably request, on the execution and initial operation of the
Project, their cost and the benefits derived and to be derived
from them, the performance by the Borrower, the Association and
the Participating Entities of their respective obligations under
the Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the
purposes of the Credit.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association
Section 6.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the
General Conditions, the following additional events are specified
pursuant to paragraph (h) thereof:
(a) any of the Project Entities shall have failed to perform
any of its obligations under the Project Agreement, Supplementary
Agreement or Subsidiary Loan Agreement to which the Project
Entity is a party, which failure materially and adversely affects
the execution of the Project;
(b) an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which
materially and adversely affects the execution of the Project;
(c) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have
taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of any of
the Project Entities or for the suspension of its operations
adversely affecting the execution of the Project;
Cd) unless the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall divest
any of the Project Entities of any of the functions or powers
vested in any of them as of the date of this Agreement, which are
necessary for the efficient carrying out of the Project; and


﻿- 14 -
(e) a change shall have been made in the Law or in Decree
No. 43 which would materially and adversely affect the operations
or the financial condition of Fondo with respect to the carrying
out of Part B of the Project.
Section 6.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified pursuant
to paragraph (d) thereof, namely, any of the events specified in
paragraphs (a) through (e) of Section 6.01 of this Agreement shall
occur and shall continue for a period of 60 days after notice
thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VII
Termination
Section 7.01. The date      9I7           YO       is hereby
specified for the purposes of SIet ion 12.04 of the General Condi-
tions.
Section 7.02. The obligations of the Borrower shall cease and
determine on the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
shall terminate or on a date 20 years after the date of this
Agreement, whichever shall be the earlier.
ARTICLE VIII
Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 8.01. Fondo Internacional para la Reconstrucci6n de
Nicaragua is designated as representative of the Borrower for the
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Ser:tion 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Republic of Nicaragua
Ministerio de Finanza
Palacio de la Revoluci6n
Managua, Nicaragua


﻿- 15 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                      Telex:
INDEVAS                            440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.                   248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused
this Agreement to be signed in their respective names, and deli-
vered in the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of
the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean


﻿- 16 -
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds
of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of such proceeds to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated        % of
(Expressed in      Expenditures
Category                 Dollar Equivalent) to be Financed
(1) Civil works and studies        6,400,000      75%
under Parts A and C
of che Project
(2) Equipment, vehicles           12,100,000      100% of foreign
and spare parts                              expenditures
under Parts A and                            for direct
C of the Project                             imports and
85% of local
expenditures
for locally
procured
(3) Subsidiary Loans under         3,200,000      100% of amounts
Part B of the                                disbursed
Project
(4) Technical assis-                 300,000      100%
tance under Part
C of the Project
TOTAL              22,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a) the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures
in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than the Borrower; and


﻿- 17 -
(b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of the Borrower and for goods or services supplied
from the territory of the Borrower.
3.   The disbursement percentages have been calculated in com-
pliance with the policy of the Association that no proceeds of the
Credit shall be disbursed on account of payments for taxes levied
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on goods or services, or
on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply thereof; to
that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
decreases or increases, the Association may, by notice to the
Borrower, increase or decrease the disbursement percentage then
applicable to such item as required to be consistent with the
aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of: (i) payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent
of $1,200,000 may be made in respect of Categories (1) and (2) on
account of payments made for such expenditures before that date,
but after October 15, 1979; and (ii) payments made for a Subsi-
diary Loan to any Participating Bank under Category (3) until: (A)
a Subsidiary Loan Agreement, satisfactory to the Association,
between Fondo and such Participating Bank has been duly executed
and delivered in accordance with Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
and (B) there has been furnished to the Association a certificate
satisfactory to the Association of a competent official of Fondo
acceptable to the Association, showing that such Subsidiary Loan
Agreement is legally binding upon Fondo and such Participating
Bank in accordance with its terms.
5.   Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit
or the disbursement percentages set forth in the table in
paragraph 1 above, if the Association has reasonably estimated
that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will
be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all expen-
ditures in that Category, the Association may, at the request of
the Borrower: (i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent
required to meet the estimated shortfall, proceeds of the Credit,
which are then allocated to another Category and which in the
opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expen-
ditures; and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the
estimated shortfall, reduce the disbursement percentage then


﻿- 18 -
applicable to such expenditures in order that further withdrawals
under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.   If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the
procurement of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the
procedures set forth or referred to in this Agreement, no expendi-
tures for such item shall be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting or
limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association
under the Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower,
cancel such amount of the Credit as, in the Association's reason-
able opinion, represents the amount of such expenditures which
would otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the
proceeds of the Credit.


﻿- 19 -
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project is part of the Borrower's program to reconstruct
and rehabilitate the urban sector of its economy and consists of
the following Parts:
Part A:   Municipal Reconstruction
Municipal reconstruction sub-projects in the Municipalities
of Le6n, Chinandega, Estelf, Matagalpa, Masaya and Rivas as
follows:
(1) Repair and improvement of infrastructure, including:
(a) street paving; (b) public street lighting; and (c) water
and drainage systems and facilities.
(2) Replacement of physical plant and equipment, including:
(a) refuse collection vehicles; (b) maintenance equipment and
vehicles; and (c) administrative, maintenance and storage facili-
ties.
(3) Reconstruction and rehabilitation of municipal facili-
ties, including: (a) municipal markets; and (b) public safety
facilities and vehicles.
(4) Preparation of a water resource study for the city
of Matagalpa.
(5) Construction of a temporary administration building
in Managua for INAA.
Part B:   Credit Program for Rehabilitation of Small Enterprises
A credit program consisting of Subsidiary Loans to Partici-
pating Banks to finance Sub-loans to Small Enterprises, Micro-
Enterprises, and Production Associations to finance:
(1) Construction and repair of commercial and industrial
buildings and workshops.
(2) Repair and replacement of equipment.
(3) Provision of working capital.


﻿- 20 -
Part C:   Rehabilitation of Managua's Public Transport System
(1) Purchase of about 140 buses and about 150 micro-buses
and spare parts for new and existing buses and micro-buses.
(2) Provision of facilities, workshops and equipment
for bus maintenance.
(3) Improvement of the pavement of about 28 kilometers
of bus transit routes.
(4) Provision of technical assistance to the newly formed
municipal transport company in Managua in the areas of management,
maintenance, route design, fare policies and the development of a
long-term program for its operations.
(5) Safety improvements to the bus system, including loading
bays, signs and signaling devices.
The Project is expected to completed by June 30, 1981.


﻿- 21 -
ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Participation in the
Participating Entity                           Project
Ministerio de Vivienda y                  Parts A (1) (a) and
Asentamientos Humanos                (c), (2) and (3) and
overall coordination
of the carrying out
of Part A
Ministerio de Transporte                  Part C and assis-
and Ministerio de la                 tance to MIVAH for
Construcci6n                        carrying out Part
A (1) (a) and (c)
and (2) (a) and
(b)
Banco Nacional de Desarrollo              Part B
for Fondo Especial de
Desarollo
Instituto Nacional de                     Part A (1) (b)
Energia
Instituto Nicaraguense de                 Part A (1) (c), (4)
Acueductos y Alcan-                 and (5)
tarillados
Municipal Reconstruction                  Assistance to MIVAH
Boards                              in carrying out Part
A (1), (2) and (3)


﻿- 22 -
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Goods under Parts A (1) (b), (2) (a) and (b) and C (1) and
(2) of the Project shall be procured under contracts awarded in
accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in the
"Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans and IDA Cre-
dits" published by the Association in March 1977 (hereinafter
called the Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive
bidding as described in Part A of the Guidelines.
2.   For goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding, in addition to the requirements of paragraph
1.2 of the Guidelines, the Borrower shall prepare and forward to
the Association as soon as possible, and in any event not later
than 30 days prior to the date of availability to the public of
the first tender or prequalification documents relating thereto,
as the case may be, a general procurement notice, in such form and
detail and containing such information as the Association shall
reasonably request; the Association will arrange for the publica-
tion of such notice in order to provide timely notification
to prospective bidders of the opportunity to bid for the goods and
works in question. The Borrower shall provide the necessary
information to update such notice annually so long as any goods or
works remain to be procured on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding.
3.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods to be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding: (i) bidders shall be required to state
in their bid the f.o.b. and c.i.f. (port of entry) price for the
imported goods, or the ex-factory price or off-the-shelf price of
other goods, offered in such bid; and (ii) customs duties and
other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, or
the sales and similar taxes levied in connection with the sale or
delivery, pursuant to the bid, of the goods shall not be taken
into account in the evaluation of the bids.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preference for
Manufacturers Established in the Territories of the Central
American Common Market
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for
the supply of goods:


﻿- 23 -
(a) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the
f.o.b. and c.i.f. (port of entry) price for imported goods, or
the exfactory price for domestically-manufactured goods;
(b) customs duties and other import taxes on imported
goods, and sales and similar taxes on domestically-supplied
goods, shall be excluded; and
(c) the cost to the Borrower of inland freight, insurance
and other expenditures incidental to the delivery of goods to
the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.   Bids shall be compared in accordance with the following
rules:
(a) the term "Central American Bid" means a bid submitted
by a manufacturer established in the territories of the Central
American Common Market for goods manufactured or processed to
a substantial extent (as reasonably determined by the Association)
in such territories; any other bid will be deemed to be a "Non-
Central American Bid";
(b) the bid price under a Central American bid will be
the sum of the following amounts: (i) the ex-factory price of
such goods; and (ii) freight, insurance and other costs of deli-
very of such goods to the site designated in the specifications;
and
(c) for the purpose of comparing any Non-Central American
Bid with any Central American Bid, the price under a Non-Central
American Bid will be the sum of the following amounts: (i) the
c.i.f. (port of entry) price of such goods; (ii) insurance
costs to the port entry; (iii) half the amount of any taxes on the
importation of such goods into the territories of the Guarantor
which generally apply to non-exempt importers, or 15% of the
amounts specified in (i) and (ii) above, whichever shall be the
lower; and (iv) freight insurance and other costs of delivery of
such goods from the port of entry to the site designated in the
specifications.
3.   The bidding documents shall clearly indicate the margin
of preference to be granted.


﻿- 24 -
C.   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Contracts for goods, civil works and servic-es (other than
those specified in Paragraph A.1 of this Schedule and those
procured under Part B of the Project) shall be procured on the
basis of local competitive bidding procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
2.   Subject to the Association's prior approval: (i) civil works
under Part A (1), (2) and (3) of the Project may be carried out by
the Municipal Boards in coordination with MIVAH by force account;
and (ii) civil works under Part C (3) of the Project may be
carried out by MTC in coordination with Managua's Municipal
Board by force account.
3.   Contracts for goods, civil works and services under Part B
of the Project may be procured by local shopping.
D.   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
With respect to all contracts for goods estimated to cost the
equivalent of $500,000 or more:
(a) Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, for its comments, the text of the invitations
to bid and the specifications and other bidding documents,
together with a description of the advertising procedures to be
followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the
said documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably
request. Any further modification to the bidding documents shall
require the Association's concurrence before it is issued to the
prospective bidders.
(b) After bids have been received and evaluated, the Bor-
rower shall, before a final decision on the award is made, inform
the Association of the name of the bidder to which it intends to
award the contract and shall furnish to the Association, in
sufficient time for its review, a detailed report on the evalua-
tion and comparison of the bids received, and such other inform-
ation as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association


﻿- 25 -
shall, if it determines that the intended award would be incon-
sistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the
Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c) The terms and conditions of the contract shall not,
without the Association's concurrence, materially differ from
those on which bids were asked or prequalification invited.
(d) Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished
to the Association promptly after its execution and prior to
the submission to the Association of the first application for
withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account in respect of such
contract.
2.   With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding
paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
after its execution and prior to the submission to the Association
of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such
contract, together with the analysis of the respective bids,
recommendations for award and such other information as the
Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it
determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with
the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and
state the reasons for such determination.
3.   Before agreeing to any material modification or waiver
of the terms and conditions of a contract, or granting an exten-
sion of the stipulated time for performance of such contract, or
issuing any change order under such contract (except in case of
extreme urgency) which would increase the cost of the contract by
more than 15% of the original price, the Borrower shall inform the
Association of the proposed modification, waiver, extension or
change order and the reasons therefor. The Association, if it
determines that the proposal would be inconsistent with the
provisions of this Agreement, shall promptly inform the Borrower
and state the reasons for its determination.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the      L     day o
19$C.
FOR SECRETARY


