OFFICIAL             CREDIT NUMBER 965 NI
DOCUMENTS
Amending Agreement
(Urban Reconstruction Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Dated                               , 1980


﻿NICARAGUA - Credit Number 965-NI
Amending Agreement
Agreement, dated .4               , 1980, between Republic
of Nicaragua (hereinafter called the Borrower) and International
Development Association (hereinafter called the Association).
WHEREAS by a Development Credit Agreement (hereinafter called
the Credit Agreement) dated January 4, 1980, between the Borrower
and the Association, the Association has made a credit to the
Borrower in an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-
two million United States dollars ($22,000,000), on the terms and
conditions set forth in the Credit Agreement;
WHEREAS the Borrower and the Association have agreed to
certain changes in the Credit Agreement, and, for such purpose,
have agreed to enter into this agreement (hereinafter called this
Agreement), upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE, it is hereby agreed as follows:
Section 1.01. The Credit Agreement is amended as follows:
(a) Third Whereas clause. Delete in its entirety and substi-
tute therefor the following:
"WHEREAS, Corporacion Financiera de Nicaragua (herein-
after called CORFIN) has been entrusted by the Borrower with
the representation and management of Fondo and, as such,
CORFIN conducts the activities and operations of Fondo on
behalf of the Borrower;"
(b) Section 1.02 (e). Delete in its entirety and substitute
therefor the following:
"(e) "MT" means Ministerio de Transporte and "MC"
means Ministerio de la Construccion"
(c) Section 1.02 (t). Insert in the definition of "Benefi-
ciary", between the words "Association" and "to", the following:
"or Transport Operators".
(d) Section 1.02 (u). Delete in its entirety, renumbering
the subsequent sub-paragraphs accordingly.


﻿-2-
(e) Section 1.02 (v), former Section 1.02 (w). Delete in
its entirety and substitute therefor the following:
"(v) "Decree No. 463" means Decree No. 463 of the
Borrower, dated July 2, 1980, under which the operation of
Fondo has been entrusted to CORFIN, as such Decree may be
amended from time to time;"
(f) Section 1.02 (w), former Section 1.02 (x). Delete in
its entirety and substitute therefor the following:
"(w) Wherever reference in this Agreement is made
to action by CORFIN or Fondo, it shall be deemed to mean
action by CORFIN taken pursuant to authority of CORFIN vested
in it by Decree No. 463".
(g) The fifth Whereas clause, Sections 1.02 (a), 1.02 (p),
and 1.02 (x), former Section 1.02 (y). Delete "BND" and substitute
theref or "CORFIN".
(h) Sections 2.09, 3.01 (b), 3.05, 3.07, 5.01 (a), 5.01 (b),
5.03 (d) and paragraph C.2 of Schedule 3. Delete "MTC" and "Min-
isterio de Transporte" and substitute therefor "MT".
(i) Add new Section 4.05, to read as follows:
"Section 4.05. The Borrowr shall, acting by MT, provide
Fondo with the necessary assistance to select the coopera-
tives eligible for participation in funds from the Credit
under Part B (4) of the Project".
(j) Section 6.01 (e). Delete "Decree No. 43" and substitute
therefor "Decree No. 463".
Ck) Schedule 1. Paragraph 1. Delete the amount of Credit
allocated for Categories (2) and (3) and substitute therefor
"11,100,000" and 4,200,000", respectively.
(1) Add new paragraph (4) for Part B of Schedule 2, to
read as follows:
"(4) Purchase and utilization of spare parts for
buses and micro-buses".
(m) Annex to Schedule 2. Delete in its entirety and substi-
tute therefor the following:


﻿-3-
"ANNEX TO SCHEDULE 2
Participating Entity          Participation in the Project
Ministerio de Vivienda y           Part A (1) (a) and (c), (2)
Asentamientos Humanos              and (3) and overall coor-
dination of the carrying out
of Part A.
Ministerio de Transporte           Part C and assistance to
Fondo in selecting the co-
operatives eligible for the
Credit under Part B (4).
Ministerio de la                   Assistance to MIVAH for
Construccion                     carrying out Part A (1) (a)
and (c) and (2) (a) and (b)
Corporacion Financiera de          Part B
Nicaragua, acting for Fondo
Especial de Desarollo
Instituto Nacional de              Part A (1) (b)
Energia
Instituto Nicaraguense de          Part A (1) (c), (4) and (5)
Acueductos y Alcantarillados
Municipal Reconstruction           Assistance to MIVAH in carry-
Boards                           ing out Part A (1), (2) and
(3)
Section 2.01. This Agreement shall become effective upon
receipt by the Association of an opinion satisfactory to the
Association from counsel acceptable to the Association showing
that:
(a) The person executing and delivering this Agreement
is duly authorized to act on behalf of the Borrower for such
purpose;
(b) The persons executing and delivering the Amending
Agreement for the Project Agreement are duly authorized to act on


﻿behalf of CORFIN and on behalf of BND, respectively, for such
purpose; and
(c) This Agreement and the Amending Agreement for the
Project Agreement have been duly authorized or ratified by, and
are legally binding upon, the Borrower, CORFIN and BND, in accord-
ance with their terms.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names, and delivered in
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF NICARAGUA
By   /i     Q~LA~~c~~                hc,AA
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
ByAuthorized R
Authorized Representative


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true
copy of the original in the archives of the Interna-
tional Development Association.
In witness whereof I have signed this Certifi-
cate and affixed the Seal of the Association
thereunto the   9      -day of
198-L.
FOR SECRETARY


