Document of
The World Bank
FO ORMCIAL USE ONLY
MICROFICGHE COPY
Report Nto. 10302-RW Type: (PCR)
WEILLE, J./ X31708 / ORDD3/ T-9102                               Re=tNo. 10302
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1250-RW)
FEBRUARY 4, 1992
Infrastructure Operations Division
Country Department III
Africa Regional Office
This document bas a restricted distribution  aid mas y b  sed bS recipiens ol in the performance of
their official duties. its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.
, ~ ~~~~ .icoew u Wol Ban auhrzain



Currency Unit         -          Rwandese Franc (RF)
US$ 1.00 in 1982      -          RF  92
1983      _              99
1984      -             104
1985      -              93
1986      -              84
1987      -              73
1988      -              77
1989      -              78
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONDMS
AfDB    -  African Development Bank
BADEA   -  The Arab Fund for Economic Development
FED     -  The European Development Fund
KFAED   -   The Kuwait Fund for Economic Development
ERR     -   Economic Rate of Return
IDA     -   International Development Association
MGERWA  -  Magasins G6n6raux du Rwanda
NF       -  Ministry of Finance
NPW      -  Ministry of Public Works
UNDP    -  United Nations Development Program
SAR     -   Staff Appraisal Report
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington. O.C. 20433
US.A.
:e i Oitect~ver't
Opwaum Ev4lwtumn
February 4, 1992
HEHQRANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT: Project Completion Report on Rwanda Fifth Highway Project
(Credit 1250-RW)
Attached, for information, is a copy of a report entitled "Project
Completion Report on "Rwanda Fifth Highway Project (Credit 1250-RW)" prepared by
the Africa Regional Office with Part II of the report contributed by the
Borrower. No audit of this project has been made by the Operations Evaluation
Department at this time.
Attachment
IThis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in t;e performance |
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authofization.



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1250-RW)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Palo No.
Preface .....      . . ..................................             i
Evaluation Summary    ..ii
PART U:  PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.0 Project Identity...                                                1
2.0 Background..                                                       1
3.0  Project Objectives and Description      ..                        1
4.0   Project Design and Organization  ...................             2
5.0  Project Implementation  .................................         3
6.0  Project Results  .........................                        4
7.0  Project Sustainability  .................................         5
8.0   IDA Performance  ..........  ..........                          5
9.0  Borrower Performance  .......................                     8
10.0  Project Relationship  .......................                    9
11.0 Consulting Services  .......................                      9
12.0  Project Documentation and Data  ..................               9
Note 1:    Further Detail and Comments on the Economic
Evaluation in the SAR .............................        11
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Introduction .12
2.   Project Objectives ...................                            12
3.   Design and Organization of the Project .13
4. Project Execution .13
5. Results of the Project .13
6.   Comments on Part I of the Project Completion Report for
the Fifth Highway Project and Confirmation of
Part III .                                                 13
EMR III: STAT-ISTICAL INFORMTxION
1.  Related Bank Loans and/or Credits .14
2. Project Timetable .15
3. Credit Disbursements .16
4.  Project Costs and Financing .16
5. Status of Covenants .19
6. Use of Bank Resources .21
r This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
Lof their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



-  -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1250-RW)
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion (PCR) for the 17ifth Highway Project, in which
Rwanda, for Credit 1250-RW in the amo mnt of SDR 23.3 million was approved on May
20, 1982. The Credit was closed on December 31, 1988, for years behind schedule.
the Credit was fully disbursed and the last disbursement was on July 17, 1989.
The PCR was Jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division of
the South Central and Indian Ocean Department of the Africa Regional Office
(Preface, Evaluation Summary Parts I and III), and the Borrower (Part II).
This PCR is based inter alia on the Staff Appraisal Report, the Credit
Agreement, Supervislon reports, correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower,
and internal Bank memoranda.



- ii -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1250-RW)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
PrEQi@ct Ob_jectives and Scpv_e_.
1.             The Fifth Highway Project shared the objectives of fostering
economic integration of the southwest region with the rest of the country through
more reliable transport and that of reducing transport costs to road users. Ther
main project item consisted of a 53.5 km section of the 156 km Butare-Cyangugu
road. UNDP shared in the financing of the Fifth Highway Project on account of its
technical assistance component. Four additional sections totalling 88 kms of the
same road were simultaneously constructed under financing by four other donors,
the European Development Fund (FED), the African Development Fund (AfDB), The
Arab Fund for Economic Development (BADEA) and The Kuwait Arab Fund for Economic
Development (KFAED).
2.             The Fifth Highway Project was of a classical type which the World
Bank Group has been financing ever since its establishment, involving the
construction of a road between two given points, under the rules of international
competitive bidding, with construction supervision being assigned to consultants
chosen according to IDA guidelines on procurement.
3.             In addition to its main construction component, the project
featured a -limited amount of technical assistance involving institution building
for transport planning and highway maintenance; and lastly, vehicle weight
control. The main project component was well prepared.
ImDlementation Exoerience
4.             There were no significant variances in project  implementation.
Due to the good prices obtained for the construction of the road section between
Butare and Kitabi that represented the main project component, a saving of about
US$6 M was made over project cost estimates appearing in the SAR. The savings
were utilized to start off the rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road. The
full rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road was financed under the subsequent
Sixth Highway Credit.
5.             The project took seven years to complete instead of the programmed
three. About half of the extension in the project schedule was caused by the
addition to the proje_t of the rehabilitation of a part of the Kigali-Gatuna
road. A variance in the project completion schedule of two years net of any
increase in project scope is quite common in many countries for projects of this
kind and therefore considered as acceptable.



- ili -
6.             Overall project performance was satisfactory. Concerning its main
road construction component, the project exceeded its goals well within the
original financial envelope. In this respect there was considerable progress
over the record of previous highway projects in Rwanda. Concerning its other
components, under previous highway projecto progress in institution building had
been slow.   Little if any progress can be reported under the Fifth Highway
Project as well (paras 9.06 to 9.08). Similarly no progress can be reported on
vehicle weight control (paras 5.05 and 5.06). These shortcomings do not relate
to the main substance of the project which was concluded successfully. However,
in the broad context of the long term IDA intervention in the sector, and in
strategy terms, the unaddressed issues were important.  The project's ERR is 13X
as compared with 16X estimated in the SAR (paras. 6.02 and 6.04).
Project Sustainabilitv
7.             In physical terms, provided that the Borrower adequately maintains
the constructed roads, the project is sustainable. In institutional capacity
terms, project sustainability is uncertain: for the foreseeable future
institutional capacity will continue to depend upon financial assistance and upon
the quality of external technical assistance.
8.             In economic terms, the project is sustainable and most likely to
maintain an acceptable level of benefits throughout its economic life, as long
as technical assistance remains available to close the gap in institutional
capacity. If financiallv unaided, the Borrower is not likely to maintain the
project road in an acceptable way. The associated risk factor can be addressed
mainly by financing project maintenance requirements through a suitable external
donor. Over the long run, cost recovery in financial terms is a central issue
upon which there is no progress to report. The subject was not explicitly covered
in the project but requires urgent attention in future projects to be financed
by IDA.
IDA Performance
9.             The main strength of IDA's performance showed at the project
preparation stage. IDA performed well during the preparation of the construction
component (para 8.02) which in financial terms accounted for 90% of the project
cost. The painstaking preparation effort fully justified itself during project
implementation. The main weakness was in project supervision in both quantity and
scope.
Findinas and Lessons Learned
10.            The classical IDA approach to project design and implementation,
namely: the identification of a road project for IDA financing; its preparation
by consultants; its execution by contractors under IDA guidelines on procurement;
and the assignment of construction supervision to equally competent consultants,
is a well tested recipe that often produces satisfactory results.
11.            At the project preparation stage, institution building objectLves
should have been more clearly spelled out than they actually were and so should
have been the scope of the project's institution building component itself. These
should have be;r. accompanied by a statement of criteria of performance against
which the specific actions could be monitored. During project implementation the
project's institution building component should have been monitored vigilantly.
Failure to submit quarterly progress reports and other financial data as required
under the credit agreement should have been regarded as sufficient cause for
applying the remedies available to IDA under the credit agreement.



- iv -
Borrower Perfgrmance
12.            The main strength ot the Borrower's performance was that it let
the pro       be  implemented without  interfering with the consultants and
contrac'    that were hired for this purpose. However, there were Involvements
with ps      ;ent matters which demonstrated a conspicuous lack of awareness of
IDA guide_ "es on procurement.  In '11 such instances, IDA staff in charge of the
project were able to provide the necessary assistance to the Borrower to ensure
the respect of the guidelines. The Borrower's record of compliance with covenants
was poor, especially with regard to implementation reporting, financial and
otherwise.
Consultants
13.            The consultants who carried out construction supervision performed
their job well. The Borrower tended to use the consultants employed under
technical assistance as a management resource, especially in the day-to-day sense
of the term rather than in the proper sense of technical assistance which is the
transfer of know-how and institution building that is expected to occur following
such transfer.
Donor Coordination
14.            A conspicuous and continuous lack of adequate donor coordination
during project implementation was a weakness involving relationships between the
Borrower and the donors, and among the donors themselves. Donor coordination was
a matter of concern under previous highway projects also. It continued to be an
elusive goal under the Fifth Highway Project as well. The experience of the Fifth
Highway Project highlights the need for a much increased level of donor
coordination, especially at the project supervision stage (para 10.2).
Imorovements in Pro ect Performance
15.            Compared to previous highway projects, there was considerable
improvement in project performance as far as the highway constru_tion component
of the Fifth highway Project was concerned. Other than this, no improvements
were noted in Borrower's performance.



:
PRUT 1; PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA 'S PERSPECTIVE



PROJECT COMPLETIQN REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 125Q-RW0
PART It PROJECT REVIEW FROM IDA'S PERSPECTIVE
1.0       Project Identity
- Project Name:   Fifth Highway Project
- Credit No:       Cr. 1250-RW
- Rvp Unit:        Africa Region, Country Department III
- Countrys         Rwanda
- Sectors          Infrastructure
- Subsector:       Highways
2.0        Back0round
2.01      The project was designed to serve the three main sector development
objectives adopted by the Borrower and agreed to by IDA. These were to: (i)
improve external transport connections; (ii) upgrade the main road network to
facilitate the country's economic and social development, and its administrative
integration: and (iii) improve the serviceability of the road network through
better maintenance.
3.0       Project Obiectives and Descriotion
3.01      Soecific  orgiect  obiectivelt  They  consisted  of  (i)  promoting
agricultural development in the country's southwestern region; (ii) fostering
economic integration of this region with the rest of the country through more
reliable transport; and (iii) reducing transport costs.
3.02      Project Comoonents. The project consisted of:
(a)  Construction to paved standard of the Butare-Kitabi section (53.5
kme) of the Butare-Cyangugu road (156 kms).
(b) Consulting services for (i) project preparation under a PPF, and
construction supervision under (a); (ii) engineering studies for
the rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km.); (iii) pre-
investment studies; and (iv) technical assistance to the Ministry
of Public Works (MPW).
(c)  Procurement  of  materials  and  supplies  for  the    routlne
maintenance of the KigalL-Gatuna road over a two-year period.
(d) Procurement of weighing scales for control and enforcement of
vehicle weight regulations.



- 2 -
4.0       Proiect Desian and Organization
4.01      The project had a clear cwnceptual foundation. It followed in the wake
of the four highway projects that IDA had previously financed in Rwanda. To dat
IDA-financed highway projects in the country have alternated between two ma
project types, namely institution-building-cum-maintenance and construction-cum-
rehabilitation projects. The Second and Fourth highway projects were of the firas
kind whereas the First, Third and present Fifth were mainly of the second.
4.02      The Fifth Highway Projec', was of a classical type which the World Bank
Group has been financing ever since    establishment, involving the construction
of a road between two given points    der the rules of international competitive
bidding, with construction supervi64on being assigned to consultants also chosen
according to IDA guidelines on procurement.
4.03      Of the full length of the 153 km Butare-Cyangugu road, a length of 123
km8, between Butare and Ntendenzi, required upgrading. IDA financed the section
between Butare-Kitabi with a length of 53.5 kms. The road sections other than
the one included in the Fifth Highway Project totalling 69.5 kma were financec
by FED, AfDB, BADEA, and KFAED (See Part III, Section 5B). The overall project
size including ite sections financed by other donors was large for Rwanda. Its
financial envelope represented the equivalent of seven years of thA country'li
annual highway construction budget, financed from both internal and externa;
sources.
.4.04      The ambitious economic objectives of the project were matched by the
size of the total investment. However, how the project would impact on the
development of Rwanda's Southwestern region was not clearly spelled out in the
SAR nor in other available project documents. The project objectives were agreec
upon by all the relevant parties. The project was not innovatL a in any way, in
a Rwandese, African or broader context.
4.05      Pre2aration of the oroieot. The project was well prepared except f
its small technical assistance component. In particular, much care was accord
to the preparation of an adequate design responding to the difficult terrain anc
soil conditions that prevailed over the road's alignment. IDA staff who preparec
the project were keenly aware of the difficulties p-evious highway projects in
Rwanda had run into, causing large escalations to project costs. To avoid the
repetition of such experience they took special care to assure an adequate soils
investigation capability both within the consultant's team and in project
preparation missions mounted by IDA.
4.06      Cost estimates   reflecting modest design standards were carefull
prepared. A special contingency allcwance was introduced into cost estimates in
addition to the standard quantity contingency allowance of 10% reflecting the
spec'Al engineering risks that applied to the project. The economic evaluation
of t ,r, project prepared by the consultants was carefully monitored by IDA staff
in charge of project preparation. These special efforts proved themselves most
useful during project appraisal and implementation, as explained in the sections
that follow.
4.07      Roles and Resoonsibilities. They were clearly defined in the SAR.
Borrower's inadequacy during implementation in fully playing its role as definec
in the SAR cannot be attributed to definitional shortfalls, but to institutional
capacity and an apparent lack of sufficient interest on its part.



-3-
5.0       Proiect Xmolementation
S.01      Variances in imolementation. There were no significant variances. Due
to the good prices obtained for the construction of the road section between
Butare and Kitabi that represented the main project component, a saving of about
US$ 6 million was made over project cost estimates appearing in the SAR. The
savings were utilized to start off the rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road.
Originally, only the financing of routine maintenance was programmed under the
credit. The full rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna read waa financed under the
subsequent Sixth Highway Credit.
5.02      The project took seven years until completion instead of the programmed
three. About half of the extension in the project schedule was caused by the
addition to the project of a part of the rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna
road. A variance in the project completion schedule of two years net of the
increase in project scope is quite common in many LDC's for projects of this
kind, and therefore, considered as acceptable.
5.03      Risks: The SAR identified four main risks: (i) work interruptions; (ii)
cost overruns caused by (i) and/or by other factors; (iii) the risk of the
project institution building component not attaining its intended goals; and (iv)
weak enforcement of axle load regulations. The first two risks mentioned were
considered by the SAR to be major risks. However, no significant interruptions
occurred during project execution and as explained in para 5.01, construction
costs turned out to be lower than estimated in the SAR. The third and fourth risk
were considered to be of a low order of probability, although at implementation
stage they turned out to be substantial.
5.04      Concerning the institutional risk, the SAR did not specify any goals
or criteria of performance against which the implementation of the project's
technical assistance component could be evaluated. The project implamentation
record itself did not describe project achievements in institution building.
Indirect evidence available suggests that little i' any institution building
occurred during the life of the project (For further discussion see Section 9 on
Borrower performance).
5.05      The risk of implementation weaknesses in enforcing axle load limits was
not adequately addressed. Considerable procrastination occurred in first
procuring and then installing the weighing scales. They were installed in
December 1988 after a five year delay and only six months before project
completion. According to information obtained from the last supervision mission
of the subsequent Sixth Highway Project, the weighing scales have still not been
put into use. The Borrower is now claiming that the scales procured are
inadequate and wishes to procure new scales with "better" specifications.
However, since recently, most heavy traffic is routed through Kigali and weighed
at the MAGERWA installations for import control purposes.   Ways are being
explored to extend this weight control to an axle load control, which in time
would make the frontier weighing unnecessary.   However, this requires better
linkage and coordination betwe6n MPW and MF, the latter being responsible for
MAGERWA.
5.06      The substantial risk associated with the axle load issue could have
been foreseen. It is common knowledge that enforcing axle load limits is a
difficult task even among relatively developed LDC countries.
5.07      Actions/decisions affecting iroiect imolementation. The only important
decision was to make a start with the rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road
through the use of the credit funds that became available following the savings
in the construction costs of the Butare-Kitabi road. The decision was acted upon.
No other decisions were needed to keep the bulk of the project on course.



-4-
6.0       Proiect Results
6.01      Proiect  obiectives.  Project  objectives  did  not  change  during
implementation. Concerning its main component which was road construction, the
project exceeded its goals through the addition of the partial rehabilitation of
the Kigali-Gatuna road to the project scope. Concerning its institution building
aspects there is llttle progress to report (see section 9 on Borrower
performance). Concerning its axle load enforcement aspects, see paras 5.05 and
5.06) the project failed to attain its objective.
6.02      Proie8t EBB. For purposes of ERR determination, the SAR divided the
IDA-financed road section into two sub sections.   For each one of them it
calculated a separate ERR. There were sound reasons for doing this as explained
in Note 1. In the SAR, the 35 km Butare-Kigeme sub section showed an ERR of 18%
and the second sub-section between Kigeme and Kitabi with a length of 18.5 kms,
showed an ERR of 13%. The methodology used in calculating the ERR was not
adequate, especially concerning the ERR for the second section. The methodology
issue is discussed in paras 8.04 & 8.05 and in Note 1.
6.03      The data available are insufficient to recalculate ERR's for the two
individual sub-sections . The Borrower did not supply IDA at any time through
project completion with traffic counts on any of the sections of the project road
financed by other donors which affect the ERR for the Kigeme-Kitabi sub-section.
On construction costs, there is only a broad reference to total cost, in an aide
memoire from a donors conference held in 1989. A total cost of about FRw 4.01
billion (about US$ 48 million equivalent) is reported with no further detail. The
total cost is for the road section financed by IDA and the four other sections
each of which was financed by a separate donor.
6.04      For the Butare-Kigeme sub-section, allowing for the construction costs
which turned out to be 9% lower than projected, assuming an annual traffic growth
of 7% as thl n was done in the SAR, an induced traffic elasticity of one and
applying the correct methodology, the revised ERR would be roughly 15%. Doing
the same for the 18.5 km Kigeme-Kitabi sub section, the ERR is, also roughly,
about 9% (see Note 1 for further detail). The ERR for the first sub-section is
thus satisfactory, while it is not for the second sub-section, if estimated
without taking into account the overall result of the new Cyangugu road access.
6.05      Institution buildino: Under previous highway projects, progress in
institution building had been slow. No progress can be reported under the Fifth
Highway Project, in the sense that at project completion MPW required as much
technical assistance as it did when the project started (see further detail under
para 9.08).
6.06      Physical  environment.      The  Butare-Cyangugu  road  crosses  the
environmentally protected Nyungwe forest. During construction some damage was
caused to wild life, probably on the endangered species list but the contractors
were early on made aware of the environmental concerns. Quantifiable data on the
subject are not available. At the same time considerable replanting of trees
took place in particular on the section financed by IDA.
6.07      Social environm_tM . The project had a positive impact on the incomes
of the population of the road's zone of influence. No data are available for a
more specific assessment.



-5-
7.0       Proiect Sustainabilitv
7.01      The sustainability issue can be evaluated at four different levels
namely technical, institutional, economic and financial. At the technical level,
provided that the Borrower regularly maintains the constructed road section and
resurfaces it every seven years as stipulated in the SAR, the project is
sustainable. In institutional capacity terms, project sustainability is not
certain. For the foreseeable future institutional capacity will depend on
financial assistance and on the quality of the technical assistance from abroad
(see section 9 below, on Borrower performance).
7.02      In economic terms, the project is sustainable and most likely to
maintain an acceptable level of benefits throughout its economic life, provided
that technical assistance remains available to close the gap in institutional
capacity. If financially unaided, the Borrower is not likely to maintain the
project road as and when required. The associated risk factor can be addressed
mainly by getting financing for the project's maintenance requirements from an
external donor. Cost recovery in financial terms is a central issue. The subject
was not explicitly covered in the project but it requires urgent addressing in
future projects to be financed by IDA, in part by improved cost recovery under
the road fund and in part by better donor coordination.
8.0       IDA Performance
8.01      Overall assessment. The main strength of IDA's performance showed at
project preparation stage. The main weakness was in project supervision, both
quantity and scope.
8.02      Identification  and  prenaration.  IDA  performed  well  during  the
preparation of the project's construction component which accounted for 90% of
the project in financial terms. The painstaking preparation effort fully
justified itself during project implementation. This not withstanding, how the
project fitted into sector investment priorities was not explained. This is
noteworthy especially because as mentioned earlier, the project was particularly
large for Rwanda.
8.03      Appraisal. At appraisal, the mission had a well prepared project to
appraise. The appraisal mission could have profitably spent more of its time to
firm up the project's technical assistance component. The need was to establish
a link between past IDA efforts at institution building in the sector and the
project, to formulate institution building goals and to establish performance
indicators for monitoring purposes during implementation.
8.04       In the SAR there are repeated references  to the unity of the total
project, including its sections financed by other donors, of which the IDA-
financed section formed an integral part. Accordingly, there was a need to
appraise the project road as a whole. Despite this, the economic evaluation in
the SAR confined itself to the section which IDA financed. The evaluation took
into account, only to a limited extent, the totality of the project as a self-
contained entity. There is room for considerable improvement in the methodology
used in the economic evaluation appearing in the SAR. Some of the assumptions
made in projecting traffic lack substantiation. The feasibility studies
underlying the economic evaluation are missing in the files. Therefore, the
substantiation issue cannot be further commented upon, except to state that
traffic projections do not appear to be plausible especially for induced traffic
estimates. For further details on the economic evaluation appearing in the SAR,
see Note 1.



8.05      Since the project involved several donors, it would have been most
useful to have established a suitable interdonor coordinating mechanism. This was
not done (see also para 10.03).
8.06      SuDervision. Fourteen supervision missions were mounted from the date
of credit effectiveness through project completion, extending over a seven year
period averaging a mission every six months. The missions were staffed with an
average of 1.6 professionals. In all but one of the missions, an engineer
participated, with the balance of participation being provided by an economist
and a financial analyst in equal proportions.
8.07      The number of days spent in the field averaged 6.7 days per mission.
However, during this period of time, a mission had to look after an average of
2.6 projects, at various stages of the project cycle. Thus, roughly 2.6 working
days only were available on average for supervising a single project during a
given mission. That this amount of time is little for effective supervision
cannot be disputed, even for projects which are relatively problem-free.
Moreover, insufficient preparation by the Borrower prior to supervision missions
resulted in less than optimal use of scarce time.
8.08      The inadequacy of supervision time is also reflected in staff time
spent on the project as registered in MIS records. Of a total amount of staff
weeks spent on the project over a ten year period from its identification through
its completion, preparation through appraisal accounts for an input of 68 staff
weeks; appraisal through project effectiveness 12.4 staff weeks, and supervision
only 29.4 staff weeks. This allocation appears to be lopsided even when allowing
for how well the project was prepared and for the fact that its implementation
was relatively problem-free.
8.09      During project implementation, a major modification occurred in the
project's scope when the partial rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road was
added to it. A credit amendment was made to allow for this addition. There is no
record of the estimated economic rate of return for this addition to the project,
although had one been prepared it would most probably have been satisfactory.
Under the Sixth Highway Project, the rehabilitation of this road was to be
completed at an estimated rate of return of 20%.
8.10      The supervision effort mounted by IDA for this added component left a
list of project-related subjects inadequately attended to. Most notably, there
are only scattered references in the supervision reports on how the institutional
building component of the project was faring. The available references are not
sufficient to evaluate how this particular project component progressed.
Technical assistance under the project was mostly financed by UNDP. The
assistance terminated in December 1985.
8.11      There is no record in the files of the agreement signed between IDA and
UNDP on technical assistance work scope nor a description of the obligations of
each side. Missing also is evidence on how the consulting company, recruited to
provide the technical assistance, was selected and whether the candidates for the
TA slots were submitted to IDA for approval. Equally unavailable in the files are
progress reports and a completion report prepared by the consultants on technical
assistance featuring the standard scope and information normally found in such
reports. There is no correspondence in the files showing that IDA requested from
UNDP or MPW any information concerning the progress of this component.
8.12      There is no record in project supervision reports indicating that the
supervision missions tried to come to grips with the Borrower's lack of
compliance on reporting requirements. The issue persisted from the date of
project effectiveness through project completion. There is no record of audit



-7-
reports on project finances. There are scattered references to problems
associated with project accounting and accounts. In a particular supervision
report it is stated that both accounting and auditing procedures practiced in the
country leave much to be desired. i/
8.13      There is little indication in the files that the supervision missions
concerned themselves with getting information on how implementation was proceding
on those sections of the road whose construction was financed by other donors.
The construction of these sections had a direct bearing on the economic
justification of the project. There are no records indicating that the
construction of these sections was actually completed and the completion dates.
Supervision reports tended to present a rosy picture of conditionality
observance. A more detailed presentation on the last subject is presented further
below.
8.14      However, beginning in mid 1987, a marked improvement can be observed
in supervision reports. Most of the references in the files concerning donor
coordination, technical assistance, and financial reporting matters date from
this time through project completion two years thereafter. However, with the bulk
of the project having been implemented by then, it probably would have been
difficult to make up for time past, in particular given the limited amount of
staff time available for project supervision.
8.15      None of the shortcomings mentioned above relate to the main substance
of the project which was concluded successfully and can only be deemed a success.
From a strict project view point, lack of reporting in IDA's supervision of
project implementation did not produce effects detrimental to the project.
However, in the broad context of Borrower-IDA relations, the record of IDA
interventions in the highway sector, past, present, and planned; and in IDA
strategy terms for the sector, the issues overlooked were important.
8.16      Main lessons of experience relevant to other IDA financed Droiects. The
classical IDA approach to project design and implementation, namely the
identification of a road project, for IDA financing; its preparation by competent
consultants, its execution by contractors under IDA guidelines on procurement,
and the assigning of construction supervision to equally competent consultants;
is a well tested recipe that more often than not produces satisfactory results.
Such an approach can be contrasted with institutional building and other program
projects in environments not ready for them. The results in these cases are often
less than satisfactory unless a special effort is made during project preparation
and a considerable amount of vigilance is practiced during their supervision
combined with an equal amount of reporting requirement.
8.17      At the project preparation stage institution building objectives ought
to be clearly spelled out and so should the scope of the project's institution
building component. These should be accompanied by a statement of criteria of
performance against which they can be monitored. During project implementation
special attention should be devoted to a project's institution building -omponent
as this is a subject where the probability of Borrower delinquency is at its
highest.
There is a Borrower letter directed to IDA requesting comments on the
proposed TORs for the project audit which the letter claims is appended to the
letter; but the TORs are missing from the files and so is the audit report
itself, assuming one was submitted. Also, there is no record of any comments made
by IDA on the TORs. No annual budget statements and budget execution on MPW
activity re highway maintenance and construction was received from the Borrower
on the highway sector during the whole period of project implementation.



-8-
8.18      "Management,  works,  supervision,  and training tasks must be kept
separate. Expatriate staff assigned to one activity must not be expected to
engage in another. IDA supervision missions ought to focus on essentials. Failure
to submit quarterly progress reports and other financial data as required under
the credit agreement must be regarded as sufficient cause for immediate
suspension of the project".ZI/
9.0       Borrower Performance
9.01      Main strenaths and weaknesses. The main strength of the Borrower's
performance was that it let the project be implemented without interfering with
the contractors and consultants that were contracted for the purpose. However,
there were instances of Borrower's involvement on procurement matters which
showed a conspicuous lack of awareness of guidelines on IDA procurement. In all
such instances, IDA staff in charge of the project were able to provide the
necessary assistance to the Borrower to secure compliance.
9.02      During Rroiect oreparation. The Borrower was mainly involved in the
search for overseas financial assistance to cover persisting gaps in the
financing of the overall road project. Otherwise he contributed little to the
preparation of the project other than making demands related to project
composition. At no point did the Borrower offer any substantiation as to why he
was proposing a particular project scope, and -hy he subsequently wished it to
be modified. After technical review, IDA accepted some of these demands and
declined some others.
9.03      During  implementation.  The  Borrower  approved  consultants  and
contractors invoices on time using for this purpose the technical assistance made
available to him under the project. There is no record of problems in this
respect. The Borrower showed commendable initiative in asking IDA to add to the
project the partial rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road which was financed
out of credit savings.
9.04      There is no evidence that the Borrower much concerned himself with
project  aspects  related  to  institution  building.  In  all  other  project
implementation aspects, the Borrower was largely passive. However, as the
technical assistance provided under the project functioned effectively, negative
consequences did not ensue from this state of affairs. This evaluation holds over
the short run and in a strict project context, given the fact that the bulk of
the project was a road construction project.
9.05      Proiect conditionality compliance. Of the ten covenants entered into
(cf Part III, 7), the Borrower fully complied with two. He complied with two
others after a delay of four to five years. A fifth covenant concerned the
employment of qualified consultants. The evidence in the files shows that the
covenant was complied with except for TA to MPW. There is no evidence showing
that IDA approved or disapproved the qualifications of the candidates for the TA.
This may suggest that the matter was not brought to its attention in written
form. The remaining five covenants were either not complied with, or there is no
evidence in the files confirming their compliance.
9.06      The denloyment of consultant  resources.  The consultants who did
construction supervision performed their job well. The consultants that provided
technical assistance also performed well when allowing for the tendency of the
/    The quote is from the Project Performance Audit Report on Rwanda Highways
IV of March 26, 1991. It is quoted ad verbatim as it fully applies to the Fifth
Highway Project also.



- 9 -
Borrower to use the consultants employed under technical assistance as a
management resource, especially in the day-to-day sense of the term rather than
in the proper sense of technical assistance which is the transfer of know-how and
the institution building expected to occur following such transfer. Despite this
limitation in TA use by the Borrower, some know-how may have percolated. No hard
data are available to evaluate how much of this happened. According to more
recent supervision missions, little transfer of know-how seems to have occurred.
According to these missions, there is little change to report on the Borrower's
attitude to technical assistance use.
9.07      The circumstances surrounding the provision of technical assistance
described in para 9.06 often occur in several developing countries. Even under
the best prepared technical assistance program, once implementation begins, the
pressure to deemphasize the main purpose of TA in favor of assistance in day to
day management of the organization often becomes stronger. A large degree of
vigilance is required on the part of the supervising IDA staff to at least keep
such prerssure low since its total elimination is not a realistic prospect.
9.08      As mentioned earlier, the project's technical assistance component did
not feature concrete goals and measures of performance. However, IDA supervising
staff did not seem to be aware of the problem referred to in paras 9.06 and 9.07,
and even if they had been, they spent too little time in the field to be
effective in this respect. A standard end of assignment report on technical
assistance is not in the files. There is no reference to one either and
presumably none was prepared.
10.0      Proiect Relationship
10.01     The written record does not contain any direct reference to Borrower-
IDA relations. However, some procurement problems arose during project
implementation on such subjects as guidelines, project reporting and compliance
with cred.t covenants. The fact that the Borrower does not adequatel1 prepare
the information required to get the most out of supervision missions and does not
manifest an active interest in the missions' supervision work during their visits
to the country constitutes indirect evidence that the Borrower-IDA relationship
needs further strengthening.
10.02     A conspicuous lack of adequate donor coordination throughout project
implementation affected relationships between the Borrower and the donors, and
between the donors themselves. Donor coordination was a matter of concern under
previous highway projects. It continued to be an elusive goal under the Fifth
highway project as well. For future projects financed by several donors such as
the Fifth Highway Project the following steps are recommended:
a.      At project preparation stage all participating donors should
make a deliberate effort to coordinate their plans and
programs.
b.      Donors  should  insist  that  the  totality  of  the  project
incorporating several donor components is jointly reported
upon according to a satisfactory format to be agreed upon
between themselves and the Borrower.
c.      At implementation stage they should meet regularly, at least
twice a year, to jointly monitor project progress.
11.0      Consultina Services. For a discussion of the subject, reference is made
to Section 9 on Borrower performance.



- 10 -
12.0      Proiect Documentation and Data
12.01     The strengths and weaknesses of the lecal acreements.  The legal
agreements were drawn in clearly stated and satisfactory fashion except for two
instances. Section concerning the commitment to maintain an adequately staffed
and functioning planning unit (section 4.02 of credit agreement), was not
detailed enough as far as the work scope of the unit was concerned.
12.02     Section 5.01 (h) of the credit agreement requires the Government to
submit project reports including indices for measuring performance. The scope of
these reports was spelled out in Annex III of the SAR but not in the Credit
Agreement. The project files yield no information as to the reasons that might
have caused this omission.
12.03     The Staff Appraisal Reoort. It had limited usefulness as a reference
for IDA and/or the Borrower during project implementation. It spelled out the
progress reporting requirements, a draft TOR for a transport planning expert and
one for a senior maintenance engineer. However, the technical assistance context,
goals and measures of performance were not specified. Neither was the economic
analysis sufficiently detailed for monitoring purposes. The SAR lacked sufficient
information on road sections of the broader road project which were being
financed by other donors.
12.04     Prolect Comoletion Report (PCRI PreRaration and data. The Borrower
supplied some of the complementary data needed for the preparation of Parts I&III
of the PCR just as the PCR was about to be finalized. Part of the data supplied
was already available, such as traffic on the IDA-financed road sections. The
most critical data requested concerned traffic counts on the whole length of the
project road including each of the sections financed by other donors and their
construction costs. Traffic data for these sections was not supplied. The only
traffic information given was for the roads in Rwanda, some of which
contradictory, and all of which was insufficient to establish general traffic
growth trends in the country since traffic counts were only carried out every
other year. It could not be used in this PCR.
12.05     Proiect documentation. None of the project documents listed in Annex V
of the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) could be found in the files. The files of the
preceding Fourth Highways Credit were also checked and these documents did not
appear in them either. There are no working documents in the files for project
Economic Rates of Return (ERRs). They could only be obtained from the private
files of the IDA economist who prepared them. The quarterly progress reports
which the Borrower was expected to submit to IDA were also lacking. There are no
audit reports or any other financial reports prepared until 1988 (for 1987), when
the first auditors were appointed. With one exception involving the addition to
the project of the rehabilitation of the Kigal.-Gatuna road, the credit
amendments referred to in the files could not be found either. During
implementation, project files should be checked regularly to make sure that all
the important project documents are present.



- 11 -
NOTE 1 FURTHER DETAIL AND COMMENTS ON THE ECONOMIC EVALUATION IN THE SAR
1.        The total distance from Butare to Cyangugu is 156 kms of which a 33 km
section from Cyangugu was in the process of rehabilitation at the time the
project was appraised. Total project length was thus 123 kms of which IDA would
finance a 53.5 km section and the balance of 69.5 kms was split between four
different donors. In the SAR the economic evaluation limits itself to the section
financed by IDA which was evaluated as two sub sections. The first is the Butare-
Kigeme sub section of 35 kms and the second the Kigeme-Kitabi sub section of 18.5
kms. The reason for the subdivision is that traffic drastically falls off west
of Kigeme in the unpopulated area of the Nyungwe forest.
2.        A cement plant is located beyond Cyangugu at the end of the road near
lake Kivu. According to the working papers of the economic evaluation, of the
plant's projected annual production of 30000 tons, 24000 tons would divert to the
road once constructed. In the SAR, total benefits on account of the diverted
cement traffic  was pro rated to the two sub-sections financed under the credit
on a km length basis. The basis was the whole of the 123 kms which required
construction.
3.        For the Kigeme-Kitabi subsection of 18.5 kms the SAR. showed an ERR of
13%. Without the inclusion of benefits related to diversion of cement traffic
from an earlier more complex road-lake-road transport, the ERR would have dropped
to about 7%. Induced traffic benefits for this sub section were calculated
assuming an induced traffic elasticity in excess of five. The treatment of
benefits generated by diverted cement traffic is thus of decisive importance for
the ERR of the Kigeme-Kitabi section.
4.        A more adequate method to follow would have been to exclude cement
related benefits from the Butare-Kigeme section and remain with an ERR of 13%
which is marginally satisfactory. This means that this particular sub section can
be economically justified and constructed as a self contained project without
linking its economic justification to that of the other sections. A single ERR
estimate would then be calculated for the remaining 88 kms of the road to which
all the cement related benefits would be credited, as well as other traffic on
this road.
5.        On the basis of cement related benefits alone, and assuming that per
km construction costs are not substantially different for the non IDA-financed
sections, the ERR for the 88 km length is about 4.5% which is unsatisfactory.
However the addition to the benefit analysis of the normal traffic on the
sections not financed by IDA would obviously have boosted the ERR of this
section. Maybe, if the feasibility studies were available it would be possible
to establish the ERR by applying correct methodology to this 88 km section which
includes the second IDA financed sub section . Until this is done, the economic
justification of the second sub section financed by IDA remains undemonstrated
as does that of the 88 km section itself.
6.        A variant of the above described method would have been to calculate
an overall rate of return for the whole 123 km length of the project. The
preferability of this method to the above described "one-two" approach is based
on the premise that since the project was conceived as a single operation, not
involving phases, it could be evaluated through a single rate of return. Either
one of the proposed methods would have been more appropriate than the one used
in the SAR.



X
X
H
f
fi
N
S
N
3
g
"
g
m
|
S
:f
r



- 12 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1250-RW)
PART II: PROJECT REVIEW FROM bORROWER'$ PERSPECTIVE
1.    Xntrodag&ion
The Fifth IDA Highway Project covered by Credit 1250 RW is composed as
follows:
I.    Paving of the 53.50 kms Butare-Ritabi section of the Butare-Cyangugu
road.
It.   Consultants' services for:
* Preparation of the project under the PPF and supervision of the
paving work on the Butare-Kitabi section;
* Technical studies for restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road;
* Preinvestment studies;
e The program of technical assistance to the Ministry of Public
Works, Energy and Water Resources.
III.  Purchase of materials and supplies for routine maintenance of the
Kigali-Catuna road.
IV.   Purchase of weighing scales to monitor and enforce vehicle weight
regulations.
The Fifth Highway Project started in 1982 and was closed on May 30,
1989.
The works listed above were carried out satisfactorily and the loan
requirements were met without any difficulty.
2.    Proiect Obiectives
The primary objective of the Fifth Highway Project has been to promote
the economic integration of the southwestern region of Rwanda with the rest
of the country following construction of the E.a're-Cyangugu road, and also
to link Rwanda with the other countries along the Northern Corridor following
restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road.
This has facilitated commercial flows between the southwestern region
and other parts of the country, as well as trade among Zaire, Burundi and
Rwanda.
Rehabilitation of the Kigali-Gatuna road will considerably reduce the
cost of transporting goods from Kenya via Uganda.
The Ministry of Public Works, Energy and Water Resources notes with
satisfaction that the objectives assigned to the Fifth Highway Project have
been achieved.
The weighing scales were ordered in 1983 and were installed in 1989
following construction of parking areas at Kagitumba and Gatuna on the
Ugandan-Rwandess border.   Unfortunately these weighing scales have never
operated as they are inappropriate to actual conditions in the field.  A
report has been prepared on this subject and will be sent to IDA for
information and possible comment.
It should, however, be noted that the Government intends to replace
these weighing scales with others of appropriate design, and that scales for
trucks have continuously been used in Kigali.



- 13 -
3.    DasLSn and Organizatlon of tho Proiect
The careful design and organization of the project enabled the expected
results to be achieved. Thanks to detailed preparation work with the World
Bank, project implementation was greatly simplifLed.
4.    Project- ExScutlon
The portion of the project dealing with rehabilitation of the Kigali-
Catuna road benefited from an approximately $6 million saving on the cost of
constructing the Butare-Kitabi section.   This surplus enabled work to be
continued on the Kigali-Gatuna road, which was comple -ad with funds under the
Sixth Highway Project.
Regular visits by World Bank missions allowed certain problems that
arose in the course of project implemontation to be resolved. It should be
noted that, even though work has been completed, a major problem still exists
regarding construction of a bridge across Swamp B.  Until this brLdge in
built, traffic along the route will be subject to interruption.
Supervision of the project and the work performed by the consultants
were both satisfactory. The absence of training and transfer of technology
components is to be regretted. We are of the opinion that IDA should back up
the Government in strengthening tra!ing efforts during consultant and expert
missLons, so as to ensure that local manpower can provide post-project
support.
5.    Roeults of the Protect
The project was implemented as planned in all its components without
any major problems.
The existence of two paved roads will allow secure, reliable
communication among the various parts of the country at all times of the year
(provided a definitive solution can be found to the Swamp B problem).
6.    Comments on Part I of the Proiect Comoletion Reoort for the Fifth
Hiahwav Project and Confirmation of Part III
The Government does not fully subscribe to what is stated in Section 9
of Part I of the Project Completion Report for the Fifth Highway Project
prepared by the World Bank. The statLitical information provided in Part III
of the final report is in agreement with that available to the Government.



I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-
a~~~~~~~~~



- 14 -
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
(CREDIT 1250-RW)
PART III: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
1 Related Bonk Loons and/or Credits
Yoar of
Credit         titlo                Purpose                                Approval     Status
196-RW     Firct Highway project   Mi;ntenance equipment              1970 cloced tn 1979
and construction
299-RW     Second Highway Project  Institution building               1972 closod In 1978
highway s*ctor.
475-RW     Third Highway Project   Construction                       1974 closed In 19'?
769-RW     Fourth Highway Project  Institution building               1978 closed In 1984
re maintenance
1250-RW    Fifth Highway Project   Construction                       1982 closed In 1990
1641-RW    Sixth Highway Project   Institution buildtng               1086
re maintenance
2136-RW    Transport sector         Transport sector                  1090
Rehabilitation Project  Rehabilitstion
-- - - - - - - - -n-- - -       - - - - - - - - -- - --oe- - - - - -- - - - - - - - - - -



- 15 -
2. Project Timetable
Doat                        SAR        Actual
it"                             Planned                   Estimate         DeOta
from 04/00/80
project beotf
- Identification                                                              06/1/79
(executive Project
Summsry)
- Preparation                         02-68/80                              02/80-67/81
- Appraisal Mission                      09/80                                 07/22/81
- Credit                                 64/1                                  64/065/82
negotiati on
- Board Approval                         06/81                                 06/20/82
- Credit                                                                       06/09/82
Signature
- Credit                                 09/81                    09/08/82     12/08/82
Effectivnoess
- Project                                                         12/31/86     06/30/89
Completion
- Credit                                                          12/31/89     07/17/S9
Closing
Doe-ailed project Schedul1
SAR Estimate
Actual
Starting       completion              completion
date                 dote              datc
road construction                   1/83                Tv/86              KV/so
weighing scales                     1/83                 11/83             IVY/s
technical assistanco                K/83                 KV/86             SV/86
proinvestment studios               IY/82               111/14             IV/83
K;gali-atuns road                   1/04                 IV/84             IV/so
maintennceo



3. Crei Disbursemens
C_misise EatimUd a" Mct"  Oismseseto
osususs UsjN                                       .                        .       . 
FM i   FM         l    FM        FVO       W      _    N      F
Appraisal b0Iin3. (8 am                                       a2          gem    ISIN        SSW
*";       i lasi (U3 OM                             50        am          11453   213        230
hus. (SR o)                                         220       4#0         tow    aMOs        Sim        360    ISNO
iAml as  e of BatmUael                            40.5       63.6        51.6    10.0       n1.3
lt. of Fial  slu,uwmslt         boi  V1. &W    a
Cost rsads Fim_ *cIa
4. Project Cooke NW        Psiogi Cost
. _.._. ..___
s. Froject c14. 6
re    rjc Wlbrief. as"l                       ;asi Is Ws                             FnF          epr
i Cl@g6                                         i Fors                              Ferle
6c                                          Legl   esglmols                        Lea s- *es_                                                               *
1memO ai                                                         i                C"t-       Coet       10.             Cowts       e   lo
w         _ore a   *i, (to b)        S.75           .5       *6.aD                 4.4        2.2       u1.60 4e5                 3u  0 U.U
cosasiesctio  eutllsbSar.al"Lbi valp (53.5 las)
coss""em, ampervision,       0.4S          2.85       2.30                0.20       0.O0       3.00             0.27    3.06    1.33
pf pro.ifiaary, "eiaee.i.            0.06          0.15       0.25                0.30        0.S 0.25                   0.30    00    0.29
essseh   cales,                      0.00          0.30       0.30                 0.01       0.e4       0.S             0.06    O."    0.72
iegtgui  -aliatmos                    0.30         0.40       0.50                0.n1        3.         1.35            0.30    3.34    3.45
Prel?m"wss  otadls                   0.*0          0.0        1.00                0.30        0.30       0.25            0.06    0.65    0.63
Uleaii4atae" rd
sIpissenia  6*8.                                                                  0.03       0.06        0.30             A.1y    5.03    6.30
Ca.;-     , eomt"U                                                                 _.                                                        . 
aoatsas ,    id tso  Ct,stoe                                                                              . 0.03  0.51  0.40
os,ste.ee* Kiiaaimael
s.lotal                              7.43         41.12      49.35                 6.04      3.6        30.80            1.3    22.24   29.21
plgacal ueatlAueus.s                  0.74         4.11       4.01                0.51         .46       2.00
pric e muesgsci0o                    2.15         32.52       14.74                3.30       3.80       6.10
rat slo *a                      .                                                0.46   . .20           I.46
Woo prjec iO ab                    03             .41      Wso                  1.4       22.f2      30.6              1.02    22.24    29.26
ielt  not of ta*s                                                                  1. 2.9.32           30.30
_st: aos meiias *uses revised in thse meauilots erl of =0/(?4 f#losiea_ 4desasad revisins Ia &.-o
sid  amabled 4os ;osisels late lb. project f resabalisito    *       as6    i r - edi sod a" origoislig 1esui sew-.



0. Projail Flailag
a* 156 t
SiSal totuvato IDA 
ba,c.         06136J0r  oSllJ;        04J8016    OSII
SM             .34         38*        ~~~~~~~~~~25.9  25.10
25   31            11.0
MIS    ~ ~ ~~z Su                            30.0| Ol  el
Flsagada                      31        24-
Wm                                      U.0
WA.                                                 14.0
ban                                      *          2.70        2.70
total               U                     16~~~~~~4  7.6  w
C. "Ms Plasadg by Pr.ject CospSoaas_
La Cidil a~.mal   Actua (fiaul) Flaaalag
Mj ~ ~  ~     ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ S *uw i_w _ot
__._,. .__    . _r
14 Ct r~~~~~~iD                   "r W     am te TOTAL Fi*
bAdA 0ahWtka                         34.0             U        16.31                1.51       U."3
assul    Isrila                       L.U            Wll        2.16        0."6                 6.
slalsg oales.                         0.34           n00        0.."                0."6        3.25
lhIuri.l1 sa  swpgll.                 0:63 frala, sup too
leoal a_ t0
MUavasrefuadlag                 0.25            100
NW tasa   ad rma.l,t1me                                   6.35000                         60
_*1            5i                                   O.Zi                     ..A
thalieo                               6.es
Z_.3 =5                                   .



S. Studie
Prell-ieary .nginae.oag           lo teat ta techaical       Study was financed admr a PPF
and f.aaibility                   and econoeic feasibility  Study was *xecuted but copy not-
study update tor Bularm,4itabi    of the P0oject             available la fil- documents.
road
2          Stwdy for the reoration of eA above for the Kigp1l-  Study was executed but copy  ot
Kigali-Ostuna road aNd lntri-    Catuna read                 available In files
maistenane
a         Prelonvesteat studies              Type and scop of studies
to be deternled during   Nneo were  eeuted.
project b pleme_tation.
I.
t  *



5. Statusa of, ovnnts
Cenmat                        Snbjet                                SM reference               Stat.
3.61       The Borrermr hAll mploy civil  nin.oriag  Nd foad             5.61 (e) and ()       Complied witb for conslting compenl".
iaatenace cosulitnast  roadoeaat.nano. nie                                          No evidee for
a trmeport econoist SW mchaical engior                                              compliae for technical assisteec
whos qulifications N                                                                slts.
*xperlene and tenw and conitio"s of employmet are
sateifactorw to IDA.
a.04       The Borrower: (1) shall miatao recrde rad                     6.01 (I)              No evidence ot compliance Is *vailablo.
(b)       procedure. adopete to record and monitor th  progroes
of the project lncluding Its cost and beneits to be
derivd from It.
3.04       Promptly after completien of the project but not              no SM relfereae       Not copieod with.
(d)        later tha as months after closing date te berrower
shall furnsth IDA a project complotion report Is scope
and dtail IDA will reasoaably requet.
3.06       The Borroer *hall establish weight regulations  nd            6.91 (a)              The legislation Was enactd
(a)         ethbods to enforce them, acceptable to IDA, for vehicle                            on July 11, 1986.
usiag its read network consistnt with teb *tructeral
and geomtric deig  standards of sucb roads and
hall enforce such regultions from a date on or before
12/31/62.
(b)        iestall nd operate two wehicle weighing scrles one at         6.91 (d)              Compiled with, with a five year delay.
Catuna *ad the other at Kagitumbe by 12/31/13.
3.07       The Borrower sball not latr than 09/30/82 present             6.61 (b)              No evidenc, of complianc.
IDA for its approval a propesal to simplify disbursemnt
procedures under the Road Brancbes recurrent bdgt.
3.08       The Borroer shall, not later than a6/30/83 carry out          6.91 (c)              Complied sith.
studies under Part C (1) of the project, prepre an
action plan based o the conclusioa of such studies
qand ldeatify   utrces of fin"cinpg neded to carry out
the actio plan.
4.01       The Borrower shall mainta  separate accounts adequte                                No evidnce of compliance.
(a)       to refloct the operatisn resource  and  xpenditures in
respect of the project of the departe nts and agenci  of the
Borrower respoasible for carrying out the project.



(b)        Specifically the Borrower shall (i) cause the Road Breach      6.01 (9)              No evidence of compliance.
to keep accounts of all *xpenditures from its investment budget
and separste accounts for the project; (ii) at the end of each
fiscal year to have the accounts
audited by audttors acceptable to 1DA (ili) furnish IDA not
later than six months after the nd o; such a year a copy of
the audited accounts; and furnish IDA other information
concerning its accoutas.
4.02       The Borrower shall saintain  the Planning Unit and keep It    no reference to         No evidence of compliance.
staffed with well qualified staff in sufficient numbrs.        Annex 11 In SAR.
6.01       A condition of effectiveness wIll be that financing agrements                         Compiled with.
between the Coverament and the AfDB EEC 8ADEA and KFAED
for construction and works supervislon of the Kitabi-Cyangugu
rd hawv ben signed by 09/08/62.
a
N



6. Use of Bank Rtsoures
A. Staff Inputs
Stag of                         Actual
Projoct Cycle                             HQ          Ftold       Total
Throug  Appralsl                                                  67.9'
Apprelal through                                                  10.9
Bord Approval
Board Approval                                                     1.6
Through
Effect twees
Supervislon                                                       29.4
TOTAL                                                            169.7
l



