Document of                  t v 7 p      .          .P
The World Bank                                            i
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. P-3294-RW
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION
OF THE
PRESIDENT OF THE
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS
ON A
PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE
RWANDESE REPUBLIC
FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 3, 1982
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$1.00     =      Rwandese franc (Rf) 91.91
RF 100      =      US$1.09
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
GLOSSARY OF ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB       -  African Development Bank
BADEA      -  Arab Bank for Economic Development in Africa
FED        -  European Development Fund
KFAED      -  Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MC         -  Ministry of Communications
MPW        -  Ministry of Public Works
PED        -  Planning and Engineering Department
of the Roads Branch
RB         -  Roads Branch of the Ministry of Public Works
STIR       -  Societe des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda
UNDP       -  United Nations Development Programme
voc        -  Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd        -  Vehicles per Day
WD         -  Works Department of the Roads Branch
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
Metric                                        British/US Equivalents
1  meter (m)                                       3.3 feet
1  hectare (ha)                                    2.47 acre
1  kilometer (km )      2                          0.62 miles
1  square kilometer (km )          =               0.39 square mile (sq. mi.)
1  kilogram (kg)                                   2.2 pounds (lb)
1  liter (1)                                       0.26 US gallon (gal)
0.22 British gallon (imp gal)
1  metric ton (m ton)                              2,204 pounds (lb)



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
(i)
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Credit and Project Summary
.
Borrower:         Rwandese Republic
Amount:           SDRs 23.3 million (US$25.9 million equivalent)
Terms:            Standard
Project           (i)  Objectives:  To foster economic integration of the
Description:           southwestern region with the rest of the country, to
facilitate agricultural development in this region
and to improve overall transport planning capacity.
(ii) Components: The project would consist of the following:
(a)  construction to paved standard of the Butare-Kigeme-
Kitabi section (53.5 km) of the Butare-Cyangugu
road;
(b)  consulting services for (i) completion of prepa-
ration studies and supervision of construction work
under (a) above, (ii) engineering studies for the
restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km),
(iii) preinvestment studies, and (iv) technical
assistance to the Ministry of Public Works;
(c)  procurement of materials and supplies for main-
tenance of the Kigali-Gatuna road; and
(d)  procurement and installation of weighing scales for
control and enforcement of vehicle weight regulations.
(iii)  Benefits:  The project would reduce vehicle operating
costs (voc) for normal traffic and reduce total
transport costs for the cement works which are being
completed near Cyangugu. Such cost reductions would
derive not only from the effects of a better road
surface, but also from the feasibility of using larger
and hence more economical vehicles once the road has
been upgraded. The expected impact of reducing voc in
the influence area of the road would include increased
foodcrop production (highly sensitive to transport
costs and perishability). Major direct beneficiaries
of voc savings would be the traders/truckers. As road
improvement increases competition and encourages new
traders/truckers to enter the local transport market,
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



(ii)
most of the benefits would likely be passed on to
producers and consumers. Regarding the cement plant's
output, direct beneficiaries are likely to be the
cement company and/or the trading/trucking sector; it
is expected that a significant portion of the savings
would be passed on to the construction industry.
(iv)   Risks:  Past experience in the sector has shown
frequent cost overruns due to periodic shortages of
construction materials and fuel caused by border
closings in neighboring countries through which
these commodities must be transported. To minimize
interruptions in construction works, provision would
be made for a larger than usual stock of material and
fuel. In addition to physical and price contingen-
cies, project cost estimates include a special 10 per-
cent risk allowance to cover unforeseen increases in
construction costs should unexpected interruptions
occur and an additional 10 percent risk allowance to
take into account the wide variations in bids expe-
rienced in Rwanda. Difficult soil conditions also
present some risk. Therefore, periodic services of an
experienced soils engineer are proposed, in addition
to supervisory consultants. The soils engineer would
help the Government, Association and supervisory
consultants in reviewing soil and geologic conditions,
the use of appropriate construction materials and the
application of proper work techniques.
Estimated Costs:
Local      Foreign        Total
--------(US$ million)-
(a)  Construction of Butare-Kitabi
Road (53.5 km)                         4.5        12.1           16.6
(b)  Consulting Services                    0.5         2.5            3.0
(c)  Materials & Supplies &
Weighing Scales                        0.1         0.6            0.7
(d)  Contingencies (physical, price
& special risk allowance)              2.7         7.7           10.4
Total                            7.8       22.9            30.7
of which taxes and duties        0.6         0.0            0.6



(iii)
Financing Plan:               Local       Foreign      Total
-(US$ million)-------
IDA                  4.2         21.7        25.9
UNDP  .              0.3          1.2          1.5
Government           2.7 1/        -          2.7
Total        7.2         22.9         30.1
Estimated Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year
(US$ millions equivalent)
1983    1984    1985    1986    1987
Annual:                            0.6     8.6    10.2       5.7    0.8
Cumulative:                        0.6     9.2    19.4    25.1   25.9
Rate of Return:    16 percent
Appraisal Report: No. 3860a-RW of May 11, 1982
Map: IBRD 16034
1/   Government would in addition provide about US$0.6 million for taxes if
included in the contracts.



l



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
REPORT AND RECOMMENDATION OF THE PRESIDENT
TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED CREDIT
TO THE RWANDESE REPUBLIC FOR A
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
1.        I submit the following report and recommendation on a proposed
Credit to the Rwandese Republic for the equivalent of SDRs 23.3 million
(US$25.9 million) on standard IDA terms to finance a Fifth Highway Project.
The UNDP would cover costs (US$1.5 million) for technical assistance and
studies under the project.
PART I - THE ECONOMY
2.        A report, "Memorandum on the Economy of Rwanda" (No. 1108-RW), was
distributed to the Executive Directors on July 27, 1976. Rwanda was visited
by an economic mission in February 1979 and again in November/December 1981.
The major findings of this recent mission are reflected below. Country data
are provided in Annex I.
3.        Rwanda is a small landlocked country in sub-Saharan Africa, sur-
rounded by Uganda, Tanzania, Burundi and Zaire. It has the third highest
population density of low income countries, at 207 persons/km (following
Bangladesh and Sri Lanka), and its GNP per capita is among the lowest in the
world, at US$200 in 1980. Rwanda-s population (nearly 5.2 million in 1980) is
predominantly rural (with only 4.5 percent in urban areas), and lives in small
individual farms scattered over hilly terrain. The balance between food
production and population is precarious, as potentially arable land is almost
fully exploited, and population is expanding at an estimated 3.6 percent
annually. Twice recently (1974 and 1980), Rwanda had to resort to emergency
food imports. Agriculture (coffee, tea, pyrethrum, cinchona) provides most of
the country-s foreign exchange earnings. Coffee is, by far, the most important
source (62 percent) followed by mining products (20 percent), mainly
cassiterite and wolfram. Rwanda-s manufacturing base is narrow, and its
growth is limited by the small size of the market, and the lack or raw
materials, marketing facilities, entrepreneurial skills and skilled manpower.
The country, consequently, imports petroleum products, capital goods, cement,
steel, construction materials, and virtually every other modern manufactured
product.  Its merchandise trade is hampered by high transportation costs and
dependence on neighboring countries for access to the seaports at Mombasa and
Dar es Salaam.
4.        A quantitative assessment of Rwanda-s economic performance can only
be tentative because of deficiencies in the statistical data base. Available
estimates indicate that during the period 1977-79 the rate of growth of real
GDP averaged 5 percent, but declined to about 4 percent in 1980. The average



- 2 -
contribution of the agricultural sector to GDP, from 1977 to 1980, was 45
percent, and the sector's performance reflected mainly variations in foodcrop
production, which during this period accounted for 79 percent of the value
added by the sector. Foodcrop production oscillated with weather condition-.
but is estimated to have been, on average, slightly above the rate of popula-
tion growth. The remaining 21 percent of the value added by the agricultural
sector is shared by livestock, fishing, and export crops. As a consequence of
the pressure of population on land, the cattle herd has been reduced, and thus
the contribution of livestock to the growth of the primary sector; fish
production remains very low, as there is no tradition of fish consumption.
Export crops, involving only 6 percent of Rwanda's arable land and contributing
an average of 11 percent to the value added by the agricultural sector, are of
crucial importance to the economy. Coffee is not only the principal source of
foreign exchange but also a major source of cash income to a large proportion
of the population and has accounted for a significant proportion of the
Government's budgetary revenue.
5.        The contribution of mining production to GDP averaged only 2 percent
in 1977-80, and has declined in recent years. Output of cassiterite and
wolfram has stagnated, owing to low international prices aggravated recently
by the appreciation of the Rwandese franc, which is linked to the United
States dollar. Furthermore, supply of necessary fuels has at times been
irregular (as in 1979, with the closing of the Uganda border), and access to
additional deeper seams by small-scale independent miners has become
increasingly difficult.
6.        The contribution of the manufacturing sector to GDP averaged 15
percent from 1977 to 1980. There are indications that manufacturing has
experienced some significant real growth in recent years, principally in
traditional production (mainly of banana and sorghum beer), which is estimated
at nearly three-quarters of the value added in industry. Important also are
the agro-industries (coffee, tea, pyrethrum), sugar refining, and beer and
fruit juice production (lemon, passion-fruit etc.). Rwanda's modern manufactur-
ing base has grown slowly, often in response to foreign aid. Examples include
a cement plant under construction in the south, financed by China, and a match
factory financed by Japan. The construction sector contributed, on average,
4 percent to GDP in the period 1977-80. Its recent growth has been limited to
the building of dwellings, mainly in Kigali (Rwanda's capital), and public
buildings.
7.        The assessment of performance of the tertiary sector is particularly
tentative, partly because of the difficulties associated with evaluating
commercial activities in the rural areas (traditional trade in coffee and
foodcrops), but also because of probable tax evasion. The data available
indicate that commerce and transportation contributed nearly 18 percent to
GDP, on average, during 1977-80. Other tertiary activities seem to have
expanded in real terms, especially public administration, whose contribution
to GDP averaged 8 percent in that period.



- 3 -
8.        Traditionally, Rwanda-s fiscal policies have been prudent, and
have taken into account the variations of revenue from export taxes, notably
on coffee. As a result, current budgetary surpluses averaged 3 percent of GDP
in 1977-80. The budget structure reflects the narrow revenue base, high
recurrent expenditures, and development expenditures which are contingent upon
external assistance. In 1977-80, more than 50 percent of central government
revenues came from import and export taxes, with coffee exports alone contribu-
ting 25 percent; taxes on beverages (17 percent), and on income and profits
(18 percent), accounted for the remainder. Recurrent expenditures were
distributed mainly among Government-s administrative services (25 pecent),
education (24 percent), and defense (20 percent), but expenditures on agricul-
ture and public works have expanded faster in recent years. Budgeted develop-
ment expenditures have been particularly important in agriculture (18 percent,
in 1977-80), transport and communications (13 percent), education (13 percent)
and other social services (16 percent).
9.        The fiscal situation, however, is being affected by a number of
unfavorable trends. Preliminary estimates indicate that in 1981, contrary to
the preceding years, increases in revenue fell short of increases in expendi-
tures. Coffee prices declined, and in spite of higher export volume, budgetary
receipts from this source also fell. At the same time, there was a sharp
expansion in government expenditures reflecting, inter alia, the impact of the
general wage increase granted in September 1980 and the costs associated with
the addition of a new ministry of education and the establishment of a new
legislative assembly. In an effort to expand the revenue base and increase
revenue, the Government introduced a new business tax which, however, has not
yet yielded sufficient resources to compensate for the fall in revenue from
coffee, and the overall treasury position shifted from a surplus of Rwf 1.4
billion (US$15.1 million equivalent) in 1980 (equivalent to 1.3 percent of
GDP) to an estimated deficit of Rwf 2.1 billion (US$23.1 million equivalent)
in 1981 (equivalent to about 2 percent of GDP).  Even if growth in government
expenditures is slowed, continued deficits are likely in the medium-term, as
revenue from coffee is expected to remain depressed, and the possibility of
recourse to other taxes (or to increased tax rates) is limited.
10.       Conservative monetary and credit policies were followed during the
1977-80 period, and thus did not contribute to inflationary pressures. These
have arisen mainly from supply shortages caused by frequent disruptions of
supply routes through neighboring countries, increased international transport
costs, and increased prices of imports and domestic foodstuffs. Inflation
averaged 12.5 percent per annum during 1977-80; it peaked at 16 percent in
1979, primarily as a result of the closing of the Uganda border, but also
reflecting higher transport costs following the 1979-80 oil price rises.
The inflation rate declined to 7.2 percent in 1980, and remained at this level
in 1981 as trade through Uganda was back to normal, the prices of domestic
foodstuffs did not increase, and there was a significant slowdown in the rate
of increase of import prices.



11.       Rwanda's balance of payments generally reflects coffee market
conditions, and has benefited in recent years from significant net capital
inflows. During the period 1977 to 1980, the current account deficit averaged
US$105 million. Nevertheless, it was substantially lower in 1977 and 1979,
and higher in 1978 and 1980, in line with fluctuations in coffee export
receipts. Sustained net capital inflows led to overall balance of payments
surpluses each year, and Rwanda's gross official foreign reserves, at end-1980,
were equivalent to seven months of projected 1981 imports of goods and non-
factor services.  The decline in coffee export receipts observed in 1980
continued in 1981. Preliminary estimates indicate that in spite of a signifi-
cant net inflow of capital, Rwanda suffered its first reserve loss in many
years, bringing gross official foreign reserves down to the equivalent of five
months of projected 1982 imports of goods and non-factor services. Medium-
term prospects are not encouraging, as the terms of trade are expected to
deteriorate. Because there are no viable alternatives, in the medium-term, to
the products currently exported, export receipts are likely to increase only
slightly (on the strength of increased volumes of coffee and tea), while
import payments will probably remain at a high level, as Rwanda's needs will
increase if growth is to be sustained.
12.       Rwanda's development plan for the period 1977-81 included as its
main priorities to increase food production, improve living standards through
more widespread access to better health care and basic social services,
increase employment and improve utilization of human resources, and strengthen
the country-s external position (through reducing its dependence on coffee as
the principal source of foreign exchange earnings and its vulnerability to
external factors, such as transportation). The Government has made serious
efforts to pursue these objectives, but structural, financial, and institu-
tional constraints have limited the success of its policies. Particularly,
institutional weaknesses stemming from lack of skilled personnel, fragmentation
of institutional responsibilities, and poor coordination among concerned
agencies have hindered project preparation and implementation and public
sector management, and have thus contributed to the sluggishness of plan
implementation. The Government's efforts to increase agricultural production,
especially of foodcrops, have had modest results, and food supply remains
inadequate. This situation is likely to be aggravated in the medium-term, as
population is increasing rapidly. The work of the National Population Office,
recently created and still being organized, will take time to produce results.
There has been a gradual increase in the number of health/nutrition centers
and hospital beds, but health services in rural areas are still sparse, and
water supply has tended to deteriorate in some rural areas. The implementation
of the 1979 education reform has been hampered by financial and administrative
constraints and by the limited number of teachers. The only significant
increases in employment have occurred in the public administration and con-
struction sectors. While Rwanda succeeded in diversifying somewhat its export
crops by increasing the production of tea, this did not serve to reduce
significantly its vulnerability to volatile world market conditions.



- 5 -
13.       One of the 1977-81 Plan's main objectives was to reduce the country's
vulnerability to transportation through neighboring countries; improvement of
internal transportation is also needed to stimulate agricultural productivity.
Rwanda's rudimentary road network has hampered agriculture specialization and
monetization, and thus modernization of the agricultural sector. External
donors finance most of Rwanda's infrastructure projects, and investment in
roads and road maintenance has increased in recent years. However, a large
proportion of the road network is still not passable during the rainy seasons
which sometimes disrupt trade. The trans-Africa highway through Uganda and
Kenya to the port of Mombasa carries most of Rwanda's external trade.
*        Interruptions of this trade have had strongly negative impacts on the economy,
as during the Uganda/Tanzania war in 1978-79 when the Government was forced to
resort to expensive air transport. Air Rwanda, the state-owned airline,
purchased a used Boeing 707 cargo plane which has been used since July 1979 to
transport all kinds of merchandise. Kigali's airport has been equipped for
all-weather operation and, since its recent extension, can now accommodate wide
body jets. It appears likely that air transport will continue to grow in
importance, given the risks of political disruptions in the region and the
prohibitively high cost of shipment over alternative routes.
14.       External agencies have financed the largest proportion of development
expenditures in Rwanda. The principal sources of foreign assistance and their
average share during 1977-80 were Belgium (26 percent), the European Develop-
ment Fund (13 percent), the Federal Republic of Germany (9 percent), the
United Nations System (14 percent), and France (8 percent). IDA contributed
over half of the United Nations system share. Japan, Switzerland, non-govern-
mental organizations, Canada, and the United States account for the remainder.
External aid has been mainly in the form of technical assistance and financing
infrastructure development. Most of the technical assistance (58 percent) has
benefitted three sectors: agriculture, education, and health care. Investment
in transport and communications accounted for about two-thirds of infrastruc-
ture financing in 1980. Together, these four sectors received nearly 62
percent of the aid extended to Rwanda in 1980, an emphasis which is in line
with the country's avowed objectives and priorities.
15.       Rwanda's need for external assistance will increase in the next few
years as its fiscal and balance of payments prospects are less favorable
than in the past, principally as a result of depressed world prices for its
major exports (coffee, tea, cassiterite and wolfram). Agricultural production,
particularly of foodcrops, is not expected to increase significantly in the
short run, as it will take time to raise yields on arable land, most of which
is already under cultivation. Large increases in mining production will only
be possible if the financing for currently planned investments materialize.
The performance of the other sectors, which depend heavily on imported
goods, can only be maintained with further reserve losses and/or increased net
inflow of capital, and these sectors will probably compete with food items for
scarce foreign exchange. Thus, the medium-term outlook for Rwanda is not
encouraging, especially at a time when the external agencies themselves also
have financial constraints. Fortunately, however, the country's external debt



- 6 -
is still low. At end-1980, the public- and publicly-guaranteed external debt
amounted to US$170 million, or 14 percent of GDP, and the debt service ratio
was equivalent to only 3.2 percent of exports of goods and non-factor services.
Hence, there remains considerable scope for further borrowing. Nevertheless
given the poverty of the country, the vulnerability of its economy and its
poor medium-term prospects, external funds should continue to be provided
mostly in the form of grants or loans at highly concessionary terms.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
16.       Bank Group assistance started in 1970 and initially focused on
the improvement of the road network and the strengthening of agricultural
production. Rwanda has received fifteen IDA credits totalling US$135.5
million, of which four (totalling US$43.1 million) were for roads, six
(US$64.3 million) for agriculture, two (US$9.2 million) for DFC projects, one
(US$8.0 million reduced to US$6.4 million) for education, one (US$7.5 million)
for telecommunications and one (US$5.0 million) for technical assistance.
There have been no Bank loans. An IFC loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory
was signed in 1976; a second IFC loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity
commitment of up to US$60,000 to expand the tea factory were signed in Sept-
ember 1980. Annex II contains a summary statement of IDA credits, IFC invest-
ments and notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
17.       The first three highway projects are completed and totally disbursed.
A fourth credit for a highway maintenance project (Credit 769-RW), which
became effective in August 1978, is three-quarters completed and is pro-
gressing satisfactorily (further details on Bank Group operations in the high-
way subsector are provided in para. 34, below).
18.       The first agricultural development (Mutara) project was completed
in July 1979 and funds have now been completely disbursed. 1/ A second credit
of US$8.8 million, which supports the second phase of a long-term development
for the Mutara region, was declared effective on May 30, 1980, but has experi-
enced start-up problems due to difficulties in recruiting technical assistance.
The Cinchona Project (US$1.8 million) is nearing satisfactory completion;
the Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo mixed farming and rural development project
(US$14.0 million) is expected to be completed in December 1982. Construction,
procurement and budgeting are proceeding satisfactorily, though the results of
foodcrop and plant improvement components are below appraisal estimates due to
1/   A Project Completion Report (August 1980) concluded that even though the
increases in agricultural production were less than originally expected,
substantial achievements had been realized under the project in the
areas of infrastructure development and in experience acquired by
Rwandese staff in project management. In addition, the project had
served as a positive instrument for IDA and the Government in developing
a sectoral dialogue for the Mutara area.



- 7 -
a failure to come up with appropriate technical packages for the relatively
dry project area. A project to support reforestation programs in Kigali,
Butare and Gisenyi Prefectures (IDA Credit 1039-RW for US$21.0 million) became
effective on November 11, 1981; the project includes a study of renewable
energy sources for Rwanda. A US$15.0 million credit for a coffee improvement/
foodcrops project in the Lake Kivu region became effective January 18, 1982.
A credit for an education project (US$8.0 million) became effective in 1975;
physical implementation has been slow and complicated by procurement problems.
More recently, however, project performance has improved (para. 19 below).
The first credit of US$4.0 million to the Development Finance Company (BRD)
has now been fully committed. BRD's performance under the credit has been
highly satisfactory. A second credit of US$5.2 million to BRD was signed on
July 13, 1979, and became effective on January 4, 1980. A credit for a
telecommunications project (US$7.5 million) which aims at reducing Rwanda's
geographic isolation from other countries and at improving internal telecom-
munications facilities, became effective July 7, 1981.
19.       In fiscal years 1979-81, disbursements for Rwanda totalled US$28.9
million compared to new commitments of US$42.4 million. In the same period,
the average annual disbursement rate (ratio of change in disbursements to
undisbursed balance) was 20 percent; this is about average for other countries
of the East Africa Region. While disbursement performance in general is
satisfactory, notable difficulties have arisen in the case of the First
Education Project. The lack of acceptable record keeping has impeded the
processing of disbursement requests. However, following a UNESCO-assisted
final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops financed under the
project, disbursements have resumed. Implementation of a second education
project should be less affected by similar weaknesses given the familiarity
with Bank Group procedures now acquired in the Ministry of Primary and
Secondary Education where, in addition, a new and more positive managerial
climate now prevails since the Ministry was reorganized about a year ago.
20.       One of the major constraints on Rwanda's development is the shortage
of technical/managerial capacity. This affects all sectors and inhibits
project preparation and implementation. Intensive technical assistance and
on-the-job training of Rwandese staff are salient feature of the Bank Group's
program for Rwanda, either under individual projects in the various sectors or
through the recently approved Technical Assistance Project.
21.       For the future, the primary emphasis of Bank operations will remain
on rural development, the main objective being to increase food production as
well as export crops, while maintaining soil fertility. A major emphasis will
also be placed on the development of human resources, focusing on population
control and support to basic education and skills training to improve agricul-
tural productivity, provide skilled manpower, and influence attitudes on the
population issue. Further investment is also justified for infrastructure
and, in particular, transportation to reduce the country's isolation and
provide incentives to further intensification of agriculture as well as
increased specialization and diversification through better marketing. The
proposed project is in harmony with these objectives.



- 8 -
Another area requiring our special attention includes renewable sources of
energy to lessen the demand for fuel imports and mitigate their impact on the
balance of payments. A study of renewable energy sources is being financed
under IDA Credit 1039-RW (para. 18). A second Bugesera rural development
project will include a population/nutrition component, the Association's first
operational effort in the critical area of population education and control.
A second education project would address clearcut manpower needs and support
the training of middle level technicians and managers; the project will also
include selective support for basic education through pre-service and in-service
training of teachers. It is expected that the Bank Group will continue to
support industrial development through the Rwandese Development Bank (BRD).
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
22.       The topography of Rwanda, dominated by rugged mountainous terrain
and rolling plateaus scattered with swampy valleys, makes it difficult to
attain reliable and efficient transport of imports and exports and all-weather
access within the country. The present infrastructure consists of a very
dense network of mainly low standard earth roads, limited water transport
(on Lake Kivu) and the international airport of Kigali (which was upgraded in
1981 to handle widebodied aircraft). Since Rwanda is too small to use domestic
air transport extensively, this mode serves primarily external transport
needs. In times of severe bottlenecks on surface routes (such as resulted
from the 1979 hostilities between Uganda and Tanzania), air transport offers
the only means to evacuate exports and receive essential imports. There are
no railroads in Rwanda.
23.       The Government has assigned high priority in its investment plans
to improve the country's transportation system. In so doing its avowed
goals are to (i) upgrade the main road network to facilitate the country's
economic, social and administrative integration, (ii) improve vital external
transport connections, and (iii) improve the road network through better
maintenance. Under Rwanda's second five-year plan (1977-81), strong emphasis
was placed on the transport sector: 26 percent of all planned investment was
allocated to transport, and roads alone accounted for 22 percent.
The Road Subsector
24.       The road network, totalling about 6,300 km, is one of the densest
in Africa, with an average of 240 m per km . It is divided into two groups:
(i) the classified (or national) network (about 2,300 km), maintained by
the Roads Branch (para. 29) and comprising about 500 km of paved roads, about
800 km of mostly gravel roads, and about 1,000 km of earth roads and tracks;
and (ii) the unclassified (or rural) network, consisting of about 4,000 km of
earth roads, maintained by local authorities. All roads that are not paved or
recently regravelled are low standard earth roads characterized by corrugated
surfaces, large ruts and potholes, and, in wet weather, by deep mud. The
mountainous terrain, heavy rainfalls and poor soil conditions call for construc-
tion of paved roads in most of the country due to the high cost of maintaining
gravel and earth roads.



- 9 -
25.       Road Usage.  In 1980 Rwanda's vehicle fleet numbered about 11,800
(of which 1,800 were owned by the public sector). The fleet is composed of
about 4,400 cars registered mainly in Kigali, 5,700 pick-ups and minibuses,
1,300 trucks and 400 other vehicles. The total fleet increased by 87 percent
in four years (1976-80). The number of pick-ups more than doubled during that
period. This growth is related to small scale trade, which is rapidly gaining
in importance. While this type of transport may suggest less efficient use of
energy, it is well adapted to the country's trade and distribution requirements
characterized by small loads. The most trafficked road sections are intercity
trunk routes carrying about 500 vehicles per day. Average traffic growth in
recent years is estimated at 7 percent a year with slightly higher growth for
light vehicles. Heavy vehicles represent about 50 percent of intercity
traffic.
26.       The road transport industry is largely composed of traders/truckers
who own one or two vehicles and engage mainly in trading with trucking as a
second activity. Vehicle owners normally use their vehicles for their own
account but will offer spare capacity when there is demand. Transport routes
are not regulated, and competition appears to be stronger on improved roads
where transport flows are higher. It is expected, therefore, that road
upgrading will not only foster economic integration of the country (especially
needed for the southwestern region) and facilitate agricultural development,
but also reduce transport costs through increased competition.   Although
uniform tariffs for freight are set by the Government, the regulations do not
provide penalties for non-compliance, and actual prices agreed between operators
and shippers can differ from the official rates according to supply and demand
and road conditions on a particular route. Passenger transport is mainly
undertaken by traders who carry both goods and passengers in pick-ups and
trucks. The public bus company ONATRACOM, under the Ministry of Communications
(MC), operates about 48 buses between Kigali and provincial centers and 8
minibuses in Kigali where private minibus transport has recently made its
appearance and has potential for growth.
27.       For its foreign trade, Rwanda's landlocked and isolated geography
forces it to rely heavily on road or road/rail transport that is undertaken at
high cost through Uganda and Kenya to the Indian Ocean Ports. Clearing and
forwarding agents established in Rwanda handle transit formalities and inter-
national transport. They do not engage in transport themselves but contract
out this work to truckers or pools of truckers. The Societe des Transports
Internationaux du Rwanda (STIR), a semi-public organization created in 1974,
is the main Rwandese international carrier. It has a fleet of about 90
tractor combinations of which about half are tank wagons.  The trucking
industry is dominated by carriers from the transit countries which account for
about 75 percent of the total volume while Rwandese carriers transport the
remaining 25 percent.
28.       Road users contribute to government revenues through import duties
and taxes on vehicles, spare parts and lubricants, through registration and



- 10 -
licensing fees and a border toll on commercial vehicles. Revenues collected
from road users in 1980 are estimated to have amounted to about US$9.3 million.
These revenues more than covered recurrent maintenance expenditures of US$3.1
million and also contributed to meet the costs of new road construction an'
urban roads. The level of road-user taxes is adequate at present, but as
maintenance expenditures increase with the growing maintenance needs and the
expanding capacity of the Roads Branch (para. 29), they will need to be
reviewed.
29.       Highway Administration.  The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) through
its Roads Branch (RB) is responsible for design, construction and maintenance
of the classified network (para. 24(i)).  The RB is divided into two depart-
ments: the Planning and Engineering Department (PED), whose responsibilities
include construction supervision, and the Works Department (WD), responsible
for road improvement and maintenance and for the mechanical workshops. The
RB's main handicap is its shortage of experienced local staff. The RB,
therefore, depends on foreign technical assistance and employs 24 expatriates
financed by the Federal Republic of Germany and Belgium and by the Association
under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 37). The formal and on-the-job
training provided by this technical assistance is helping local staff to
gradually replace the expatriates, but the RB will continue to depend on
expatriates until sufficient staff can be trained. It is expected that by
1983, however, the RB wil be predominantly manned by local staff with only
pockets of specialized expatriate assistance including technical assistance
and training being provided by the Federal Republic of Germany for the PED and
the mechanical workshop (see also para. 46).
30.       Engineering and Road Construction.  The PED is charged with engineer-
ing and construction supervision tasks; it also operates a soils laboratory,
which is adequately staffed and equipped. The department is headed by a
Rwandese engineer, but its daily operations and administration are supervised
largely by expatriate staff. Engineering studies and supervision for major
projects are normally entrusted to foreign consultants, since the department
can handle only minor engineering and work supervision tasks and since there
are no local consultants. For major construction projects, the PED employs
contractors; contracts are generally let out on a unit price basis following
international competitive bidding. Road construction is expensive because (i)
the terrain is rugged and (ii) materials have to be transported long distances
from seaports. There are four local road construction firms established in
the country, all subsidiaries of foreign companies.  Rwanda has no domestic
road construction firms due not only to lack of skilled and experienced staff,
but to the limited financial capacity of the domestic contractors (who work
only in the building sector and have not yet ventured into major civil works).
31.       Maintenance.  The RB's Works Department (WD) is responsible for
maintaining the classified network (para. 24 (i)); district authorities are
responsible for the maintenance of unclassified roads (para. 24(ii)). Since
district authorities lack the resources to carry out this task adequately, the
WD maintains about 1,600 km of the most important unclassified roads. Road
maintenance operations have been steadily improving. This is due in part to
the Government's recognition of the importance of maintenance and the assist-
ance provided by the Association and other donors, principally the Federal
Republic of Germany.



- 11 -
32.       Planning and Financing.  The PED is responsible for planning highway
investments but lacks sufficient staff to carry out all the tasks assigned to
it. Two areas of planning--the strategy for the improvement of external
transport and the relative weight to be given to main roads and feeder roads--
require particular attention. The Government therefore has set up a
transport planning unit in the Ministry of Public Works (para. 45). To the
present, a large volume of preinvestment work has been financed by external
sources and carried out by consultants. However, since clear priorities for
the gradual implementation of Rwanda's road reconstruction program and develop-
ment of regional and feeder roads still need to be set, the transport planning
unit will (i) recommend policies for the development and utilization of
internal and external transport routes and (ii) prepare a road investment
program consistent with national priorities.
33.       Road construction is financed by the development budget and external
donors, while road maintenance and improvement are financed from the Govern-
ment's recurrent budget, with financial and/or technical assistance from the
Federal Republic of Germany, Belgium and the Association. The UNDP has
provided complementary technical assistance. The Government's recurrent
budgets have been adequate in recent years, increasing from US$1.14 million
equivalent in 1975 to US$3.14 million equivalent in 1980.
Bank Group Operations in the Subsector
34.       The Association began lending for improvement of Rwanda's roads
twelve years ago. Since that time its investments have been geared to support
Government's avowed policies and the priority needs of the country to (i)
improve external transport connections; (ii) upgrade the main road network to
facilitate the country's economic development and social and administrative
integration; and (iii) improve the road network in general through better
maintenance. The First Highway Project (Credit 196-RW, US$9.3 million)
financed the purchase of maintenance equipment and the paving of the Kigali-
Gatuna road, the final link of an all-weather road joining Kigali to the port
of Mombasa. Repair works on sections of the road damaged by torrential rains,
severe inflation in 1973/74 and a currency realignment gave rise to a sub-
stantial cost overrun: total project costs increased from the appraisal
estimate of US$10.9 million to US$28.1 million. The Credit Agreement was
amended in 1975 to increase the credit by US$9.5 million (Credit 196-1-RW) to
finance this overrrun. The Saudi Fund also provided US$5.0 million toward
financing the road. The project was completed five years behind schedule.
Since completion, sections of the Kigali-Gatuna road, particularly on the
first 50 km, have deteriorated and require extensive restoration. While the
exact causes of the deterioration have yet to be determined, it appears that
the problem lies in inadequate design for difficult soil conditions, poor
execution of the drainage works and overloading of trucks using the road. In
view of the importance of the road, the proposed project includes a study to
investigate the causes of its premature deterioration and to identify the
type, scope and cost of restoration works (para. 41(b) (ii)). The Project
Performance Audit Review (PPAR) estimated the project's economic
return at 13 percent, the same as at appraisal, the increased project
costs having been compensated for by higher than expected traffic.



- 12 -
35.       The Second Highway Project (Credit 299-RW, US$4.2 million, 1972)
financed the initial phase of a comprehensive maintenance program and the
strengthening of the Ministry of Public Works to enable it to carry out road
maintenance and improvement works more efficiently. Project implementation
was delayed by slow mobilization of technical assistance, late delivery of
equipment, fuel shortages resulting from frequent border closings between
Kenya and Uganda, and shortages of Government funds. The Credit Agreement was
amended in 1977 to provide an additional US$1.2 million to help finance an
increase in project cost. Although the project did not meet its maintenance
targets (which the PPAR concluded were overly optimistic) it succeeded in
setting up a basic road maintenance administration and improving the skills of
local staff.
36.       The Third Highway Project (Credit 475-RW, US$6.3 million, 1974)
provided for the paving of the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road (60 km), feasibility
and detailed engineering studies of the Kigali-Ruhengeri and Ruhengeri-Cyanika
roads (financed by Belgium), and technical assistance to the Ministry of
Public Works to train maintenance staff. Completion of the paving component
was delayed about one year due primarilly to the need for additional design
work in the course of implementation. The feasibility and detailed engineering
study of the Kigali-Ruhengeri road was satisfactorily completed as scheduled;
the feasibility and detailed engineering of the Ruhengeri-Cyankia road were
deleted due to cost overruns as were the technical assistance and training
components (which were included in the Fourth Highway Project). The project
was completed by mid-1977, about one year behind the appraisal estimate. The
actual cost was US$8.9 million compared to US$7.7 million estimated at appraisal.
Part of this increase (US$400,000) was financed by the Association under the
supplementary financing credit for the First Highway Project and the remainder
by the Government. The rate of return upon project completion (as noted in the
PPAR of June 18, 1979) was calculated at 18 percent, the same rate estimated at
appraisal, the increase in construction costs being offset by an increase
in vehicle operating cost savings.
37.       The Fourth Highway Project (Credit 769-RW, US$15 million, 1977)
is financing the second phase of the maintenance program begun under the Second
Highway Project and continuing the strengthening of the Ministry of Public
Works road maintenance operations. It comprises a four-year improvement
program covering 1,500 km of roads, routine maintenance of 3,850 km of roads,
improvement of equipment repair facilities, and training of maintenance per-
sonnel. Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation
is now at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satis-
factorily.
38.       Experience with the aforementioned highway projects has shown that
construction works have frequently been interrupted due to periodic shortages
of materials and fuel caused by border closures in Uganda and Kenya. Further-
more, difficult soil conditions in certain parts of the country have resulted
in unforeseen additional construction works and have been the cause of extensive
damage to roads requiring comprehensive repair and rehabilitation. As a
result, road construction works have frequently required more time to complete
than foreseen and costs have been substantially above those originally estimated.



- 13 -
However, Bank Group operations in the sector have produced substantial
benefits, including those deriving from the institution-building efforts begun
under the Second Highway and continued under the Fourth Highway Project; good
progress has also been made in establishing the highway organization (RB) and
in training staff (para. 29).
PART IV - THE PROJECT
39.       The proposed project was appraised in August 1981.  Negotiations
were held in Washington from April 5 to 8, 1982. The Government delegation
was led by H. E. Joseph Nzirorera, Minister of Public Works. A detailed
description of the project components can be found in the Staff Appraisal
Report No. 3680-RW, dated May 11, 1982, which has been distributed separately
to the Executive Directors. The main features of the project, which should
strengthen elements already financed by the Association (and other donors),
aim at pursuing Government policies in the sector (para. 34), and are high-
lighted in the Credit and Project Summary at the beginning of this report.
Special conditions of the Credit are summarized in Annex III.
Objectives and Description of the Project
40.       The main objectives of the proposed project are (i) to foster
economic integration of the southwestern region with the rest of the country
through more reliable and economical transport, (ii) to facilitate agricultural
development in this region and (iii) to improve planning and programming of
activities in the transportation sector.
41.       The proposed project consists of the following:
(a) construction to two-lane paved standard of the Butare-Kigeme-
Kitabi section (53.5 km) of the Butare-Cyangugu road;
(b) consulting services for (i) completion of preparation
studies and supervision of construction works under
(a), (ii) engineering studies for restoration works
on the Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km), (iii) preinvestment
studies, and (iv) technical assistance to the Ministry
of Public Works;
(c) procurement of materials and supplies for maintenance
of the Kigali-Gatuna road; and
(d) procurement and installation of weighing scales for
control and enforcement of vehicle weight regulations.



- 14 -
42.       Construction of Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi road (53.5 km).  The project
road is a section of the Butare-Cyangugu road (156 km), one of the country's
most important transport links. It connects the second largest city, Butare
(population 35,000), to the southwestern region which is an agricultural
surplus area. The present road is of an earth surface with poor driving
conditions; during the eight-month rainy season, it is often impassable for
all but four-wheel drive vehicles. The road surface is uneven and there are
deep ruts and potholes. As a result, the driving speed is about 20 km/h for
most of its length and transport costs are high.  The road is also costly to
maintain. Improvement of the road to all-weather standard is essential to
year-round transport of agricultural products and consumer goods and of the
output of a cement plant currently under construction near Cyangugu.  Con-
struction of the Kitabi-Cyangugu section (102.5 km) will be financed
by the African Development Bank (AfDB), the EEC, BADEA and the Kuwait Fund for
Arab Economic Development (KFAED). Signing of agreements between these four
cofinanciers and Government would constitute a condition of effectiveness of
the proposed credit (Section 6.01 of the Development Credit Agreement).
43.       Consulting services.  (i)  Completion of preparation studies
and supervision of construction of the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi road.
Consultants carried out a preliminary engineering study and an update of the
feasibility study of the project road in 1981 under a PPF, since earlier
studies did not provide an adequate assessment of improvements required
and the related costs. In view of staff constraints in PED, consultants would
be engaged to supervise construction of the project road. In addition,
because of difficult soil conditions, the proposed project would provide for
the services of a soils engineer with experience in soils and geological
conditions similar to those of the project region. This expert would carry
out periodic reviews of project implementation (about two man-months per year)
with regard to the use of appropriate construction materials and proper work
techniques.
44.       (ii)  Engineering studies for restoration works and maintenance of
the Kigali-Gatuna road. Construction of this road was completed in 1977 with
financing under the First Highway Project. Inspite of normal maintenance
efforts, the road already shows considerable surface damage (para. 34). In
order to determine the cause for the failure and the type, scope and cost of
restoration works, the proposed project includes consultants services to
carry out this investigation. The consultants services will include a soils
expert.  The study is expected to cost about US$100,000 equivalent.  The
Government has agreed to undertake the study and thereafter to prepare an
action plan and identify sources of financing by June 30, 1983 for carrying
out restoration works (Section 3.08 of the Development Credit Agreement).
However, given the importance of the road and the rapid rate of deterioration,
immediate steps are required to keep the road passable. Therefore, as an
interim measure pending completion of the study, the proposed project would
provide materials and supplies for routine maintenance of the road. This
maintenance would be carried out by the maintenance brigade set up and
equipped under the Fourth Highway Project (para. 37).
45.       (iii) Preinvestment studies.  Once the transport planning unit
in the Ministry of Public Works (Section 4.02 of the Development Credit
Agreement and para. 32) has defined priorities for the transport sector, the
Association will approve the type and scope of the studies to be financed
under the project and identified by the unit for the highway subsector



- 15 -
(Schedule 2 Part (C) (5) of the Development Credit Agreement). These studies,
which will prepare future investments in the highway sector, are expected to
include a feeder road study to assist the Government in defining priorities
for improvement of its feeder road network.
46.       (iv)  Technical assistance.  Technical assistance provided under the
Bank Group's Fourth Highway Project will conclude at the end of 1982. The
proposed project therefore includes three road maintenance engineers who will
be assigned to the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) to assist in planning, budget-
ing, carrying out and monitoring road maintenance operations; a transport
economist to help strengthen the Government's transport planning capabilities;
and one mechanic to strengthen the MPW's equipment maintenance and repair
capability. Two of the three road maintenance engineers will serve for two
years each; the other experts will serve for three-year periods and complement
training activities for local staff being provided by German and Belgian
technical assistance. This should make an important contribution to institu-
tion building efforts (para. 29).
47.       Procurement of weighing scales.  To enable the Government to control
and enforce vehicle load regulations, the project would provide for the
procurement and installation of two fixed weighing scales and procurement of
three mobile ones. The two fixed scales would be installed at the border
posts of Gatuna and Kagitumba, through which nearly all Rwanda's imports by
road must pass. The mobile scales would be used for spot controls of vehicle
loads over the country-s entire network. The Government has agreed to install
the fixed scales by December 31, 1983 (Section 3.06(b) of the Development
Credit Agreement). Government has further agreed to establish vehicle weight
regulations and an enforcement mechanism, acceptable to the Association,
and to put the new regulations (updated to comply with the country-s needs and
conditions as well as the regulations currently in force in neighboring
countries) into effect by December 31, 1982 (Section 3.06(a) of the Development
Credit Agreement).
Project Cost and Financing
48.       Total project cost is estimated at US$30.1 million, net of taxes and
duties, with a foreign exchange component of US$22.92 million or 76 percent of
total costs. Taxes and duties amount to about US$0.6 million. A physical
contingency allowance of 10 percent has been provided to cover increases in
quantities. In light of past experience, a special 10 percent risk allowance
has been added to cover price increases for construction works that might
result from interruption of imported essential supplies such as cement,
bitumen and fuel due to border closures or other transportation bottlenecks
such as have occurred in the past (para. 22). An additional risk allowance
of 10 percent has been prov-ded to cover the risk of bids being higher than
expected. (This will take into account the wide variations in bids sometimes
experienced in Rwanda.) If not required for physical execution of the
project, the balance of funds would be cancelled and not reallocated to other
items. Price contingencies are based on the following estimates of inflation
rates worldwide for the foreign cost of civil works and in Rwanda for the
local cost of civil works:  1981--9 percent foreign, 15 percent local;



- 16 -
1982--8.5 percent foreign, 15 percent local; 1983--7.5 percent foreign, 15
percent local; 1984--7.5 percent foreign, 15 percent local; 1985--7.5 percent
foreign, 15 percent local. Cost estimates for construction works were derived
from consultants' estimates based on final design quantities. The supervision
of construction is estimated at US$1.0 million, equivalent to 100 man-months
of consultants' services. Estimates for the engineering study for restoration
works of the Kigali-Gatuna road are based on eight man-months of consultants'
services and total about US$100,000. A lump sum of US$250,000 has been
allocated for preinvestment studies. Technical assistance will require about
156 man-months of consultants' services, estimated at about US$9,000 per month
covering salary, overheads, international travel and subsistence, local
transportation, housing, report preparation and other minor expenditures.
Procurement of the weighing scales and of materials and supplies from main-
tenance of the Kigali-Gatuna road are based on recent costs for similar items
under other Bank Group projects.
49.       The proposed project would be financed by (i) an IDA credit of
US$25.9 million which would cover about 95 percent (US$21.7 million) of the
foreign cost and 58 percent (US$4.2 million) of the local cost; (ii) a UNDP
contribution (to finance technical assistance and studies) of US$1.5 million,
which would provide for the remaining 5 percent (US$1.2 million) of the
foreign cost and 4 percent (US$0.3 million) of the local cost; and (iii)
Government's contribution, totalling US$2.7 million (excluding taxes of US$0.6
million), equal to about 9 percent of total project cost or 38 percent of
local cost. Included in the proposed IDA credit is provision for the
refinancing of a US$250,000 advance from the Project Preparation Facility.
Implementation
50.       The Ministry of Public Works (MPW) would be responsible for the
implementation of all project components. Within the MPW, the Planning and
Engineering Department (PED) would be responsible for road construction
carried out by contractor and supervised by consultants, the procurement and
installation of weighing scales, and the execution of the study for the
restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road and of the preinvestment studies; the
Works Department (WD) would be responsible for technical assistance for road
maintenance, equipment maintenance and repair, and for procurement of materials
and supplies and carrying out by force account maintenance of the Kigali-Gatuna
road. It is expected that one consulting firm will supervise the entire
Butare-Cyangugu road (para. 42). This is the intention of both the Government
and the Association.
51.       Road construction would start in the fourth quarter of 1982.  It
would take about three years to complete the entire road from Butare to
Cyangugu. Procurement of weighing scales is expected to take about six months;
the equipment is expected to arrive in mid-1983. The road maintenance engineer
and mechanic (financed by UNDP) will start in January 1983 and work for three
years; the two road maintenance engineers (financed by the Association) will
start in January 1984 (at the conclusion of the Fourth Highway Project) and
work for two years. Following establishment of the country-s list of priority
investments (expected, mid-1983), by the transport planning unit in the MPW



- 17 -
the type, scope and schedule of execution of the preinvestment studies to be
financed under the project would be subject to the Association's approval.
The engineering study for restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road would most
likely start in January 1983 and be completed within six months. The total
project is expected to be completed by the end of 1986.
Procurement
52.       The award of the contract for the construction component (US$16.6
million, excluding contingencies) would be subject to ICB in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines. To minimize the risk of construction delays due to
interruption of supplies, tender documents would include provision for a
considerable stock of materials and fuel. The Butare-Cyangugu road will be
divided into four sections, financed by the various donors (para. 42), and
each contractor would be required to quote his bid price for each individual
as well as for all the sections to be financed. It is thus hoped that this
will enable Government to obtain lower unit costs. Because of the specialized
nature, low cost and small amount of equipment being purchased, procurement of
the weighing scales (US$0.15 million, excluding contingencies) would be
through international shopping under procedures that are satisfactory to the
Association. Materials and supplies (US$0.8 million) for maintenance of the
Kigali-Gatuna road will be procured from suppliers from whom such items have
been previously purchased on the basis of reasonable, negotiated prices.
53.       Consultants  services (US$3.6 million, including contingencies)
would be needed for supervision of construction, technical assistance, a
study for the restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road, and preinvestment studies.
The Government intends to recruit an individual consultant for the position of
transport economist. The Association has agreed that the three road main-
tenance engineers and mechanic would be recruited from consultants Rhei
n-Ruhr, who have assisted the Government in strengthening road maintenance
with financing under the Second and Fourth Highway Projects. Consulting firms
would be selected for supervision of construction works, the study for restora-
tion of the Kigali-Gatuna road and for preinvestment studies. Consultants
would be selected in accordance with the 1981 Bank Guidelines for Use of
Consultants; because of the specialized nature of the services required and
given the rather difficult terrain and soil conditions in the project areas,
price would not be a factor in the selection of the consultants for technical
assistance, the soils engineer and supervision of construction works.
Disbursement
54.       Credit funds would be disbursed on the following basis:  (a) 90
percent of total expenditures for road construction; (b) 100 percent of
foreign cost or 90 percent of local cost for procurement and installation of
equipment (weighing scales) and for materials and supplies for maintenance of
the Kigali-Gatuna road; and (c) 100 percent of consultant services for super-
vision of construction. All disbursements would be fully documented.



Accounting and Reporting Requirements
55.       MPW has not kept accounts for payments made from its investment
budget, RB will therefore introduce accounts registering all expenditures
under its investment budget and separate accounts for payments under the
proposed project. Project accounts would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to the Association, and the audited accounts would be submitted to
the Association not later than six months after the end of each fiscal year
during project implementation (Section 4.01(b) of the Development Credit
Agreement). The Government has agreed to provide the Association with project
progress reports as well as with a project completion report, the latter not
later than six months after the closing date of the Credit (Section 3.04 of
the Development Credit Agreement).
Benefits and Risks
55.       The construction to paved standard of the Butare-Cyangugu road
would provide the southwestern region with all-weather access, thereby accel-
erating its economic, social and administrative integration with the rest of
the country. Paving the road would bring year-round transport for the region-s
agricultural products to the densely populated area around Butare. The
project road also traverses the Nyungwe forest, which holds economic potential:
a number of forest-exploitation and reforestation projects for this area are
under preparation or consideration. Furthermore, a cement plant, being built
near Cyangugu (30 km from Ntendezi), necessitates improved road communications
for supplying the plant and evacuating its output.
56.       The construction of the Butare-Kitabi section (of the Butare-Cyangugu
road) which would be financed under the proposed credit, is expected to yield
an economic return of 16 percent. This economic return is dependent on the
paving of the entire Butare-Ntendzi road. No economic return has been cal-
culated for the small technical assistance component which is clearly justified
because it will result in an improved maintenance capability as well as in
improvements of MC-s transport planning capacity.
57.       The main benefits to be derived from the project are reduced
vehicle operating costs (voc) for the normal traffic and reduced total
transport costs for the cement traffic diverted to the project road from
the lake/road route via Kibuye. The reduction in total transport costs
would result from the combined effect of a better road surface and from the
use of larger and hence more economical vehicles. The reduction in voc on the
economic activity in the influence area of the road is taken into account
through the benefits assigned to generated traffic included in the analysis.
In the short term the major direct beneficiaries of voc savings would be the
traders/ truckers. Later, as the road improvement increases competition and
encourages new traders/truckers to enter the local transport market, most of
the benefits are likely to be passed on to producers and consumers. Because
marketing and distribution is dominated by traders/truckers whose trading and
trucking activities are not easily separable, the savings in voc would be
passed on in the form of higher farm-gate prices for agricultural products



- 19 -
and/or lower prices for the products sold by the traders/truckers. As for the
cement traffic, direct beneficiaries may be expected to be the cement company
and/or the trading/trucking sector. Most of the savings are anticipated to be
passed on to the construction industry.
59.       Experience with the Association's previous projects in Rwanda
has shown frequent cost overruns due to periodic shortages of construction
materials and fuel caused by border closings in neighboring countries through
which these commodities must be transported.  To minimize the risk of inter-
ruptions in construction works, provision would be made in the contract
documents for the construction of the Butare-Kitabi road for a larger than
usual stock of material and fuel.  The project cost estimates include a
special 10 percent risk allowance to cover unforeseen increases in construction
costs should any such interruptions occur. Another 10 percent risk allowance
has been added to cover the possibility of bids being higher than expected
(para. 48).
60.       Difficult soil conditions and unexpected shortages of construction
materials in some regions have also caused considerable increases in road
construction materials, construction time and project costs under previous
projects. Even though consultants were especially careful in their soils
and geologic surveys and design and an Association-financed consultant visited
the road to review consultants work, an element of risk still remains.
Therefore the proposed project provides for periodic visits of a soils engineer
with wide experience in soil and geologic conditions similar to those of the
region, in addition to the supervisory consultants. This expert would help
the Government, the Association and the supervisory consultants to review the
soil and geologic conditions, use of appropriate construction materials and
application of proper work techniques.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
61.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between the Rwandese Republic
and the Association, and the Recommendations of the Committee provided
for in Article V, Section 1 (d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Asso-
ciation are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
62.       Special Conditions of the Project are listed in Section IV of
Annex III of this report.
63.       I am satisfied that the proposed Credit would comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.



- 20 -
PART VI - RECOMMENDATIONS
64.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
Credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
May 3, 1982



ANNEX I
- 21 -                                             Page 1 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                            REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVEiAGES
LAND AREA (THOUSAND SQ. KM.)                                                             - MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-
TOTAL              26.3                                      MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME              MIDDLE INCOME
AGRICULTURAL       14.6                  1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE /b   AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
GNP PER CAPITA (US$)                       70.0        100.0     200.0                 238.3                    794.2
ENERKY CONSUMPTION PER CAPITA
(KILOGRAMS OF COAL EQUIVALENT)             ..        15.8       29.5                  70.5                   707.5
POPULATION AND VITAL STATISTICS
POPULATION, MID-YEAR (THOUSANDS)      2916.0      -3847.0   5169.0
UREAN POPULATION (PERCENT OF TOTAL)       2.4         3.2        4.5                  17.5                    27.7
POPULATION PROJECTIONS
POPULATION IN YEAR 2000 (MILLIONS)                             9.5
STATIONARY POPULATION (MILLIONS)                              29.0
YEAR STATIONARY POPULATION IS REACHED                       2110
POPULATION DENSITY
PER SQ. KM.                           110.9       146.3      188.1                  27.7                    55.0
PER SQ. KM. AGRICULTURAL LAND         193.1       253.1      328.8                  73.7                   130.7
POPULATION AGE STRUCTURE (PERCENT)
0-14 YRS.                              44.3        45.7       46.6                  44.8                    46.0
15-64 YRS.                             53.0         51.6       50.7                  52.4                    51.2
65 YRS. AND ASOVE                        2.7         2.7        2.7                   2.9                     2.8
POPULATION GROWTH RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                   2.8         2.8        3.6/d                 2.6                     2.8
URBAN                                   5.6         5.6        5.8                   6.5                     5.1
CRUDE bIRTH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          51.1        49.8       49.6                  46.9                    46.9
CRUDE DEATH RATE (PER THOUSAND)          26.9        22.1       18.7                  19.3                    15.8
GROSS REPRODUCTION RATE                   3.4/c       3.4        3.4                   3.1                     3.2
FAMILY PLANNING
ACCEPTORS, ANNUAL (TiHOUSANDS)           ..
USERS (PERCENT OF MARRIED WOMEN)         ..          ..
FOOD AND NUTRITION
INDEX OF FOOD PRODUCTION
PER CAPITA (1969-71-100)              81.0        102.0      107.0                  89.5                    89.9
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENT OF
REQUIREMENTS)                       80.0         96.0       98.0                  90.2                    92.3
PROTEINS (GRAMS PER DAY)              49.0         61.0       51.3                  52.7                    52.8
OF WHICH ANIMAL AND PULSE           25.0         34.0         ..                  17.8                    16.1
CHILD (AGES 1-4) MORTALITY RATE          41.0        32.2       25.4                  27.3                    20.2
HEALTH
LIFE EXPECTANCY AT BIRTH (YEARS)         37.2        42.4       46.7                  45.8                    50.8
INFANT MORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                                  ..       127.0
ACCESS TO SAFE WATER (PERCENT OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..           ..       35.0                  23.9                    27.4
URBAN                                   ..           ..       41.0                  55.0                    74.3
RURAL                                   ..           ..       35.0                  18.5                    12.6
ACCESS TO EXCRETA DISPOSAL (PERCENT
OF POPULATION)
TOTAL                                   ..         53.0       57.0                  26.2
URBAN                                   ..         83.0       87.0                  63.5
RURAL                                    ..        52.0       56.0                  20.3
POPULATION PER PHYSICIAN            138095.0/c   62048.4   38916.7                 31911.8                 13844.1
POPULATION PER NURSING PERSON        11197.07    9181.4   10494.4                  3674.9                  2898.6
POPULATION PER HOSPITAL BED
IOTAL                                   ..        822.9     652.1                 1238.8                  1028.4
URBAN                                   ..         47.8       45.4                 272.8                   423.0
RURAL                                   ..       3224.4    1604.8                 1745.2                  3543.2
ADMISSIONS PER HOSPITAL BED               ..         21.2       21.3
HOUSlNG
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEHOLD
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..        4.5
AVERAGE NUMBER OF PERSONS PER ROOM
TOTAL                                   ..           ..
URBAN                                   ..           ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..
ACCESS TO ELECTRICITY (PERCENT
UF DWELLINGS)
TUTAL                                   ..           ..
URiAN                                    ..          ..
RURAL                                   ..           ..



- 22-                                                       ANNEX I
Page 2 of 5
TABLE 3A
RWANDA - SOCIAL INDICATORS DATA SHEET
RWANDA                         REFERENCE GROUPS (WEIGHTED AVERAGES
- MOST RECENT ESTIMATE)-a
MOST RECENT            LOW INCOME               MIDDLE INCOME
1960  /b    1970 /b ESTIMATE lb   AFRICA SOUTI OF SAHARA  AFRICA SOUTH OF SAHARA
EDUCATION
ADJIUSTED ENROLLMENT RATIOS
PRIMARY:     TOTAL                  49.0         73.0      64.0                   56.4                     73.7
MALE                  68.0         83.0       68.0                  70.7                     96.8
IEIALE                30.0         64.0       59.0                  50.1                     79.0
SECONDARY:   TOTAL                   2.0          2.0        2.0                  10.0                     16.2
MALE                   2.0          3.0        3.0                  13.6                     25.3
FEMALE                 1.0          1.0        1.0                   6.6                     14.8
VOCATIONAL ENROL. (7 OF SECONDARY)  40.0           12.0       17.0                   8.0                      5.3
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                             39.0         60.0      53.0                   46.5                    36.2
SECONDARY                           14.0         13.0      15.0                   25.5                    23.6
ADULT LITERACY KATE (PERCENT)         16.4/c       23.0/e       ..                  25.5
CONSUMPTION
PASSENGER CARS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                           0.4         0.9        1.6                    2.9                    32.3
RADIO RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          7.8      17.1                   32.8                    69.0
TV RECEIVERS PER THOUSAND
POPULATION                            ..          ..         !-                    1.9                     8.0
NEWSPAPER ("DAILY GENERAL
INTEREST") CIRCULATION PER
THOUSAND POPULATION                     ..           .        0.04                   2.8                    20.2
CINEMA ANNUAL ATTENDANCE PER CAPITA   ..             ..      14.6                    1.2                     0.7
LABOR FORCE
TOTAL LABOR FORCE (THOUSANDS)       1650.6       2089.7    2582.3
FEMALE (PERCENT)                    49.1         48.6      48.1                   34.1                    36.7
AGRICULTURE (PERCENT)               95.4         93.2      91.2                   80.0                    56.6
INDUSTRY (PERCENT)                   1.1          1.6       2.0                    8.6                    17.5
PARTICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                                 56.6         54.3      52.2                   41.7                    37.2
M1ALE                                 58.9         56.9      55.0                   54.3                    47.1
FaIALE                                54.4         51.9      49.5                   29.2                    27.5
ECONOmIC DEPENDENCY RATIO                0.8          0.9       0.9                    1.2                      1.3
INCOME DISTRIBUTION
PERCENT OF PRIVATE INCOME
RECEIVED BY
HIGHEST 5 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
HIGHEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS    ..             ..
LOWEST 20 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..           ..
LOWEST 40 PERCENT OF HOUSEHOLDS       ..          ..
POVERTY TARGET GROUPS
ESTIMATED ABSOLUTE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..     148.0                  136.0                   381.2
RURAL                                 ..           ..      85.0                   84.5                   156.2
ESTI1ATED RELATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (US$ PER CAPITA)
URBAN                                 ..           ..        ..                   99.1                   334.3
RURAL                                 ..           ..      43.0                   61.2                   137.6
EST IMATED POPULATION BELOW ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCENT)
URBAN                                 ..           ..      30.0                   39.7
RURAL                                 ..           ..      90.0                   68.8
Not available
Not applicable.
NOTES
/a   The group averages for each indicator are population-weighted arithmetic means.  Coverage of countries
a.ong the indicators depends on availability of data and is not uniform.
/b   Unless otnerwise noted, data for 1960 refer to any year between 1959 and 1961; for 1970, between 1969
and 1971; and for Most Recent Estimate, between 1976 and 1980.
/c   1962; /d  1978 census;         Ia  1973.
May, 1981



- 23 -                                                                           A1NEX I
Page 3 of 5
DEPfIITINlit OF SOCIA IbIICATIOS
ntneellovgOnnacunaent dr    iveocenre  geoena~llvoucoe        -.debneaoheo           uaorlel,lrdcrlalnrretno- rnhe,IysapyetIen c
oar lvepeaeecasb          rcrncrarvfadn-ddf               -venaaac             --npns   usrdhby dff-reteor--iee- in l-11-rgoreeat-.  ThPedaoar..ce
nv-rsn- eatlreea-nbevnrd-nofnharacu-eT-dtnurnreds, andcPar -c-arnee                            erenaodiff--nrrosr--     ..I
Thereernc  gnvtp  er  (:2  "Ar sa.  uan-ry g-np If the et"cecol tr  as 2C) a country grop efth crha   ighan averge  --ce   rhan rhe va--y group
Itfeaupeu            re     r-vfv   Teeelr1.Tf o                   raslenun-r  "Mlddie In-vneo-n  Air a-n-d Midlieea-                      vceneasu enre
s-b nalan locore  2    anefenocegnop dre  ho  cecgeearepoplaeuror gired  rronroa can.  Fuewi  Incrale  rd  hee, .oly .h         .
nepoeorpiebaunnneauva  enuI yea  ata furtrap  Iruvarur -tevuecPevceragevvrtnrreaaoungrP   rnfLarrp  dapordevvgPnvaflabfio.... aI
and-enoaofftr,na. t"n,ous    h "eenra..rc.anvn..er   entvierdnbeoIjtYror    Toeeud-rr
tee~I.   _ udvn arorroae Ipr    vrnnrvnfna
1AAuE    ouer  05                                                                          lprlnuvn--l-fa-f--r-n.,-rar.n.vidndeu-n(nai
Pcpsfd-Tuafeurli-o-nravveonfauon               rdu faa-ro....en...uboeluulfrddrffretnuuveo-h                                                                         tohd
aruuereAliiet IgvuluD                          raatAorcnrlvrpneEri                                  evlbl   vpulrur rqeenrr, n.eefi-e   crrrlIn   e
fan vrcr, veeuree  erro  co  cuenhe  garte-~ cv  c Inn   lfun; 119 dan.  icaflurarcr vereee.  dvaurala  rc trnhbeltnnr vercaoeoofrvafne
T-!   T-1   .........                                                                                b" ~~~~~~~~~~Ile   o  pranur.Peal-oter   pvriir  prnoaivnJv
lh   T   ETFT -951- f   ant eraenoae   o   u..crnerpfescf                                   hlprcoeno-nre. Rra   upiae  bte,  rbdePae
nulatanPpseceecnersvreorvd k-le-l---nu        rlatul9vl   fPaeu-l;9gT,d                   hodredintlvannenevu    p -norotrfeuvppnrnhpp
taERt C-NA`draftefure pen  -P-upei, -  cinai -b                                                                              ed - ptune  prefer~ W2f tdcte-  o  no  Iuifr
doraI FeplAdun,  _d-  ue  rhnuaotc-to                                                                                                   ...l b, lhfu,19fF  andff1  tidffh
eocprunnus n      t.. . 19f-F(,h an  1979, nana.              17,  I  17 9Ohc PING                        l   cnecttva    aos
dooa-i    hrueueorSvrtaauhnnucere.. p,_                                                                                         rte-v          ~hildfer   aId nurbf-Aueeprot
Ptcelanitntuearl9lA  -uncern  pcpuanfutcrefecfnraarrbaedtvfli$  AevFvenrcnu   evpvvsfraltrbao,aodeealeuvupiedcnven                      .....
rcelnpfaln   o  aoto  se  odrhfeoenfun  ndner ifyrers                 de>cus   opcrlel .AsiInpeec ndero-prtenAervdureb                             o
TeA  ausr   etenasge   oneuPnfee  i                      rmlarfn  vid eunre9lop         TAFrTAiTTYPb.,.d   -                                        ,,f         -
and  ereliopcreds in pa, ev dthrpupoes -Adlusced tyIeelfienn -laPfn
feaesifanp topui hrlc--I eecrr    poyieoe  rhr  f  r  grusof serv                            Aeia   e  a--hool        p- eee,   n   ad-geiae-nos   tonl, sof  nd nestle
rA  iloPrcei  eqyeI  en rhe de0  rareth- o  a-ec --he age cenrirere                     e_crller --  ali eg   r-he pis ar_Pierei aspreoae   Pr                   ctn
stirs cn...etr .o  this vsinfed   on ly tPper feerl-fbi  meet deilf  Pr itpeDCAIONpsho-g    noviv                                   anpucadevidc   gdPf
erplered  o ohebeef  ci gb-r               "Ijucdpernnt irs,  ci rip  ..rf.. rtrc  rsep..e  r  belts or-                    abune   obef-g  a       .eneu  ag.df-
ireper11,Tedhipe   c a  v--  delyanei- f-icnluny race .li norytu-                    e      Iyde  suhaul - g coral, cafe.an  feai    .. T  d   as aace;. aeuede-y
seer I-             -1'y-                                                                                 , levl.cduefupsc Pn_a IseefearI  pears oipTucd_ ica     tepapin
Popalanior Teessrpr ..so-v-irtedh                                                                                                                               f
fe so-t-  -pAi-pear e_pflervo pen                 . s rcns  flone  11th- Perne-es.                       - Toafrlouiler hi- ld       . r.n.e. cisavedeny    - --nntre  trionsure_
creel ante; fOff, enor end 1919 dana.                                            rrh.cplulAerevbnva p.pl. , to berel.  neonfee!, pnfgean  chEeP ovoseicced
leeur;199.  la-        ad i  -deg.                                                               dal f-ceuThas 1yrpee r-h-nre-adieafab-e-oi-a-so I                        rr_
PoAle-o ha.nbsh lace I ren:-11ny-astfgonfree  ipnl  i-a                                                    pifrrg  ofsc2          di  popalatvy-aged17 .pest  an  sore.I.
-ce  opletIuo  ice0 1979-61, 1991 --h and f971-79.ldl,,
Paeafebce  Pan 9Ieneo d- te-e  -ybvel  rune  ransdofarfa  nap-                           1hnorrFil
poofnin  iIChi,d9971, sod-r 1979i.gdeca.5                                                      sfis-dePre ...1 1d,ddb   .   -I                               I .        h
Prade lePhPnePerrhnaL-tdI               - 1 anea  d"e'b  pen gIpneo"   of n-id i- -yea           fdI Ocenes       Iee shooe. d poien......  bin  type  cI teo-es  o 
onrpr-sen;..Al   1975, ned  1979 danah.                                                          hadcsengsr9    vbi  peeoed  fpaea79;eofde   n
hesnnere1970hepenAi                   79oyshcnsFneen..-.ehgce--rpoe   hor  1eiien;sh                                  feeen-yar  .....eyn -ip nrotrelelv
nlhlnyeaos;neoafy i on -eAn .. ennae eli-c binh p-t1, 1979   Id  i97-.                   suer   iansci    _ eiciicedhnenfp...
CroafpnicahrLI---dcvp-    osanefncecs-ths-opevaopet                                                Pccor   ophearnclatr:_Ieenr    oreecsn
tintn 9-onnclanntserA-rre7Aacrscnili-yslpfrnopneen                                                  -hrfcbio   eepoeappln-;enldscieeei    eeor
Fronfprcsonlv-Tse      -d pr - Ie   I en ldsetheoPh-  Psene..rede If idcy...                dinveuc  -veerd n paes-,rd             ioeefnllntyp       sn,di
snerat  60l-farn  age1  C 15-0pae   irs   ir79rrldonsn                                  repprEnealo(e  rbcotd :pfefen   -   os  f                             dttaent
elf osnrfed easer lo asor apt group.                                   nulepfcv. ci  Idlf   gcnelil  p-eresrh sps-rh        delnlappecedoa
~~ili b-   ipobanesu   ecaed  tsnei- nod reoin  geerlnee-I  is pentdeie
Poeal   nnlonnoh   dIyciy-ppaer   estfa  pesmeco
talnl  nrp h   eledarnee prone-1  ccgrs;  hNn-I  1971,hcod190 done.  L                     inna  Laor  nnv 'rilcbrsoe,EoonnelparIce.peteers, h,ivoa
Per c.anIeIdriaohetrlsPprnn  c                                                                                                           -oicocnPf-l-cuo  Ponesefcrradfealpd   ata    ddfgfasePes  IFese
eopvrtof    an.d nPnr   sfr.   oodtn  vpfe-srldParel  ed,sed                                 dFeae  relyo   -Fsae  a e  Fre.e.erer`-ofrea  lbo   ore
quenori  tedIn  ce  ponsacog  ad  rsesrod-arIfuroo - Pp-fe                    drlcl oe  nren -1- .       Iaorfoc  go iY-fg,                 thseep   hnofcaan
end se -IdttrtrrPv  o  ppnannn  an             Iofp1   ero   o p        arse at                nod    lecrnn   seeI      n  gsa   orctp  c   uoalhrtme.9l
ipuorcbcd  love-; 1h91-rh, 1970l~..ad .9.7 dana.                                               1970 and-ff-dare
Petvr p srftfp o  rooteog Igase d-d-i.           - Proptior      neor  of pe nI lp          LABOpFRinCEno   aefeco       rtc  ae   n   eol-etnI                           rn
alfsane o  N  prss  7 rna -rghtr. petd6 pan 6     ngreo   viad    e  andtf91 . fOOr  eon l9h-9dc.l  -hee aelloy  ori-n   peeiipscrae
p_forne_         ,feohl   pertoldpsnoa    coer.Fces1n-                                          elennd         g - -esr -cer   of  -he,,diatcr, .en              ..goeco. = A
etdeaefosrpic n.obvoaof0hrsens  ctf      tacnn-      oadlg-      sot                     reenCansae  irtenoclovne-
S    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~IrIcdy freeacebla andpaif er-p reeo  ret Pap;,  fdOAl-Ph, 1971 end 197  dat.                              frFe   Ff lp-obl;16               9      99
age  ocu   f   d ees  Pr frhndre  IPIp  Ign__;fr  cndvfylgvv                                    errn   ifonI   enc , por_esr Rlpeei-of--an  phooir0ppcd
mIttdan  dencediron    'I  loP .nele   - IOPT gi_ - 190 an.ff0  def.                      c  h     a_evecicrids.                           i60    97   ad199 
HEALTh                                                                           FIOPOFF~~~~~~~~~~~~10 1    -1,-  .1IAriIcilyF -rFSg.P
asIde;190   00  n  00    a                                                             c  e70 u-d  hr7 dtonrnndarronvnA5t,Oo
foir nItprt -aloto9ane.oernvcuea--aaoedear-Pooffvfeer---dIfaotranil                            Teretbrlnpvroecnpra   FNcrtra-nrnna ru--
-ofage        f  .d   - d       1   -pelrnfr-er-leoeiprdrrfsb-Aho-raPtTn.cr..rvnef..                                             srarprneetlitdea-o                    iroa
Ancesic Sfe brer  uerner c -pobliu1,,of-   UIInrf   tr    o   ea      oa                  rtcoel    'Iadrvn  dIe Thor_              ...ole  oc-Foo  eeqolneenosan
"re- p..ornAr. pthrlarlcn    to. an. dPAc tnt  a. thblg Tehirdvooo  oi   a                                       ti.  Urfa .plrvtlof -d-tle  fans 6he rural
ico1ai  n.de--             6,17 treprclveeooer  1977 d-.                                           thesfcePacnpc  e tfp-rdpan1,-   fuI- fhr-e   iloeinbnnce
cccidrtatoocsovi   rsrn.aIfe dn-e .. ciotohre.           bie    ne                     soaeyrlenneouFcteoer  Irahvfrren-r
reeoel   rvacul  vl   iarhnrnafru   esetvim  hocoY.nrvr-   evorioolnceuho   nrrapbor fffr
doocrotvmertprpn.orlvan   prIf'lvplrenvotrP
riseflosnsre  reedo     i" _  ng..IP--1                           0a
dAnesrtcAenrre Alavosaffcrnernofplrrdnrao-nvreI.roacTandratel
lerrenngee ci  beir repcn-n t.pepola  furs.       d-h  -runotat tne   cap ..oldei     l'                r 1     -       ~t  i    ah-k.               --     ,I
ofn   uliordfry e,7    sed no75al vPo  an  aidn lve
ronlonocpe hersit     cnn I   t      I  Peso-rtrAnnnnlvd-fhy nho o.f-  protoI cop                                                                                              -
oalsndeneIcg_edrtnbvoth.  Ac-1vofoal-1oisoseod                                                                                            ThsOscI'llrrol"



- 24 -                       Annex I
-24-                     Page 4 of 5
COUNTRY DATA - RWANDA
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT IN 1979-80       1979                      19801/
US$ Mln.         %      US$ Mln.           %
GNP at Market Prices            1035.0        100.0    1172.5           100.0
Gross Domestic Investment        194.9         18.8      18707           16.0
Gross National Saving            113,0         10.9        21.8           1.9
Current Account Balance           46,8           4.5       54.3           4.6
Export of Goods, NFS             226.6         21.9      165.6           14.1
Import  of Goods, NFS            3G8.6         29.8      331.5           28,3
GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Central Government
(RF Mln)                           % of GDP
1 8& l/                    1980          1972
Current Receipts             13,259                       12.0           8.3
Current Expenditure          10,468                        9.5          10.7
Current Surplus                2,791                       2.5          -2.4
Capital Expenditures           2,113                       1.9           1.2
MONEY, CREDIT AND PRICES           1976      1977        1978        1979        1980
(RF Million outstanding, end period)
Money Supply 2/                   8,047     10,173      11,224      14,113     15,209
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                     480.       221         225         233         219
Bank Credit to Private Sector   2,392.       4,169       4.908       4,330      6,296
(Percentage of Index Numbers)
Money and Quasi Money as %
of GDP                             13.0       14.2        13.9       14.5        14.0
Consumer Price Index (Jan-Mar
1976 = 100)                       101.9      116.7       131.3      152.1       163.0
Annual Percentage Changes in:
Consumer Price Index                  6.9        14.5       12.5        15.8        7.2
Bank Credit to Public
Organisations                       5.1      -54.0         1.8         3.6       -6.0
Bank Credit to Private Sector        40.1       74.3        17.7      -11.8        45.4
NOTE: All conversions to dollars in this table are at the average exchange rate
prevailing during the period covered.
1/ Provisional
2/ Includes Money and Quasi Money.



- 25 -
ANNEX I
COUNTRY DATA  -  RWANDA                      Page 5 of 5
TRADE PAYMENTS AND CAPITAL FLOWS
1/
BALANCE OF PAYMENTS          1977        1978        1979       1980  MERCHANDISE E:XORTS (AVERAGE
1977 -80)
Exports of goods, f.o.b.   125.2         110.4       202.9      133.6                USS Mhn   '
Imports of goods, f.o.b.  -102.3        -144.9      -159.5    -204.4 Coffee           80.3      55. 9
Trade balance                 22.9       -34.5        43.4      -70.8 Tea             10.5       7.3
Cassiterite     ,.7       5.3
Services (net)               -72.4      -106.3      -127.4      -90.0 Wclf rar.        6.-       4.3
Net transfers                 66.9        94.1       130.8      106.5 ?yrethrum         i.8      1.2
Cinchona        2.1       1.3
Balance on current account  17.4         -46.7        46.8      -54.3 Other           34.9      24.3
Total        143.7    100.3
Direct Investment              5.9         4.7        12.5       17.0        EXTERANI DE3B,
Net MLT Borrowing             23.3        20.1        17.6       33.2       DECE'23ER 31. _910
USS Fln
Other Capital (net)
and capital n.e.i.         -24.1        26.1        -7.2       17.4 Public Debt, incl.
Increase in reserves (-)   -22.5          -4.2       -69.7      -13.3 guaranteed             170.0
Non-Guaranteed
Private Debc            --
Gross Reserves                                                         ToEal Outs-rad_-.g
(end year)               96.8        99.7       177.3      204.5 and Disburse_            -_
Petroleum Imports             12.3        11.8        14.5       22.8 EXTERNAL _DEBS--ERVICE
Petroleum Exports              -           -           -          -     RATIO FOR
Public Debt incl.
guaranteed              3.2
Non-guaranteed Private
Debt                    __
Total outstanding and
RATE OF EXCHANGE                                                        disbursed               --
Annual Averages      End Period
1974-80           December 1981         I3PB/IDA LENDING (nec. ,1.1980)
US$ 1.00 = RF                  92.84                92.84                         (USS MYln
RF  1.00 = US$                  0.011                0.011             Outstanding and
Disbursed          58.12
yUndisbursed        57.48
l/ Provisional                    .*                                  Outstanding incl.
1/ Provisional                                                         Und'sbursed        115.60
2/ Debt Service as a percentage of Exports of Goods and Nonfactor Services.
-- = Not available.



- 26 -
ANNEX II
Page 1 of 5
THE STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN RWANDA
A. Statement of IDA Credits
(As of March 31, 1982)
Amount US$ million
(Less cancellations)
Credit No.   Fiscal Year   Borrower   Purpose                       IDA   Undisbursed
(Four credits have been fully disbursed)                          31.90
567-RW          1975       Rwanda       Education                 6.38        2.87
655-RW          1977                    DFC I                     4.00        0.13
656-RW          1977                    Agriculture Cinchona    1.80          0.31
668-RW          1978                    Bugesera
Gisaka-Migongo
Mixed Farming and
Rural Development       14.00        0.70
769-RW          1978                    Road Maintenance         15.00        4.14
896-RW          1979                    DFC II                    5.20        4.71
937-RW          1979                    Mutara Agricultural
and Livestock
Development              8.75        5.84
1039-RW          1980                    Integrated Forestry and
Livestock Development  21.00        10.59
1057-RW          1981                    Telecommunications        7.50        7.05
1126-RW          1981                    Coffee/Foodcrops         15.00       14.50
1217-RW          1982                    Technical Assistance    5.00          5.00
Total                                            135.53       55.84
Repaid                     .38
Total Held             135.15
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1982)
In 1976, IFC made a loan of US$535,000 for a tea factory. A second
IFC long-term loan of US$226,000 and contingent equity commitments of up to
US$60,000 for an expansion of the tea factory were signed in September 1980.
Note: Rwanda has received no Bank loan.



- 27 -
ANNEX II
Page 2 of 5
C. PROJECTS IN RWANDA 1/
(As of March 31, 1982)
Credit No. 567-RW      Education Project; US$8.0 Milion Credit of June 30, 1975;
Date of Effectiveness: December 1, 1975;
Closing Date: December 31, 1982
As now constituted, the project includes construction, equipping and
furnishing of 250 primary-school workshops, a school-textbook printshop, and
an office building for the School Financing and Construction Services (SFCS)
as well as furnishing and equipping of the Rural Agricultural Training Center
of Gitarama. The project also provides technical assistance, vehicles and
operating expenses for the SFCS. The project has been hampered by implementa-
tion difficulties centering on two misprocurements (an amount of US$130,000
was cancelled because of misprocurement of certain construction materials; a
second amount of US$1,491,000 was cancelled due to misprocurement of paper).
Most of the 250 workshops are nearly completed. The lack of acceptable record
keeping, however, has impeded the processing of disbursement requests.
Therefore, a final inspection and evaluation mission for the workshops,
organized by the Government (with IDA approval) was undertaken successfully in
November 1981 with UNESCO assistance. Disbursements have resumed. The
printshop is now operational and construction of the office building for the
SFCS completed.
Credit No. 656-RW      Cinchona Project; US$1.8 million Credit of August 20, 1976
Date of Effectiveness: March 2, 1977
Closing Date: June 30, 1982
The project provides over a five year period inputs and extension
services to grow cinchona for export. Progress is satisfactory and there is
still a demand from farmers for planting material. World market prices
for cinchona derivates, however, remained low during 1979 and 1980, and OCIR
(the implementing agency) had to reduce the farm gate price for cinchona bark
and abolish the export tax and the OCIR levy. In September 1980 it was
decided to establish a cinchona bark processing plant in the Kirambo area, and
construction has since started and the factory is scheduled to be open in
early 1983. This should give Rwanda a stronger position in the future to
compete with cinchona derivates on the world market.
*        _/   These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors regarding the
progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any problems
which are being encountered, and the action being taken to remedy them.
They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding they do not
purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths and weakness in
project execution. The original Closing Date was extended to December 31,
1982 by which time the project is expected to be completed.



- 28 -
ANNEX II
Page 3 of 5
Credit 668-RW          Bugesera/Gisaka/Migongo Mixed Farming and Rural
Development Project; US$14.0 Million Credit of
March 31, 1977;
Date of Effectiveness: November 23, 1977;
Closing Date: September 30, 1982
The project consists of the promotion of mixed farming and rural
development in two recently populated zones; it aims at strengthening the
central services responsible for rural development. The project includes
tsetse control, field extension and infrastructure, credit, improvement of
feeder roads and water supply, a limited number of schools and health centers
and establishment of two cattle ranches. The project is cofinanced with BADEA
(US$5.0 million equivalent for livestock development and water facilities) and
France (US$2.6 million for six technical assistants). Satisfactory progress
has been made with programming of work, budgeting and construction. The
results of the foodcrop and plant improvement components, however, are below
appraisal estimates due to technical packages which have not taken adequate
account of the relatively dry project area. A follow-up project will build on
infrastructure put in place under the first project and focus primarily on
applied research, training and extension.
Credit 769-RW          Fourth Highway Project; US$15.0 Million Credit
of April 1978;
Date of Effectiveness: August 4, 1978;
Closing Date: July 1, 1982
Implementation of the Fourth Highway Project (a US$15.0 million
Credit for road maintenance) started in January 1978. Specialists financed
under the technical assistance program are performing satisfactorily. Procure-
gent of equipment is completed. On the suggestion of the Association, an
expert on labor intensive methods visited Rwanda for three weeks in June 1978
and recommended that one mechanized unit be replaced by one unit utilizing
labor intensive methods. Following the consultant's recommendation, the
Government has introduced labor-intensive methods for road maintenance.
Although the project is about one year behind schedule, implementation is now
at its anticipated progress rate and the project is proceeding satisfactorily.
Project completion is expected for end-1982.
Credit 896-RW          Second Rwandese Development Bank Project; US$5.2 Million;
Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: January 4, 1980;
Closing Date: June 30, 1983
The Project aims at providing further assistance to the industrial
sector by supporting the activities of the Rwandese Development Bank. It
includes two components: (a) a second line of credit of US$5.0 million (which
is now about 80 percent committed) to finance BRD's foreign exchange require-
ments and (b) a feasibility study for the establishment of an auditing firm
in Rwanda (US$0.2 million). Government has just finished reviewing the audit
study and its comments are currently under consideration by the Association.



- 29 -
ANNEX II
Page 4 of 5
Credit 937-RW          Mutara Agricultural and Livestock Development Project;
US$8.75 Million Credit of July 13, 1979;
Date of Effectiveness: May 30, 1980;
Closing Date: December 31, 1983
The project is the second phase of a long-term development program
for the Mutara region. It aims at developing techniques, procedures, and an
institutional environment which will make it possible to preserve the
production potential of the area, make a rational and more intensive use of
available resources, improve farming and ranching techniques, and integrate
the project into the local administration. Settlement of cattle owners has
proceeded in an orderly way and pasture production has improved, but destocking
activities and credit recovery have been disappointing due to lack of clear
policies and enforcement mechanisms.
Credit 1039-RW         Integrated Forestry and Livestock Development Project;
US$21.0 Million Credit of July 7, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: November 11, 1981;
Closing Date: September 30, 1986
The project is the first phase of a long-term program to develop
the forestry resources of Rwanda and to strengthen the livestock industry.
Technical assistance personnel and key local staff have been recruited and
start-up activities are progressing satisfactorily.
Credit 1057-RW         Telecommunications Project; US$7.5 Million;
Credit of August 13, 1980;
Date of Effectiveness: July 7, 1981;
Closing Date: June 30, 1985
The project aims at improving the quality of existing telecommuni-
cations services, while extending the coverage to geographical areas and
segments of the population which at present do not benefit from such
services. In addition to improving international and domestic telecommuni-
cations (telephone and telex) the project provides technical assistance and
training to the Ministry of Post and Telecommunications. The project is
cofinanced with FAC and CCCE (US$3.9 million equivalent) and CIDA (Can$4.95
million) and is proceeding satisfactorily.
Credit 1126-RW         Lake Kivu Coffee Improvement and Foodcrops Project;
US$15.0 Million Credit of April 29, 1981;
Date of Effectiveness: January 18, 1982;
Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at building up an effective extension service
which would assist farmers in increasing foodcrop and coffee production using
field-tested techniques and also helping OCIR-Cafe (the implementing agency)
improve its financial management. Technical assistance personnel and key
local staff have been recruited and start-up activities are progressing
satisfactorily.



- 30 -
ANNEX II
Page 5 of 5
Credit 1217-RW         Technical Assistance Project; US$5.0 Million
Credit of April 5, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
July 5, 1982; Closing Date: December 31, 1986
The project aims at increasing Rwanda's absorptive capacity,
improving interministerial coordination in project preparation and monitoring,
and strengthening the Ministry of Planning.  The project credit agreement was
signed April 5, 1982.



- 31 -
ANNEX III
RWANDA
Supplementary Project Data Sheet
Fifth Highway Project
I.   Timetable of Key Events
(a)  Origin of Project:                Request of Government based on
economic study of Butare-Cyangugu
road completed December 1979 by
consultants SEDES (France)
(b)  Identification Mission:           June 1980
(c)  Appraisal Mission:                August 1981
(d)  Negotiations:                     April 5-8, 1982
(e)  Planned Date of Effectiveness:  September 1982
II. Special Implementation Action
None
III. Additional Condition of Effectiveness
Signing of supplemental financing agreements for the Kitabi-Cyangugu road
with the African Development Bank, BADEA, the EEC and the Kuwait Fund
(para. 42).
IV. Special Conditions
(a) Government would establish appropriate vehicle weight regulations,
including an enforcement mechanism, and put the new regulations into
effect by December 31, 1982 (para. 47);
(b) Government would install a weighing scale at Gatuna and another
at Kagitumba by December 31, 1983 (para. 47); and
(c) Government to prepare action plan and make financing arrange-
ments for restoration works on the Kigali-Gatuna road by
June 30, 1983 (para. 44).



I



IBRD 16034
2K- 1 1 | = ; ~; | ;; -; - m i -- l , ;_ ;     \5Q                                                                                                                            SUTURSure aaU  ;  IBR1a
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
=PEVIOUdS ANK PROJECTS                                                                                                    1I
~OOSRTIIUCTELR UNDER FHIRST HIGHWAY PRpc#(r
T  SIR  U  ^1  o  O n e bo AN DArD _ g Z A I R E _ + N t < W n |~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A N    A     I 
-    APES) ROADSRO                                                         R
n - OADS ON.ER CONSTRUCT OSI TO PAVED STANDARD
MAIN GRhAVL, AND EARTHJ ROADS                                      Z t
NATIONAL CAITAL
5                                                    00   5~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'ITCESANDRRONNR
SQ hRISERS AND LANES
-.-INTLINAlIONIAL RAIUE
AFRICA                                                                                                                                                                tA.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AKA             
0   :l  6  0   g  0  ;  S 0  t 2  \  \  |  7  ): 5 5( 9 4 \ i 0 iX 4 t 0 0 0 0 g tv K 9 j_ > N A r 4 oN  N A IL0 N A 
F-R C A"
G260 :>NV;N W IAP                 E                                                                                                                                                                 \                                      A  I-  R  ''1; ' -
K,b-g~
th,APRI ~ ~ ~ K GI>'kD IICCIrT
WoRD RAPE j   RPS A'T 'PIP              '                                                                                                                  R                                                                 3 N   D  I
,CIRRoCPRPAPOISOP,s P ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  I            5.111          ~~10                                   2       3         0       0       60s
CHIabUftPStat'           I,edf /rap   S   _ew-~   _XIIy
; ( 0 ~~~~~VW                                                                                                                                                                              tFHA.    j     <}8sh1AbtlJf  X
D                              I            I              RILES
UBLICOr\                                                                                                                                     _ r   .       II           5            |   j B0                   RD            50
ZAIRE                                                            U R U N D I                                                                                                     '



