Document of
The World Banlk                   .       hS  '..67}2'';'
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 3680a-RW
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
May 11, 1982
Highways Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
L This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of 
Ltheir official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization. 



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
Currency Unit          =       Rwandese Franc (F Rw)
US$1.00                =       RF 92
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)            =       3.28 feet
1 kilometer (km)       =       0.62 miles
1 square kilometer(km2)=       0.386 sq. mile
1 hectare (ha)         =       2.47 acres
1 metric ton (ton)     =       2,204 pounds
ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AfDB        -     African Development Bank
BADEA       -     The Arab Bank for Economic Development in
Africa
FED         -     European Development Fund
KFAED       -     Kuwait Fund for Arab Economic Development
MC          -     Ministry of Communications
MPW         -     Ministry of Public Works
PED         -     Planning and Engineering Department
RB          -     Roads Branch
STIR        -     Societe des Transports Internationaux du
Rwanda
TRAFIPRO    -     Travail, Fidelite, Progres
UNDP        -     United Nations Development Programme
VOC         -     Vehicle Operating Costs
vpd         -     Vehicles per day
WD          -     Works Department
GOVERNMENT OF RWANDA
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR ...................................            1
A. Geographic and Economic Setting         ............             1
B. The Transport System                    ..                       3
C. Transport Planning and Coordinati3n             .      .         4
D. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector   . .              5
II. THE HIGHWAY SUBSECTOR ..................................            9
A. The Road Network ......................                          9
B. Road Use          ...............................                9
C. Administration and Training .......... .. .............    14
D. Engineering      .................... .....................    15
E. Construction          ........................................    16
F. Planning    ...................... ......................    16
G. Financing   ..18
H. Maintenance      .................... .....................    20
[II. THE PROJECT ....................-.....-.-......    22
A. Objectives          ..........................................    22
B. Project Description .............. .. .................    22
CL  Cost Estimates      ................... ...................    25
D. Financing      ..................... ......................    27
E. Implementation       ................... ...................    28
F. Procurement      .................... .....................    29
G. Disbursements ................... ....................    30
H. Accounting and Reporting Requirements ...............    30
I. Environmental Aspects          ..................    31
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION ..................         ..................    32
A. General    ...................... .......................    32
B. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries .,..                   .        32
C. Economic Analysis ................. ..................    33
D. Sensitivity and Risks          ..................    35
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION .............      .....    37
This report was prepared by E. Fellinghauer (Engineer) and J. Van der Ven
(Economist) who appraised the project in August 1981. The report was
edited by C. Applegate (Technical Editor).
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclcsed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (Cont'd.)
ANNEXES
I.        Draft Terms of Reference for Road Maintenance Engineers in the
Ministry of Public Works
II.       Draft Terms of Reference for a Transport Planning Expert at the
Ministry of Public Works
III.      Progress Reporting Requirements
IV.       Economic Evaluation of Paving the Butare-Kitabi Road
V.        Related Documents and Data Available in the Project File
CHARTS
1.        Organization of the Roads Branch
2.        Project Implementation Schedule
MAP       Rwanda, Fifth Highway Project (IBRD 16034)



I. THE TRANSPOR" SECTOR
A. Geographic and Economic Setting
1.01         Rwanda is a small landlocked country in central Africa with
Uganda to the north, Zaire to the west, Burundi to the south and Tanzania
to the east. The country's area is only about 26,000 km2 and it is separa-
ted from the Indian Ocean by a distance of 1,400 km. The topography ranges
from mountainous in the west to a rolling plateau with scattered, swampy
valleys in the east.  The climate is equatorial with heavy rainfall in the
western highlands.
1.02      With a population of almost 5 million people growing at about 3%
per annum and a per capita income of aboul: US$230 (in 1980), Rwanda is one
of the most densely populated and poorest: countries in the world.   More
than 90% of the population lives in rural areas, engaged mainly in subsis-
tence agriculture.  Foodcrop production, however, has barely kept pace with
the rapid population growth; increases itl food production have generally
been due to extensions in cultivated area at the expense of pasture and
forestry uses.  More than half of all fartners also grow coffee; other cash
crops are tea and quinine bark grown mainly in the southwest.
1.03      During the 1970s GDP grew on average at about 6% p.a.  The fast-
est growth was registered in commerce (11% p.a.) and manufacturing (10%
p.a.), but at 18% and 15%, respectively, these sectors' share of GDP
remains relatively small compared with agrLculture which still accounts for
just over 40% of GDP. The estimated share of transport is small (less than
2%), but this estimate does not take into consideration that an important
part of the transport activity is counted as trade (para. 2.09).
1.04       Rwanda's export earnings are heavily dependent on coffee, which
has provided about 60% of the value of exports in recent years. Production
(about 25,000 tons p.a.), however, is growing slowly and export earnings
are vulnerable to changes in the world market price for coffee.  Mineral
exports, providing some 20% of export earnings, have shown virtually no
growth in volume over recent years while tea, the second agricultural ex-
port crop, has increased moderately to about 6,000 tons p.a. For the short
and medium term, the general shortage of land, diminishing soil fertility
and the scattered settlement pattern preclude any significant change in
agricultural production; export earnings, therefore, are expected to remain
insufficient to cover the fast growing foreign exchange requirements of the
economy and will have to be supplemented by substantial capital inflows.



- 2 -
1.05      Rwanda's external economic position is precarious not only
because its major exports are subject to significant price fluctuations,
but its landlocked position substantially increases the cost of imports and
exports and makes the vital foreign trade vulnerable to events in
neighboring countries. Moreover, imports are of the order of 150,000 tons
p.a. and exports (mainly coffee) average 35,000 tons p.a. and are very
seasonal in nature.   This relatively small volume of international trade
and the imbalances between imports and exports with wide seasonal
fluctuations in the latter further add to the cost of international
transport.
External Transport Connections
1.06      Traditionally, two main transport corridors have provided Rwanda
with access to the Indian Ocean ports: the northern all road or road/rail
route via Kampala to Mombasa (1,740 km by road or 1,924 km by road/rail);
and the southern road/lake/rail connection via Bujumbura and Kigoma to Dar
es Salaam (1,715 km). Even though the southern route is marginally cheaper
(in direct costs), the northern surface route is faster and more reliable
and now carries more than 70% of total external trade.   Air transport has
increased to handle about 20% of this trade. But even on the northern sur-
face route, efficient operations are constrained by cumabersome interna-
tional transit procedures; in addition, general political instability in
the region over the past decade has led to frequent interruptions in traf-
fic flow  severely  harming Rwanda's economy.   As an alternative to the
existing routes, another road/rail route connecting Kigali (via Rusumo at
the Tanzania border and the railhead at Isaka in Tanzania) to the port of
Dar es Salaam is being developed.   The road has been paved in Rwanda and
paving of the three remaining sections in Tanzania is either underway or
planned.
1.07      In order to assist Rwanda as well as Burundi in assessing the re-
lative advantages of existing and potential external transport routes and
in identifying actions and investments required to improve the efficiency
of these routes, the Bank Group prepared a study on the external transport
connections of the two landlocked countries.l/ The conclusions of the
study were that: (i) the two existing surface routes now serving Rwanda and
Burundi will continue to offer these countries the least-cost access to
Indian Ocean ports, at least in the medium term; and (ii) their external
transport situation could be markedly improved by a number of measures
(e.g. simplified customs and border regulations) and by projects which
either have recently begun or are about to begin. The report has been fa-
vorably received by the countries concerned and has provided the first
framework for discussions and negotiations between the landlocked and tran-
sit countries. A more comprehensive and detailed study has also been car-
ried out by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD)
on the international transport connections of Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and
eastern  Zaire.   The findings and recommendations  of  these studies  are
assisting the countries concerned and the donor agencies to agree on ac-
tions and priority investments for the medium and longer term; since the
publication of these reports fruitful, bilateral as well as multilateral
meetings (sponsored by the EEC) have been held.
1/   "A Report on the International Transportation Bottlenecks Affecting
Rwanda and Burundi," December 1980, No. 3224-EAF.



B. The Transport System
1.08       Rwanda's transport infrastructure consists of a network of 6,000
km of roads and tracks, Lake Kivu on its western border, and an interna-
tional airport at the capital of Kigali and five smaller airports.  There
are no railways or navigable rivers.  Dome3tic transport is therefore de-
pendent predominantly on the highway networlk which is discussed in more de-
tail in Chapter II.
Lake Transport
1.09       Commercial navigation takes place on a small scale between the
towns of Gysenyi, Kibuye and Cyangugu on Lake Kivu. The main transport
flows consist of beer from Gysenyi to Cyangugu and Kibuye with coffee being
carried on the return journey when in season. Total volume of lake traffic
(estimated at some 25,000 tons per annum) has remained stationary for sev-
eral years but lack of demand rather than limited capacity seems to be the
principal cause.   The lake fleet, owned by traders/operators, consists of
15 units, mostly self-propelled barges withl a carrying capacity of 30-120
tons.   TRAFIPR02/, a cooperative engaged principally in the distribution
of consumer goods, is the largest trader/operator with 4 barges and 2
tugs.   The fleet is old and in a state of disrepair as maintenance and
repair facilities are no longer available cn the lake. The berthing faci-
lities are generally rudimentary and in poor- condition but could be renova-
ted at relatively low cost.   Since lake transport is the most economical
method of transportation between communities along the lake, there will be
scope for its expansion if and when trade in agricultural and consumer pro-
ducts increases. In the meantime, the traders/operators would most likely
only replace worn-out equipment.
Air Transport
1.10      In view of the small size of the country, air transport primarily
serves Rwanda's external transport needs; in times of severe bottlenecks on
the surface routes, it offers the only means to evacuate exports to and
transport essential imports from Indian Ocean ports. There is an interna-
tional airport near Kigali, which was upgraded in 1981 to handle wide-
bodied aircraft.   The airport's storage and handling facilities are being
expanded to handle increased traffic.   An airport at Cyangugu can handle
medium range aircraft while four grass airstrips in the interior handle
small aircraft.  Kigali airport provides connections to Europe and to the
capitals of neighboring African countries.   Passenger traffic amounts to
some 20,000 arrivals and departures per year.   Freight traffic achieved
significance in the late 1970's when, due to difficulties with the surface
transport, chartered cargo flights were started between Kigali and
Mombasa. Traffic increased sharply from about 2,500 tons per annum in 1974
to 38,000 tons per annum in 1980 (exports and imports combined). Although
it is clear that this rate of growth cannot be sustained, particularly if
service on the surface routes were to improve, air transport is expected to
continue to play an important role in Rwanda's external transport.
2/ TRAFIPRO  (Travail,  Fidelite,  Progres);    created in  1965 with Swiss
assistance.



1.11        Air Rwanda, the national airline, was established in 1975 but
only became a carrier in 1979 when it purchased a Boeing 707 cargo air-
craft.   It operates an average of 10 flights per week to Mombasa and two
per month to Europe and handles the largest share of the country's air
cargo.    Although  the Boeing  707  is not  particularly well  adapted  to
Rwanda's import and export traffic, the cargo carried has increased faster
than anticipated.   It is too early to determine whether the current rates
can cover the aircraft's operating costs including depreciation, since
operating results have not been finalized for the only complete year (1980)
of operation.
C. Transport Planning and Coordination
1.12      The Government has assigned an important role to transport in the
development of the economy. Its policies and investments are aimed at the
following objectives: (a) to improve external transport connections; (b) to
upgrade the main road network to facilitate the country's economic develop-
ment and social and administrative integration; and (c) to improve the road
network in general through better maintenance. These objectives correspond
to the priority needs of the country.
1.13      Three ministries are involved in achieving the above objectives:
(a) the Ministry of Public Works (MPW) for roads; (b) the Ministry of Com-
munications (MC) for other modes and for transport operations; and (c) the
Ministry of Planning (MP), for determining priorities and coordinating all
public investments. Even with the limited complexity of the sector, trans-
port planning has received too little attention in Rwanda.  The technical
assistance provided to MPW by the Federal Republic of Germany (Germany) has
concentrated on engineering and construction supervision. At the MP an ex-
pert responsible for infrastructure was only recently added to the techni-
cal assistance staff financed by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and the United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO).
This should help MP to better assume its responsibilities regarding the
overall coordination of transport investments. However, neither MPW nor MC
employs a transport planner, and both are insufficiently equipped to pro-
vide the necessary inputs toward preparation of the national development
plans. The planning capability, therefore, still needs to be strengthened
(paras. 1.18 and 3.10).
1.14      Under Rwanda's second five year plan covering the period 1977-81
a strong emphasis was placed on the transport sector which accounted for
26% of all planned investments with roads alone taking 22%.   Since roads
provide the principal means of domestic transport and considering the poor
state of the road network, this heavy concentration on roads was justi-
fied.  When the plan was published, however, priorities for transport had
not been clearly specified, and financing, all practically in the form of
external pledges, had been received for less than 50% of the projects.
Moreover the estimated implementation period was generally unrealistic.
Fortunately, the road projects that were started were those with the high-
est priority. However, the annual investment budgets bore only slight re-



- 5 -
lation to the plan's contents and implementation was slow, particularly in
road construction where only about a third of the plan was achieved. Out-
side the road subsector two major investmen:s took place: the extension and
strengthening of Kigali airport and the purchase of an aircraft by Air
Rwanda in 1979.
1.15       The third plan (1982-86) has not yet been published.  However,
the objectives under the second plan will most likely be pursued.   Given
the vital importance of Rwanda's transport sector, a clear definition of
sector policy and of investment priorities  is imperative.   Two areas of
planning--the strategy for the improvement of external transport and the
relative weight to be given to main roads and feeder roads--will require
particular attention.
1.16       With regard to external transport, Rwanda alone cannot apprecia-
bly improve the situation since, with the Exception of air transport, only
a small portion of the transport facilities are within Rwanda's control.
In addition, the volume of Rwanda's traffic is quite low both in absolute
terms and relative to the total traffic so that Rwanda has limited leverage
over transport decisions made by the transit countries. In Rwanda's situa-
tion, achieving a high degree of security of external access is prohibi-
tively costly, and planning for development and utilization of external
routes should be directed at obtaining relatively secure access at minimum
cost. Rwanda must therefore have a clear understanding of all aspects re-
lating to its external transport in order to effectively negotiate and
coordinate actions and investments with the transit countries.
1.17       The road improvement projects currently underway or about to be
started (see para. 2.24, Table 2.5) will provide the country with a basic
network of national and interregional roads.  In preparing future road in-
vestments, particular attention should be paid to making optimal use of the
existing network and to working out the r-ight balance between main roads
and district and feeder roads.  The latter category of roads will require
increased attention, first in terms of the identification of priorities and
the design of institutional arrangements for their development and mainte-
nance and later in terms of actual construction.
1.18       In order to address these issues and needs, the Government has
requested technical assistance under the proposed project to establish a
planning capability for the transport sector in MPW.   Terms of reference
for the technical assistance to be provided under the proposed project
(para. 3.10) are given in Annex 2.  The project also provides for prein-
vestment studies to assist the Government in planning road sector invest-
ments (para. 3.09).
D. Previous Bank Group Involvement in the Sector
1.19        The Bank Group has been involved in Rwanda's transport sector
since 1970 when the First Highway Project (Credit 196-RW, US$9.3 million)
was approved to help finance the purchase of maintenance equipment and the
paving of the Kigali-Gatuna road, the firial link of an all-weather road



- 6 -
joining Kigali (via Kampala) to the port of Mombasa. Difficulties were en-
countered d&-ring construction of the road attributable mainly to inadequate
engineering which led to a considerable increase in construction quanti-
ties. The slow mobilization of the contractor, shortages of materials and
fuel, and difficult soil conditions further hampered project execution. As
a result of these problems, the road was not completed until late 1977,
three years behind schedule.   Torrential rains during the 1978/79 rainy
season caused severe hillslides and earthslides requiring costly road
repairs.   Increased quantities, repair works, severe inflation in 1973/74
and currency realignment gave rise to a substantial cost overrun:   total
project costs increased from the appraisal estimate of US$10.9 million to
US$28.1 million.
1.20      To finance the cost overrun, the Credit Agreement was amended in
1975 to increase the credit by US$9.5 million (Credit 196-1-RW) to US$18.8
million.  The Saudi Fund also provided US$5.0 million toward financing of
the road.   The Project Performance Audit Report estimated the economic
return at 13%, the same as estimated at appraisal, the increased project
costs having been compensated by higher than expected traffic development.
The Credit closed on September 30, 1979.
1.21      Sections of the Kigali-Gatuna road are now in a badly deteriora-
ted state, particularly on the first 50 km, which will require extensive
reconstruction of the base and surface courses. While the exact causes of
the deterioration have yet to be determined, it appears that the problem
lies in inadequate design for the difficult soil conditions, poor execution
of the drainage works and overloading of trucks using the road. In view of
the importance of the road, the proposed project includes a study to inves-
tigate in more detail the causes for its failure and to identify the type,
scope and cost of restoration works and interim maintenance pending comple-
tion of the studies (para. 3.08).
1.22       The Second Highway Project (Credit 299-RW, US$4.2 million, 1972)
provided for reorganizing and strengthening MPW to enable it to carry out
road improvement and maintenance more efficiently. Project implementation
suffered from a delay in credit effectiveness, the slow mobilization of
technical assistance, delayed delivery of equipment, fuel shortages result-
ing from frequent border closures between Uganda and Kenya, and periodic
shortages of Government funds. Project completion was postponed from mid-
1976 to the end of 1977. These difficulties also resulted in the project's
falling short of its objectives. At project completion, about 65 km out of
the planned 243 km of roads had been rehabilitated and about 1,100 km out
of the planned 1,600 km of routine maintenance had been carried out and to
lower standards.   The Credit Agreement was amended in 1977 to provide an
additional US$1.2 million to help finance an increase in project cost from
an estimated US$5.1 million to US$7.2 million; the increase was due to the
delays in project implementation and higher than anticipated price escala-
tions.   Credit funds were fully disbursed and the project was closed on
December 31, 1978.  The Project Performance Audit Review (PPAR) concluded
that the targets for improving maintenance of the network set at appraisal
were overly optimistic.   The re-evaluated rate of return of the project



- 7 -
given in the PPAR was 27% compared with the appraisal estimate of 28%
because the increase in construction costs arid the shortfall in kilometers
maintained were offset by higher than anticipated traffic growth and the
consequent greater VOC savings.   Despite the failure to meet the mainte-
nance targets, the project succeeded in setting up a basic road maintenance
administration and improving the skills of lozal staff.
1.23       The Third Highway Project (Credit 475-RW, US$6.3 million, 1974)
provided for the paving of the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road (60 km), feasibility
and detailed engineering studies of the Kigali-Ruhengeri and Ruhengeri-
Cyanika roads (financed by Belgium), and technical assistance to the MPW to
train maintenance staff.  The paving of the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road was de-
layed by about one year by slow contractor mobilization, work stoppages due
to disagreement over construction materials and price escalation. The fea-
sibility and detailed engineering study of the Kigali-Ruhengeri road was
satisfactorily completed as scheduled, but the feasibility and detailed en-
gineering of the Ruhengeri-Cyanika road were deleted due to cost overruns
and were financed later by another donor.   The technical assistance and
training components were also deleted from the project due to cost overruns
for the construction of the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road and were included in the
Fourth Highway Project.   The project was completed by mid-1977, about one
year behind the appraisal estimate.   The actual cost was US$8.9 million
compared to US$7.7 million estimated at appraisal due to the cost increases
already mentioned. Part (US$0.4 million) of this increase was financed by
IDA under the supplementary financing credit for the First Highway Project
and the remainder by the Government.  The rate of return upon project com-
pletion was calculated at 18%, the same rate estimated at appraisal, since
the increase in construction costs was offset by an increase in vehicle
operating cost savings.   The PPAR of June 18, 1979 attributed the cost
overruns and delays to inadequate preparation, namely only about a third of
the Ruhengeri-Gisenyi road had been engineered at appraisal, necessitating
major changes in the horizontal and vertical alignment and a subsequent in-
crease in the amount of construction works.
1.24       The Fourth Highway Project (Credit 769-RW, US$15 million, 1977)
provides for the second phase of strengthening the MPW's road maintenance
operations. It comprises a four-year betternent program covering 1,500 km
of roads, routine maintenance of 3,850 km of roads, improvement of equip-
ment repair facilities, and training of maintenance personnel at all
levels. Although the project is about one year behind schedule due to de-
lays in procurement of equipment and in the start of the training program,
implementation has now achieved its anticipated progress rate and the pro-
ject is proceeding satisfactorily. Project completion is expected by the
end of 1982 compared to the appraisal estimate of end 1981.
1.25       Experience with previous highway projects has shown that cons-
truction works have frequently been interrupted due to periodic shortages
of materials and fuel caused by border closures in Uganda and Kenya through
which these commodities must pass on their way from Mombasa to Rwanda.



- 8 -
Furthermore, difficult soil conditions in certain parts of the country have
resulted in unforeseen additional construction works and have caused exten-
sive damage to roads requiring comprehensive repair and rehabilitation. As
a result, road construction works have frequently required more time to
complete than foreseen and costs have been substantially above those origi-
nally estimated. To minimize the effects of possible interruptions in the
supply of materials for construction of the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi road, ten-
der documents for this project component will provide for a larger than
usual stock of materials. A risk allowance of 10% has also been added to
the project cost to safeguard against possible cost increases due to work
interruptions; extra care will be taken during project supervision to take
into account any difficult soil conditions.
1.26       The institution-building efforts begun by IDA under the Second
Highway Project and continued under the Fourth Highway Project as well as
those undertaken by other donors have been successful; good progress has
been made in in establishing the highway organization and in training staff
(para. 2.18). It is expected that by 1983 the organization will be predo-
minantly manned by local staff with only pockets of specialized expatriate
assistance including technical assistance and training being provided by
the Federal Republic of Germany for engineering and the mechanical work-
shops.



- 9 -
II. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A. The Road Network
2.01        The classified network totals about 2,280 km of which 490 km
(22%) are paved and 265 km are under construction to paved standards, 800
km (35%) are mostly unengineered gravel road:3, and 980 km (43%) are earth
roads and tracks.   In addition, there are about 4,000 km of unclassified
district and rural roads.  Road density is about 240 m per kM2, which is
one of the highest in Africa.
2.02      Although the coverage of the network is nearly adequate, a consi-
derable part of it is of low standard.  I4any of the gravel and earth roads
are in poor condition, characterized by frecuent and narrow curves, steep
gradients and uneven surfaces; potholes and rutting are common and many of
these roads are impassable during the rainy season.   As a result,  the
average driving speed is low on most of the non-paved network and transport
costs are high.   The mountainous terrain,  heavy rainfalls and poor soil
conditions call for construction of paved roads in most of the country due
to high costs for maintenance of gravel and earth roads. During the past
decade, Government has been concentrating its efforts on paving the major
international road connections between Kigali and neighboring Uganda,
Burundi and Tanzania and between its major regional centers.   The Govern-
ment is also giving considerable attention to improving conditions of the
non-paved network through strengthening of il:s road maintenance operations
(paras. 2.28 - 2.31).
B. Road Use
Vehicle Fleet
2.03       Despite rapid growth in recent years Rwanda's vehicle fleet is
small when compared to the road network or the population.   In 1980 the
fleet totalled about 11,800 (of which 1,800 were in the public sector) or 2
vehicles  per  1,000 inhabitants which  is b'elow the average for Eastern
Africa and only about a fifth of Kenya's vehicle ownership rate.   The
vehicle fleet is composed of about 4,400 passenger cars, registered mainly
in Kigali, 5,700 pick-ups and minibuses, 1,300 trucks and 400 other
vehicles (Table 2.1).   Heavy trucks are powered with diesel engines but
most of the light trucks run on gasoline; the pick-ups almost all have
gasoline engines.   The fleet of pick-ups more than doubled in four years
(1976-1980), registering an average growth of some 23% per annum and
overtaking passenger cars in importance.   This latter development is the
result of small scale trade rapidly gaining in importance. Though it may
suggest less efficient use of energy, it is well adapted to the country's
trade and distribution requirements characterized by small loads.



- 10 -
Table 2.1 Motor Vehicle Fleet
Increase
1976   1977   1978   1979   19801/ 1976-80
Passenger cars                   2,713  3,036  3,488  3,901  4,400         62
Pick-ups, minibuses, jeeps    2,432  3,265  3,925  4,653  5,700    134
Trucks                             858    937  1,051  1,064  1,300         51
Other                              299    334    388    351    400         34
Total   6,302  7,572  8,852  9,969 11,800         87
Motorcycles                        538    853  1,243 1,636   2,150
1/ Mission estimates.
2.04       Imports of gasoline and diesel fuel increased by 26% from 1976 to
1980 (Table 2.2) compared to the 87% increase registered by the vehicle
fleet.  The growth occurred entirely in gasoline as diesel fuel imports de-
clined. It is not possible to draw conclusions on the fuel economy of the
vehicle fleet from the available data because: (a) the figures represent
total imports and there is no breakdown between road vehicles and other
uses (estimated at less than one third), (b) transport bottlenecks in the
region have affected consumption, and (c) different prices in the countries
of the region may have led to illegal trade of fuel products.
Table 2.2 Imports of Petroleum Products 1975-79
(tons)
Increase
1976   1977   1978   1979   1980 1976-80
Premium and Regular Gasoline 15,098 18,088 20,576 18,592 23,326   54
Diesel Fuel                     14,639 12,004 12,679 13,530 14,286  - 2
Sub-total   29,737 30,092 33,255 32,122 37,612   26
Other                            5,572  5,972  7,315  8,082  8,010   44
Total   35,309 36,064 40,570 40,204 45,622   29
Source: Ministry of Finance



- 11 -
2.05       There is little difference in the CIF/Kigali prices of gasoline
(premium: RF55.24!liter) and diesel fuel (RF53.36/liter).   As long as the
cost differential remains marginal, there is no advantage of diesel-powered
vehicles over gasoline-powered ones: the small saving in fuel consumption
of the diesel engine is offset by a higher initial cost and the fact that
there are fewer facilities for servicing diesel vehicles. The predominance
of gasoline engines in the light commercial vehicles, owned largely by
small traders/operators, is probably relat:ed to the greater availability of
gasoline which results from the fact that the small pump stations generally
can carry only one type of fuel.
2.06      The figures for fuel prices and taxes are shown below.
Table 2.3 Fuel Prices and Taxes
(US$ per lit:er)
Pump Price       Tax
Premium gasoline             0.72         0.05
Regular gasoline             0.71         0.05
Diesel fuel                  0.69         0.04
While fuel taxes are low by international standards, the Government is not
subsidizing fuel products. The low taxes are a result of Government's po-
licy of not adding to the rapid world prize escalation of fuel products by
increasing taxes.   Since it is expected that world prices will rise less
rapidly, there is a strong case for the Government to review its fuel taxa-
tion policies taking into consideratior energy conservation, road-user
costs and resource mobilization.  One of the tasks of the transport plan-
ning unit in the Ministry of Public Works will be to recommend pricing and
taxation policies for petroleum products.
Traffic
2.07      Over the period 1970-80 MPW carried out five countrywide traffic
counts on the classified network.  The number of counting stations stands
at 80. Three quarters of these counting stations are located well within
the influence area of towns;  the remaining one quarter give a good indica-
tion of traffic levels and growth on the intercity trunk roads. The most
trafficked road sections register about 500 vehicles per day (vpd). Ave-
rage traffic growth in recent years is estimated at 7% per annum with
slightly higher growth for light vehicles. Heavy vehicles represent about
50% of intercity traffic.



- 12 -
Domestic Road Transport
2.08         The road transport industry is largely composed of traders/
truckers who own one or two vehicles and engage mainly in trading with
trucking as a second activity. Vehicle owners normally use their vehicles
for their own account but will offer spare capacity when there is demand.
Few traders own more than two vehicles. Two major organizations, active in
the distribution sector, own larger fleets: TRAFIPRO with 20 trucks and
OPROVIA3/ with 30 trucks.  Both organizations are involved in the distri-
bution of basic foodstuffs and the collection of agricultural produce
through a network of regional stores.
2.09       Entry in the road transport industry is subject to the same con-
ditions as setting up a business which requires registration in the trade
register.   Transport routes are not regulated, and competition appears to
be stronger on improved roads where transport flows are higher. It is ex-
pected, therefore, that road upgrading will contribute to increased compe-
tition in transport operations.  Although uniform tariffs for freight are
set by the Government, the regulations do not provide penalties for non-
compliance, and actual prices agreed between operators and shippers can
differ from the official rates according to supply and demand and road con-
ditions on a particular route.   The Government is beginning to recognize
that the setting -of uniform tariffs, even if they could be enforced, will
not achieve its principal objective -- to help the rural areas by lowering
their transport costs -- and that road improvements combined with adequate
allocations of foreign exchange for the importation of vehicles and spares
are a much more effective instrument for that objective. It is likely that
uniform tariff setting will be abandoned and replaced by a more appropriate
system of maximum and minimum tariffs. The transport planning unit in the
Ministry of Public Works will look into this question and make suitable
recommendations.
2.10       The 1977-81 national plan called for the creation of a publicly
owned domestic transport company which still has not been established.
Since the demand for transport is scattered in small pockets over the
country and is highly seasonal, for the time being the continued use of
trader/truckers who normally have substantial spare transport capacity is
probably the most- flexible and cost-effective arrangement for handling the
country's transport needs.
2.11        Passenger transport is mainly undertaken by traders who carry
both goods and passengers with their pick-ups and trucks.   The public bus
company ONATRACOM created in 1978 under the MC operates about 48 buses bet-
ween Kigali and provincial centers and 8 minibuses in Kigali.  ONATRACOM's
3/ OPROVIA (Office National pour le Developpement et la Commercialisation
de Produits Vivriers et des Productions Animales) is a semi-public
organization for the development and distribution of agricultural pro-
ducts, created in 1975.



- 13 -
tariffs require approval by the Government.   Tariffs are insufficient to
cover capital replacement.  ONATRACOM's fleet is in poor condition and will
have to be replaced in the near future which will require a fresh injection
of Government capital. For the longer term, unless more realistic tariffs
are adopted and operations improve, ONATRZACOM's survival will continue to
depend on continued government financial assistance.   To help avoid this,
the transport planning unit in the Ministry of Public Works will prepare
proposals for tariff adjustments.  Whatever ONATRACOM's future, the mixed
transport by traders, which offers considerable flexibility and helps to
increase capacity utilization of the vehicle fleet, will continue to take
the major share of passenger transport for some time to come.  In Kigali
private minibus transport has made its appearance and has potential for
growth.
International Road Transport
2.12      Owing to the cumbersome administrative and customs procedures go-
verning transit traffic, importers and exporters have traditionally relied
on the three major international clearing and forwarding agents established
in Rwanda to handle transit formalities and transport.   The agents them-
selves do not engage in transport but contract out this work to truckers or
pools of truckers. The trucking industry is dominated by carriers from the
transit countries who account for about 75% of the total volume, while
Rwandese carriers transport the remaining 25%.
2.13        The Societe des Transports Internationaux du Rwanda (STIR), a
semi- public organization created in 1974, is the main Rwandese interna-
tional carrier.  It has a fleet of about 90 tractor-combinations of which
about half are tank wagons.  Even though STIR is well established, it is
experiencing financial difficulties mainly due to the recurrent problems
associated with transit transport in the region (cumbersome administrative
procedures, border closures, bonding, theft, etc.) and competition from
more efficient Kenyan carriers.   In orc.er to be less dependent on the
clearing and forwarding agents, STIR recently expanded its activities to
include agent's services. It is too earl) to assess whether in the prevai-
ling competitive environment the organiza:ion will be able to maintain its
market share without protection and/or assistance from the Government.
However, in view of Rwandese carriers' small share of international trans-
port, there should be scope for increasing Rwanda's involvement subject to
agreements with the transit countries.
Road-User Revenues
2.14         Road users contribute to Government revenues through import
duties and taxes on vehicles, spare parts and lubricants, registration and
licensing fees, and a border toll on commiercial vehicles (see table 2.4).
Import and other duties are 10% on commercial vehicles with payloads of
less than 6 tons, 15% for vehicles with higher payloads and 20% for buses.
These rates reflect a policy to make it easy for small businessmen to
acquire commercial vehicles.  For passenger cars the duties range from 20%



- 14 -
to 120%. Revenues collected from road users in 1980 are estimated to have
amounted to about US$9.3 million (see table 2.4). These revenues more than
covered recurrent maintenance expenditures at US$3.1 million and also con-
tributed to meet the costs of new road construction and of urban roads.
The levels of road user taxes are adequate, but as maintenance expenditures
increase with the growing maintenance needs and the expanding capacity of
the Roads Branch (para. 2.15), they will have to be reviewed.
Table 2.4 Road User Revenues
(RF million)
1976      1977       1978       1979      1980
Road tax                        27.2      30.9       33.8       76.0       88.0
Vehicle registration             5.7        5.6       7.9        6.9        7.2
Import duties - fuel           157.8     136.7      168.8      158.5     208.6
- spares         31.8      32.1       45.2       47.6       37.5
- vehicles       99.7     112.0      165.6      205.5      294.9
- tires          33.9      44.0       54.3       54.4      140.8
Border toll                     25.1      27.3       41.0       46.2       65.1
Total        381.2      388.6      516.6      595.1     842.1
US$ equivalent (million)         4.2       4.3        5.7        6.5        9.3
C.  Administration and Training
2.15        The MPW through its Roads Branch, RB (Direction Generale des
Ponts et Chaussees) is responsible for design, construction and maintenance
of the classified network.   RB is functionally divided into two depart-
ments:    the Planning and Engineering Department,  PED (Direction Etudes
Techniques) which also supervises construction of works, and the Works De-
partment, WD (Direction Travaux), which is in charge of road construction
and maintenance and of the mechanical workshops. In addition, an Adminis-
trative Division (Division Administration, Bureau Personnel) is responsible
for personnel and for accounting (see Chart 1).
2.16       While its organization is adequate to administer the road sub-
sector, RB is seriously short of experienced local staff at all levels. At
present, it employs 9 local engineers, who among them fill all the posi-
tions of department head and above, and about 30 technicians.   However,
some of these employees lack sufficient experience to carry out their
assignments without expatriate assistance. There is also a severe shortage
of middle and lower-level staff, such as works supervisors, mechanics and
equipment operators.   The lack of qualified staff is due not only to the



- 15 -
nationwide shortage of engineers and technicians but also to low Government
salaries which causes more qualified RB staff to seek higher paying jobs in
the private sector.   RB, therefore, depends heavily on foreign technical
assistance to offset this shortage.
2.17        Currently, RB employs 24 expatriates financed by Germany and
Belgium and by IDA under the Fourth Highway Project.   The bilateral aid
provides 11 positions ranging from advisor to mechanic: 5 positions are in
the Planning and Engineering Department, 6 in the Works Department. IDA is
providing 13 technical assistants: 10 to help implement the four-year main-
tenance program (para. 2.30) and 3 to work exclusively at the training cen-
ter in Kigali which was also set up under the project.
2.18      The technical assistance provides classroom and on-the-job train-
ing to improve the skills of MPW's staff at all levels. Classroom instruc-
tion is given at the Kigali training center and the expatriates in the
field provide the on-the-job training.   This training effort has already
succeeded in improving the competency of 12 supervisors, 60 apprentice
mechanics and about 80 drivers and equipment operators and has provided re-
fresher training for about 200 mechanics and helpers.  The program is also
training eight local instructors to carry on the training at the Kigali
center upon expiration of the consultants' assignment at the end of 1982.
As a further measure to improve the skills of local personnel in the long
term, bilateral assistance (mainly from Germany, France and Belgium) is
providing overseas fellowships for Rwandese engineers and technicians.  At
present about 100 Rwandese are studying for engineering degrees abroad and
an additional 14 at the local college in Butare; another 44 are receiving
vocational training from consulting firms and highway administrations in
France and Germany.  With these training efforts, local staff is expected
to gradually replace the expatriates but RB will continue to depend heavily
on expatriate assistance, primarily for PED and the mechanical workshops,
for quite some time.
D. Engineering
2.19         PED is responsible for planning, engineering and supervising
construction works. It is staffed by nine engineers, including five expa-
triates, and seven technicians. PED also operates a soils laboratory which
is adequately staffed and equipped to carry out soil tests required for
MPW's operations. Although PED is headed by a Rwandese engineer, its daily
operation and administration are supervised largely by the expatriate
staff. Due to the limited number of experienced staff, PED can handle only
minor engineering design and work supervision tasks.  Engineering studies
for major projects are entrusted to foreign consultants since the National
Study Bureau (BUNEP) does not have the necessary expertise in this field.
Design standards usually follow the recomLmendations of the consultants em-
ployed for the particular road. A standard pavement width of 6 m with 1.5
m wide shoulders is generally adopted for major trunk roads; this is appro-
priate for the country's topographic and traffic conditions.



- 16 -
2.20        Current vehicle weight regulations were introduced in 1958 and
restrict single axle loads to 5.5 tons and tandem axle loads to 8 tons,
even though construction standards for the paved roads built during the
past eight years are based on a 13-ton axle load.   The existing regula-
tions, therefore, need updating  to reflect actual design loads.   Trucks
carrying loads exceeding the 13-ton design axle load are frequently obser-
ved on paved roads and with the increase in international transport, the
problem of overloading will become even more pronounced. Overloaded trucks
travel with impunity since the Government does not control vehicle loads.
The Government has prepared draft vehicle weight regulations to bring them
up to date with the country's needs and conditions as well as the regula-
tions in force in neighboring countries, primarily Kenya and Uganda, the
major transit countries. The Government will establish appropriate vehicle
weight regulations and an enforcement mechanism and will put the new regu-
lations into effect by December 31, 1982. In order to assist Government in
controlling vehicle overloading and to avoid damage to the road network,
weighing scales will be provided under the project to enforce these regula-
tions (para. 3.11).
E. Construction
2.21       WD's mechanized and labor-intensive brigades carry out some 380
km of road improvement, regravelling and resurfacing operations annually.
For major construction projects, PED employs contractors, following suit-
able pre-qualification and tendering procedures.  Contracts are generally
let out on a unit-price basis following international competitive bidding.
Road construction is expensive because the terrain is rugged and because
materials have to be transported long distances from seaports.  There are
two local road construction firms established in the country, both subsi-
diaries of foreign companies.  Rwanda has no domestic road construction
firms due to lack of skilled and experienced staff and the linted financial
capacity of the domestic contractors, who work only in the building sector
and have not yet ventured into major civil works.
2.22       Supervision of major road construction is carried out by consul-
tants since PED does not have the necessary experienced staff. Supervision
of recent construction works has been satisfactory.
F. Planning
2.23        PED is also responsible for planning highway investments but is
unable to devote much of its staff resources to this task due to other com-
mitments. However, a large volume of preinvestment work has been financed
by external sources and carried out by consultants.   As follow-up  to  a
long-term highway investment plan prepared by consultants in the 1960s,
studies were carried out for improvement of the major national roads. Most
of these projects were included in the highway component of the 1977-81 na-
tional investment plan but priorities for the progressive development of
the network had not been specified and the implementation periods were un-
realistic.  Out of the 725 km of road construction included in the plan,
work will have started during the plan period on only 225 km which are
among the country's most important road links.



- 17 -
2.24        The road construction projects currently being implemented and
under preparation are shown in Table 2.5. Seven of the projects were in-
cluded in the original 1977-81 National Plan while four are new projects
which were added later   Three projects have a regional character.   Among
the road projects under preparation, two, which owe their justification
largely to interregional traffic, would provide competing links to existing
roads.   The Kayonza-Kagitumba road would serve as an alternative to the
existing Kigali-Gatuna road for international traffic, while the Gitarama-
Ruhengeri road would provide an alternative to the Kigali-Ruhengeri road
under construction.   Although reconstruction of these two roads will be
justified as and when traffic increases, for the near future, neither of
these alternative connections should be upgraded. Therefore, clear priori-
ties for the gradual implementation of the road reconstruction program and
for the development of regional and feeder roads still need to be set. The
new transport planning unit to be strenthened (para. 1.18) will help deter-
mine the priorities.



- 18 -
Table 2.5: Road Construction Projects
Item                    Length           Comments
(km)
A. Under Construction
Kigali-Butare-Burundi Border   153    Works started Aug. 1979
Completion expected Nov. 1982
Kigali-Ruhengeri                 89    Contract awarded July 1981
Completion expected April 1984
Ruhengeri-Cyanika                23    Contract awarded July 1981
B. Under Preparation
Ntendezi-Cyangugu                33    AfDF financing
Butare-Ntendezi                 123    IDA, FED financing
Gitarama-Kibuye                  91    Feasibility completed
Kayonza-Kagitumba                123    Design underway
Gitarama-Ruhengeri              108    Feasibility underway
C. Under Consideration
Kibuye-Cyangugu                 130    Regional Project; design
completed
Byumba-Gabiro                     60    Regional Project; design
completed
Nyabisindu-Kibungo              157    Regional Project.
Bugarama-Burundi Border            7
Source: MPW, July 1981
Note: Projects under preparation and consideration are not listed in order
of priority and their implementation schedule has not been defined.
G. Financing
2.25       Rwanda's fiscal year corresponds to the calendar year.  The MPW
prepares its recurrent budget proposals during the third quarter and they
are submitted to the Ministry of Finance at the beginning of the last quar-
ter.  During discussions with the Ministry of Finance these budget propo-
sals can be revised. For the investment budget, the proposals are submit-
ted first to the Ministry of Planning which jointly with the Ministry of
Finance decides on the budget to be presented to the Cabinet for final



- 19 -
approval.    Final  budgets  are normally approved by  the full Cabinet  in
January.
2.26        All funds under both the recurrent and investment budgets are
disbursed by the Ministry of Finance upon presentation of approved invoices
by the MPW.  In addition disbursements from the recurrent budget are sub-
ject to general government procedures which require a lengthy chain of au-
thorizations.   While this introduces a nmeasure of financial control,  in
practice it suffers from the drawback that the processing of payments is
unnecessarily slow. The Government agreed under the Fourth Highway Project
to simplify RB's payment procedures under the recurrent budget but no exact
timing for accomplishing this was indicat:ed.   While significant progress
has been made in reducing delays, the procedures themselves have not been
simplified.  By September 30, 1982 the MPW will prepare and submit to the
Association for its review proposals for simplified procedures for process-
ing payments under the recurrent budget through the Ministry of Finance.
The proposed changes will not necessarily deviate significantly from the
Government's general accounting and payment principles.
2.27      Expenditures for highways during 1975-80 are shown in Table 2.6.
Both road maintenance and road improvement are financed by the Government
from its recurrent budget and by IDA,  UNDP,  Germany and  Belgium.   The
latter  finance  equipment,  tools,  parts  and  technical  assistance.   The
Government's recurrent budgets have been adequate in recent years.   They
increased from RF105.6 million (US$1.14 million) in 1975 to RF 283.9
million (US$3.14 million) in 1980. The start and completion of major cons-
truction works, financed largely by external sources, have caused expendi-
tures for highway construction to fluctuate widely over the years.
Table 2.6: Highway Expenditures 1975-1980
(RF '000 in current prices)
1975      1976     1977       1978      1979       1980
Highway Maintenance
and Improvement        n.a.       n.a.     n.a.     291,573   631,577   726,976
- Government's
recurrent budget    105,610    91,350  131,300   178,203   192,297   287,925
- External financing        809,406 1/              113,370   439,280   443,051
Highway Construction     92,570  1,134,542  817,762   311,349   455,855   878,035
- Government's
investment budget    32,989    63,299   61,572    89,388    80,200    72,707
- External financing   959,581  1,071,243  756,190   221,961   375,655   805,326
1/ Total for period 1973-77.
Source: MPW, July 1981



- 20 -
H. Maintenance
2.28       WD is responsible for planning and executing the maintenance of
the classified network (2,280 km), while district authorities are respon-
sible for the approximately 4,000 km of unclassified district and rural
roads.   Since the latter serve an important function in the transport of
agricultural produce, and since local authorities lack the funds, equipment
and skilled staff to maintain them, WD undertakes this task for about 1,600
km of the most vital links. The Government is drafting the legal documents
to include these additional 1,600 km of roads in the classified network.
The remaining 2,400 km receive only sporadic spot improvements by villages
and users on a voluntary basis, with RB providing some assistance for the
most critical repair works needed.
2.29       Road maintenance operations have greatly improved over the past
years and are now nearly adequate.  This is due in part to the Government's
recognition of the importance of road maintenance and the assistance provi-
ded by the Association and other foreign donors, principally Germany.   In
1972, the First Highway Project provided for procurement of equipment for
one mechanized unit to reshape one of Rwanda's most heavily trafficked
roads.   The Second Highway Project financed a four-year maintenance pro-
gram, including technical assistance to build up an effective maintenance
administration, ptocure equipment and improve workshop facilities. The on-
going Fourth Highway Project continues Bank Group assistance through a
second four-year maintenance program (1978-1983), which provides for im-
provement and regravelling of about 1,500 km of roads; resealing of 100 km
of paved roads; routine maintenance for 3,500 km of earth and gravel road
and 350 km of paved roads; improvement of mechanical workshops; and techni-
cal assistance for training of RB's staff in maintenance operations at all
levels.
2.30        This assistance provided by the Association has succeeded in
setting up an adequate administrative structure and procedures for main-
taining the country's major network and in improving the skills of local
staff.   WD's operations are now largely mechanized, but extensive use is
made of labor for routine maintenance, and labor-intensive techniques are
now being introduced for major regravelling and improvement works.   Six
brigades were established in mid-1980 for periodic maintenance operations
and include four equipment-intensive and two labor-intensive units.   They
carry out about 350 km of road improvement and regravelling and about 30 km
of resurfacing operations annually. Recurrent maintenance is performed by
one mechanized reshaping brigade and 165 road gangs, each of the latter
composed of a foreman and 12 roadmen with responsibility for 12-15 km of
roads. Due to the shortage of qualified local staff and the low motivation
of some of WD's personnel (partly a result of low Government salaries and
wages), programming, execution and monitoring of maintenance operations are
still dependent on the technical assistance team (para. 2.17), composed of
10 expatriates (2 maintenance engineers, 1 cost accountant, 6 brigade su-
pervisors, and 1 procurement/storage specialist).   On-the-job training by
the above technical assistance team and in-class training by three addi-
tional training instructors has already improved the skills of local staff



- 21 -
to such an extent (para. 2.18) that WD should be able to carry out road
maintenance operations on its own not too long after completion of the
Fourth dighway Project by the end of 19E2.   However, planning, budgeting
and overall supervision of the annual operations will still require techni-
cal assistance for the near future.   The proposed project will therefore
provide three road maintenance engineers to assist MPW in these functions
(para. 3.10).
2.31         Equipment maintenance and repair is the responsibility of WD's
Workshop and Warehouse section (WW).   WW operates a central mechanical
workshop and a spare parts store in Kigali and three regional workshops in
Ruhengeri, Gisenyi, and Butare.  Major repairs are carried out at the cen-
tral workshop which is managed by five expatriate mechanics provided by
Germany and staffed by about 50 local mechanics and helpers.   The ongoing
Fourth Highway Project is helping to finance an expansion of the central
workshop in Kigali and the regional workshop in Butare as well as the pro-
curement of a mobile workshop for the mechanized brigades.   The project
also provides for procurement of an adequate stock of spare parts and the
service of a procurement/storage specialist for the operation of the spare
parts store in Kigali.  As a result of the assistance provided by Germany
and the Association, WW is now operating satisfactorily. However, it will
continue to depend on the assistance of t:he expatriate mechanics provided
by Germany for its operations for several. years given the shortage of ex-
perienced  local mechanics.    The proposed  project  will  also assist  in
strengthening WW operations by providing one expatriate mechanic for 36
months to assist in maintaining and repairing equipment financed by UN
agencies (para. 3.10).



- 22 -
III. THE PROJECT
A. Objectives
3.01       Development of Rwanda's southwestern region is dependant on im-
proved road communications.   The poor condition of the roads linking this
region to the rest of the country inhibits economic activity in the area.
The proposed project supports Government's objectives of (a) promoting
agricultural development in the country's southwestern region, (b) foster-
ing economic integration of this region with the rest of the country
through more reliable transport, and (c) reducing transport costs.   The
project will also assist in strengthening road maintenance administration
and transport planning. Finally, the project will help to reduce damage to
the road network by providing assistance for enforcing vehicle weight regu-
lations.
B. Project Description
3.02      The proposed project consists of:
(a)  construction to paved standard of the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi
section (53.5 km) of the Butare-Cyangugu road (156 km);
(b)  consulting services for (i) completion of preparation under
a PPF and supervision of construction works under (a), (ii)
engineering studies for restoration works needed on the
Kigali-Gatuna road (80 km), (iii) preinvestment studies, and
(iv) technical assistance to MPW;
(c)  procurement of materials and supplies for two-year routine
maintenance of the Kigali-Gatuna road; and
(d)  procurement of weighing scales for control and enforcement
of vehicle weight regulations.
(a)       Road Construction
3.03      The Butare-Ntendezi road (123 kn) is one of Rwanda's most impor-
tant roads. It connects with the Ntendezi-Cyangugu road (33 km) and links
the country's second largest city, Butare (population 35,000), to the
southwestern region of Cyangugu which is an agricultural surplus area. The
present road link is an unengineered earth road with poor driving condi-
tions; during the eight-month rainy season (September-May), it is often im-
passable for all but 4-wheel drive vehicles.   The road crosses rolling to
mountainous terrain and has poor drainage particularly in its middle sec-
tion; the horizontal and vertical alignment is characterized by frequent
and narrow curves and steep gradients.   The road surface is uneven with
deep ruts and potholes. As a consequence, the average driving speed is re-
duced to only about 20 km/h for most of its length and transport costs are
high.   The road is also costly to maintain and improvements made are only



- 23 -
of short duration, given the heavy rains, steep gradients and inadequate
construction materials in the area.   The poor condition of the existing
road, therefore, inhibits the growth of economic activities of the area.
In addition, the construction of a cement plant near Cyangugu is underway;
this plant would make Rwanda self-sufficient in cement. In its present
state, the road would not be able to carry cement traffic, except perhaps
by using very small pickups which during parts of the rainy season pass
with extreme difficulty.
3.04      The project will help finance construction to paved standards of
the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi section of the Bul:are-Cyangugu road. The European
Economic Community (EEC), AfDB, BADEA and KFAED will finance construction
of the section from Kitabi to Cyangugu (102.5 km).
3.05      The project will be carried out according to a detailed engineer-
ing study done by consultants DHV (Netherlands) for the Butare-Ntendezi
road in 1980/81 which was financed by the Government and the EEC. The road
will be constructed to two-lane paved standards. The geometric and struc-
tural design standards (Table 3.1) are consistent with established stan-
dards in Rwanda and are appropriate for t:he terrain and for present and
anticipated traffic. They are generally based on a design speed of 50 km/h
(33 mph) and a maximum gradient of 8%, bul: in the most difficult mountain
section, the design speed is reduced to 30 km/h (19 mph) and maximum gra-
dients are up to 10%. The pavement structure will be a 15 cm crushed stone
base-course with a 6.0 m wide bituminous double surface treatment and 1.5 m
wide shoulders (1.0 m wide in certain sections). Only minor land acquisi-
tion is involved since the new alignment will closely follow the existing
road.
Table 3.1 Design Standards for Project Road
Section
Km 0 - Km 42         Km 42 - Km 53.5
Design speed                            50 kn/h (30 km/h)l/ 50 km/h (30
km/h)l/ Road width                               9 m          9 m
Pavement width                          6 m                   6 m
Shoulder width                          1.5 ri                1.5 m
Minimum horizontal curve radius         60 m (30 m) 1/        60 m (30 m) 1/
Maximum vertical gradient               8% (]0%) 1/ -         8% (10%) 1/ -
Minimum vertical curve radius           2,501) m (convex)    2,000 m (convex)
2,000 m (concave)   1,500 m (concave)
Minimum crossfall (pavement)            2.5%                  2.5%
(shoulders)          6%                   6%
Maximum permissible axle load           13 tons               13 tons
1/ In exceptional cases.



- 24 -
(b)       Consulting Services
Supervision of road construction
3.06       In view of staff constraints in PED, consultants will be engaged
to supervise construction of the Butare-Kitabi road under terms of refer-
ence and conditions of employment acceptable to the Association (para.
3.19).   In addition to the supervisory consultants the proposed project
also provides for the services of an independent soils engineer with wide
experience in soils and geological conditions similar to Rwanda's. This
expert will carry out perodic reviews of project implementation (about two
man-months per year) with regard to utilization of appropriate construction
materials and proper work techniques to allow the Government and the Asso-
ciation to more closely monitor construction works.
Preliminary engineering and feasibility study update for Butare-Kigeme-
Kitabi road
3.07       With financing under the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) con-
sultants DHV (Netherlands) carried out a preliminary engineering study and
an update of the feasibility study of the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi road. These
studies were necessary since an economic analysis of the road, which was
completed in December 1979 with financing from the EEC, did not permit ade-
quate assessment of the level of improvement that would be economically
justifiable and the related costs.  The DHV studies demonstrated that re-
construction of the road to two-lane paved standards is the most feasible
all-weather link between Butare and Ntendezi. The PPF will be refunded from
the proposed credit.
Study for the Restoration of Kigali-Gatuna road and Interim Maintenance
3.08        Construction of this road was completed in 1977 with financing
under the First Highway Project. The road already shows considerable sur-
face damage. The pavement has broken up on many sections, particularly on
the first 50 km, and requires extensive reconstruction of the base and sur-
face courses. The project provides for consultants' services (including a
soils expert) for a study, at an estimated cost of US$100,000, to determine
the causes for the failure and the scope, type and cost of restoration
works needed. The Government will have the study carried out, prepare an
action plan and identify financing sources by June 30, 1983 for the resto-
ration works. However, given the importance of the road and the rapid rate
of deterioration, immediate steps are required to keep the road passable.
Therefore, as an interim measure pending completion of the study, the pro-
ject will provide materials and supplies for routine maintenance of the
road. This maintenance will be carried out by the patching brigade set up
and equipped under the Fourth Highway Project.



- 25 -
Preinvestment Studies
3.09       The project provides US$250,000 for preinvestment studies.  The
type and scope of the studies will be agreed by the Government and the
Association on the basis of the priorities set with the aid of the trans-
port planning capacity to be created in MPW.  UNDP has agreed to finance
the studies, which could include a feeder road study, and would request the
Association to act as executing agency.
Technical Assistance
3.10      The project will also provide technical assistance to (a) assist
MPW's staff in planning, budgeting, execating and monitoring road mainte-
nance operations; one senior road maintenance engineer will be assigned to
this task for a three-year period and two road engineers for a two-year
period each; (b) strengthen the Government:'s transport planning capability;
one transport economist will serve for about three years in MPW; and (c)
strengthen MPW's equipment maintenance and repair capability; one mechani-
cal engineer will work with MPW for a three-year period. Terms of refer-
ence for the engineers and economist are given in Annexes 1 and 2.   An
important part of their activities will be the training of counterparts.
UNDP has agreed to finance the positions of senior road engineer, transport
economist and mechanical engineer and would request the Association to act
as executing agency for this project component.
(c)       Vehicle Weight Control
3.11        To enable the Government to control and enforce vehicle load
regulations, the project provides for the procurement and installation of
two fixed weighing scales and procurement of three mobile ones.   The two
fixed scales would be installed at the border posts of Gatuna and Kagi-
tumba, through which nearly all Rwanda's imports by road must pass.   The
mobile scales would be used for spot ccntrols of vehicle loads over the
country's entire network.   The Government has agreed to install a fixed
scale at Gatuna and another at Kagitumba by December 31, 1983.
C. Cost Estimates
3.12        The total project cost including contingencies is estimated at
US$30.7 million with a foreign exchange c3mponent of US$22.9 million or 75%
of total project costs.   Excluding taxes and duties, the total cost is
about US$30.1 million.   A physical contingency allowance of 10% has been
included to cover increases in quantities; a 10% risk allowance has been
included for possible interruption of supplies for construction works and
an additional 10% risk allowance has been provided to cover possible risks
associated with wide variations in bids experienced in the country (para.
3.13).    Price  contingencies  are  based  on  the  following  estimates  of
inflation rates worldwide for the foreign cost of civil works and in Rwanda
for the local cost of civil works: 1981 - 9% foreign, 15% local; 1982 -
8.5% foreign, 15% local; 1983 - 7.5% foreign, 15% local; 1984 - 7.5%
foreign, 15% local; 1985 - 7.5% foreign, 15% local.  A breakdown of costs
of the various project components is given in Table 3.2.



- 26 -
Table 3.2 Estimated Project Costs
RF million               US$ million         % Foreign
Item                                    Local  Foreign  Total   Local   Foreign  Total Component
(a) Construction of Butare-                  412    1,115   1,527    4.48    12.12   16.60    73
Kitabi Road (53.5 km)
(b) Consulting Services:
(i) Supervision of (a)                  18       74       92    0.20       0.80    1.00    80
(ii) Project preparation for (a)          2        21       23    0.02      0.23    0.25    90
(iii) Engineering study for restor -   1             8        9    0.01       0.09    0.10    90
ation of Kigali-Gatuna road
(iv) Preinvestment studies                2        21       23    0.02      0.23    0.25    90
(v) Technical assistance                25        99     124    0.27       1.08    1.35    80
Subtotal (b)                           48      223      271    0.52       2.43    2.95    83
(c) Maintenance of Kigali-Gatuna road          3        52       55    0.03       0.57    0.60    95
(d) Weighing Scales                            1        13       14    0.01       0.14    0.15    95
Subtotal (a) - (d)                   464    1,403   1,867    5.04    15.26   20.30
(e) Contingencies
(a) Physical (107) on items (a),          47       137      184    0.51       1.49    2.00
(b-i, iii, iv, v), (c) and (d)
(b) Price 1/ on items (a), (b-i,         120       349      469    1.30       3.80    5.10
ii, iv, v), (c) and (d)
(c) Risk Allowance (107  of (a))          42       110      152    0.46       1.20    1.66
(d) Risk allowance associated with    39           108      147    0.43       1.17     1.60
bids (10o of (a))
Subtotal (e)                         248        704     952    2.70       7.66   10.36
Total Project Cost                       712    2,107   2,819    7.74    22.92   30.66           75
Total Project Cost Excluding Taxes   659    2,107   2,766    7.18    22.92   30.10               76
1/ Expected price increases (%)
1981    1982       1983      1984    1985
Local      15       15        15        15       15
Foreign    9.0       8.5       7.5       7.5      7.5



- 27 -
3.13        The base costs are estimated alS of end of 1981 and have been
derived as follows:
(a) Road Construction. The cost estimates of US$16.6 million for con-
struction of the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi road were derived from consultants'
estimates based on final design quantities. In view of the past experience
with difficulties in the transport of essential supplies such as cement,
bitumen and fuel and in the location of adequate road building materials, a
10% risk allowance has been added to the cost. When road construction has
becn completed, any funds remaining including the risk allowance will be
cancelled.   An additional 10% risk allowance has been provided to cover
variations in bids; these funds will be cancelled if bids are within
appraisal estimates.
(b) Consulting Services.   (i) the supervision of construction at an
estimated cost of US$1.0 million is based on about 100 man-months of con-
sultants' services over a three-year period at an average man-month rate of
US$ 10,000; (ii) preliminary engineering and an update of the feasibility
study under a PPF for the Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi road at a cost of US$250,000
is based on actual charges by consultants; (iii) the engineering study for
the restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road is based on about 10 man-months
over a 6-month period at a total cost of about US$100,000.   The average
man-month costs for consultants services including salaries, overheads
(home office expenses, expatriate allowance, social costs and other in-
direct expenditures), international travel, subsistence and other miscella-
neous items is estimated at about US$10,000; this is in line with recent
experience in Rwanda; (iv) a lump sum of US$250,000 for preinvestment stu-
dies yet to be determined; and (v) the technical assistance will require
about 156 man-months of consultants' services, at a total cost estimated at
US$1.35 million. The average man-month costs, including salary, overheads
(home office expenses, expatriate allowances, social costs and other in-
direct expenditures), international travel, subsistence and other miscella-
neous items is estimated at about US$9,000 in line with current experience
in Rwanda.
(c) Procurement of materials and supplies for maintenance of Kigali-
Gatuna road and procurement and installation of weighing scales are based
on recent costs for similar items procured under other Bank Group projects.
D. Financing
3.14       The total project cost of US$30.10 million net of taxes and du-
ties will be financed by: (i) an IDA Credit of US$25.90 million covering
95% (US$21.72 million) of the US$22.92 million foreign cost and 58%
(US$4.18 million) of the US$7.18 million local cost; (ii) a UNDP contribu-
tion of US$1.5 million covering the remaining 5% of the foreign cost and 4%
of the local cost, and (iii) Government's contribution of US$2.7 million
amounting to 9% of total project cost net of taxes and duties or 38% of the
local cost (Table 3.3).  A condition of Credit effectiveness will be that
financing agreements betweeen the Government and AfDB, EEC, BADEA and the
Kuwait Fund for construction and works supervision of the Kitabi-Cyangugu
road have been signed.   Included in the p^-oposed IDA credit is provision
for refinancing an advance of US$250,000 from the PPF.



- 28 -
Table 3.3   FINANCING PLAN
(US$ million)
Government    UND1P         IDA          TOTAL
Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total  Local  Foreign  Total
a.  Construction of Butare-  2.70  -  2.70   -  -  -  3.74   19.09   22.83   6.44   19.09   25.53
Kigeme-Kitabi Road
b.  Supervision of (a)  -  -  -    -  -  -  0.27  1.08  1.35   0.27  1.08  1.35
c.  Preparation of (a)  -  -  -    -  -  -  0.02    0.23    0.25   0.02    0.23  0.25
d.  Technical Assistance  -  -  -    0.30    1.20    1.50   0.10    0.40    0.50   0.40    1.60    2.00
and Studies
e.  Maintenance of Kigali-  -  -   -  -  -  0.05  0.75  0.80   0.05  0.75  0.80
Gatuna road
f.  Weighing Scales  -  _  _  -     _    _  -    0.17  0.17   -  0.17  0.17
Total     2.70  _   2.70    0.30  1.20  1.50    4.18    21.72    25.90    7.18    22.92    30.10
E. Implementation
3.15      MPW will be responsible for the implementation of all project
components. Within the MPW, PED will be responsible for (i) the road con-
struction works to be carried out by contractor and supervised by consul-
tants, (ii) the procurement and installation of weighing scales, and (iii)
the execution of the study to determine the reasons for the failure and the
scope, type and cost of restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road as well as
the preinvestment studies. WD will be responsible for technical assistance
for road maintenance, equipment maintenance and repair and for the procure-
ment of materials and supplies and carrying out by force account the rou-
tine maintenance of the Kigali-Gatuna road.
3.16      The road construction and related supervision will start in the
first quarter of 1983; it will take about three years to complete the
entire road from Butare to Cyangugu.  Procurement of weighing scales is
expected to take about six months; the equipment is expected to arrive
mid-1983.  The senior road maintenance engineer and mechanic (financed by
UNDP) will start in January 1983 and work for three years; the two
maintenance engineers (financed by IDA) will start in January 1984 at the
end of the Fourth Highway Project and work for two years.  The type, scope
and schedule of execution of the preinvestment studies will be agreed upon
by the Government and the Association following the elaboration of the
country's  transport  investment  priorities  by  the  transport  planning
capability to be strengthened under the project; this is expected to be
available by mid-1983.   The engineering study for restoration of the
Kigali-Gatuna road is expected to start in January 1983 and to be completed
within six months.  The project is expected to be completed by the end of
1985. The project implementation schedule is shown in Chart 2.



- 29 -
F. Procuremeant
3.17        Award of the contract for the construction component (US$16.6
million, excluding contingencies) will be subject to ICB in accordance with
Bank Group guidelines.  The bidding procedures will provide for prequalifi-
cation of contractors.  Particular attention will be given to contractors
with experience in areas with similar conditions since the road crosses re-
latively difficult terrain.  To minimize the risk of construction delays,
tender documents will include provision fcr a considerable stock of mater-
ial and fuel. The Butare-Cyangugu road ha:3 been divided into four sections
to match the financing available from the various donors, one section being
Butare-Kigeme-Kitabi financed by IDA. Contractors will be invited to quote
bids for one or more sections or for the entire road, according to their
qualifications.
3.18        Procurement and installation of the weighing scales (US$0.15
million, excluding contingencies) will be through international shopping
after receiving quotations from specialized suppliers.  This procedure has
been found to be satisfactory given the specialized nature of this equip-
ment.   Materials and supplies for maintenance of the Kigali-Gatuna road
will be procured from suppliers from whom such items have been previously
purchased on the basis of reasonable, negotiated prices.
3.19       Consultants' services (US$3.60 million, including contingencies)
will be needed for supervision of construction works, technical assistance,
a study to identify the type and cost of restoration works on the Kigali-
Gatuna road as well as for preinvestment studies.  The Government intends
to recruit an individual consultant for t:he position of transport econo-
mist. The three road maintenance engineers and mechanic will be recruited
from consultants Rhein-Ruhr, who are already employed by the Government
with financing under the Second and Four:h Highway Projects.   Consulting
firms will be selected for supervision of construction works, a study to
identify the type and costs of the restoration works on the Kigali-Gatuna
road and for preinvestment studies.  The tarms and conditions of employment
of consultants will be satisfactory to the Association; consultants will be
selected in accordance with 1981 Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants;
and, because of the specialized nature of their services, price will not be
a factor in the selection of the consultants for technical assistance and,
given the difficult terrain in the project area, for the soils engineer and
supervision of construction works.



- 30 -
G. Disbursements
3.20      Credit funds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(a)  90% of total expenditures for road construction;
(b)  100% of c.i.f. cost or 90% of cost if locally purchased for
equipment (weighing scales) and materials and supplies for
maintenance of Kigali-Gatuna road; and
(c)  100% of consulting services for supervision of construction
and two road maintenance engineers.
All disbursement will be fully documented. A disbursement schedule follows
in Table 3.4. It is based on the project implementation schedule and the
profile from past highway projects.
Table 3.4 Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year and                      Cumulative Disbursements
End of Quarter                             at End of Quarter
(US$ '000)
1983
March 31, 1983                                         100
June 30, 1983                                          600
1984
September 30, 1983                                   2,300
December 31, 1983                                    4,600
March 31, 1984                                       6,900
June 30, 1984                                        9,200
1985
September 30, 1984                                  11,500
December 31, 1984                                   13,800
March 31, 1985                                      17,100
June 30, 1985                                      19,400
1986
September 30, 1985                                  21,700
December 31, 1985                                   23,000
March 31, 1986                                      24,300
June 30, 1986                                       25,100
1987
September 30, 1986                                  25,900
Closing Date:    December 31, 1986
Source: Mission Estimates



- 31 -
H. Accounting and Reporting Requirements
3.21      All payments under the investment and recurrent budgets are made
by the Ministry of Finance upon presentation of invoices approved by MPW
(para.  2.25).   Since MPW had not been keeping any accounts, the Credit
Agreement for the Fourth Highway Project required that (i) cost accounting
be introduced for the activities of the Works Department paid for out of
the recurrent budget and (ii) accounts be. kept for the project and the
Government departments or agencies responsible for carrying out the proj-
ect.  The cost accounting being implemented is adequate.   MPW still does
not keep accounts for payments made under ithe investment budget. The Gov-
ernment has agreed that RB will introduce accounts registering all payments
under its investment budget and separate accounts for payments under the
proposed project. It was also agreed that the project accounts will be au-
dited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and the audited
accounts will be submitted to the Association not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year during project implementation.
3.22       The Government and the Association have agreed on progress re-
porting requirements (Annex 3) which will include indices for measurirg im-
plementation progress and submission of a project completion report in a
form satisfactory to the Association not Later than six months after the
closing date of the Credit.
I. Environmental Aspects
3.23       The project is not likely to have any adverse effect on the en-
vironment.  The project road would follow the existing alignment, and no
disturbance to land use should occur.   Furthermore, the new or improved
drainage facilities will benefit adjacent areas and the new improved geome-
tric standards will contribute to road safety.



- 32 -
IV. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. General
4.01       The major goal underlying Rwanda's transport sector plan (1977-
81) is to foster economic, social and administrative integration of the
different regions of the country which have remained isolated because of
poor roads.   At present the only major region which does not have all-
weather communications with the rest of the country is the southwest; as a
result its economic development has been severely hampered. The area along
southern Lake Kivu and the Ruzizi Valley in particular are fertile and have
a high agricultural potential.  They produce coffee and almost half of the
country's tea and provide agricultural staples to the more densely popula-
ted area around Butare.   The Butare-Cyangugu road also provides access to
the Nyungwe tropical rain forest, which holds economic potential. A number
of forest exploitation and reforestation projects for this area are under
consideration or preparation.   Furthermore, after the completion of a ce-
ment plant near Cyangugu, improved communications will become critically
important for supplying this plant with raw materials and evacuating its
output.  Finally, an improved road link between Butare and Cyangugu will
also have international significance in that it will provide a shorter and
less costly connection to the Indian Ocean ports for Zaire's eastern re-
gion, particularly the Bukavu area.
4.02      The proposed construction to paved standards of the Butare-Kitabi
section of the Butare-Ntendezi road is expected to yield an economic return
(ER) of 16%.  This E.R. is dependent on the entire road being paved.  No
economic return has been calculated for the technical assistance component
but, like smaller inputs in previous projects, it is clearly justified as
it is expected to result in an improved maintenance capability and better
use of scarce investment funds.
B. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
4.03       The main benefits to be derived from the investment are reduced
vehicle operating costs  (VOC) for the normal traffic and reduced total
transport costs for the cement traffic diverted to the project road from
the lake/road route via Kibuye. The road connection from Butare to the ce-
ment plant at Cyangugu is based on two links--the Butare-Ntendezi link (123
km) considered under this project and the Ntendezi-Cyangugu link (33 km)
which is being financed by the AfDB.   The reduction in total transport
costs will result from the combined effect of a better road surface and
from the use of larger and hence more economical vehicles.  The expected
impact of the reduction in VOC on the economic activity in the influence
area of the road (e.g. increased foodcrop production which is highly sensi-
tive to transport costs and perishability) is taken into account through
the benefits assigned to generated traffic which have been included in the
analysis.



- 33 -
4.04       In the short term, the major diiect beneficiaries of VOC savings
will be the traders/truckers.  Later, as it is expected that the road imr-
provement will increase competition on the transport route (para. 2.09)
most of the benefits are likely to be passed on to producers and con-
sumers.    Because marketing  and distribution  are dominated by traders/
truckers whose trading and trucking activities are not easily separable,
the savings in VOC will be passed on in the form of higher farm-gate prices
for agricultural products and/or lower prices for products sold by the
traders/truckers.   As regards the cement traffic, since the distribution
arrangements for the plant's output have not been decided, the direct bene-
ficiaries may be the cement company or the trading/trucking sector. In ei-
ther case, a significant portion of the savings are expected to be passed
on to the construction industry.
C. Economic Analysis
Traffic
4.05      Periodic traffic counts have beea carried out on the project road
by the Roads Department since 1970, but ia order to supplement the avail-
able data additional counts were carried oat in 1980. For the traffic ana-
lysis two sec-tions were used, the ButarE-Kigeme section (35 km) and the
Kigeme-Kitabi section (18.5 kn). Normal t:raffic on the Butare-Kigeme sec-
tion was estimated at about 144 vehicles per day (vpd) and 12 motorcycles
in 1980. Assuming a 7% growth rate, the ,raffic in 1985 would be 202 vpd,
of which 23% would be cars, 67% pick-ups and 10% would be trucks and
buses. For the Kigeme-Kitabi section, the 1980 normal traffic was estima-
ted at 33 vpd and 7 motorcycles and at 46 vpd in 1985 (22% cars, 60% pick-
ups, 18% trucks and buses).
4.06       The reduction in vehicle operating costs will be of the order of
60% on the Kitabi-Ntendezi section and will generate a significant amount
of new traffic between the southwestern region and the rest of the coun-
try.  Based on traffic data on other roads similarly situated (Ruhengeri-
Gisenyi and Kibungo-Rusumo roads), the inter-regional generated traffic was
estimated at 64 vehicles in 1988 of which 26% would be cars, 64% pick-ups
and 10% trucks. Local generated traffic by 1988 was estimated as a percen-
tage of normal traffic as follows: for Butare-Kigeme, 20% for cars and 15%
for pick-ups and trucks; for Kigeme-Kitab-i, 30% for cars and 20% for pick-
ups and trucks.
4.07       The heavy cement traffic, which will be able to use the project
road only if the entire Cyangugu-Butare road is of all-weather standard,
has been evaluated independently on the basis of the following main assump-
tions:   (i) national cement consumption supplied by the Cyangugu plant,
some 30,000 tons in 1980, grows at 8% per annum until 1995 and thereafter
growth slows down to 4%; (ii) without the project road, the requirements of
the Butare region, estimated at some 16% of national consumption are
shipped over the project road using vehicles with an average load of 8
tons; (iii) with the project some 80% of national consumption is shipped on
the road using vehicles with an average load of 20 tons.



- 34 -
Vehicle Operating Costs
4.08      VOC were estimated by consultants DHV in 1980 as part of the fea-
sibility study of the Butare-Kitabi section of the road.   The appraisal
mission reviewed the consultants' assumptions, particularly those on life-
time mileage of vehicles, and made some adjustments which resulted in lower
VOC savings.   Table 4.1 indicates the VOC for representative vehicles in
Rwanda.  For the without the project case, the condition of the road has
been assessed as an earth road, while a gravel and a paved road have been
examined as project alternatives.
Table 4.1. Vehicle Operation Costs
(RF/veh/km, net of taxes)
Earth Road         Gravel        Paved
Car                     46.6             35.1         27.0
Pick-ups                51.8             39.6         31.1
Medium Truck           144.3             93.2         73.2
Heavy Truck            206.3            132.1        100.8
Trailer                272.7            172.6        129.5
Bus                    183.2            116.5         91.0
Source:  Derived from Consultants DHV's Feasibility Study of the
Butare-Kitabi section of the Butare-Ntendezi-Cyangugu
road, January 1981.
Construction and Maintenance Costs
4.09        Construction costs in January 1981 prices, excluding taxes but
including 10% physical contingencies and a 10% risk allowance, are estima-
ted at RF 981 million for the Butare-Kigeme section and at RF 518 million
for the Kigeme-Kitabi section.  Construction supervision is estimated at RF
55 million for the Butare-Kigeme section and at RF 29 million for the
Kigeme-Kitabi section. The cost of resurfacing the road every seven years
is estimated at RF 1.4 million/km.   Maintenance cost estimates for the
existing and the proposed paved road are based on data provided by the
Roads Department for roads with similar soils and climatic conditions. In
view of the difficult terrain, the heavy rains and the soil conditions,
maintenance costs on the existing earth road are higher than those for a
paved road and the resultant savings are estimated at RF 227,500/km
(US$2,500).



- 35 -
Economic Return
4.10         In view of the very poor condition of the existing Butare-
Ntendezi road, particularly the Kitabi-Ntendezi section, the heavy traffic
induced by the cement plant will only be able to use the road if it is up-
graded to all-weather standard in its entirety.  Therefore, in the economic
analysis, in addition to paving, two other alternatives have been consider-
ed: (i) constructing the road to an enginEered gravel standard, and (ii)
improvement to a low standard gravel road bv force account with the view to
making it passable to heavy traffic on a year round basis.
4.11      Assuming a 20-year economic life for the project, a comparison of
the costs and benefits of the paving alternative indicates that paving of
the two sections is well justified, yielding an ER of 18% for the Butare-
Kigeme section and 13% for Kigeme-Kitabi.   Improvement to gravel standard
was not found to yield a higher return than the paved alternative (15% and
11% respectively) because : (i) the long-term function of the road will
require construction to the same geometric standards as the paved alterna-
tive and hence construction cost savings u-ider the gravel alternative are
limited to the surface course; and (ii) the hilly terrain, the types of
soils and the heavy rains in the region make maintenance of such a gravel
road very costly especially with heavy traflic.
4.12       The alternative of improvement to a low standard gravel road by
force account, although technically possible, was found to be unfeasible in
practice owing to RB's limited capability to engage in the relatively large
scale works   required in terms of haulage of suitable materials over long
distances. Such works could only be accomplished by diverting substantial
manpower and equipment resources from priority upgrading and maintenance
activities in other parts of the country.   Moreover, once completed, the
road would still require considerable roatine and periodic maintenance
which would continue to divert scarce maintenance resources.
D. Sensitivity and Risks
4.13       Some variables determining the outcome of the economic analysis
could vary significantly due to unforeseen developments, e.g. construction
costs could escalate due to interruptions Ln supplies of essential mater-
ials or benefits from cement traffic could be lower due to a slower
increase in the output of the cement plan-.   A sensitivity analysis was
therefore carried out on these critical faztors. With a cost increase of
20%, the ER would be 16% for the Butare-Kigeme section and 11% for the
Kigeme-Kitabi section. A stagnation of cement-related benefits after 1988
would yield an ER of 17% for the Butare-Kigeme section and 11% for the
Kigeme-Kitabi section.   If there were both a 20% increase in costs and a
stagnation of cement-related traffic, the ER would be 14% for the Butare-
Kigeme section and 9% for the Kigeme-Kitabi section.  The ER is not very
sensitive to changes in generated traffic.   A 50% reduction in benefits
assigned to generated traffic reduces total benefits by 5% in the case of
the Butare-Kigeme section and by 9% in the case of the Kigeme-Kitabi sec-
tion. In addition, for the latter section a cost increase of 20% and a re-
duction of benefits by 13% would still yield an ER of 10%. The opportunity
cost of capital is estimated not to exceed 10%.



- 36 -
4.14       Experience with IDA's previous projects in Rwanda has shown fre-
quent interruption of construction works and consequent cost overruns due
to periodic shortages of construction materials and fuel caused by border
closures in neighboring transit countries (Uganda, Kenya) through which
these commodities must be transported. To minimize the risk of delays from
interruptions, provision will be made for a larger than usual stock of
material and fuel in the contract documents for the construction of the
Butare-Kitabi road.
4.15       Difficult soil conditions and unexpected shortages of construc-
tion materials in certain regions have also caused considerable increases
in road construction quantities, construction time and in project costs.
Even though consultants have been careful in their soils and geologic sur-
veys and design, and a Bank-financed consultant has visited the road to re-
view consultants work, this risk still remains significant.   The proposed
project therefore provides for the services of a soils engineer, in addi-
tion to the supervising consultants, with wide experienced in soils and
geological conditions in this or similar regions and preferably with work
experience with contractors under similar road conditions.   This expert
will allow the Government, the Association and consultants for construction
supervision to review periodically the geological and soil conditions, uti-
lization of appropriate construction materials and application of proper
work methods.
4.16       To guard against unforeseen increases in construction costs due
to the possible interruption of supplies and variations in bids, the proj-
ect cost estimate includes a 20% risk allowance for this project component.
4.17       The risk of the institution-building component not attaining its
intended benefits is low.  Experience from the past road projects demons-
trates relatively good success in establishing the road organization and in
training staff.  Trained staff retention could be a problem given the low
salaries received in the civil service.   This is, however, a risk well
worth taking given the vital importance of training staff.
4.18      Even though the fixed weighing scales will be located at the two
most important border posts, which will facilitate enforcement of the vehi-
cle weight regulations, there remains a risk that enforcement will be weak
as is the case in some other countries. In order to reduce the likelihood
of this, the Government has agreed to establish appropriate vehicle weight
regulations and an effective enforcement mechanism.



- 37 -
V. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
5.01       The following items were discussad and agreed upon during nego-
tiations:
(a) the Government will establish appropriate vehicle weight regula-
tions and an enforcement mechanism, and put the new regulations
into effect by December 31, 1982 (para. 2.20);
(b) by September 30, 1982 the MPW will prepare and submit to the
Association for its approval proposals for simplified procedures
for processing payments under the recurrent budget through the
Ministry of Finance (para. 2.26);
(c) the study and preparation of an action plan and identification of
sources of financing for restoration of the Kigali-Gatuna road by
June 30, 1983 (para. 3.08);
(d) the Government will install a weighing scale at Gatuna and ano-
ther at Kagitumba by December 31, 1983 (para. 3.11);
(e) the award of the contract for construction of the Butare-Kitabi
road will be subject to ICB in accordance with Bank Group Guide-
lines (para. 3.17);
(f) the terms and conditions of employment of consultants will be sa-
tisfactory to the Association; the consultants will be selected
in accordance with 1981 Bank Guidelines for Use of Consultants;
and price will not be a factor in the selection of consultants
for technical assistance, the soils and geology expert and
supervision of construction works (para. 3.19).
(g) RB will introduce accounts registering all payments under its in-
vestment budget and separate accoints for payments under the pro-
posed project; project accounts will be audited by independent
auditors acceptable to the Assoc-iation and the audited accounts
will be submitted to the Association not later than six months
after the end of each fiscal year during project implementation
(para. 3.21); and
(h) the Government will submit progress reports, including indices
for measuring implementation progress, and a project completion
report, in a form satisfactory to the Association, not later than
six months after the closing date of the credit (para. 3.22).



- 38 -
5.02      A condition of Credit effectiveness will be that financing agree-
ments between the Government and the AfDB, EEC, BADEA and KFAED for cons-
truction and works supervision of the Kitabi-Cyangugu road have been signed
(para. 3.14).
5.03      Agreement having been reached on the items listed in para. 5.01,
the proposed project is suitable for a credit of US$25.9 million on stan-
dard IDA terms.
May 1982



- 39 -
Annex I
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference of Road Maintenance Engineers
in the Ministry of Public Works
To sustain maintenance operatioas, MPW will need a senior road
maintenance engineer for about three years and two maintenance engineers
for about two years.   The road maintenance engineers will be civil engi-
neers with at least 10 years of experience in planning, executing and moni-
toring road maintenance operations, of which at least 5 years will have
been in developing countries. They will work in close cooperation with the
Director of Public Works and will also advise the MPW officials on road
maintenance matters and assist in road maintenance operations. Their func-
tions will include, in particular, advising and assisting in:
(i)   preparation of the annual maintenance program;
(ii)   establishment of annual budget. requirements for recurrent and
periodic maintenance operations;
(iii)   execution of the annual maintenance program and the allocation
of equipment, materials, and funds as well as assignment of
staff to the various maintenance brigades and work gangs;
(iv)   identification of equipment and spare parts needs and the prepa-
ration of bidding documents, bid evaluation and contract award;
(v)   monitoring of maintenance work3, such as establishment of unit
costs for different types of cperations and work output by the
various maintenance units;
(vi)   establishment of training requirements and program for the exe-
cution of training of local staff at MPW's training school;
(vii)   organization and operations  of  the mechanical  workshops  and
spare parts store to effectively carry out the maintenance and
repair of MPW's equipment.
In addition to the above functions, the maintenance engineers
will provide on-the-job training for local engineers and works supervisors
in the above functions along the lines employed successfully under the
Fourth Highway Project.



- 40 -
Annex II
Page 1 of 3
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Draft Terms of Reference for a Transport Planning Expert at
the Ministry of Public Works
1.         The Government intends to strengthen its transport analysis and
planning capability by recruiting a transportation expert who will (i) re-
commend policies for the development and utilization of external transport
routes, and (ii) help prepare a domestic road investment program.  An im-
portant aspect of the expert's work will be to train counterparts.  He may
be required, inter alia, to carry out the following principal tasks.
Principal Tasks
2.   Elaboration of policies for the development and utilization of exter-
nal transportation routes
(i) forecast export and import volumes;
(ii) secure information on the transportation costs by different
routes and different modes, and prepare of a system of valuation
for the other elements of transportation service such as speed,
safety and regularity with a view to forecasting transportation
demand by route and mode;
(iii) assess transport capacity of the different modes and routes, and
in particular the capacity of the facilities within Rwanda;
(iv) forecast transportation flows by route and mode and prepare re-
commendations on policies for the development and utilization of
routes and modes; and
(v) help prepare the Government's position for negotiating with tran-
sit countries on the development and utilization of international
transport routes.



- 41 -
Annex II
Page 2 of 3
3.   Facilitation of international transportation
(i)  obtain information on the measures and regulations in the transit
countries that are hindering inl:ernational transportation;
(ii)  prepare recommendations in the Light of experience and procedures
existing in other parts of the world, designed to eliminate or
reduce the problems affecting transit traffic; and
(iii) help prepare Government's position for negotiating with transit
countries regarding facilitation.
4.    Project Appraisal
(i) prepare terms of reference for studies and monitor studies in
progress; and
(ii) particularly for the roads subsector, assure comparability of the
feasibility studies under preparation.
5.   Programming and coordination for the entire transportation sector
(i) in cooperation with the minisl:ries of Planning, Communications
and Public Works, define select:ion criteria for the preparation
of investment programs;
(ii) work closely with these ministrLes in the preparation of a trans-
port sector plan;
(iii) evaluate the financial and budgetary effects of programs under
preparation and assess their compatibility with the objectives
and the financial constraints of the plan in general; and
(iv) prepare recommendations for transport tariff policies and assist
in the preparation of tariff proposals.
6.   Road user taxation and aspects of the transport sector
(i) analyze the level and structure of prices and taxation of
petroleum products used in transportation, to determine whether
the prices are in line with the opportunity cost of petroleum
products;
(ii) recommend pricing and taxation policies for petroleum products
used in transportation and a mechanism for periodic adjustment of
prices and taxes; and
(iii) assess the overall adequacy of road user taxes.



- 42 -
Annex II
Page 3 of 3
7.   Duration of mission
The duration of the expert's mission shall be three years.
8.   Work Program
Following a three-month familiarization period, the expert, under
the guidance of a steering committee composed of representatives of the
three ministries concerned, shall draw up his work program for the next six
months. This program will specifically include proposals for the training
of counterparts. Thereafter, at the end of each six-month period, he shall
prepare a short report on the work he has accomplished and prepare a new
work program for the coming six-month period.
9.   Training
The transport planner will work closely on the above tasks with
two suitable local counterparts. Training of these counterparts will be an
important part of his services.



- 43 -
Annex III
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Progress Reporting Requirements
1.         Progress reports shall be submitted to the Association quarterly
in triplicate, no later than one calendar month after the end of the quar-
ter. The first report should cover the period ending December 31, 1982.
2.        The Report should contain the following information:
I.   General Information:
(a) the physical progress during the reporting period;
(b) actual or expected deviations from the project implementation
schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effect on
the implementation schedule and the steps planned or taken to
overcome the difficulties and avoid delays;
(d) expected changes in the completion dates of the project;
(e) key personnel changes in the administrative staff, consul-
tants or contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the project cost; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic viabi-
lity of the project components.
II.   A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, showing the progress in each project component.
III.   A financial schedule set out in tabular form which shows for each
of the project components:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b) revised cost, if appropriate;
(c) actual expenditure;
(d) project expenditure; and
(e) actual withdrawals and projected withdrawals from the Credit
Account.
IV.   The  status of action on each of the covenants of the Credit
Agreement.



- 44 -
Annex IV
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
Economic Evaluation of Paving the Butare-Kitabi Road
Economic Cost of Construction (RF'OOO/km)                               29,598
Cost of Resurfacing every 7 years (RF'OOO/km)                            1,365
Annual Maintenance Cost (RF'OOO/km):         with                           91
without                      318
Residual Value (RF'OOO/km)                                              17,759
Cement Traffic 1985:  Normal (t/day)                                        20
Diverted (t/day)                                    79
Cement Benefits:  RF/t-km - Normal                                          38
Diverted                                      50
Motor-
Car   Pickup   Truck    Bus   Cycle
Normal Traffic 1985 (vpd)
Butare-Kigeme                46    135         20       1      20
Kigeme-Kitabi                 10     27         8       1      10
Generated Traffic 1988 (% of normal)
Butare-Kigeme             50      40       40      40       50
Kigeme-Kitabi            180    170       160    160       180
Traffic Growth (% p.a.)                  7%      7%1/    7%1/   7%        7%
VOC Savings (RF/vehicle)                20      21       82      92        5
1/ Due to a shift to vehicles with higher payloads, benefits are assumed to
increase at the rate of 8%.



- 45 -
Annex V
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY ?ROJECT
Related Documents and Data Avai:Lable in the Project File
A.        Etude Economique de la route Butare-Cyangugu; Consultants SEDES,
(France), November, 1979.
B.        Etude de rentabilite du trongon Butare-Kitabi de la route Butare-
-Ntendezi-Cyangugu; Consultants DHV (Netherlands), January 1981.
C.        Etude  Technique d'Execution dui troncon  Butare-Ntendezi  de la
route Butare-Ntendezi-Cyangugu; Consultants DHV (Netherlands),
August 1981.



-46 -
ORGANIZATION OF THE ROAD BRANCH
Ministry of
Public Works
Generai
Secretary
r Urans an           0    =                  o
5    Buildings 
|   Works                                                                                         n     n g
.. a, aint    n| M-aied parntmentn  |ie.lm                                     S|o VVoartment l..
Op.rations     |         MehnzdSene.reOeairn                                                                tio
10 sub-sections        E       E                s       = 
'i165worrkagangs)       E        E                                                                                                                                     -23X05
E                        Ix  I rX :: rx   Cc mz    =V_i7_Vorld 8ank -23105



- 47 -
RWANDA
FIFTH HIGHWAY PROJECT
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
Authority             1982               1983                  1984                 1985
Maini Activity             ResponsibleR-pnsbe ___
2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4    1    2    3    4
I. Road Construction
-   Bidding                     Contractors
-   Bid Evaluation,
Review atnd Approval        Government/IDA
-   Award of Contract           Government
-   Construction             r  Contractor                          _ _                         -                         _
II. Equipment (Weighing
Scales)
-   Call for Quotation          Government
-   Evaluation of Offers
Review and Approval         Government/IDA
-   Award of Contract           Government
-   Delivery                    Suppliers
III. Technical Assistance
-   Selectioni of Consultants   Government/IDA
-   Review and Approval         Government/IDA
-   Execution
(i) Maintenance Engineers
and Mechanics               Consultants                        _      -          -
(ii) Transport Planner           Consultants                        _            -    -    --                         -    -
IV. Studies
(i) Preinvestment Studies
-   Definition and Agreement
of Transport Investment
Priorities                  Government/IDA
-   Selection of Consultants   Government/IDA
-   Execution of Study           Consultants
(ii) Restoration of Kigali-
Gatuna Road
-   Agreement on Scope of
Study, Consultants TOR      Government/IDA
-   Selection of Consultants
and Signature of
Contract                    Government/IDA
-   Execution of Study           Consultants
-   Maintenance 1/               Government
1/ Following completion of present financing under Cr. 769-RW.






ici L0P;Ee;        sEiSiW;RE E                       i!i  iDiiN
E                           11 A   ,.   W  tC xLa  SX  ' j C; :g: 0 ' (: ]
rn ' i        ' * v  'j, ,'' - 3      , x 't  :, ' 4t9E  ':
t"EA:'St),~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~a N\F   -
X i 't aX '''"S ;-
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~jo   o__l                     _      .



