Report No. PID7637
PID7637.TXT
Project Name                     Romania-Private Sector Institution Building...
Loan
Region                           Europe and Central Asia Region
Sector                           BP-Privatization
Project                          ROPE39251
Borrower(s)                      The Republic of Romania
Implementing Agency              Ministry of Finance
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                April 10, 1999
Projected Appraisal Date         April 19, 1999
Projected Board Date             June 3, 1999
1. Country and Sector Background
With Romania facing major macroeconomic dislocations in the mid-1990s, a
Financial and Enterprise Sector Adjustment Loan (FESAL) in the amount of $280
million was approved by the Bank in 1996 to remove structural impediments to
growth. Its objectives included: (i) accelerating the SOE privatization
process; (ii) enforcing hard budget constraints on SOEs; (iii) strengthening
the supervisory and enforcement capacity of the NBR; (iv) requiring banks to
establish loan-loss provisions; (v) phasing-in the collateralization of NBR
refinancing and (vi) helping with capital market development through the
opening of the Bucharest Stock Exchange and the creation of an over-the-
counter market, the RASDAQ.
The lack of success with structural reform continues to impede economic
growth. The privatization process of large state-owned enterprises and loss-
makers never gained sufficient momentum, despite numerous efforts and
programs. Part of this was due to the lack of needed institutional and
technical capacity for successful reforms to be implemented, although much of
the reason was rooted in Romania's fractious and unsettled political
landscape. The land reform of 1991, which resulted in 80t of all agricultural
land being privately owned, did not deliver the hoped-for results, with lots
often too small to be economically exploitable, large state farms still not
privatized, and land restitution caught in a political quagmire, all
contributing to the slowdown of effective privatization. In light of the
deterioration of the economy since 1995, GOR has come to recognize the
importance of strategic investment, sound governance and management, and the
need for hard budget constraints to reinforce incentive structures for
meaningful and effective reform.
A new Government came to power in late 1996 and asked the Bank to revise the
program supported by the FESAL, in order to accelerate the pace of reform.
The revised program, agreed with the Bank in February 1997, was more
ambitious than the original one. However, in the enterprise sector,



privatization did not accelerate significantly due to major delays resulting
from changes in the legal and normative framework. In the financial sector,
a restructuring plan of Banca Agricola was implemented, legislation for
dealing with insolvent banks was passed, and legislation governing the
supervision of capital markets was improved. However, other components of
the program were not implemented as planned. These included the failure to
conclude the privatization of two banks, delays in the design of collateral
legislation, failure to take decisions regarding changes in the accounting
rules for treating overdue interest, and a lack of progress towards
restricting the activities and sources of funding of credit cooperatives.
The reform program floundered in the second half of 1997 and the first
quarter of 1998, due to political difficulties within the governing coalition
and the loss of commitment to reform. The FESAL closing date was extended
for four months from December 31, 1997 to April 30, 1998, in an attempt to
revive the program, but without success. The Bank and the Government agreed
to let the FESAL lapse on April 30, 1998 and the final US$100 million tranche
was not disbursed.
The Government has now realized that successful reform depends on three major
areas: privatization of banks, enterprises and utilities; elimination of non-
viable loss-making firms; and development of a sound banking system. The
FESAL was allowed to lapse on April 30, 1998 because it had become apparent
that the program, as designed, could not be implemented in a reasonably short
span of time. The program needed to be overhauled to reflect the views and
program of the new Government and to incorporate lessons learned since the
original program had been designed.
2. Objectives
The objective of the proposed Private Sector Institution Building Loan is to
enhance the private sector's role in the economy through the transfer of
state-owned assets and the creation of an enabling environment conducive to
private sector growth and development. Success will be indicated by a
reduction in the public sector deficit associated with loss-making state
enterprises and banks and by an increase in the volume and profitability of
private sector economic activity.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The World Bank has extensive experience and knowledge of the process of
privatization and the restructuring of the financial sector. The Bank is thus
in a unique position to furnish practical advice on privatization, bank
restructuring and design of economic incentives. The Bank can also draw upon
its international network of consultants and advisors to bring the latest
best practices to Romania to strengthen the capacity of Romania institutions.
The World Bank will also assist in implementation of the project through
hands-on supervision and imparting knowledge of Bank procurement methods to
Romanian counterparts.
4. Description
Privatization Services: Under this component, technical assistance will be
provided to support large SOE privatization, including through the Case-by-
Case and Pool programs. This assistance will cover fees for: (i) design of
the Pool program, (ii) privatization, workout, and liquidation on case-by-
- 2-



case basis; and (iii) privatization, workout and liquidations of pools .
Financial Sector Services: Technical assistance to support the financial
sector would cover advisory services for bank restructuring, the Asset
Resolution Agency, management twinning services, asset management services,
and infrastructure support for the establishment of a secondary market for
Government securities.
Business Environment: Technical assistance for the improvement of the
business environment would cover analysis of the accounting profession to
operate under the new accounting and audit laws; long term institutional
capacity building in the bankruptcy courts; and a study on the impact of the
current tax laws on the business environment.
Project management Unit (PMU): A PMU would be established to coordinate and
implement the project.
Project Component                        US$ Million
Privatization services                   10.5
Financial Sector services                 9.8
Improvement of Business
Environment                               3.5
Project Management Unit                   1.0
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               5
IBRD                     25
IDA                       0
Total Project Cost       30
6. Implementation
The Ministry of Finance's (MOF) International Financial Department is the
main counterpart for the project. The overall coordination of the project
would rest with the Project Management Unit (PMU), which will be established
in the Office of the Prime Minister. The PMU will be headed by Mr. Basescu
(Minister of Transport), who will have overall responsibility for the project
and report to the Prime Minister. He will be assisted by a Project Manager
who will oversee the day to day operations of the project. A Project Steering
Committee (PSC) has been established with participants from all project
entities. The PSC, under the guidance of Mr. Basescu, will ensure that all
project objectives and monitorable targets as specified in the PIP are on
track and achieved. Technical expertise on a short-term basis will be
provided to the Project Manager as and when required. The PMU has selected a
project administrator, who is well versed in Bank procurement, disbursements
and contracting procedures. He will be assisted by two procurement
specialists, a disbursement specialist and an accountant. The disbursement
and procurement specialists have been selected.
7. Sustainability
This Technical Assistance loan will support reforms that will enhance
Romania's long-term prospects for economic growth and development; provide
- 3-



underlying support to people displaced by the restructuring; and promote
development of conditions that will accelerate Romania's preparation for
formal entry into the European Union and other organizations.
The World Bank proposes to assist Romania on achieving sustainable growth by
supporting the program with a separate private sector adjustment loan (PSAL)
of $300 million. The support is proposed to provide balance of payments
support to GOR as it undergoes needed yet costly restructuring of its
enterprise and financial sectors. The PSAL financing would support seven
broad areas of activity: (i) privatizing state-owned banks; (ii)
restructuring several poorly performing state-owned banks, in order to
prepare them for eventual privatization; (iii) strengthening bank regulation
and supervision; (iv) assisting in the development of government securities
markets; (v) privatizing and divesting remaining large state-owned
enterprises; (vi) privatizing and divesting remaining small and medium state-
owned enterprises; and (vii) improving the business environment.
In addition to broad macroeconomic benefits, all of these actions would
promote development of a market-based economy with stronger governance,
management, transparency and participation, and lead to sustainable economic
growth.
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
The PSIBL is to complement the proposed PSAL. The FESAL program which was
cancelled in 1998 covered too much ground. There were several flaws in
project design, including the following:
(a)     The FESAL tried to encompass too many areas of reform in a single
operation. The initial FESAL was a massive operation that included 27
disbursement conditions and was to be disbursed in four tranches. The
revised FESAL was even more complex, with an additional 41 conditions.     The
proposed PSAL will be much simpler and shorter (one year horizon); with far
fewer conditions; and should be disbursed in two tranches and would have
financing available under the PSIBL for implementation;
(b)     Many conditions were based on processes (e.g., design and implementation
of plans or mechanisms; production of reports) or on outcomes that were
difficult to measure and open to qualitative interpretation (e.g. improved
enterprise cash flow; "substantial progress achieved...") . Consequently,
monitoring implementation required considerable resources, including
excessive travel and staff-time. Conditions under this program would be based
on a limited number of significant and easily verifiable outcomes and
results.
(d)     Romanian institutional capability, which proved to be weak, was
overestimated. This was especially evident in the areas of policy design,
enterprise and bank privatization, monitoring of SOE financial performance
and discipline, SOE governance, bank supervision, and bank restructuring.
Technical assistance to be provided under the PSIBL will ensure that
institutional capability is adequately built up during project
implementation. Technical assistance (TA) and training will be provided
under the Bank loan or by other donors.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     Yes
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues:   In accordance with the Bank's Operational Directive on
Environmental Assessment (OD 4.01 Annex E), the proposed project has been
placed in Category "C" and does not require an environment assessment.
- 4 -



Contact Point:           InfoShop
World Bank
1818 H. Street, N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax (202) 522-1500
E-Mail: pic@worldbank.org
Team Leader
Khaled F. Sherif
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
Telephone: 1 (202) 473 4461
Fax: 1 (202) 477 6391
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain activities and/or
components may not be included in the final project.
Processed by the InfoShop week ending May 7, 1999
- 5 -



