Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 4491 RO
Loan Agreement
(Private Sector Institution Building Project)
between
ROMANIA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated  June 17, 1999
LOAN NUMBER 4491 RO 
LOAN AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated June 17, 1999, between ROMANIA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL 
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank). 
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
the Bank to assist in the financing of the Project; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 30, 1995 (as amended 
through December 2, 1997) (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of 
this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
Page  2
(a)
“Eligible Categories” means categories 1, 2 and 3 set forth in the table 
in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;  
(b)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods and services 
referred to in Section 2.02 (a) of this Agreement;
(c)
“PMU” means the Project Management Unit established within the Borrower’s 
Ministry of Transport;  
(d)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;  
(e)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Bank to the Borrower pursuant to the letter agreement signed on behalf 
of the Bank on January 21, 1999, and on behalf of the Borrower on January 26, 1999;  
(f)
“PSC” means the Project Steering Committee referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement; and 
(g)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II 
The Loan 
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount equal to 
twenty-five million Dollars ($25,000,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan.
(b)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the 
Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and pay to itself the amount required to 
repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and 
outstanding as of such date and pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn 
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall thereupon be 
canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2002, or such later date as the 
Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date. 
Section 2.04. On or promptly after the Effective Date, the Borrower shall pay to 
the Bank a fee in an amount equal to one percent (1%) of the amount of the Loan. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time. 
Section 2.06. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period 
equal to LIBOR Base Rate plus LIBOR Total Spread.
(b)
For the purposes of this Section: 
(i)
“Interest Period” means the initial period from and including the 
date of this 
Agreement to, but excluding, the first Interest Payment Date 
occurring 
thereafter, and after the initial period, each period 
from and including an 
Interest Payment Date to, but excluding, the 
next following Interest Payment 
Date. 
(ii)
“Interest Payment Date” means any date specified in Section 2.07 
of this 
Agreement. 
Page  3
(iii)
“LIBOR Base Rate” means, for each Interest Period, the London 
interbank 
offered rate for six-month deposits in Dollars for 
value the first day of such 
Interest Period (or, in the case of the 
initial Interest Period, for value the 
Interest Payment Date occurring 
on or next preceding the first day of such 
Interest Period), as 
reasonably determined by the Bank and expressed as a 
percentage 
per annum.
(iv)
“LIBOR Total Spread” means, for each Interest Period: (A) 
three-fourths of one 
percent (3/4 of 1%); (B) minus (or plus) the 
weighted average margin, for such 
Interest Period, below (or above) 
the London interbank offered rates, or other 
reference rates, for 
six-month deposits, in respect of the Bank’s outstanding 
borrowings or 
portions thereof allocated by the Bank to fund single currency 
loans 
or portions thereof made by it that include the Loan; as reasonably 
determined by the Bank and expressed as a percentage per annum.
(c)
The Bank shall notify the Borrower of LIBOR Base Rate and LIBOR Total 
Spread for each Interest Period, promptly upon the determination thereof. 
(d)
Whenever, in light of changes in market practice affecting the 
determination of the interest rates referred to in this Section 2.06, the Bank 
determines that it is in the interest of its borrowers as a whole and of the Bank to 
apply a basis for determining the interest rates applicable to the Loan other than as 
provided in said Section, the Bank may modify the basis for determining the interest 
rates applicable to the Loan upon not less than six (6) months’ notice to the Borrower 
of the new basis. The new basis shall become effective on the expiry of the notice 
period unless the Borrower notifies the Bank during said period of its objection 
thereto, in which case said modification shall not apply to the Loan. 
Section 2.07. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on March 15 and September 15 in each year.  
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01. The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate financial, technical and administrative 
practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and 
other resources required for the Project. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this 
Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as 
may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the 
future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: 
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators acceptable to the Bank, 
Page  4
the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof; 
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish 
to the Bank, on or about December 31, 2000, a report integrating the results of the 
monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this 
Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the period 
preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure 
the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof during the period following such date; and 
(c)
review with the Bank, by March 31, 2001, or such later date as the Bank 
shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, 
thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05. Throughout the implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall 
maintain, in a manner and under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, a PSC 
headed by a Chairperson appointed by the Borrower’s Prime Minister and composed of a 
representative each of the State Ownership Fund, the National Bank of Romania, the 
Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry 
of Industry and Commerce, the Prime Minister’s office, the Bank Restructuring 
Committee, and the Asset Resolution Agency. The PSC shall be responsible for reviewing 
the progress of Project implementation. 
Section 3.06. The PMU shall be responsible for day-to-day Project 
administration, management and coordination, including activities related to 
procurement, accounting, disbursement, auditing and reporting. Throughout the 
implementation of the Project, the Borrower shall maintain the PMU with a sufficient 
number of qualified staff and adequate facilities, as satisfactory to the Bank. \0c
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain a financial management system, 
including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format 
acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures 
related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall: 
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph 
(a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for 
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with 
auditing standards acceptable to 
the Bank, consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the 
Bank, who shall have been 
appointed not later than October 31, 1999; 
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not 
later than six 
months after the end of each such year, (A) certified 
copies of the financial 
statements referred to in paragraph (a) of 
this Section for such year as so 
audited, and (B) an opinion on such 
statements, records and accounts and 
report of such audit, by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and 
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records 
and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said 
auditors, as the Bank may 
from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure, the Borrower shall: 
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such 
Page  5
expenditures; 
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the 
Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such 
expenditures; 
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the Project 
Management Reports or statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the 
procedures and internal controls involved in their 
preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower shall carry out a time-bound action plan acceptable to the 
Bank for the strengthening of the financial management system referred to in paragraph 
(a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later than March 31, 
2000, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
Management Reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which: 
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the 
Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said 
report, and projected sources 
and applications of funds for the 
Project for the six-month period following 
the period covered by said 
report, and (B) shows separately expenditures 
financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan during the period covered by said 
report 
and expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan during the six-month period following the period covered by said report; 
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively 
and for the period covered by said report, and (B) explains 
variances between 
the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii)  sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and 
expenditures under 
contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, 
as at the end of the 
period covered by said report. (b)
Upon the completion of the action plan 
referred to in paragraph 
(a) of this Section, the Borrower shall prepare, in 
accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not 
later 
than 45 days after the end of each calendar quarter, a Project 
Management Report for such period. 
ARTICLE V 
Effective Date; Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions: 
(a)
a financial management system, satisfactory to the Bank, shall have been 
established; and 
(b)
a short list of independent auditors and their terms of reference, 
acceptable to the Bank, shall have been prepared. 
Section 5.02. The date one hundred twenty (120) days after the date of this 
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General 
Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Page  6
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Finance
17, Apolodor Street 
Bucharest Romania
Telex:  
11239
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
ROMANIA
By /s/ Mircea Geoana
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ Andrew N. Vorkink
Country Director 
Bulgaria and Romania Country Unit 
Europe and Central Asia
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan 
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Page  7
Loan Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
  Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Goods
1,500,000
100% of foreign 
expenditures, 100% of 
local
expenditures (ex-
factory cost) and
80% of local
expenditures for
other items
procured locally
(2)
Consultants’
      19,500,000
100%
services (including
workshops and training)
(3)
Incremental Operating      1,500,000
100%
Costs
(4)
Refunding of
      1,500,000
Amount due
Project Preparation
under Section
Advance
2.02 (b) of this
Agreement 
(5)    Unallocated
     1,000,000
     _________
    25,000,000
TOTAL
    ==========
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower; and 
(c)
the term “incremental operating costs” means auditing expenses, salaries 
of PMU staff members (other than salaries of civil servants who already receive a 
salary from their public employer), and the costs of vehicle insurance, fuel and 
maintenance, office equipment and other materials and supplies utilized by the PMU 
staff members in carrying out the Project.   
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of payments made under Categories (1), (2) and (3) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 to this Schedule until the fee referred to in Section 2.04 of 
this Agreement has been paid.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) goods under contracts costing 
less than $100,000 equivalent each, except with respect to the first two contracts to 
be awarded pursuant to Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) 
incremental operating costs; and (c) services under contracts costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent each for the employment of consulting firms and under contracts 
costing less than $50,000 each for the employment of individual consultants, under 
such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower. 
B.
Special Account 
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account, in a 
commercial bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including 
appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
Page  8
has been opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the 
Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management 
Report referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the 
Borrower for withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to 
Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall 
be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1. 
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report 
does not adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this 
Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be 
made by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the 
period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)(ii) of this Agreement any of the audit 
reports required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of 
the audit of (A) the records and accounts for the Special Account, or (B) the records 
and accounts reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were made on 
the basis of Project Management Reports. 
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the 
Bank shall have notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part 
the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall 
determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account 
may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall 
notify the Borrower of its determination.
6.
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or 
deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the 
Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the 
Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may 
be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures 
during the six-month period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly 
upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of 
this paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Page  9
Annex A to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not Made On the Basis of 
Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex: 
(a)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equal to $350,000 to be 
withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special Account pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Annex; provided, however, that, unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equal to $200,000 until 
the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account, plus the total amount of 
all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions, shall equal or exceed the equivalent of $1,000,000.
2.
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis 
of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the 
Loan Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall 
have requested. 
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank 
shall specify. Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have been shown 
by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for 
Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special 
Account, once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan, minus the total amount of all 
outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of 
the General Conditions, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify 
by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to 
the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on 
deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B to SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account When Withdrawals 
Are Made On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all 
withdrawals from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such 
deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account 
under one or more of the Eligible Categories. 
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the 
Special Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into 
the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and 
(b) the amount which the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report 
Page  10
accompanying said application, is required to be deposited in order to finance 
Eligible Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such report; 
provided, however, that the amount so deposited, when added to the amount indicated by 
said Project Management Report to be remaining in the Special Account, shall not 
exceed the equivalent of $3,000,000.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to assist the Borrower in enhancing the role of 
the private sector in the national economy, through the creation of an enabling 
environment conducive to private sector growth and development.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A: 
Privatization 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to the Borrower’s State Ownership 
Fund to support the privatization of large State-owned enterprises.
Part B:
Financial Sector and Capital Markets 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to the Borrower to support the 
restructuring of the financial sector and the development of capital markets.
Part C:
Business Environment 
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to the Borrower to support the 
improvement of the Romanian business environment, with special regard to taxation, 
accounting and auditing, and private sector development.
Part D:
Institutional Capacity 
Strengthening 
(i)
Provision of goods and consultants’ services to the PMU to improve 
its Project 
management capacity. 
(ii)
Provision of consultants’ services to the Borrower to formulate a 
development reform 
strategy. 
* * * 
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2001.
SCHEDULE 3 
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal 
Date Payment Due
(Expressed in Dollars)*
September 15, 2004
   550,000 
March 15, 2005
   565,000 
September 15, 2005
   580,000 
March 15, 2006
   595,000 
September 15, 2006
   610,000 
March 15, 2007
   630,000 
September 15, 2007
   645,000 
March 15, 2008
   665,000 
September 15, 2008
   680,000 
March 15, 2009
   700,000 
September 15, 2009
   720,000 
March 15, 2010
   740,000 
Page  11
September 15, 2010
   760,000 
March 15, 2011
   780,000 
September 15, 2011
   800,000 
March 15, 2012
   820,000 
September 15, 2012
   845,000 
March 15, 2013
   870,000 
September 15, 2013
   890,000 
March 15, 2014
   915,000 
September 15, 2014
   940,000 
March 15, 2015
   965,000 
September 15, 2015
   990,000 
March 15, 2016
 1,020,000
 
September 15, 2016
 1,045,000 
March 15, 2017
 1,075,000 
September 15, 2017
 1,105,000 
March 15, 2018
 1,135,000
September 15, 2018
 1,165,000 
March 15, 2019
 1,200,000
______________________
*
The figures in this column represent the amount in Dollars to be repaid, except 
as provided 
in Section 4.04 (d) of the General Conditions.
SCHEDULE 4 
Procurement 
Section I.
Procurement of Goods
Part A:
General 
Goods shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 
(the Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $200,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $350,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines. 
2.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost $50,000 equivalent per contract or less, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions 
1.
Procurement Planning 
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed 
procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines. Procurement of all goods shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
Page  12
procurement plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of 
said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract awarded in accordance with the provisions 
of Section I, Part B of this Schedule, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to: (i) each contract estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent 
or more, to be procured in accordance with the procedures referred to in Section I, 
Part C.1 of this Schedule; and (ii) the first two contracts to be procured in 
accordance with the procedures referred to in Section I, Part C.2 of this Schedule, 
the following procedures shall apply: (i) prior to the selection of any supplier under 
shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a report on the comparison 
and evaluation of quotations received; (ii) prior to the execution of any contract 
procured under shopping procedures, the Borrower shall provide to the Bank a copy of 
the specifications and the draft contract; and (iii) the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 2 (f), 2 (g) and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. 
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised 
in September 1997 and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection 
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Single Source Selection
Services for the review of tax legislation, the development of methodological 
norms for privatization, the design of privatization pools, and the establishment of 
the Asset Resolution Agency, may, with the Bank’s prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.8 through 3.11 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
2.
Individual Consultants
Services for tasks that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the 
Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under contracts awarded to individual 
consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the 
Consultant Guidelines.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants 
1.
Selection Planning 
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank 
for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of 
Page  13
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been approved by 
the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1. 
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms, 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply. 
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual 
consultants estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, 
experience, terms of reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be 
furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval. The contract shall be awarded 
only after the said approval shall have been given. 
3.
Post Review 
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
