                                               Document o f
                                            The World Bank

                                    FOR OFFICIAL USEONLY



                                                                               ReportNo 31756-BR




    INTERNATIONALBANKFORRECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT

                                         FORA PROPOSED

   PROGRAMMATIC LOANFOR SUSTAINABLE AND EQUITABLE GROWTH:
                                  HOUSING SECTORREFORM

                          INTHEAMOUNT OFUS$502.5MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                             FEDERATIVEREPUBLIC OF BRAZIL

                                              May 11,2005




Finance,PrivateSector andInfrastructureUnit
BrazilCountryManagementUnit
LatinAmerica andthe CaribbeanRegion



This document has a restricteddistributionand maybe usedbyrecipients only inthe performance o ftheir official
duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                         CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
                              Currency Unit: Real (R$)

                               EXCHANGERATE
                       December 3 1,2001: R$2.65 =US$1
                       December 31,2002: R$3.52 =US$1
                       December 31,2003: R$2.90 =US$1
                       December 31,2004: R$2.65 =US$1

                          WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
                                  Metric System

                                  FISCALYEAR
                              January 1-December3 1

                      ABBREVIATION AND ACRONYMS

CEF      Caixa EconBmica Federal (Federal Loan and Savings Bank)
CNh4     Conselho Monetirio Nacional (National Monetary Council)
C V M    ComissTio de Valores Mobiliarios (Security and Exchange Commission)
DPL      Development Policy Loan
FAT      Fundo de Amparo ao Trabalhador (Worker Support Fund)
FNHIS    Fundo Nacional de Habitacao de Interesse Social (National Social Interest
         Housing Fund)
FGTS     Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Servico (Workers Severance Fund)
IBGE     Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e Estatistica (Brazilian StatisticalInstitute)
M P H    InterministerialHousingPolicy Group
PEA      Instituto de PesquisaEconBmica Aplicada (Institute of Applied Economics)
MOC      MinistCrio das Cidades (Ministryof Cities)
MP       Medida Provis6ria (Project Law Issuedby the Executive)
MW       Minimumwage (Currently 1MW=R$260)
NHP      National Housing Policy
PAR      Programa de Arrendamento Residencial (Social Rental Program)
PAU      Policy Analysis Unit
PSH      Programa de Kabitaqgo de Interesse Social (Social Housing SubsidyProgram)
SBPE     Sistema Brasileiro de Poupanqae Emprtstimo (Savings and Loan System)
SFH      Sistema Financeiro de HabitaGgo (Housing Finance System)
SFI      Sistema Financeiro Imobiliiirio(Real State Financial System)
S T N    Secretaria do Tesouro Nacional (Treasury)
SWAP     Sector Wide Approach
TAL      Technical Assistance Loan
TR       Taxa Referencial(Reference Interest Rate)




                         Vice President:   Pamela Cox
                       Country Director: Vinod Thomas
                         Sector Manager:   John Henry Stein
                          Task Manager: Mila Freire

                                                                      FOR OFFlCLALUSEONLY
                                   GLOSSARYINSTITUTIONSANDMAINACTORS
                                                 OF

          Bolsa Familia. A National Program of Subsidies that targets needed famities with well-defined
          characteristics.Itmergedseveralsocialprogramsinto a single well-targetedand monitoredprogram
          CEF Caixa EconSmica Federal is the largest FederalPublic Bank in Brazil and a major player in the
          housing finance system. It accounts for 40% of the outstanding direct housing credit system (SBPE)
          lending. Uses most of the FGTS fimds that are on-lent for housing; manages the accounts of the FGTS
          members; and distributesthe bulkof the public housingsubsidy resources.
          Estatuto da Cidade (the City Statute) is a law related to urban development which decentralized to
          municipalities a number of housing and land responsibilities and required cities to develop their
          institutionalcapacity, as well as participatoryurbanplans.
          FAT(Fundo deAmparo ao Trabalhador)equivalent to aprovidentfundwith contributionof employers.
          FGTS Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Sewigo is the comerstone of both the directed credit system              --
          financing70% of all ofhousingcredit inthe past decade - as well as the housingsubsidy system, financing
          more than 50% of the subsidies. It is funded by the monthly compulsory contributions of salaried
          employees and individual accountsmanagedby CEF.Net assets are closeto R$10billion.
          FCVS was a public insurance fund created in 1968 to address the effects of adverse macroeconomic
          circumstances on the value of outstanding mortgages. It is mostly funded by public debt. The program
          stoppedinsuringloans originatedafter 1993.
          MOC (Ministry of Cities). Created in 2003, the ministry filled an important vacuum in terms of urban
          and housing policy. It has made important advances to coordinate and define low-incomehousingpolicies,
          sharing with STN the management of the new social housing program. The World Bank has provided
          continued support to MOC in terms of policy dialogue and sector diagnosis; Cities Alliance has provided
          financial assistance on specificprojectsto help strengthenthe MOCtechnicalcapacity.
          M P (Medida Provisoria), a legal instrumentissuedby the President with the force o f law but that has not
          beenapprovedby the Parliament.
           NHP (National Housing Policy) was preparedby the Ministry of Cities inwide consultationwith partners
           and civil society. The Bank has been very active in the review of early drafts and in sharing methodology
           and conceptual framework.The documenthas beendiscussedandwill be finalized ina couple of months.
           NHPL (National Housing Plan) is the road map for the National Housing Policy determining specific
           targets for a certain period and acceptingthe responsibilitiesof each public agency, as well as the financial
           needs andsources of fmance.
           SFH (Housing Finance System). Created in 1964, the SFH is a classic closed-circuit housing finance
           systemofferingbelow-marketrates on a limited pool of funds. It includes the SBPE, the savings and loans
           armofthe system, FGTS, FCVS, and CEF.
           PSH (Social Housing Subsidy Program) Parcelamento is the component of the PSH that provides
           upfront subsidies to the beneficiariesand pays financial institutions to supervise the actual construction or
           purchase of the house. Municipalities contributewith the landand enforce the contracts
           PSH (Social Housing Subsidy Program) Financiamento is the component of the PSH that subsidizes
           both the final beneficiary as well as the Bank to finance low-income households. In most cases,
           municipalitiesare the guarantors of the loan advanced to the households
           SBPE (Sistema Brasileiro de Poupanqa e Emprbstimo) is an old system that offers liquid and tax free
           saving accounts (cadernetas de poupanpz), at a relatively low interest rate. Part of the funds are
           compulsory dedicatedto finance housingloans.
           SFI (Sistema Financeiro ImobilPrio) is the new market-based housing finance system that the
           government is trying to develop.



This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in
the Derformance of their official duties. Its contents may not be otherwise disclosed
    L
without World Bank authorization.                                                                                          1


....... ....",'
  "   "




                                        ....'.,..'"...'.,..'".




                   .................
                       "

Annex 4: Environmental and Social Impact of the Program .........................................................                             68
Annex 5: Upfront Cash Subsidies and HousingAllowances .........................................................                               72
Annex 6: Housing Finance and Subsidies inBrazil.......................................................................                        84
Annex 7: LandIssues inBrazil......................................................................................................            85
Annex 8: ProgramMonitoringand EvaluationEfforts..................................................................                              88
Annex 9: ProposedHousing Sector TechnicalAssistance Loan                                   ................................................... 92
Annex 10: IMFRelations Note......................................................................................................              96
Annex 11 Status of Bank Group Operations                  ................................................................................    101
Annex 12: Statement of IFC's Heldand DisbursedPortfolio .....................................................                                 103
Annex 13: Brazil at a Glance       .......................................................................................................    105
Annex 14: Map ............................................................................................................................ 107

                                       BRAZIL

 PROGRAMMATIC LOANFOR SUSTAINABLEAND EQUITABLE GROWTH:
                         HOUSINGSECTORREFORM
                         LOAN PROGRAMSUMMARY
                                 AND

Borrower          The Federative Republic of Brazil

Implementing      MinistryofFinance
Agency:

Poverty Category  Not Applicable

Amount            US$ 502.5 million

Terms             Fixed Spread US Dollar Loan with repayment period of 17 years
                  including 5 years of grace with commitment-linked repayment schedule
                  and level repayments or principal.

CommitmentFee     0.85% per annum during the first four years and 0.75% per annum
                  thereafter on undisbursedloan amounts, beginning 60 days after the loan
                  agreementi s signed.

Front-EndFee      0.5% of the loan amount, capitalizedand financedunder the loan.

Objective,        The proposed operation i s part of the set of loans to support the
Description and   Govemment of Brazil in its agenda for sustainable and equitable growth.
Benefits          This loan focuses on one key component o f this agenda: housing sector
                  reform. It thus deepens the reform agenda to promote efficiency of the
                  financial sector and improve economic opportunity       The proposed loan,
                  in an amount of US$502.5 million, will support initiatives already
                  completed. An accompanying Technical Assistance Loan i s expected to
                  be presentedto the Board shortly to assist the Government inpursuingits
                  housing policy and design the necessary policy reforms which will be
                  supported by further Bank lending to finance an integrated housing
                  program and the national urban upgradingefforts.

                  The objective of the program is to support the Government's efforts to
                  improve access of the poor to improved housing and servicedserviceable
                  land, while maintaining fiscal discipline. Brazil has witnessed enormous
                  progress inall economic and social fronts, the exception beingthe critical
                  situation of the shelter for the poor. Continuing urban growth, coupled
                  with persistingincome inequality and absence of targeted shelter policies,
                  has led to a situation where more than 60% o f the households coming to
                  the market are unable to find an affordable shelter solution and join the
                  ranks of informality. The Govemment i s committed to address this
                  challenge by supporting the needs of the very poor and the development
                  o f a market that could and should cater to the less poor.

                 Specifically, the proposed operation supports the Government in its
                 efforts to: (a) develop a sound national policy and institutional framework
                 for housing and urban development; (b) strengthen the housing credit and
                 savings systems, and provide incentives for the housing finance market to
                expand as well as move "downmarket"; (c) design and implement a
                unified federal housing subsidy system to address the affordability o f
                housing solutions for the poor; and (d) reduce the costs o f formal urban
                 land development by strengthening land legislation and regulations and
                real property registries.


Risks            Timingand expectations. The naturaltime lagbetween policy reformand
                impact on housing markets could be seen as a weakness o f the program.
                Mitigation: the Government has led open discussions and adopted a broad
                dissemination policy. The proposed monitoring and evaluation approach
                aims to provide information on the approach in the very short-term, and
                 along the phases o f the program.

                 Coordination and institutional risks. The program includes a number of
                 actors, inside and outside the Government (Ministry o f Cities, Ministryo f
                Finance, Central Bank, local authorities) and coordination will be
                 essential for the success o f the program. Mitigation: the Government has
                 established an inter-ministerial committee - the Intenninisterial Housing
                Policy Group - to supervise the housing reform program (including the
                 accompanying TAL) and to ensure that all reforms are consistently
                 implemented.

                Macroeconomic        developments     and   interest  rate    volatility. The
                 development o f the housing market i s a function o f the market interest
                rates which at the present are high given the monetary policy adopted by
                 the Brazilian government. Continued high interest rates will hamper the
                 expected development o f the housing finance market and housing
                 subsidies will remain necessary in the medium-term. Mitigation: The
                 Government i s committed to pursue its fiscal adjustment policy which
                 should lead to a decline in overall debt and lower market interest rates.
                 The program provides a conceptual framework to help the Government
                 monitor the segments o f the housing market including those relevant for
                poor and middle-income families.

FinancingPlan    Not Applicable

NetPresentValue  Not Applicable

Project IDNumber P078716.

                                             PREFACE

1.       Theproposed operation is a single-tranche Loan in Support of the Growth Agenda to
the Federative Republic of Brazil in an amount of US$502.5 million. The proposedLoan would
support the development o f microeconomic, institutional, and policy reforms in the housing
sector and particularly regarding low-income housing, aimed at increasing housing affordability
and improving urban development as part o f a broader set o f measures pursuing sustainable and
equitable growth.

2.       The recent CAS for Brazil structures the Bank support along three pillars: Equity,
Sustainability and Growth. The Bank support to the Growth agenda has pressed forward a
cluster o f activities under the growth pillar. Such activities have included, inter-alia, the
Sustainable and Equitable Growth Series whose first loan was approved by the Board in 2004.
That series supports a wide agenda o f microeconomic and regulatory reforms. The first loan
targeted investment and productivity while attempting to minimize inefficient microeconomic
policies or the creation o f fiscal liabilities. Increased investment and productivity were key
objectives o f a broad set o f microeconomic, institutional and policy reforms that started with four
reform areas (logistics, the business environment, financial efficiency and depth) as part o f a
longer list o f growth-orientedreforms on which the Government was acting. A second loan of the
program is envisaged in the next eight to twelve months to support key developments in the
core areas established by the first operation. Reforms supported by the first operation are
progressing satisfactorily with the approval o f key legislation - such as the Public Private
Partnership and Innovation and Banlauptcy laws - while significant steps are being taken towards
its implementation.

3.       The proposed housing sector loan - supporting low-income housing and housing
finance market development will deepen the financial sector component within the growth
                                 -
program initiated by the previous Programmatic Loanfor Sustainable and Equitable Growth.
The proposed loan extends the growth program based on deep new reforms to an important area,
the readiness o f which for policy-based lending support was uncertain when the previous loan
was prepared. Steps towards improving housing market instruments, shiftingto market structures,
and promoting secondary mortgage markets have given a clear sign to both investors and lenders
that the Government i s committed to support a market-based housing finance system. A dialogue
with the judiciary to improve contract enforcement and a commitment to persist in the
deregulation and improved competition of the system are to be acknowledged. The overall
impact will be felt in increased access to housing finance, release o f private savings which have
been tied up to now in excessive down payments and high housing costs, and improved
competitiveness among financial agents. It will also impact fiscal sustainability by improving the
targeting and transparency o f housing subsidies and coordinating with local governments and
private agents.

4.       The reform in housing sector policy is a key component to reinforce the growth
program objectives given the impact o f housing and housing finance in promoting poverty
alleviation and expanding the efficiency o f the financial sector. Brazilian history has shown that
due to persistent poverty, structural market failures, and poor regulation, economic growth by
itself will not increase access o f the poor to housing, which directly affects the "equity"
dimension o f the program. Unregulated urban agglomerations, lacking basic services such as
water and sanitation, usually have a major impact on health and on the environment. These
reforms therefore represent an important part o f Brazil's agenda for economic growth, and in
particular the equitable sharing o f that growth.

5.       Reforms in the low-income housing field also reinforce economic growth itself: By
favoring private investment in housing, the reforms in this field will raise capital accumulation
while increased housing access may help to increase labor productivity. Improving urban
development and housing access may help to reduce crime in major cities and thereby improve
the "investment climate." The boosting o f the housing industrywill also raise labor demand and
employment opportunities, particularly for low-skill workers.

6.       Although housing policy reforms were not originally envisaged to emerge now as part o f
the sustainable and equitable growth program, housing reforms are of fundamental importance
for growth. This i s particularly so if it i s to be equitably shared, and the inclusion o f the housing
sector i s therefore proposed within the Bank's programmatic lending for sustainable and equitable
growth. Broadening and deepening the agenda to include housing would confer flexibility going
forward for the government to pursue reforms where they are most viable politically, while
maintaining four streams o f programmatic DPLs corresponding to the pillars o f the 2004-2007
CAS, as requestedby Government.

7.       The initial operation in this sustainable and equitable growth cluster was approved on
February 19, 2004, to support the Government's policy initiatives to reduce logistics costs,
improve the business environment, enhance the efficiency and depth o f the financial system, and
increase innovation capacity to transform knowledge into productivity gains. Reformprogress on
these four elements o f the Government's growth agenda has been significant. The policy triggers
for further financial support for these elements o f the growth agenda have largely been met, and
a follow-on loan i s under preparation.

8.        Theproposed loan is a centerpieceof the Bank'splanned support to a high-performing
Government in a key strategicpolicy area. Since coming to power, the Government has a strong
track record o f policy-setting and leadership, showing firm commitment inthe face o f long odds
to combining macroeconomic rigor with ambitious social objectives. While housing and the
attendant social, economic, environmental, and health issues have been a clear concern for the
Government, progress may have been slow in the last two years, due to the need to develop an
institutional framework for the sector and continuing fiscal restrictions. The increasing pressure
o f unmet demand for shelter by low-income people continues to haunt both central and local
governments. The pressure i s magnified by highlypublicized events showing the struggle o f poor
families trying to settle inprivately owned land.

9.        The proposed operation has its underpinnings in detailed analytical work and
dialogue. While the Bank has had a visible presence inurbanupgrading and municipal projects in
Brazil with a marked success, dialogue on housing policy and low-income housing deepened in
the last four years. After access to shelter services was identified as a priority area for Bank
intervention during the pre-CAS consultation process, towards the end o f 2000, the Bank
launched field work that led to a comprehensive piece o f ESW (Brazil Progressive Low-Income
Housing: Alternatives for the Poor, Report 22032-BR). In addition, the Bank provided regular
assistance and feedback to background papers and policy documents; offered training sessions to
large groups o f officials dealing with housing issues; organized the presence o f a large number o f
Brazilian officials in internationally recognized housing finance training courses; commented on
draft laws and national debates and tried to avoid major discontinuities inthe dialogue duringthe
change inadministrations.




                                                     11
                                                     .I

10.      The proposed operation reflects the Government's considerableprogress in defining
new low-income housing and urban development policies. The Government has produced a
National Housing Policy document, which has been discussedwith a large array o f stakeholders
containing the proposals o f the Ministryo f Cities to the formulation of the NationalHousing Plan
as well as the,principles, guidelines and objectives for the sector. An inter-ministerial working
group has been agreed upon to provide for the seamless support to some of the shelter and
housing sector reforms.      Milestones have been reached toward enhancing the institutional
framework for low-income housing policy, introducing housing finance reforms, improving
subsidypolicy and addressingobstacles for landdevelopment andhousingcreation.

11,      The creation of the Ministry of Cities (MoC) is a major step towards rationalizing
sector institutions and strengthening their capacity to implement sound housing and urban
developmentpolicies. Over the last fifteen years, responsibility for housing and urban issues has
been shared by a number o f ministries and secretariats, resulting in a weakened management of
the sector and a lack of policy direction. The MoC issued a National Housing Policy and has
undertaken broad consultation to foster consensusbuildingand facilitate its implementation. The
MoC also created a Policy Analysis Unit to improve systematic information collection and
improve policy design. Further, the Council of Cities was created to facilitate broad participation
and major private,, civil society and public sector actors in the formulation of urban development
policy.

 12,     The Government's explicit policy agenda to create a liquid and efficient integrated
formal housing market based onprivate capital-markets is a clear departurefrom a history of
directed credit and market segmentation. Major achievements in this area include: (i)the
creation o f a sophisticated legal framework for new mortgage-backed securities and mortgage
bond markets, including mortgage-backed instruments; (ii)the creation of the alienap5o
fiducihria (trust deed) as a stronger mechanism for collateralizationthan the mortgage lien and of
the patrimbnio de afetap7o ("affected assets") to segregate the advance payments made by
households during the construction against the possible bankruptcy of a developer; and (iii)    the
approval of Law 10.931 o f 2004, which strengthens the trust o f credit institutions in housing
finance instruments and legalizes secondary market products such as mortgage bonds.

 13.     Brazil's housing subsidy policy has undergone important changes, with a clear shijit
from implicit interest subsidies to transparent and targeted upfont subsidies. In200112002, the
 Government launched an innovative upfront subsidy program - the Programa de Subsidios h
Habitapio deInteresse Social (PSH) - with funds coming from the Federal Government's budget
 and allocation done by competitive auctions to financial institutions. Since its inception in 2001,
PSH has been greatly improved, notably in terms of regional balance, adjusted slope o f the
upfront subsidy amount, and expansion o f participating lenders. The Government also split the
program inanon-credit linked upfront grant program (parcelamento) and a credit-linked program
 flnanciamento), which represent a further improvement to the program. Moreover, the FGTS
 (Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Sewiqo) initiated steps to prioritize the use o f its funds to
households eaming less than six minimumwages and established a new upfront subsidy program
 and has taken initial steps to prioritize the use of FGTS loan funds for households earning less
 than six minimumwages.

 14.      The Brazilian Government has also confronted key challenges in the field of urban
 development and land occupation. A draft law complementing the legal framework established
 inthe 1998 Constitution and Law 10257 of 2001 (Estatuto das Cidades) is being considered by
 Congress. The draft law establishes new criteria and directives conceming land subdivision
 requirements and also procedures to regularize informal settlements, especially with regard to



                                                  111
                                                  ...

property registries, legalizes the use o f progressive land development and infrastructure
introduction and transfers to municipal governments the central role insetting technical standards
and enacting local legislation on land subdivision and urban land management ingeneral.

15.     The Government has requested a Development Policy Loanfrom the Bank to support               I


its low-income housing program and its reform agenda for the sector as a whole. This
document therefore proposes loans to support the Government program, included within the
cluster o f activities to support the growth agenda of the Government and the Growth pillar o f the
CAS.

16.     The low-income housing policy area would be supported by an accompanying
Technical Assistance Loan. The TAL, which will be presented to the Bank's Board o f Directors
shortly after this DPL, would aim to strengthen the capacity o f the Government to formulate and
implement housing and urban development policy as well as set the stage for future DPLs and a
requestedhousing-linked SWAP




                                                 iv

                                     PROGRAMDOCUMENT
 FORA PROGRAMMATIC LOANFOR SUSTAINABLEAND EQUITABLE GROWTH:
                                  HOUSINGSECTORREFORM

                                           1.INTRODUCTION


1.1      Successful macroeconomic policy and recent growth recovery will not necessarily
increase access of the poor to housing and serviced land. In the past decade, Brazil has
transformed itself economically and laid the institutional foundations for solid macroeconomic
management while economic growth has recovered in the last two years. Yet the housing
"deficit",  estimated at 7.1 million units mostly for households with incomes o f less than 5
minimumwages, equivalent to 28 million people without access to adequate shelter, persists. A
large share o f housing i s unauthorized (ranging from 32 percent in Recife to 9.4 percent in SBo
Paulo), and informal urban settlements are growing 4 times faster than average urban growth. An
estimated 50 percent to 65 percent (depending on the market) o f new households formed annually
cannot afford the most basic house producedinthe formal market.'

1.2      At the same time, poor performance in the housing sector also affects economic growth
and poverty reduction. Annual investments in housing currently contribute to 11 percent o f the
annual capital formation in Brazil. Housing accounts for 6 percent o f GDP2 while housing
construction employs 5 percent o f the labor force and empirical evidence suggests that the
multiplier effect o f housing construction on labor demand, particularly unskilled labor, i s high.
Access to improved shelter leads to higher returns for children's education and expanded
opportunities for higher paying jobs. Improving urban development and housing access also help
to reduce crime in major cities. Authorized housing and its associated infrastructure services,
such as water and sanitation, also have a positive impact on health and the environment.
Improving access to housing and reliable urban services, therefore, improves labor productivity
and the overall "investment climate."

1.3       Persistentpoverty, failures in the housefinancing system and inappropriate regulation
are among the main causes of the housing sector problems. Affordability i s the main cause o f
housing deficit: it i s estimated that 60 to 70 percent o f urban households cannot afford to buy the
lowest-priced market house. Highinterest rates and constrained access to financial intermediation
further decrease housing affordability. The housing finance sector i s underdeveloped with an
outstanding residential mortgage debt o f about 3-4% o f GDP (compared with 15% in Chile or
65% inthe US). Inadequate housing finance regulation - such as those for the use o f collaterals -
blocked the development o f housing finance services. Excessive land use regulations and
cumbersome procedural requirements have also been a major impediment to construction o f
affordable authorized housing.

 1.4      Historically, public policy in housing has been characterized by dirigisme and
untargeted subsidies. The housing finance system has been overly dependent on public
institutions using implicit interest rate subsidies and directed credit to finance mostly middle
income groups. The sector has been indisarray for a long time, as the urban policy responsibility
was scattered among institutions. Lack o f administrative oversight led to frequent swings in
policy and a lack o f a reliable flow o f resources to the sector. Urban and housing development


  FundacaoJoao Pinheiro,BrazilianHousingDeficit(2004) andWorld Bank, PolicyNote June 2002.

  Whichis low comparedwith other countries at the same level of development.

tended to be seen as the way to distribute political favors rather than to promote one o f the most
important sectors inthe economy.

1.5      The Government has initiated a comprehensive housing sector reform program by
improving its housingfinance sector regulations and introducing more efficient subsidies and
initiating incentivesfor a more appropriate land regulation system. The long-term vision o f
Government policy for the sector i s the establishment o f a well-functioning housing market that
serves the majority o f the population with housing through ample new formal construction and
upward filtering o f households into better quality housing. Such housing market will require an
efficient and effective housing finance system, efficient land markets and reforms in the
Government directed housing finance and subsidy systems.            Better targeted and transparent
housing subsidies will assist households who cannot access markets yet without government
support. While the full deregulation o f the current government-directed housing finance system
will not be feasible until several variables move in the right direction (e.g., sustained decline o f
interest rates and further development o f the secondary market for mortgages), the Government
has made important changes towards broader market-based finance. The Government has clearly
defined housing and urban issues as part of the core policy agenda, making it a priority for the
near future. Housing policy and programs have become a locus for multiple Government agency
coordination (including Treasury, Ministry o f Finance, Central Bank). On the subsidy front, the
Government has shifted from implicit interest rate subsidies to upfront and transparent systems
which allow the accounting, targeting and monitoring o f their impact. On the finance side,
strengthening o f the housing credit instruments and the shift to market structures, promoting the
development o f secondary mortgage markets, have been steps inthe right direction, giving a clear
sign to both investors and lenders that the Government i s committed to support a market-based
housing finance system. A dialogue with the judiciary to improve contract enforcement and a
commitment to persist in the deregulation and improved competition o f the system are to be
acknowledged as well. On land regulation, the Government has made important strides to review
key legislation that has limitedthe capacity o f the private sector to address excess demand, and to
put inplace a flexible landregulation system that will help the poor to access serviced land andto
acquire or rent housing in the formal sector. The process i s a long-term one and will take a
number o f years, but the first steps are important as they represent a rupture with the past and a
commitment to maintain a healthy and market-driven housingmarket.

1.6      The new housing strategy is a clear development of the Government's microeconomic
agenda of reforms. The development o f mortgage credit, ensuring effective property rights, and
removing obstacles to commercial lending for housing, are among the pillars o f a sound housing
strategy. These match perfectly the broader initiatives o f supporting private sector development,
improving the business environment, and increasing financial depth that represent the key
ingredients o f the Government growth ~trategy.~Better and streamlined regulation for land use
are also an ingredient o f the larger task o f improving infrastructure regulation and simplifying
business entry and operation, also elements o f such agenda.

1.7      The new housing strategy is also part of a broader effort to increase the efficiency of
social expenditure. The emphasis on targeted subsidies and the use o f auctioning procedures to
allocate subsidies are indicators o f significant improvements in the housing subsidy strategy and
are part o f a broader effort to rationalize social expenditures, as for example in the case o f Bolsa
Familia. At the same time, creative mechanisms to expand transparency and public participation
inpolicy making, such as the Conselho das Cidades (Council of Cities), havebeenintroducedto
encourage consensus and political cohesion around key policies.




 See World Bank ReportNo.27507-BR.

                                                   2

1.8     Brazil's new administration was elected on a platform that emphasizes economic
growth and inclusion. President Lula da Silva's Government represents perhaps the first
experiment in which a democratically chosen candidate, with the strong support o f social
movements ina highly unequal society, proposes to combine a clear commitment to social justice
with a sound economic program. However, social disappointment and distress, to which the
housing deficit contributes significantly, i s a major threat.

1.9     The objective of the Growth Program is tofoster economic growth, thereby reducing
poverty and social tensions. On February 19, 2004, the Bank approved the First Programmatic
Loan for Sustainable and Equitable Growth to support the Government's policy initiatives to
reduce logistics costs, improve the business environment, enhance the efficiency and depth o f the
financial system, and increase innovation capacity to transform knowledge into productivity
gainsm4As discussed in Section 4 A o f the Program Document for that loan (pages 11-14), the
Growth Program as defined above forms a subset o f a broader growth agenda, which includes
other microeconomic reform areas important for growth. The Growth Program encompasses
legal, infra-legal, and institutional measures to improve market efficiency, including defining
approaches to public-private interactions, strengthening the institutional capacity o f agencies to
plan and regulate, and enforcing laws and regulations consistently and predictably.

1.10    Reform progress on these elements of the growth agenda has been significant, and the
policy triggers for subsequent lending to support them have largely been met with the approval o f
key legislation, most notably three key laws governing Public Private Partnership, Innovation,
and Bankruptcy. A follow-up loan to support these elements o f the Government's sustainable
and equitable growth agenda i s under preparation and i s expected to be presented to the Board in
Fiscal Year 2006.

1.11 At the same time, the government has been able to move ahead more quickly than
expected with the far-reaching reforms to housing policy described in this document. Although
these reforms were not originally envisaged as part o f the growth program, they are o f
fundamental importance for growth, and inparticular ifit i s to be equitably shared.

1.12     For this reason, the present document proposes the inclusion o f these reforms withinthe
Bank's programmatic lending for sustainable and equitable growth. Future DPL support to the
housingpolicy agenda would also be integrated within the framework o f the Bank's
programmatic lending to support the Government's sustainable and equitable growth agenda.
This would confer greater flexibility going forward for the government to pursue reforms where
they are most viable politically, while maintaining four streams of programmatic DPL withinthe
Brazil country program laidout inthe 2003-2007 CAS, discussed by the Board on December 9,
2003.5



                              2. RECENTECONOMICDEVELOPMENTS

2.1      Without understating the importance o f further structural reforms for long-term economic
growth and poverty reduction, Brazil has now entered a more comfortable phase of economic
management. For the first time since the 1970s, the Brazilian economy i s experiencing a healthy
combination o f brisk growth, single-digit inflation, and a current account surplus. Prospects for



  ReportNo. 27507-BR.

  ReportNo. 27043-BR.

                                                    3

2005 are good, and, although some risks remain, the country has established a track record o f
respondingappropriately to shocks.

2.2      As a consequence of improved exports and an aggressive debt management strategy, the
Brazilian economy is also much less vulnerable to external shocks than it was just a few years
ago. In 2004, exports grew by 30 percent indollar terms, imports grew at about the same rate, and
the current account surplus was almost 2 percent o f GDP. Extemal financing requirements fell to
US$27 billion, less than half the requirement o f as recently as 2001. Even as the Brazilian real
has appreciated against the U S dollar in recent months (to 2.72 at end 2004 from 3.07 at end
2003), the current account is expected to remain balanced or at a small surplus in the next few
years.

2.3      Export growth has been broad-based both in terms of destination and industry. The EU
i s Brazil's largest market and accounts for almost 25 percent o f exports, followed by the US and
Latin America at just over 20 percent each. The recovering Latin American market has been the
most important regional block in explaining Brazil's increasing exports and current account
surplus, followed by the EU (see Table 1). This explains in part why the recent appreciation o f
the real relative to the U S dollar i s o f only mildconcem.

                             Table 1:Brazilian Trade Patterns, 2003-2004

                   Exports,US$ billion, fob                           Trade Surplus, US$billion

                                 Share                                       Share
               2003      2004     of        Growth   Growth    2003   2004     of     Growth    Growth
                                 Total               decomp                  Total              decomp
                                                      osition                                   osition
Total            73.1    96.5    100%        32%      100%     24.8   33.7   100%      36%       100%
LatinAmerica     12.9    19.8    21%         53%       29%     4.7    9.7     29%      106%      56%
  Mercosur       5.7     9.0      9.0        58%       14%     0.0    2.6      8%       n.a      29%
EU               18.5    24.2    25%         31%
us                                                     24%     5.4    8.2     24%      52%       31%
                 16.9    20.0    21%          18%      13%     7.1    8.7     26%      23%       18%
Asia             11.7    14.5    15%         24%       12%     2.8    2.3      7%      -18%      -6%
OiW:China        4.5     5.4      6%         20%       4%      2.4    1.7      5%      -28%      -8%



2.4      Exports are varied: about half are manufactures, one-third primary resources; and export
categories have shown growth inproportion with their overall share, illustrating the robustness of
Brazil's recent export performance. While the real has appreciated against the dollar, it has
remained stable against the currencies o f other major trading partners. The real effective
exchange rate appreciated by about 5 percent in2004.

2.5      Strong fiscal performance, anchored by the fiscal responsibility law, has led to a
significant reduction of the level of thepublic debt from its 2002 peak, falling to 77 percent o f
GDP in gross terms and 55 percent o f GDP in net terms by end 2004. At the same time, high
international liquidity has allowed Brazil to improve its debt composition markedly while
accumulating foreign exchange reserves. The share o f inflation-indexed or fixed-rate federal debt
has reached 28 percent, up from 10percent in2002, whereas the share o f foreign-exchange linked
debt has shrunk to less than 5 percent.

2.6      Risks remain. Inparticular, expected rising U S interest rates inthe near future will exert
a negative influence. This i s primarily because they raise Brazil's cost o f financing abroad and,
by lowering demand for Brazilian assets and currency, elicit higher nominal interest rates in
Brazil. This i s particularly risky for Brazil given the relatively high public debt, the short term
maturity o f public domestic debt, and its degree o f indexation to short-term instruments. Indeed,


                                                     4

since 45 percent o f total public debt i s still tied to the overnight inter-bank rate usedby the central
bank to target inflation (the SELIC), there i s also a direct effect on the public finances (a one
percent higher SELIC for one year causes a rise in the debt-to-GDP ratio of more than 0.2
percent).

2.7     Nonetheless, Brazil has shown through a series of episodes under different
governments that it is willing and able to react through bothfiscal and monetary policy when
circumstances worsen. The four recent episodes o f note in this respect are the floating o f the
currency in January 1999 in response to the Russian default, curtailed growth from the 2001
energy shortage in Brazil, contagion from the Argentine default, and the recession o f 2002-03
around the general election. In all cases rigorous monetary policy was combined with fiscal
tightening to weather the storm (Table 2).

                        Table 2: FiscalandMonetaryPolicyInstruments
                                                Average       Primary Balance
                           Year             SELIC (%)                 ("AGDP)

                           2001                    17.46                     3.6
                           2002                    19.20                     3.9
                           2003                    23-47                     4.3
                           2004                    16.38                     4.6
                            2005                   18.20                     4.3
                            Source: CentralBank, IMF.

2.8     Most recently the central bank has had to act in order to reign in injlationary
expectations,driven by administered prices, international oil prices, and strong domestic demand
across the board. Capacity utilization has been approaching levels historically associated with
rising prices, underlining the need for capital investment to sustain growth in the short term.
Twelve-month inflation peaked in January 2004, while the central bank has raised the SELIC to
19.5 percent from 16.0 percent in a series o f hikes since September 2004. As a result o f this
monetary tightening, inflation fell within its revised target band for 2004, an important
achievement signaling the central bank's commitment to its inflation targeting system.

2.9      Polls o f market participants and prices reflected in the domestic yield curve suggest that
interest rates will come down in the second half of 2005, once inflationary expectations subside
and there are enough signs o f a cooling economy to merit a monetary easing. However,
inflationary expectations, although decreasing, remain slightly above the 2005 inflation target,
possibly pointing towards further interest rate rises before an easing cycle begins.

2.10     Sustainable lower interest rates depend on a further remaining structural reform
agenda. Over different time horizons, important elements o f this agenda are reforms to the
pension system, to public spending, to taxation, and to the legal system and business climate.

2.11     Public spending and investment. World Bank research and the recent Joint Pilot on
Public Investment led by the IMF have highlighted the importance o f increasing both the level
and the efficiency o f public investment in Brazil. Improvements in the effectiveness o f public
infrastructure investment are vital to relieve serious bottlenecks, particularly in roads and ports,
and to ensure that any future increases in public investment are not wasted. The Bank i s actively
engaged with the infrastructure line ministries and with the Ministries o f Planning and o f Finance,
in improving project selection, analyzing rates o f return, rationalizing investment programs, and
building monitoring and evaluation capacity. The financial vehicles for this assistance are TA
lending, programmatic DPL, investment lending, and an IDF grant.

                                                       5

2.12     Taxation. A comprehensive reform o f taxation would not be politically feasible within
the present Government's mandate. Nonetheless, Brazil's tax burden, at around 35 percent o f
GDP in recent years, is highby middle-income standards and is made up o f many taxes that are
highly distorting, such as taxes on payroll, sales, and financial transactions. Moving towards a
greater reliance on direct taxation and reducing marginal tax rates faced by businesses will be an
important part o f the reform agenda over the medium term. It shouldbe noted that direct taxation,
in addition to reducing the distortions faced by business, could also be a fairer way of raising
revenues, with the rich paying a higher share. Moreover, the high taxation o f payroll and sales
seems to be an important reason behind the fact that a large proportion o f the Brazilian workforce
i s employed informally, beyond the reach o f many traditional forms o f social policy, including
housing finance.

2.13     Pensions. The present Government introduced an important reform to the parameters o f
the civil servants' pension system inDecember 2003, which was upheldby the Supreme Court in
August 2004. This reformprogram will be the subject o f further programmatic DPL andTA from
the Bank. There may be little public appetite for further parametric reforms to the social security
system in the near future until the system i s made more efficient, but this does not diminishthe
long-term importance o f bringingthe system in line both with international norms and with the
capacity o f the Brazilian public sector to finance it. As with taxation, such reforms would
enhance both efficiency and equity.

2.14     Interest rates. Brazil's real interest rate, currently above ten percent (for overnight inter-
bank lending), i s among the highest in the world. Its level i s not explained by the level o f public
debt or public borrowing alone, which are higher in many other developing economies such as
Turkey, India, or the Philippines. In addition, microeconomic causes such as the taxation o f
financial transactions, very highreserve requirements, banks' administrative costs, high directed
lending, and weak protection o f creditor rights are also factors contributing to the predominance
o f very wide intermediation spreads.

2.15     The Bank i s currently conducting a research project into the high level o f interest rates
and intermediation spreads: preliminary evidence suggests that the high real domestic rate not
only sets the floor for loan pricing but also plays a predominant role in determining spreads,
perhaps partly through adverse selection effects. Thus while microeconomic reforms remain vital
inthe longer termas interestrates fall, the greatestshort-run impactonthe cost of capitalmay
come from further fiscal efforts and their effects on base rates. Beyond the short-run effects
o f monetary policy, whereby nominal rates should begin to fall in the second half o f 2005, as
microeconomic and macroeconomic reforms continue, both nominal and real interest rates are
expected to fall inthe longer term.

2.16     The investment climate. As the availability o f domestic financing increases, and in order
to attract higher levels o f foreign investment, the Government's program o f microeconomic
reforms to the business environment is a key component o f the growth agenda. Recent reforms
include a new bankruptcy law, an improved framework governing technological innovation, and a
new law for public-private partnerships. Some o f the reforms described later in this program
document on housing finance are an important part o f the investment climate agenda for a large
part o f Brazilian industry.

2.17     While progress will always be faster in some areas than inothers, perhaps most important
i s that macroeconomic stability, and a degree o f political consensus about the importance o f these
reforms, mean that they can now be viewed as a long-term agenda for growth and poverty
reduction. Many areas command technical agreement even if they face political hurdles. There is


                                                    6

a high level of confidencethat this agendawill be pursued by successive governments on a
sustainedbasis.


                               Table3: PrincipalEconomicIndicators

Year                                        2000           2001          2002       2003        2004
Real GDP Growth (%)                          4.4            1.3          1.9        (0.2)        5.2
IPCA Inflation (%)                            6.0           7.7        12.5          9.3         6.5
SELIC Interest Rate (average)               15.8           17.5        19.20        23.5        16.4
Nominal Balance (PSBR, % of                 (4.5)          (5.2)      (10.3)        (3.7)       (2.5)
GDP)
Primary Balance (% of GDP)                    3.5           3.6          3.9         4.3         4.6
Net Public Sector Debt (% of GDP)           48.8           52.6        55.5         58.2        51.8
Trade Balance (US$ billion)                 (0.8)           2.7        13.2         24.8        33.7
Current Account (US$ billion)              (24.3)         (23.2)       (7.7)         4.1        11.7
FDI(US$ billion)                            32.8           22.5        16.6         10.1        18.2


                                  3. PRINCIPALSECTOR ISSUES

3.1     Background and Key Sector Issues. Brazil i s among the most urbanized countries in
Latin America, with approximately 80% o f the population living in urban areas and 90% o f the
country's GDP being generated in cities. Access to housing and reliable urban services i s
essential to poverty reduction and growth in Brazil. Housing i s also an important component o f
the economy both on the consumption and investment sides; it contributes to job creation and
creation o f householdwealth. Brazil's housing sector has, however, performedpoorly in fulfilling
its potential for either poverty alleviation or economic growth: the housing "deficit" i s estimated
at 7.1 million units mostly for households with incomes o f less than 5 minimum wages
(equivalent to 28 million people without access to adequate shelter); informal urban settlements
are growing twice as fast as the average urban growth; and an estimated 50% o f new households
formed annually cannot afford the most basic house produced in the formal market even with
deep finance subsidiesS6Moreover, the quantity o f new houses constructed by the developer /
construction industry,including by small builders, i s inadequate. It i s estimated that only 250,000
units were constructed in 2003 by developers and small builders, compared to more than 1
million new households formed in urban areas per year (Diamond and Rottmann, 2004). Such
low formal sector housing production makes it impossible to deal with the housing backlog and
the problemofinformal settlements.

3.2     Housing is a large economic sector with significant forward and backward linkages,
making it an important instrument for anti-cyclical policies and sustained economic
performance. Empirical data indicate the importance o f the sector in the economy across
countries. In terms o f consumption, housing-related spending accounts for 20 to 50% o f
household expenditures (35% in Brazil).              It forms 80-90% o f household wealth, and
approximately45% o f national wealth. InBrazil housing accounts for 6% o f GDP (but this figure
could be increased considerably) and 11% o f annual capital formation (22% for the construction
sector as a whole). In addition, residential construction, real estate services and the housing
finance industry are important employment sectors in most countries. Brazil's housing sector
employs about 5% o f the labor force, while directjobs for the construction sector represent 9.3%
and 17.3% if indirect jobs are considered. Multiplier effects are high both in terms o f labor and



  FundacaoJoaoPinheiro, BrazilianHousingDeficit (2004) andWorld Bank,PolicyNoteJune2002.

                                                     7

expenditure (between 1.4 and 1.81)7. Housing has a large weight in the price index - 29% in
Brazil8. Housing finance i s an important component o f the financial sector and often drives
innovations in the financial sector at large. Inmost developed countries, mortgage related assets
represent more than half o f total financial assets. Inthe U S A and Japan, mortgage loans represent
more than 50% o f GDP; while inBrazil this figure i s barely 5%.

 3.3     Construction activity in Brazil has followed the vagaries of the public investment
program. The economic stabilization effort has resulted in substantial decline in public works
which in turn led to a decline in the sector GDP (-13% in 2003). Increase in formal sector
residential construction would provide a good opportunity for a renewed boost in the sector. As
an indication o f the potential demand for housing, in2004, 70% o f all cement sales were for self-
help construction. The construction industry i s well aware o f this potential demand in the lower
income segment and i s eager to collaborate with the public sector inthe development o f low-cost
solutions. The institutional and regulatory inefficiencies in the land and finance markets have
prevented the industry from realizing this growth potential inthis lower-middle income market.

3.4      I n February 2001, Brazil's Congress passed a constitutional amendment which
guarantees the right to adequate housingfor all Brazilians, making shelter an essential social
service similar to education and health. Accomplishing this goal, while maintaining fiscal
discipline, i s a major challenge. Defining the role o f the public sector in meeting the housing
needs o f Brazil's poor population includes comprehensive and sustained policy and regulatory
reforms and the creation o f incentives to mobilize financial sector resources and private sector
savings. While the issue o f housing and the attendant social, economic, environmental, and health
issues was a priority inthe electoral campaign o f President Luiz Inacio "Lula" da Silva elected in
2002, progress inhousing outcomes has been limited. This i s inlarge part due to the fact that the
new Government had to develop an institutional and policy framework for the sector from the
ground up. Fiscal restrictions, self-imposed by the Government, further limited the ability to
launchnew housing investment programs.

3.5      There are several reasonsfor thepoor housing sector performance. Brazil i s a middle
income country with modest population and urban growth. It has subsidized its housing sector
deeply and over a long period o f time. Yet, compared to countries with similar economic and
demographic characteristics, housing conditions are worse than would be expected. General
lagging economic performance over the last few decades and decreasing real incomes explain
part o f the housing sector's inadequate outcomes especially for the very poor. Furthermore,
lingering highgovernment real interest rates make housing finance a less attractive investment in
general. The small size o f the housing finance system (both private and public) attests to that;
Brazil has an outstanding residential mortgage debt o f about 3-4% o f GDP and the real estate
securities market has not developed beyond a pilot stage.

3.6      However, the inadequacy of the institutional frameworks and deficient finance and
subsidypolicy have had a major impact on the poor sector performance. Onthe institutional front,
the formal housing system in Brazil has been a complex web o f federal entities, state and local
governments, private sector developers and financial institutions. Over the last fifteen years,
responsibility for housing and urban issues has been shared by a number o f ministries and
secretariats, resulting ina weakened management o fthe sector and a lack o f policy direction.

3.7      Legal and institutional bottlenecks in the housingfinance sector have helped prevent
the creation of a liquid and efficient formal housing market and constrained demand for

7 CBICFGV (2004), basedon 2002 data on the construction sector.

  Accordingto IBGE's POF-Pesquisa de Orqamentos Familiares.

                                                     8

housing. Brazil's housing finance markets are incomplete and do not serve large segments of the
middle and low-income population becausethe transaction costs and risks to do so are too high.
Housing finance has been dominated by government institutions dependent on directed credit and
does not respond well to demand pressures. The absence of a well-functioning mortgage market
limits the production of middle income housing and the related downward filtering of existing
housing to lower-income households. The existing sector institutions and financing mechanism
will needto change to a more encompassing, sustainableand competitive systems.

3.8       Until recently, the bulk of housing subsidies in Brazil were provided through the
government housing Jnance system to a broad spectrum of middle income households.
Households earning incomes below the median, for whom neither the housing market nor the
government mortgage system delivered, were largely excluded from federal subsidies, with the
exception o f limited upgrading subsidies. While 88 percent of the housing deficit is concentrated
on poor people (earning less than 5 minimum wages) there were no measures to establish a
consistent and broadprogram of subsidiesfor thepoor.'


    0     SBPE -The Sistema Brasileiro de Poupanqa eEmprdstimo is a system of tax free liquid
          saving accounts (cadernetas de poupanqa), with capped interest rates. Banks which
          receive SBPE savings are required to use a percentage of these resources to finance
          housing loans. The system carries implicit subsidies, as savings are tax exempt and

          market interest rates and allow lendingto take place at "subsidized" levels as well (TR +
          guaranteedby Government. However, SBPE savings deposits are remunerated at below-

           12%). To date, SBPE lending for housing has been both limited in scope" and, equally
          important, investedinalmost exclusively high-income housing. New regulationhas made
          it obligatory for banksto invest more ofthe SBPE funds inhousingloans. In2004 54,500
          loans were made, up from 29,000 in 2002. A total of R$3,060 million was disbursed in
          2004 out of a total o f R$120 billion in savings outstanding. SBPE accounts for 15% of
          the total housing finance.

     0    FGTS (Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Sewiqo) is a compulsory provident savings
          system based on a payroll tax (8% paid by employers in the formal sector). FGTS as a
          payroll tax fund owned by its members i s not directly controlledby Government although
          it is under public management and general public guidelines and comprises different
          government agencies on its board o f directors (Curator Council). FGTS i s at the same
          time a large employer tax (equivalent to 4% of GDP) and the largest federal housing
           finance subsidy program. Contributorsreceive a return of 3 percent plus TR, which might
          turnout to beanegativerealrate ofreturn, ontheir savings accounts inorder to allow the
           funds to be used to finance below market housing loans, both for members and non-
          members.FGTS savings are managed by the Caixa Economicu Federal (CEF), the state
          housing bank, which i s responsible for guaranteeing a minimum return on FGTS
          deposits. Funds are, in principle, available to qualified financial institutions (almost
          exclusively the largest domestic banks) for onlending at fixed, below-market rates. FGTS
           i s the largest source of mortgage and housing construction loans. It financed 155,275
           loans in2004 for a total of R$2,355 million (43% of total loans).


  Well-targetedsubsidiesare an importantaspect of most housingmarkets in emergingeconomies as a largepart ofthe
low-income stratacannot afford the cheapesthouseproducedinthe formal market andthe privatemarket is reluctantto
enter the low-incomehousingmarket because of smaller profit margins andhigh risks. Subsidies can in the short-term
help bridge the wide affordability gap. In principle, this gap should narrow in the medium-term as cumbersome and
thus costly urban planning and development regulations are removed, land management systems are made more
effective, andthe structure andefficiency o f the housingfinance systemimproved.

 lo
  Inthe past, Bankshavebeen ableto meet their SBPElendingrequirementsthroughthe purchase of debt obligations
relatedto the former National HousingBank, (BNH),without extendingactual credit for homepurchaseor refinance.

                                                           9

    0   Caixa EconBmica Federal- CEF is a large public sector bank which fulfills multiple
        roles in the management and administration o f FGTS funds. CEF holds the deposits of
        FGTS and as the legal administrator o f FGTS, it i s responsible for guaranteeing
        acceptable returns on FGTS deposits and i s thus responsible for accreditation of financial
        institutions which request access to FGTS savings. At the same time, CEF i s the primary
        lender o f FGTS monies, making more than 60 percent o f the housing loans inthe country
        (state-owned banks in general make approximately 80 percent o f housing loans). CEF
        was recapitalized and restructured in2001.


      Table 4: Medium-andLong-TermHousingLoans,by HousingFinanceSystems
                                                    2004
                                                    #loans      YO     Average loan         Total R$
                                                                         size (R%)          (Million)

   Developers: Mediumterm finance (estimate)*        50,000      14%       70,000             3,500

   Consorcio andCooperatives(estimate)**             40,000      11%       80,000             3,200

   SBPE (TR + 12%), plus SBPE market; through        54,500      15%       56,000             3,060
   privatebanksand CEF

   FGTS (TR     + 6%   to 10.16%) depending on       155,275     43%       15,200             2,355
   income level through CEF

   FAT TR + 6% through CEF                             2.600     1%        22,300               58

   PSHfinanciumento TR+6 (***)                       56,000      16%        2,400               132

   Total
   ***                                               358,375     100%
            DiamondandRottman, 2004

   *** This BACEN, ABAC
            subsidized loan component is complementedby an average upfiont subsidy to borrowers of R$4,700
   andalender compensationofR$900. The new component ofPSH,pavcelamento (not linkedto a housingloan)
   hasjust started andno houses are yet deliveredunder thisprogram.


3.9     The dominance of these directed credit and public housing finance systems i s clear
(Table 4). Out o f about 360,000 housing loans made in 2004, 75% were financed through the
systems o f FGTS, FAT and SBPE, usingtax-based finding or tax-subsidies and usingCEF as its
main lender. State governments do often have their own funds to make housing loans for
underserved groups, bringing the proportion of loans made through public sector institutions
closer to 80 percent. While these systems have allowed housing lending to continue during
periods of macro-economic volatility and highinterest rates for housing loans, they are costly, are
uneven in the depth o f subsidies they provide and in their current coverage o f segments o f the
"market". They can not easily respond to increased demand for finance.

3.10     The lack of expansion of private housing finance as well as the lack of use of
subsidizedfunds by private banks has several causes. These include Brazil's history o f macro-
economic instability, the judicial protection o f borrowers, and the dominance of special
government funding and lending systems. The most important reason, however, appears to be
the high SELIC rate (set at 19.25% in March), the real domestic interest rate, which offers
investors risk-free and liquid assets at attractive returns. This rate i s the main instrument o f the
monetary policy adopted by the Government to stabilize the economy. While a stable macro
economy i s critical for the perfomance of the housing finance sector, the current high Selic rate
puts a floor in the housing finance market. As long as the SELIC rate remains highrelative to

                                                       10

investments in more risky and administratively more costly housing finance loans, the
development o f the private mortgage market will remain limited. In addition, the high real
interest rates make borrowing unaffordable for most households. Also, with current high real
government rates and high lending risks in the housing finance sector, subsidized funding for
housing finance i s not attractive for lenders when compared to other risk-adjusted market
investments."      Graph 1 shows the evolution of yearly average real interest rates since 2000,
including: (i)subsidized loans funded by the FGTS at TR+6% (plus a spread o f 2.16%); (ii)
SBPE housing loans priced at TR +12%; (iii)          risk-free SELIC short-term market rates; and (iv) an
estimated price o f market-base SFIhousing loans (from pilot securitization deals). The graph also
shows the gradual narrowing o f the gap between SBPE and market rate housing loans, a trend
that may continue as a result o f further macro-economic strengthening.

3.11      Restrictive land subdivisions, inefficient registry and complex permitting system all
constrain the elasticity of urban land supply limiting the access o f the poor to urbanized land,
and increasingthe costs o f housing solutions.

3.12      Long-term vision: The vision for the sector is a combination of a well-functioning
housing market and targetedpolicy interventions to attend to marketfailures and address the
affordability gap. Inthis scenario,
         new households will be able to access formal shelter - either renting or purchasing it -
         according to their preferences and income level; low-income households who qualify for
         a loan with some help would be served with credit-linked subsidies to help them with
         down payment in complement to their own savings; for those who do not quality for
         finance, non-credit linked subsidies would be provided by municipalities in the form o f
         serviced land or partially builthousingunits12;
         as interest rates come down, microeconomic policies improve credit risk and risk
         insurance and secondary real estate finance provide attractive long-term assets for
         investors the housing finance would likely grow rapidly (as it has in other countries)
         possibly reaching 10% o f GDP in 5-7 years and 15% in another 5 years and will serve an
         increasing proportion o f the upper- and middle-income market; as interest rates come
         down, the existing directed credit system (SBPE) would be deregulated over time, in
         tandem with an expansion o f the capital market to serve the middle and upper levels o f
         demand;
         FGTS would continue in the intermediate term to provide finance-linked subsidies
         (depending on the decision o f its Board o f director^'^). It will be able to leverage the
         participation o f private lenders and other housing finance institutions into moderate
         income sector; in the medium term, when the Government can expand its subsidies
         through the PSH, FGTS i s likely to increase the return on its assets and might decrease its
         role as the housingprovider o f last resort;
    (d) resources available- for the federal housing policy would be used to leverage resources
         available at the state and local levels, stimulating regulatory change to improve land
         supply for low-income housing and preventing further expansion o f informal settlements
         and providing titles to slum dwellers with a minimumo f administrative problems;



 l1 subsidizedfindsaremoreoveroftenlimited(FGTS) orcostlytoaccumulate(savingsaccountsof
   These
 the tax exempted SBPE system).
  l2 familieswouldbeabletocontributethroughself-helpeffortsorbytakingoutmicro-finance
     These
  loans to complete their "authorized" house.

 l3 TheFGTSBoardofDirectors(ConselhoCurador) iscomprisedbyrepresentativesofits
    FGTS
      members (4 workers' unions), o f contributors (4 business class associations) and government (8 from
       different ministries and agencies), all of themappointedby the government

                                                        11

   (e) municipalities would adopt well-designed plans, drawn jointly with local populations and
       aimed at pre-empting illegal occupations or squatting on non-serviced land plots. Insuch
       a scenario, risks are better measured and priced, and pension funds, insurance companies,
       and other long-term savers believe that the housing market is sufficiently secure and
       attractive to deserve part o f their funds. While the market could increasingly take care o f
       the newcomers, the public sector would have better chances to address the housing deficit
       ina sustained way. Thiswill take morethanone decade.

3.13    The Government has taken steps towardsthe implementation of the above vision and is
committed to signifxant policy changes. With the gradual stabilization o f the macro economy
and increase in economic growth (GDP growth o f approximately 5% i s expected in 2005), the
Government i s focusing attention on the core areas of institutional and regulatory reforms in the
land and finance sector that hinder the expansion o f housing production and the investment in
existing substandard housing. The core areas of reform include:


    0   Institutional Framework. Inthe context o f the Government's decision to make housing a
        national priority, efforts are being made to establish a coherent public sector structure
        able to formulate national housing and urban policy and to coordinate the various agents
        and authorities at the federal, state and local levels. The creation o f the Ministryo f Cities
        (MOC) in 2002 with full responsibility for sector policy represented an important first
        step. Further efforts are neededto:
             0  articulate the strategic direction for the housing sector;
                establish a coherent federal program to improve access to housing finance and
                rationalize housing subsidies;
                link federal housing policy and finances to other policy efforts at the local and
                 state level; and
                 significantly strengthen the Ministry of Cities' capacity and policy relevance.


    0   Finance. While the financial system and markets are in large part driven by
        macroeconomic conditions and public sector debt-related interest rate dynamics, it i s
        critical to pursue a short- and medium-term policy agenda to ensure that mortgage
        contracts are fulfilled, credit information i s generally accessible, and new credit
        instruments are created for the financing o f housing. The Government's policy agenda
        focuses on the strengthening o f a capital-markets based housing finance system, and a
        gradual transitioning away from the current directed credit systems and segmented
        markets. Simultaneous efforts are needed to encourage more banks and non-bank
        financial institutions to participate inthe housing finance market by:

             0    improving the legal and regulatory framework which govems the formal housing
                 finance market (both government and market-based segments);
             0  establishing a liquidsecondary market for tradable real-estate instruments;
             0  increasing access by lenders to existing special funds for housing finance and
                 subsidy programs and allowing lenders to price their products according to
                 competitive profit incentives; and
             0   ensuring that related markets, such as construction and land markets, operate
                competitively and are not constrained by cumbersome procedures or
                inappropriateregulations.


    0   Housing subsidypolicy to assist thepoor while improvingformal housing market output
        within the context of limited fiscal resources is the driving force behind the new
        government policy. A major challenge i s to improve targeting and transparency o f
        existing housing subsidies, adjusting subsidy instruments to medium and long-term


                                                   12

         macro-economic expectations, and to leverage investments by the financial system, sub-
         national governments and individual households.

    0    Land Supply Rigidities. The obstacles to formal land development accessible to the
         urban poor are a key driver o f the creation o f slums Cfavelas) and the vicious cycle o f
         marginalization o f Brazil's urban poor. Inhabitants o f informal / illegal settlements are
         often unable to access public services and have limited access to legal recourse. It has
         taken decades for Brazil to recognize that a policy environment which creates incentives
         for private sector housing development i s a key pillar o f both urban development and the
         overall poverty-reduction and growth agenda. The key challenges for Brazil are to
         address both the stock a dflow of informal developmentsthrough:

             0   a concerted effort to formalize existing slums and improve their access to basic
                 public services by developing a national slum upgrading strategy and a program
                 o f financing for urban upgrading; and
             0   reducing the regulatory complexity and excess, costs and time it takes to
                 subdivide and develop new land, and register titles.



                4. THEGOVERNMENT'S          HOUSING    SECTOR REFORMAGENDA

The GrowthAgenda andthe New Low-IncomeHousingPolicy

4.1      The disappointing track record o f the reforms o f the 1990s has its roots in both slow
capital accumulation and limited productivity growth. Not even inthe 1980swas the contribution
o f capital accumulation to growth as low as it was in the 1990s (Figure 1). Gross annual capital
formation decreased from 23.5 percent o f GDP inthe mid-seventies to less than 15 percent inthe
early nineties, bouncing back slightly to 17 percent in 2000. Emerging economies such as Chile
and China as well as OECD countries have sustained investment ratios much larger than Brazil
duringthe last fifteen years.


                       Figure 1: Growth Accountingfor Brazil, 1951-2000        l4



                        c   9
                            8
                        80 7
                        ' s 6
                        .-gg5                                       OTFP

                             4                                      HCapital

                        cg8 2l
                            3                                       0HumanCapital
                                                                      Employment


                        L   O
                            -1
                     i         1951-63 1964-80  1981-93  1994-00




4.2      Since 2003, the Government has established an agenda of microeconomic and
institutional reforms tofoster capital accumulation and productivity gains and therebyfavor


l4 DevelopmentNetworkGrowthProject,2001.
   Global

                                                 13

sustainable and equitablegrowth. Decline ininvestment levels ininfrastructure have been large.
Productivity performance has been relatively better but a poor "investment climate" i s still a
major obstacle to further productivity gains. The reforms were structured around four pillars: (a)
reducing logistics costs to raise productivity and ease trade; (b) improve the business environment
to enable better market functioning; (c) enhance financial efficiency and depth; and (d)
transforming knowledge into productivity through innovation. These were considered a sufficient
and politically feasible set o f reforms and still part of broader development strategy to
promote sustainable and equitable growth.

4.3      The new housing strategy is a deepening of the government's microeconomic agenda
of reforms. Increased mortgage credit, effective property rights, and removing obstacles to
commercial lending for housing are among the pillars o f a sound housing strategy. These match
the broader initiatives o f supporting private sector development, improving the business
environment, and increasing financial depth, which are ingredients o f the government's growth
agenda. Better and streamlined regulation for land use i s also an ingredient o f the larger task o f
improving infrastructure regulation and simplifyingbusiness entry and operation, other elements
o f this agenda. And the emphasis on targeted subsidies and auctioning i s part o f a broader effort
to increase the efficiency o f social expenditure. The new housing policy will thus galvanize the
government's microeconomic agenda, reduce social distress and improve fiscal management.

4.4      The Government is committed to a Low-Income Housing strategy aimed at improving
the living conditions o f the poor and strengthening their access to assets, notably housing and
servicedserviceable land, and to expand new housing construction in the formal housing market
while maintaining fiscal discipline. Specifically, the Government's agenda includes efforts to: (a)
develop a sound national policy and institutional framework for housing and urban development;
(b) strengthen the housing credit and savings systems, and provide incentives for the housing
finance market to expand as well as move "downmarket"; (c) reformthe existing federal housing
subsidy system to increasethe affordability o fhousingsolutions for the lower income groups, and
make subsidies more transparent and efficient; and (d) reduce the costs o f formal urban land
development by strengthening land legislation and regulations and real property registries and
rightsso as to increase the supply o f serviced and serviceable land.

4.5      Thefinal goal is to improve the wealth basis of thepoor and the living conditions of the
20% of thepopulation that lives in less-than-adequate housing conditions (40 to 50% in some
states) and would be an important element in the efforts to improve public health and
environmental conditions in which the urban poor 1 i ~ e . l ~The government program aims to
support the expansion o f the housing finance system and to facilitate the constructionof new low-
income housing. The approach builds on the country's comparative advantage in having active
private developer and construction markets and sophisticated financial systems which can be
called upon to play a role in the development o f the housing markets. It further benefits from
international lessons on housing sector interventions, including the need to address housing and
urbanpolicy reformina comprehensive manner, to address the linkages between (a) public sector
subsidy programs for the poor; (b) the financial sector and formal housing finance markets; and
(c) "real" side issues, including markets for land and the construction sector.

4.6      Housing Policy and Poverty. The Government has committed itself to the objective o f
reducing Brazil's rate o f extreme poverty by 50% by the year 2015. The strategy to achieve this
objective includes sustained economic growth based on financial stability, investments in the
poor through better education, health and other social services as well as improved access to
physical and financial capital, improved access and enhanced social protection including social


l5Includingthe achievementofMillenniumDevelopmentGoal(MDG)7.


                                                 14

assistance and conditional cash transfers linked to specific social targets. World Bank financed
projects support several elements o f this poverty reduction strategy. World Bank analysis shows
that the government poverty reduction strategy can be achieved through a combination o f 4.5%
annual growth, continued increases in educational outcomes and human capital and further
improvements in social policies. The prouosed reforms would have a bearing; on poverty
reduction bv: (a) increasing access of the poor to essential shelter services; (b) enhancing the
capacity to accumulate and improve housing assets, by expanding access to housing credit and
upfront subsidies for housing, Indirectly, access to improved shelter in poor communities has
been demonstrated to lead to improved self-image, higher returns for children's education and
increasing opportunities for better paidjobs.16

4.7        The reforms the Government i s undertaking will help increase the access to adequate
shelter indifferent ways, including:
               better targeted subsidies to the poor (formerly excluded from all the housing
               subsidized public lending);
                improved availability o f mortgage credit to low-income families -with the benefit o f
               teaching the financial market how to work with these type o f clients and therefore
               contributing to riskreduction;
               contributing to a more liquid and seamless housing finance market attracting a wider
               base o f resources for the low-income segment; and
                expansion o f the policy-making capacity o f government entities in terms o f land
               policy, regulationsand other supply bottlenecks.

4.8        While the program does not aim directly at promoting the housing or construction
industry, the envisaged policy actions -both on the demand and the supply side -would, within
the medium term, result in greater housing output, lower house prices, improved access to
jnance, and a general increase in local economic activity and employment in the sector (mostly
 inthe low-income sector). Particularly importantmeasures supported bythe loan include:

           (a) the simplification of the land and urbanization codes, property rights and land
               registration systems;
           (b) the improvement o f the capacity o f local governments to supervise their low-income
               housing activities, and support and organize demand for low-income housing;
           (c) the reduction o f credit costs due to improved credit information, lower costs of
               conflict resolution and transaction costs, improved legal instruments, and increased
               competition inthe sector; and



 l6 Access to adequate shelter or housing services can help predict subsequent improvement in both cash
 income o f the family as well as its well-being measured by health indicators, education performance
 (including dropout rates) and probability o f exiting extreme poverty (Geoffrey Payne, 2004). Inaddition to
 providing shelter, housing also plays a more standard role as an asset, as acquisition for the urban poor
 offers the opportunity for small incremental investments (World Bank, November 2004, Report No 30465,
 The UrbanPoor inLatinAmerica ). The returns to housing as an asset include the flow o f housing services
 itprovides some ofwhich canbemonetized incase ofneedbytaking innew tenants or extended household
 members who share inthe upkeepof the household. Inaddition, homeownership provides a constant flow
 o f services and frees the family from the constraint o f having to generate a fixed sum for rent every month.
 Giventhe large share o f the poor employed inthe informal markets, the poor will prefer to own their own
 shelter and avoid commitment to a fixed and regular payment as a housing rent. This can be important
 especially at time o f crisis: in Uruguay, 10% o f renters declared they had to move following the crisis in
 order to cut down on cash payments. Evidence from surveys on risk management in Chile and Peru finds
 that investment in housing acts as a substitute for formal retirement svstems. Home ownership in L A C
 tends to be higher than in other parts o f the world and some authors tend to believe that this is a way to
 cope with uncertainty and the negative consequenceso f financial crisis and macroeconomic disasters.

                                                       15

         (d) the introductiodexpansion o f self-help efforts and beneficiary equity inthe subsidy
               schemes, the improved targeting and transparency o f existing subsidies both to
               lenders and households.

4.9       The Government'sProgram. The Government has embarked on an ambitious programto
reform the housing sector and improve access o f Brazil's poor to affordable housing and services.
The Bank would support the Government's program infour areas of housing sector and urban
developmentpolicy reform. The Matrix o f Policy Reforms (Annex 2) reflects the four focal areas
o f reforms to be supported by the proposed operation.


PolicyArea #1:Strengtheningthe HousingPolicyandGovernmentInstitutional
Framework

BackgroundandIssues

4.10     The Government has made considerable progress in the development o f sector
institutions to formulate and implement a National Housing Policy." Until the creation o f the
Ministry of Cities in 2002, the housing system inBrazil was driven by a set of federal entities,
state and local governments without a clear articulation o f policies or a plan to address the
housing and urban development problems o f the country. In the past, Government programs
supported a perverse incentive system that favored federal investments and implicit subsidies to
the upper levels o f the income distribution, increasing discrepancies in an already inequitable
housing system. Conflicting policies between public and market housing finance systems,
compounded by unfavorable macro conditions, also prevented a competitive housing finance
system from developing. Transforming the sector and making housing a national priority requires
a governmental structure able to formulate and implement a national housing policy, coordinate
the efforts o f the myriad o f actors that play a role in the sector and provide a credible plan o f
action for the sector, based on rigorous analysis o f existing constraints and alternative scenarios
for their solution.

RecentAchievementsand FutureChallenges

4.11     T o date, the Government has made significant progress in strengtheninghousingpolicy
institutions.Some of the key actions achieved to date include:


    0   The preparation and dissemination o f the National Housing Policy document. The
        Ministryo f Cities has undertaken broad consultations for the development of a National
        Housing Policy document whose broad dissemination has been completed. The National
        Housing Policy will be complemented by a National Housing Plan under preparation,
        which will articulate the targets, priorities, and sector investments for the coming four
        years. The NHP provides guidelines for the implementation o f new land and housing
        finance regulations, the design and targeting of subsidy programs and related housing
        developments, instruments to leverage private investment in the housing sector, and
        coordination o f investments by different levels o f government.




"Asinmanyothercountries, theNationalHousingPolicydocumentisaproductofcompromisebetween
different parties and viewpoints on how to improve the access of shelter to the poor. The ultimate housing
policy implementation will depend on actual legislative actions and budget allocations and will be
embodiedina multi-year HousingNational Plan.

                                                   16

        The strenrrthening o f the Ministry o f Cities to establish the necessary institutional
        framework for housing sector development and to build the core capacity o f the Ministry
        to become a credible force in sector policy making. The ministerial reform efforts have
        included the creation o f a National Housing Secretariat (SNH) as the federal entity
        responsible for development, execution and monitoring o f housing sector policy and
        programmatic actions. S N H will include a technical unit that will design the housing plan
        and conduct associated monitoring and evaluation o f the plan. Further strengthening o f
        MOC will include the creation o f a unitto conduct policy analysis and the coordination o f
        monitoring and evaluation o f programs, and the general improvement and expansion o f
        systematic information collection and analysis on the sector. SNH will foster sector
        analytical work in collaboration with existing research institutes such as PEA, IBGE as
        well as the Secretariat o f Economic Policy in the Ministry o f Finance and the Central
        Bank.

   0    The creation o f a coordinating proup, the Interministerial Housing Policy Group (IHPG),
        to facilitate implementation o f the common agenda on housing across Government
        institutions. The existing Council o f Cities was created to facilitate the broad participation
        o f private sector and civil society in the formulation o f urban development policy.
        However, the actual implementation and monitoring o f regulations, legal provisions and
        housing programs calls for a coordinating institution involving the Ministry o f Cities,
        Casu Civil, Ministry o f Finance, and the Central Bank. The MPG would supervise the
        work to rationalize atomized subsidy design and coordinate monitoring activities which
        are currently scattered between the Central Bank, Ministry o f Finance, Ministry o f Cities,
        CEF, and the Board of Directors o f the FGTS18, oversee the targeting and monitoring o f
        programs as well as the design o f a subsidy prioritization and verification system which
        goes beyond the current approach o f self-declaration o f income. The critical importance o f
        the IHPG's tasks requires that a core group o f experts be appointed to conduct the needed
        analysis and propose adjustments to subsidy programs.

4.12     The Government is committedto consolidatingfinancial resourcesfor Federal housing
programs so as to increase their impact and homogenize their allocation criteria. Recent
achievements include:

    0    The design o f a National Social Interest Housing Fund (FNHIS) to coordinate transfers,
         subsidies and funding structures for housing. Federal Government resources to finance
         the NHP are dispersed across a wide range o f public sector entities (including the
         National Treasury, line ministries, FGTS, CEF, and the FAT). By the end o f 2004, the
         Government has articulated a legislation proposal to establish the FNHIS. The FNHIS
         Draft law has passed in the lower house and i s expected to be approved by Congress
         during 2005. As the FNHIS is formally operationalized, some challenges need to be
         addressed, such as (a) inclusion o f the different federal subsidies in the Fund; (b)
         adoption o f adequate management and supervision structures for the FNHIS; (c)
         resolution o f the potential conflict o f interest arising from the fact that FNHIS'
         administration should be independent from the use o f its funds; (d) definition o f
         mechanisms to ensure wide access to the Fund's resources; (e) the establishment o f



l8For example, an evaluation o f the relatively new programs such as PAR and PSH is urgently needed.
PAR, a large program of residential leasing finance funded by FGTS and operated by the CEF has
encountered severe repayment problems, and unfavorable judiciary decisions (tenants being considered as
owners proved difficult to evict). It needs to be evaluated o n its credit repayment performance, proposed
credit features including applied credit rates, the participation o f local governments, and the behavior o f the
beneficiaries as tenants andor fiture owners.

                                                       17

         adequate criteria if access o f sub-national entities to FNHIS i s to be granted; and (f) the
        needto codify subsidy mechanisms and subsidy calculations usedby the FNHIS.

    0   Efforts to ensure the transparency o f all off-budget housing subsidies. As most o f the
        current housing subsidies are implicit (and their costs not immediately apparent), and not
         efficiently attuned to the changing macroeconomic conditions, the Government has
         committed to move towards subsidy transparency and towards instruments that move the
         subsidy towards the early phases o fthe lendingprocess (more appropriate inhighinterest
        rate environments); recent changes to the FGTS subsidy programs regarding transparency
         o f subsidy amounts and the conversion o f all direct subsidies into upfront subsidies are an
         important achievement.

4.13     The Government has also taken steps to strengthen subnational entities to implement
housingpolicy. The role o f local governments has become increasingly important as a result o f
the Government's policy reforms. Municipal governments and some state entities are responsible
for (a) the allocation o f low-income housing subsidies, including the identification o f
beneficiaries; (b) the organization o f subsidy demand; (c) provision o f serviced land; (d)
implementation and enforcement o f cost recovery on local government investments in land and
infrastructure; (e) regularizing and upgrading the existing stock o f informal settlements; and (f)
providing the regulatory framework and oversight for land subdivision and zoning and promoting
land delivery for the poor. For the many, particularly medium-sized, municipalities that currently
experience severe development pressures but have weak technical capacities, this i s a formidable
task The Ministry o f Cities has begun a municipal assistance program (to assist 2000
municipalities in 2005) and further scaling-up and targeting o f this program will take place in
2006. The Ministry has further implemented measures to map and assess the capacity o f the sub-
national agencies involved with housing planning and policy including housing cooperatives
which cater to low-income groups and coordinate efforts with local governments. The major
challenge is the need to expand its program o f capacity building o f sub-national entities,
including through the development o f tool kits for local housing planning by enabling local
governments to play an active role inthe implementation o f the National Housing Plan.

4.14    Anticipated Results: In the medium to long term, one would expect to have in place a
solid institutional framework including greater institutional articulation o f the specific
competencies o f individual agencies (MoC, STN, BACEN) reinforcing their common goal and
reference. A 10 year plan i s expected to be agreed upon and used as reference for the multi-year
investment plans and annual budgets and the expected outcomes and results would be advertised
and used to monitor the implementation o f the program and its success. Ample consultation with
private sector, NGOs and demand groups would be institutionalized and will help monitor the
program and the promisedresults.

Policy Area #2: Reforms to Increase the Stability and Scale of the Housing Finance
Market

Background and Issues

4.15     Since the mid-90s, Brazilian authorities have attempted to restructure the country's
housing finance sector and have embarked on the gradual transition from a system o f directed
credit in a highly segmented market towards an integrated and capital market-driven housing
finance system, with an increased role o f private universal banks in the immediate-term and a
functioning secondary mortgage market in the medium-term (the market-based system i s known
as the Sistema Financeiro Imobilicirio or SFI). While major progress has been made in the
improvement o f the regulatory and legal frameworks for the primary and secondary housing
finance market, there are still serious constraints preventing; private banks from entering; the

                                                  18

                                                                                   ket for ~ n s ~ m e ntot s
                                                                                        t (and for the use
                                                                                        ~nanceloans are
                                                                                       uft because of a
                                                                    lack of credit ~ n f o ~ ~ thampers
                                                                                                   i o n
                                                                    effectively price d ~ f f ~ e n t ~ a ~ ~ y
                                                                                                       for
                                                                                the ~ n a n 6 i amarkets to
                                                                                                 ~


are considered only ~ a r g ~attractive~given the high credit and interest rate risks and the high
                                      ~ a ~      y
a d m ~ n ~ s ~ acostvof ~ ~ n t a i n i SBPE savings accomts.
                 t ~ e                   n g




                                                                     m a r ~risks. The ~ o ~ e ~ mise n t
                                                                                ~ t
                                                                     of FGTS resources by a broader
                                                                       for the lack o f interest in FGTS
lending at this point intime stems from the highreal ~ o ~ einterest~rates and the
                                                                           ~       g ~ t




and m~ddle-~ncomegroups. In~reasedsupport to ~ o n - ~ a d ~ t ~agents~(e.g. micro-credit or
                                                                             o n a
coo~eratives~   under ~ p p ~ o p ~rggu~ationneeds to beconsidered.
                                       i a t ~




                                                                                          financial actors.
In many Latin ~ m ~ ~c~untr~es,~ncludingBrazil, the deve~opmentof ~ar~et-basedhousing
                               ~ c a n
finance did not hap~en    untilthe 1980~~     a conse~ugn6eo f ~ i ~ e s p r e~ da c ~ ~ e 6 ~onns t~a~b ~ ~6i ~ ,
                                                                              a
                         s t a t e - ~ o ~ ~ ~often,closed circuit systems, offering b e ~ o w - ~ a rratet
                                              t e d                                                     ~ e


          ,--
          i        x                                                                             I



          I                                                                                      II

4.19     Mediumtermvision:In anticipation of a gradual normalization of the SELICrate, it is
critical to address the regulatory, legal and institutional issues which hurt the profitability o f the
housing finance sector and which will have a more binding effect on the intermediation spreads
when the SELIC rate decreases.l9 Such legal and institutional improvements will, moreover,
increase the efficiency o f lending in the directed credit (SBPE) and closed circuit (FGTSBAT)
systems on which the housing sector relies in the short and medium term. When interest rates
normalize and converge and the secondary market for mortgage is fully consolidated, the
directed credit system such as SBPE may gradually be phased out. The FGTS system, which
serves a lower income bracket (see Annex 7), will still be needed for the time being as a main
source o f housing finance funding, especially while alternative subsidies (such as new PSH
upfront subsidy program) cannot be sufficiently funded to allow a larger proportion o f lower
income households access to housing finance with an upfront subsidy. In the medium term,
FGTS may focus increasingly on its role as a provident fund rather than as the supplier o f deeply
subsidized credit.    FGTS is gradually moving to a more transparent and efJicient way of
providing subsidies. The proposed loan supports policy and micro institutional reforms in the
housinglending sector and the fundingmarkets, while facilitating reforms inthe SBPE and FGTS
systems to promote the development o f a more integrated housing finance system.

RecentAchievementsandFutureChallenges

4.20      The Government is committed to a comprehensive reform agenda for the housing
finance sector anticipating its take-off when macro-economic improvements are sustained. Its
strategy includes four key areas:
          0   improvements in the legal and regulatory environment that will focus on the
              reduction o f credit risks while strengthening capital market fundingsystems;
          0   expansion o f alternative lenders for non-collateralized housinglending;
              reforms to the SBPE; and
              increased transparency, efficiency, and improved targeting o f FGTS.

4.21      The Government is addressing the legal uncertainty related to housing credit. The
improvement o f credit contract enforcement i s among the highest priorities for the healthy
expansion o f the housing finance sector. Efforts undertaken to date include the adoption o f Law
 10.93 1 o f 200420to improve the legal framework for housing finance through (a) the creation o f
the alienaqEo fiduciuria (the trust deed instrument) as a potentially stronger mechanism for
collateralization than the mortgage lien; (b) the regulation o f patrimonio de afetaqEo (affected
assets") to segregate the advance payments made by households during the construction against
the possible bankruptcy o f a developer; and (c) regulations requiring that borrowers continue
credit repayments even when the amount o f debt balance remains disputed in court. A study i s
currently underway to review options for improving the legal environment for lending by
clarifying the rights and obligations o f consumers o f credit and financial agents.


4.22     I n the future, additional measures are needed to further reduce uncertainty and the
cost o f conflict resolution in housing finance by: (a) increasing the awareness o f the importance
o f execution o f credit contracts among the members o f the judiciary, congressional committees.
NGOs and community organizations through workshops and seminars; (b) presenting proposals


l9 See Augusto de la Tone, mimeo February 2004, for a lucid explanation for the reasons of the high
SELICrate andthe requirementsfor its downwardadjustment.


2o The Lawconfirmed prior MPs, 2122 and2123.


                                                    20

to introduce housing finance specific consumer protection regulation; (c) solving the legal
ambiguity on the issue o f capitalization o f interest rates; (d) legal measures to expand the use o f
payroll deduction for housing loans (Ministry o f Finance); and (e) standardization o f the
mortgage instrument (undertaken by ABECIP).

4.23     To improve credit information the Ministry of Finance and BACEN have committed to
(a) introduce a cadastre o f positive credit information which will include mortgage credit
information, and (b) provide aggregate managerial information on housing lending to be
consolidated and made available to the public. With these elements, the Government would be
able to assess the uotential for urivate credit insurance. When these combined measures to
alleviate credit risk and improve sector information are implemented, it will be possible to
strengthen the management o f credit riskby introducing private housing credit insurance.

4.24     Measures have been taken to strengthen the capital market basisfor housingfinance as
part of the official strategy to move away from a directed credit approach to a market-based
approach. The first step has been the creation o f the legal framework for real estate finance
securitization.21 The Government has institutedlegal reforms to allow lenders to securitize their
real estate loans, facilitate the creation o f private securitization companies and establish the legal
framework for capital market instruments for mortgage derivatives. Law 10.93 1 o f 2004 further
legalized products such as mortgage bondsz2and simplified the taxation o f real-estate finance
assets. A resolution o f the CMN (Resolution 3.155) created trust-letters for the repurchase o f such
mortgage bonds,23which should increase the liquidityo f these instruments and the security o f the
credit holders.

4.25      To increase the attractiveness of real estate finance securities the Government has
passed laws (Law 11.053/04 and 11.033/04) which provide tax incentives for the purchasers o f
real estate securities and reduce the minimumamount o f an individual mortgage-backed-security.
The equity and effectiveness o f the tax measures are, however, not evident especially in the
medium term and the Government will undertake an assessment o f current measures to stimulate
a secondary housing finance market and a revision o f those measures that prove to be ineffective
and inequitable. Such efforts are expected to lead to the adoption o f new measures, possibly
including a consideration for special incentives for securities based on down-market social
housing loans.

4.26     A second avenue is to strengthen the role of alternative lendersfor non-collateralized
lending. At present there i s very little information on non-official housing lending. Estimates
indicate that about 15% o f the housing loans are generated from cooperatives and consortia but
there are no firm data. The weakness o f the current non-bank alternative lenders engaged in the
housing finance sector and the lack o f information and regular monitoring o f the sector i s an area
o f growing concern. A large part o f the potential housing finance market i s underserved because
long-term credit instruments and the institutions that operate in the long-term housing finance
market are not geared to serve that market (for example the growing number o f low-income


21 Securitization will contribute to the expansion of the housing finance market as it will allow for the
negotiation o fpart o f the housing portfolio.

22 Certificados de Recebiveis Imobilihrios (CRIs), Certificados de Credito Imbiliarios (CCIs) and Letras de
Credito Imobilhrio (LCIs), respectively. CCIs are instrument issued at the moment o f a housing loan is
granted and represents the ownership o f the credit derivedfrom that operation. LCIs are securities that can
only be issued by financial institutions and their collateral are made of housing credits guaranteed by
mortgages or by a trust deed heldb the issuer o f the LCI.

23 Letter of Guarantee for the Re-purchase of CRIs.


                                                      21

informally employed would have difficulties qualifying for medium and long-term loans).
Alternative lenders, specializing inmore appropriate savings and credit products could potentially
fill that gap, as long as efforts to expand their presence in the market are accompanied by
institutional strengthening and clear criteria for eligibility. As a first but important step, the
Government has included the issue o f information collection on alternative housing finance
agents in the existing working group on micro-credit (established by the Ministry o f Finance,
BACEN, Casa Civil, and Ministry o f Labor). Within the program, BACEN will improve the
regulatory and monitoring system o f micro-lenders and cooperatives involved in housing credit
based on technical work that will support a diagnosis o f the performance o f the sector and the
development o f a proposal to improve their operation and expansion in the housing finance
market (including refinancing options (alternative lenders do not and should not have access to
SBPE savings), loan pricing mechanisms, alternative forms o f collateral, costs o f instruction o f
customers). It will further support training for alternative lenders.

4.27     The Government has initiated the reform of SBPEZ4to expand its scope, move SBPE
downmarket, with a view of achieving further market integration.              Government has made
several changes in the SBPE regulations meant to increase the use o f SBPE savings for housing
finance loans. Inthe past, lenders could avoid investing the required proportion o f SBPE savings
in actual housing loans by investing in paper related to the former housing institutions which
were eliminated in the early 1990s. The Government has closed that loophole and moved to
significantly expand the pool o f SBPE housing loans and transition it downmarket. Resolution
3005 o f the National Monetary Council pushed private banks to significantly increase their
portfolios o f SBPE-funded housing loans over a period o f 100 months beginning in June 2003.
Resolution 3177 o f the NMC doubled the speed o f this process and set severe penalties for non-
compliance. Since such a measure would increase SPBE lending about threefold in one year, it
was questionable whether sufficient demand for and supply o f housing could be mustered in the
market place and whether banks could make such transition. As a consequence, Resolution 3.259
revised some o f the conditions o f the earlier resolution to bringthem in line with the capacity o f
the market, assuming an approximate increase o f 30 percent per year in the aggregate SBPE
housing credit portfolio. It further introduced a weighting system that favors smaller loans made
to lower-income households (300 percent for the lowest income/value bracket) and introduced
severe penalties for non-compliance.

4.28     Reviewing the SBPE. While the measures taken so far will increase SBPE funded
housing finance loans inthe coming years, the larger issues related to its relevance and equity as a
subsidized housing finance system have not yet been addressed. SBPE i s considered a regressive
subsidy since it funds mostly higher income loans and the tax exemptions on savings benefit
mostly the large, high income account holders rather than the many small savers in the system.
Further, the current SBPE system needs frequent changes of its regulations that can be
destabilizing. The regulatory pressure to make qualifying housing loans and hold them on the
balance sheet to comply with SBPE regulations constrain the possibilities for commercial banks
to securitize their eligible housing loan portfolio, although the use o f such modem financial tools
could assist them to improve their funding and risk management policy, as well as provide them
with some capital relief.,The major challenge (around which there seems to be a consensus) is
the need to review the SBPE system and assess the impact of its potential phasing out in the
medium term as conditions enable such a transition and housing finance becomes an attractive
alternative for commercial lending.




24 Earlier measures to normalize the government housing finance system included ending the FCVS
insurance scheme in 1993 and the gradual liquidation o f the FCVS-insured portfolio. It also re-capitalized
Caixa Econ6mica Federal in2001 which improvedits performance.

                                                  22

4.29    The Government i s undertaking a number o f studies to address these broader issues and
prepare for the medium term transition, notably: (a) diagnosis and identification o f measures to
decrease, in the short term, the gap between the income groups served by SBPE and FGTS
systems in order to allow access to finance by all lowedmiddle income groups; (b) studies to
determine the effects o f a possible phasing out o f the SBPE systems and proposals for different
scenarios to implement such deregulation; and (c) proposals for the introduction o f alternative
modalities to increase saving for housing.

4.30    Improve the Targeting and Transparency of FGTS Interest- Rate Subsidies, and
Extend Access to FGTS Funds. A politically sensitive issue in the sector i s the need to focus
FGTS-linked lending towards lower-income households, improve the transparency o f its
subsidies, and broaden restricted access to FGTS funding for below-market interest lending to a
greater number of financial institutions (currently CEF i s the principal user o f FGTS funds for
housing finance). To date, important actions have been taken, including: (a) increased targeting o f
FGTS funds towards the poor, rationalizing the use o f FGTS savings and focusing these below-
market rate resources on the "bankable" poor. These initial reforms include the issuance o f
Resolution460 o fthe Board o f directors o f FGTS which provides a 4-year transition for all FGTS
funds to be used for the benefit o fhouseholds below 10 MW and efforts to significantly increase
inthe focusing of2005 FGTS funds available for housingloans to households below 6 MW; and
(b) enhanced transparency o f FGTS subsidies by both allowing an upfront calculation o f the cost
and risk to lenders o f the implicit FGTS interest rate subsidies and issuing upfront subsidies to be
used inaddition to the interest rate subsidies .

4.3 1    Further actions are needed to expand access to FGTSfunds. Inthe short- and medium-
term, the Government will need to address (a) CEF's defacto position as the sole user o f FGTS
funds for lending and the related concentration o f housing credit risk with Government, and the
apparent discomfort o f financial institutions in accessing FGTS funds through CEF and (b)
reducing the gap between the FGTS and SBPE interest rates to improve access to credit by most
moderate income households (see under SBPE). A strategic study o f FGTS, funded under the
TAL, will develop scenarios to improve its efficiency, transparency, pricingand accesspolicy.

4.32     I n the longer term, when housing finance markets improve and current deep subsidies
may no longer be necessary or only for a smaller proportion o f the population, FGTS may review
its roles as aprovidentfund for its members and as a provider o f most o f the national fundingfor
urban development at below-market conditions.

4.33     Anticipated Results. Improved certainty and transparency in measuring and pricing o f
credit risk will expand the size o f the housing finance market even if market rates do not come
down immediately. With lower interest rates and continuing increase in general consumer
purchasing power, we would expect a rapid expansion o f the housing finance market.              The
sustained decline in interest rates i s a pre-condition to make SBPE obsolete and will allow its
further integration into market finance (to be studied in the next 10 months as a condition o f the
second DPL). It i s expected that FGTS will remain in the intermediate term the main source o f
interest rate subsidies until the public finance situation will allow for a gradual transition fkom
off-budget indirect taxation as a source o f subsidies to on-budget subsidies. The strategic study
on FGTS will provide guidance to the process o f its gradual transformation.




                                                 23

PolicyArea #3: Improving the Effectiveness of FederalHousingSubsidies

Background and Issues

4.34     Housing subsidies in Brazil have traditionally been embedded in below-market interest
rates inherent in the FGTS system and to a lesser degreeby the SBPE system (see above). The
Government i s aware o f the inefficiencies, allocative distortions and inequitiesproducedby these
systems - especially since the savers are rarely those who benefit from the subsidized interest rate
loans. The Government has initiated improvements in the current systems. Inparticular FGTS
has moved to greater transparency o f its subsidy system, both subsidies to lenders and borrowers,
and has improved its targeting to lower-income borrowers.

4.35     Subsidies are still needed. Highinterest rates and highhouse prices relative to incomes
caused by constraints inthe land market and inappropriate regulations make housing inthe formal
sector unaffordable for three-quarters o f newly formed households that come into the urban
housing market each year. While the priority i s to address the constraints in the financial and
land sectors, subsidies are needed inthe medium term to (a) support households to acquire formal
sector housing and curb the expansion of informal settlements, and (b) upgrade existing informal
housing. However, subsidies need to be designed to leverage household contributions, private
sector participation, and improvements inlandregulations by municipalities. (See Annex 6).

4.36     Housing affordability is a major issue in Brazil, directly associated with low income
levels relative to the price o f formal housing and limited access to and the highprice o f housing
finance. Regulatory inefficiencies in the land market and the high transaction costs related to
acquiring permits to assemble, subdivide and develop land, and inefficient land registry systems
prevent profitable low-income housing development by developers. The lowest-cost developer
produced house (approximately 3Smz to 40m2) on the outskirts o f metropolitan areas, sells for
R$35,000 to R$40,00025. However, at current income levels (the median urban household income
at the end o f 2004 i s estimated at R$1000)26) a market produced house can only be afforded by
the top 25 percent of the income distribution without subsidies, and even with deep interest rate
subsidies under the FGTS program this figure only comes down to the SO" percentile27(see Table
5). Regular production of such lower- and middle-income housing i s further hampered by limited
and uneven availability o f subsidized mortgage finance in the public housing finance system.
Most households, therefore, have to self-finance their homes from income and savings, which
lowers the quality o f the house that can be acquired.




25 Othernew constructionfigures for special subsidy programsshow pricesas low as R$22,400 for apartmentsof 20m2
(PAR) andPSHsupportedhouses of $28,000 to R$10,000, dependingonthe region.

26We compared household income data for all households in the six large cities, using minimum wage and
consumptioninformation.The results show consistentdata.

27 Current mortgageinterest rates range from TR + 6 - 10.16% for FGTS loans, TR +12%  for SBPE, comparedto and
nominal rates of between 18% to 20 % in the free market. See Bank analytical work on the subject: "Keeping the
ReformMomentum, June 2002; Low IncomeProgressiveHousing," December2002.

                                                       24

              Table 5: Affordable Housing Scenarios for Household Expenditure Deciles

                                                Jrban HI ieholds, 21 4
Decile                      10%       20%        30%           40%       50%        60%       70%     80%         90%
Type of Subsidy             PSH        PSH        PSH         FGTS       FGTS       FGTS     FGTS     SBPE       Market
                           Parcel.   Financ.     Financ.      loans      loans       loan     loan     loan       Loan

Monthly Incomebased          410       595        675          885       1,020      1,110     1,435    1700       2,350
on Expenditures inR$s


Borrowing Capacity           10%       20%        20%          255        25%        25%      25%      20%         20%
Monthly payt. Capacity       41        119         135         201        255        278       359     340         470

Term                          2         6         620           20        20          20       20       15          15
Interestratenominal         25%        8%          8%          8%         11%        11%      13%      15%         20%
Affordable loan =
affordablehousewith          768      6,787      7,700       24,060      24,705     26,885   30,621   24.899'     26,761
loanalone
Savingddownpayment           10%       19%        10%          30%        30%        30%      30%      40%         40%

Afford with down
payment                      854      7,541      8,555        34,372     35,293     38,407    43,745  41,499      44,601
Upfront subsidy            10,000     4,700      4,700         5,000
Afford with down
payment andupfront         10,854     12,241     13,255       39,372
subsidy
Basedondata from 19961 PPV Survey
Note: Assumingthat about 1 million new urbanhouseholdswill form everyyear, at least 100,000 new housingunitswill have
to beproducedin eachdecile group(not taking into accountbacklogfigures).



     4.37     Brazilian poor - consistent with intemational experience - often find a way to protect
     themselves against weather inclemency and to create a minimumof privacy. In fact, the annual
     production o f housing units i s estimated at roughly keeping up with household formation.28
     However, only an estimated 20% of this new construction i s authorized (World Bank 2004). The
     bulk of other housing units are built without being incompliance with the planning and building
     regulations and result in informal settlements and slums - e.g.favelas, invaszes, and improvised
     housing. Estimates o f the current stock of unauthorized housing range from 32 % inRecife to 14
     % inRio de Janeiro and 9.4 % inSao Pau10.~' These unitsdo not have a minimuminfrastructure,
     are easy victims of violence and crime, and often face discrimination in the labor market. The
     total housing deficit i s estimated at about 7 million units, consisting o f substandardhousing, units
     that are overcrowded, and units that are excessively expensive relative to the income of
     occupying households.

     4.38     Solving the problem of access of the poor to formal shelter would call for both a
     boost in the purchasing power of households in the below medium income bracket through
     improved access to housing finance and well-targeted household subsidies and measures to
     reduce the cost of housing units through a reduction in the cost of land supply - improving land
     policies, zoning regulations, and property rights and registry systems. Such an approach would
     further require efforts to address the backlog of deficient housing stock through support for the
     upgrading of neighborhoods with large proportions o f substandard unauthorized houses and
     addressing issues of environmentalrisk.


     28 Znstituto Cidudunia, 2000. This observation i s consistent with backlog figures for 2000 showing relatively less
     overcrowding.
     29 IPEADIRUR

                                                             25

RecentAchievementsandFutureChallenges

4.39     Brazil's housing subsidy policy has undergone important changes, with a clear shijit
from implicit interest subsidies to transparent upfront subsidies and improved targeting to
underserved and poor households and increased budget allocations for Federal housing subsidies.
In2001/2002,theGovernment launchedan innovative uufront subsidyprogram (PSH,Programa
de Subsidios ri Habitapio). The PSHfinanciamento programcombines an upfront down-payment
subsidy to households with an upfront subsidy to lenders to compensate them for the extra risks
and costs in lending to lower-income households. In 2004, PSH added a special program
component for households who cannot access credit and would qualify for a non-finance-linked
upfront subsidy, called parcelamento, which, when combined with municipal land resources,
provides for a simple home. PSH funds come from the Federal budget and are auctioned to
financial institutions or other intermediaries.

4.40     FGTS has also established a new upfront subsidyprogram for households below 6
minimumwages (Resolution 460). The program of subsidies ($R1.2 billion in 2005) is funded
through a partial allocation of the recent exceptionally large FGTS financial revenues (a result of
highmarket returns from its large portfolio ofGovernment ~ecurities).~'In2001/2002, FGTShad
already movedto compensate lenders -inan upfront and transparent way -for the extra risks and
costs related to low-income loans made from FGTS funds. These new upfront subsidy programs
are considerably more efficient than the interest rate subsidies that have been imbedded in
Brazil's housing efforts for thirty years. The combination of FGTS and PSH upfront subsidy
programs offers the Government a great opportunity to move to a comprehensive Federal subsidy
programthat addresses different sections o f the housingmarket.

4.41      Targeting of both FGTS and PSHprograms has been improved. PSH i s targeted to
households with incomes below 3MW. FGTS has increased its credit allocation to households
below 6 MW and aims to further concentrate the totality of its loans to households below 10 MW
by 2008. FGTS new program of upfront subsidy is reserved only for households with incomes of
6 MW and below. Targeting across regions has improved for PSH inrelation to housing deficit
figures for each region and the new FGTS upfront subsidy program will use a similar regional
targeting approach.

4.42     Resources for housing subsidies and subsidized housing finance have sharply
increased inthe last two years, beingnow at R$1.5 billion.           m,thenew         FGTS upfront subsidy
program financed out of extraordinary profits i s planned for the next three years, adding R$1.2
billion per year in upfront subsidies. FGTS has also expanded its subsidized housing credit
program to R$6 billion for 2005 offering credits at subsidized interest rates of TR+6+2.16.
Second, budgetedfunds to PSH are expected to increase from R$350 million to R$500 million for
the next few years. Finally, local government subsidy contributions leveraged by the PSH
program appear to have increased as well.31On the other hand, the housing leasing program


30This equity assistance is reserved for households pre-qualified for an FGTS loan and with monthly
incomes between 3 to 6 MW. The subsidy amount i s determined by a formula that estimates a household's
loan repayment capacity and different down-payment requirements (varying from 5% to 15%). While the
maximum house price for the FGTS program in general remains R$72,000, the program applies several
discount rates on this value for the different regions o f the country to calculate the needed subsidy amount
for different income brackets. Subsidies are progressive: the higher the income, the lower the subsidy,
Because o f the house-prices adopted by the program, subsidies are high (a maximum o f R$ 14,000 in Sao
Paulo and Rio, R$ 10,000 inlarge cities, and R$7000 insmaller ones).

31 There are no comprehensive data for local government housing subsidies or for local contributions to
federal programs.

                                                     26

(PAR), funded from the FGTS, has decreased its spending this year because of reported poor
performance.

4.43      The Government has committed to firther improve the housing subsidy policy and
individual programs in the short- and medium-term through: (a) the consolidation and
rationalization of different Federal housing subsidies; (b) improved targeting, monitoring and
evaluation o f subsidy programs; (c) further consolidation of PSH; and (d) continued
improvements inFGTS' upfront subsidy.

4.44      Consolidation and Rationalization of Federal Housing Subsidies. Under the current
design, the subsidy amounts across different programs differ    considerably, even for the same
income groups. Differences are particularly large when the upfront subsidies are added to the
interest subsidies on the loan component. Subsidies, to a great extent, have not been designedto
maximize household contributions through loans or savings. Infact, the current designs stimulate
underreporting of income to gain the highest subsidy. In addition, the maximum house prices
financed under each program differ considerably, and these differences are not only inequitable
but cause widespread misstatement of incomes, a low valuation of house by beneficiaries, and
housing abandonment. On the side of lenders, such discrepancies will favor programs with the
deepest subsidies (e.g. FGTS upfront subsidies linkedto a subsidized FGTS loan). Finance-linked
subsidies offeredby the PSH'sfinanciamento are, however, muchneeded for households at the 2
to 3 M W level. The Government's actions to harmonize subsidies include:

0    Rationalization of subsidy uromams. In addition to the actions already undertaken, the
     Government i s analyzing how the various subsidy programs ought to be rationalized and
     better coordinated. Within 18 months, the Government expects to have publisheda plan for
     the harmonization of those subsidy programs to address, inter alia: income targeting, upfront
     subsidy amounts, required household contribution, loan amount, and maximum house price
     for comparable income and need groups. Such a plan would include the harmonization of the
     allocation procedures across subsidy programs as well; for example, both FGTS and PSH
     subsidy programs coulduse an auction system for lenders to access subsidyresources.

0    Improving the criteria and procedures for household access to subsidy funds; the rules of
     access to subsidies based on clear criteria using available databases and rigorous ex-post
     monitoring including income verification, all beneficiaries of credit-linked subsidies will be
     checked against existing credit performance information, savings or other f o r k o f owner
     investment will be required to strengthen owners' equity in the house and encourage loan-
     repayments where possible (except in special circumstances when such contribution i s not
     possible).

4.45      Monitoring and Evaluation System. Currently, no systematic monitoring and evaluation
i s conducted on the subsidy programs, apart from some internal auditing by CEF and PSH. One
of the highest priorities i s to put in place a comprehensive monitoring, auditing and evaluation
system that will include all subsidy programs and assess the effectiveness, unexpected side-
effects on households, housing markets, lenders, the efficiency and appropriateness of
procedures, etcetera. Such a system will allow the regular adjustment and fine-tuning o f subsidy
programs, The Government's efforts inthis regardinclude:

0    The implementation of a Monitorinp and Evaluation System. The M&E component has an
     important position inthe government program. Preparation of a framework for the monitoring
     and evaluation of government housing programs, with a particular focus on the subsidy
     component, but also addressing the impact and actions of housing and urban development
     initiatives at the local level.


                                                 27

0   An evaluation o f the PAR and PSH subsidv DrogTams. PAR, a large program o f residential
     leasing finance operatedby the CEF appears to have encountered severe repayment problems,
     and unfavorable judiciary decisions (tenants being considered as owners proved difficult to
     evict). There i s a need to evaluate these programs on its credit repayment performance,
    proposed credit features including applied credit rates, the participation o f local governments,
     and the behavior of the beneficiaries as tenants and/or future owners. Such evaluation will
     feed the necessary adjustment o f the programs. Similarly, past implementations o f PSH
     subsidy allocations through different financial institutions need to be carefully assessed to
     assist in improving the selection procedures o f financial institutions and local governments,
     and adjusting design features o f the program.

4.46     Improve the budget financed, upfront housing subsidy program (PSH). PSH, as the
first upfront housing subsidy program in Brazil, was established in 2001 using a very innovative
and transparent auction system to allocate subsidies. Since then, PSH has been greatly improved,
in terms of regional balance, adjusted slope of the upfront subsidy amount, targeting to low-
income households, the decreased amount o f subsidy to lenders and the expansion o f participating
lenders. The Government hasfurther advanced theprogram by splitting the PSH program intwo
components - a non-credit linked upfront grant program (parcelamento) and a credit-linked
program financiamento). These changes have helped to ameliorate a shortcoming o f the earlier
approach - the bearing o f credit risk by local governments who were fully responsible for
repayment o f the credit linked to the subsidies - though further reforms need to be implemented
to insure that local government capture a retum on their land development investments under the
program.

4.47     As a way to improve the program, the Government i s committed to creating a
competitive environmentfor alternative lenders to befunded by the PSH subsidyprogram. This
will entail establishing an improved system o f prequalification o f lenders and other agents,
including local public companies, based on their capacity to manage and oversee investment
programs. There i s also a need to take further measures so as to (a) improve the technical
accreditation process to reduce the risk o f underbidding and possible unfairhllegal practices and
(b) establish formal sanctions when winning bidders do not deliver or are found to be changing
the terms o f their bid during implementation (e.g. adding additional charges to end beneficiaries
or participating municipalities).

4.48     The Government willfurther conduct an assessment of the impact ofpossible changing
of the interest rate cap, according to income and risk of the borrowers, on thefinanciamento
program, at least for some separate auctions. The current program establishes a maximum
interest rate which can be charged to end beneficiaries of TR+6 which i s below the cost o f
borrowing for smaller lenders who lack access to subsidized TR+6 (plus 2.16% spread) FGTS
resources and i s thus defacto limited to CEF and other large financial institutions with access to
FGTS funds.

4.49     It will also improve the transparency of municipal contributions to PSH. Since the
municipal contribution to the subsidy program i s considerable, the Government will conduct a
study on how the municipal contribution can be entered in the bid together with their NGO,
private sector financial institution or development managers. Such an approach would create
incentives for active and more transparent municipal participation and could improve the
leveraging power o f the PSH to require conditions for the municipalities to gain access to PSH
funds (e.g. improvement o f the regulatory system as it relates to low-income housing
development). Initially, PSH will study the feasibility o f including the value o f municipal
contributions on the bids for parcelamento simply as information rather than as part o f the
competitive conditions.


                                                 28

4.50    Establishment of the FGTS Upfront Subsidy. FGTS' new upfront housing subsidies for
households with incomes below 6 MW was established inJanuary 2005 through Resolution 460.
Its procedures were redefinedand include (a) a tiered system for beneficiary prioritization, based
on priority for collective applications and income group targets; (b) acceptance of existing
houses; and (c) increased owner equity as an eligibility criterion.

4.5 1    There i s a clear and recognized need to improve this programby means o f (a) broadening
the lending distribution channels to attract more lenders to this lower-middle income market.
Since the upfront subsidy program i s linked to access to FGTS credit, the issue of opening up
access to FGTS credit to lenders other than CEF i s specifically important for this program; and
(b) harmonizing the FGTS subsidy program with PSH and other subsidy programs. In the
medium-term, and consistent with the Government's efforts to rationalize subsidies across the
range of income groups, a concerted effort would be made to harmonize the FGTS up-front
subsidy with the PSHapproach andeligibility criteria.

4.52    Rental Housing both of new or old houses, particularly for a mobile labor force is a high
priority. InBrazil, like in most Latin American countries, low-income groups tend to own (or
declare as owning) the dwelling where they live. Rental solutions tend to be chosen by young
people or newly formed households, as consolidated families prefer to invest their savings to
purchase a plot (or the right to use a plot) and build their housingprogressively. Dueto the large
number of vacant units in Brazil and the excessive demand for housing, there is a clear market
failure in this market. Legislation i s favorable to rental (there i s no rental control and it i s not
difficult to evict non-paying tenants) but there i s very little recordedinvestment inrental housing
especially for the poor.       The Government is looking at this issue as part of the overall
competitiveness and growth package.

4.53     Anticipated Results: Within 3-5 years the Government expects the following
fundamental changes. The Government will have a road map for the allocation of all subsidy
resources andprograms across priority groups either households or local government, inline with
overall housing policy goals. The Government will have a national plan with definedpriorities
taking into account projected urban growth and shelter needs across regions. An improved
targeting, prioritization and selection process will be established for all beneficiaries and a
comprehensive monitoring and evaluation systemwill be inplace. FGTS and PSHwill increase
the number of credit institutions participating in the credit-linked subsidies, increasing
competition.     PSH will seek a more transparent involvement of local governments in the
parcelamento. Implicit, non-transparent subsidies will be declining; upfront or buy-down interest
rate subsidies will be improved and the Government will have multi-year subsidy allocation
figures that allows it to negotiate an annual program o f low-income housing developments with
lender, developers and construction companies. Low-income housing would increasingly be
financed by previous savings, subsidies, and a small credit based on the credit history o f each
participant


PolicyArea #4: LandandUrbanDevelopment

BackgroundandIssues

4.54     Inaddition to actions gearedto stimulate demand for housing and to enable the subsidies
to help the lowest income brackets, efforts are requiredto complement demand-side adjustments
with supply-side reforms. Without efforts to improve the supply of housing, demand-side efforts
would not yield the desiredimpact on increased formal housing production and a serious effort i s
made to quickly stimulate the supply o f urban land for the poorest families as well as for the
middle-income levels. There i s a consensus that land supply in Brazil i s constrained by excessive

                                                  29

regulation, conservative zoning, and over restrictive devices, albeit their purpose o f protecting the
poor against speculation and to guaranteeing a minimal level o f human dignity. Inaddition, since
local governments have the responsibility for urban development, the Government i s correctly
concerned with the needto quickly strengthen the capacity o f the local entities to reduce the "cost
o f formality" and the supply o f land.

4.55    The national legislation that regulates the subdivision o f land for urban purposes i s
comprised o f Law 6.766 o f 19 December, 1979 and Law 9.785 o f 29 January 1999. These acts
establish the general norms o f urban law concerning land subdivision for urban purposes and
make other provisions o f a contractual, criminal and bureaucratic nature, as well as establish
provisions on expropriation o f real property for the purpose o f urbanization or re-development o f
works, demolition, reconstruction and defines the rules for registering property. However, Law
6.766/79 was enacted before the 1988 Constitution and both laws 6.766/79 and 9.785/99 were
enacted before the City Statute o f 2001(Federal Law 10.257/01). Thus, their provisions must be
examined inthe context o f the 1988 Constitution and the City Statute, which provided for certain
limitations to the right to subdivision and further asserted the principle o f the social function o f
property, which has been repeated in every constitution since 1934. Among the legislative
advances thought to be advanced by the City Statute in2001 are: (a) the rights and instruments o f
municipalities to deal with city planning issues and the development o f underutilized land; (b) the
inclusion o f incentives for the preparation o f city development plans for every city over 20,000
inhabitants; (c) incentives to promote participatory planning processes; and (d) the regularization
o f some existing landholdings for occupants o f plots o f 250m2 or less who have been living on
the land for five years or more.

4.56    Despite the intentions o f Law 6.766/79 to effectively regulate land subdivision and the
process o f registration, it has long been blamed as a major impetus to the growth of informal land
subdivisions, resulting from the law's excessive technical requirements, its impact on land prices
(making prices rise) and the municipal administrations' lack o f capacity to cope with the
cumbersome bureaucratic procedures established in the law. L a w 9.795/99 attempted to address
some o f these deficiencies, introducing, for example, new mechanisms to facilitate the
regularization o f irregular land subdivisions and to reduce the percentage o f land that must be
reserved for public purposes in new land subdivisions. However, these changes are largely
perceived to have been insufficient as regards creating an enabling environment for the
development o f urban land, the registration o f land and the regularization o f irregular
subdivisions and settlements.

4.57    Revision o f law 6.766/79 has been a priority since the mid 199Os, and the Ministry o f
Cities has since its creation in 2003 played a critical role in facilitating public debate on the law
and its reform. It i s the goal o f the Ministry o f Cities that any revision o f the law be consistent
with the mainprinciples underlying the Government's policies on land andhousing, namely:

        0    broad democratization of the legal, political, financial and institutional conditions of
             access to urban land and housing;
        0    the production o fnew social housing developments and serviced sites for low-income
             groups, by the public authorities inall spheres o f government;
        0    the opening o f new opportunities for housing finance, especially for the population
             between 0-3 minimumsalaries;
             inclusive urban planning and democratic management o f cities, especially through
             the instruments, mechanisms and processes o f urban land use as per the 2001 City
             Statute, in order to induce the occupation o f vacant land, rehabilitation o f urban
             centers and the full realization o f the socio-environmental function o f urban property
             and o f the city;


                                                   30

             the promotion of urban land remlarizationprograms, which should be considered as
             one of the central axes informulating municipal master plans, such as requiredby the
              1988 Federal Constitution and the 2001 City Statute;
             the use of redistributive fiscal and extra fiscal policies, as well as mechanisms for
              surplus value-capture by the public authorities, always inthe terms of the 2001 City
              Statute;
             the creation of mechanisms and processes of various orders to involve the formal
             land and propemmarket inthe production of regular serviced sites and buildings for
             the low-income population, in good locations, accessible prices, and sufficient
              quantities;
              encouraging housing co-operatives; and
              incentives for the formation of Public-private partnerships.

RecentAccomplishments andFutureChallenges

4.58     The Government has begun a process to improve the legal and institutional framework as
regards urban development and formal settlement creation to address both the backlog of needed
investment (thus upgrading and regularizing the stock) and to create an enabling environment for
the orderly incorporation of new land subdivisions (the flow). The key challenges for the
Government inthis regardincludethe needto:

         Establish urban development criteria that do not have the adverse impact of increasing
         the price of land, both in formal and informal property markets and in this regard keep
         focus on the target o f facilitating access to urbanized land for those families eaming less
         than 5MW
         Take into account the management and administrative capacity of municipal governments
         when defining procedures and technical criteria, being carehl not to undermine the
         impacts o f giving greater autonomy to local governments in determining development
         standardsby requiring too excessive administrative procedures at the local level3*
         Allow for progressive infrastructure provision that balances environmental and health
         concems with facilitating access to urbanized land
         Integrate subdivision approval and environmental licensing processes, breaking the
         current duplication of procedures
         Establish a benchmark timetable for municipal administrations to approve (or not) land
         subdivision projects33
         Integrate the approval and regularization processes o f horizontal condominiums into any
         new law regarding land subdivisionapproval and regularization
         Promote a clear and legal distinctionbetween the existingforms o f informality inorder to
         define the most appropriate technical criteria, obligations and procedures for
         regularization34



32 E.g. some draft versions to revise the law would require geo-referencing and complex subdivision
approval processes and monitoring systems o f land subdivision that would not be feasible for most
Brazilianmunicipalities.

33 Current procedures take an average o f three to five years to complete. This cumbersome process is
considered to be one o f the main drivers o f informal subdivision development inBrazil.

34There is a distinction between informal settlements occupied by low-income people where there is a
collective right to regularization and informal settlements where regularization i s a matter o f discretionary
action o f public authorities. In addition, any law should treat several issues o f informality specifically: the
effective regularization o f informal settlements on land directly or indirectly belonging to the Union,
especially coastal land, by removing obstacles to municipal and state regularization programs; fmd a

                                                      31

    0   Further reinforce the importance o f creating ZEIS - Special Zone o f Social Interest,
         corresponding to informal settlements to be regularized
    0   Include provisions for the registration o f land developments (new land subdivisions and
         condominiums) and the regularization o f informal land settlements that would simplify
        procedures and lower the financial costs o f registration.

4.59     The process o f debate and reformulation o f L a w 6.766179 was begun in 1999,prior to the
creation o f the Ministry o f Cities. However, the final version o f the law was never sent to the
house floor for debate, remaining instead in committee. The bill in its current form does not
adequately meet the criteria for proper reform o f the law as listed above. This presents an
opportunity for the Ministry o f Cities to establish a new process o f public debate and allow for a
re-drafting o f the reforms that would advance the objective o f simplifying subdivision and
registry processes, inthe spirit o f increasing the supply o f urbanized land accessible to a broader
market, specifically those families earning less than 5MW. The urouosed loan would urovide
supuort to that process through the Ministry o f City's on-going urogram o f public dialogue and
input into the reformulation o f Law 6.766179, as well as supporting the Ministry's programs to
regularize land tenure in informal settlements by providing municipalities with the resources to
undertake these programs.

4.60    Slum Upgrading Efforts. Much o f the housing deficit inBrazil (estimated at 7.1 million
units) is qualitative, meaning that most o f these families are housed, albeit in substandard
conditions. T o address these needs the Government has several programs, although at a small
scale relative to the size o f the problem, to urbanize informal settlements. The urbanization
process includes the provision o f basic infrastructure, resettlement o f families inareas unsuitable
for occupation and the regularization o f tenure. Habitar-Brasil, financed by the Inter-American
Development Bank, and PAT-PROSANEAR, financed by the World Bank and executed by the
Secretariat o f Sanitation, as well as the FGTS's ProMoradia program, make up the universe o f
Federal Government programs aimed at comprehensive urban upgrading. These programs lack
better coordination and are o f small scale. It i s in the medium-term trajectory o f the
Government's reform agenda to scale-up its efforts at informal settlement's regularization. As the
problem i s greatest in metropolitan regions, the Government envisages a national upgrading
program aimed at metropolitan regions, that would promote partnerships with states and
municipalities, through a matching grants program and would be supported under the PDPLs.

4.61     The effective implementation o f these mechanisms will require an intense process o f
technical assistance to municipalities. In addition to the legal and administrative reforms
supported by the proposed operation, the Government has launcheda programto assist 2000 local
governments to prepare their Planos Diretores in 2005. These efforts - along with initiatives to
strengthen the use and management o f local landregistries and cadastres - are inthe process to be
implemented. Within 18-20 months, the Government would have accomplished several
benchmarks, including:

    0    supported a revised version o f the L a w o f Territorial Responsibility with an integrated
         vision for new land divisions and the regularization o f illegal or informal settlements;
    0    launching a national program for urban upgrading inmetropolitan areas;
    0    financing -with Federal resources-the preparationo f 250 municipal Planos Diretores;
    0    inclusion in the National Housing Plan the policy elements to increase the supply o f
         urban land defining instruments, incentives to all types o f governments, and ways to



solution to the regularization of consolidated informal settlements in areas somehow subject to
environmentalregulation; and integrateregistrars into the integratedlicensing and approval process.

                                                   32

        reduce the administrative costs to access urban land market and to undertake the
        necessary subdivision.

4.62    Anticipated Results. Within 5-10 years, the Government expects to have achieved the
following results: (a) local governments would have the knowledge and capacity to deal with
informal settlements, formal titling, and the development of new land for new settlers; (b) local
and state governments would have discussedways of collaboratingto share infrastructurecosts in
preparing urbanized land for newcomers; (c) the Federal Government would have developed a
monitoring systemto follow progress and understand priorities and identify urgent interventions;
(d) private developers would again become interested in working with localities; and (e) the
Government would have designed and implementeda Bank-supported program to launch a major
upgrading scheme (based on an output-based approach) and to finance the subsidyprogram.



                           5. LOAN   CONTENTAND BANKSUPPORT

BankSupportto the Government'sProgram.

5.1     Bank support to the Government's reform and investment program will be structured
over the next four years or so and would comprise (a) loans aligned with the Government's
budget cycle and linkedto federal policy reform efforts, including the establishment of a sector-
wide housing subsidy program; (b) a Technical Assistance Loan (TAL), which will be presented
to the Bank's Board of Directors shortly after the present loan and which aims to strengthen the
capacity of the Government to formulate and implementhousing sector policy - see Annex 9; and
(c) a possible investment-linked operation, to be prepared under the Sector Wide Approach
(SWAp) modality, which the Government has requested to finance the national harmonized
subsidy programexpected to emergebefore the secondphase of the program. The proposed loan
supports the establishment of the institutional and policy environment for sustainable housing
sector development consistent with the emerging national priorities and would identify the
medium-termtrajectory of housing and urban policy, setting the stage for follow-on DPL, the
focus of which will be to enhance the effectiveness of the housing finance system and the
targeting and transparency o f subsidy programs.


 Table 6: Government Request Bank Support for HousingSector ReformandInvestment
                                                                             RequestedBank
    Instrument                                                                  Financing
                                                                               (US$ million)
    Phase I                                                                      500.0
    Technical Assistance Loan                                                     5.0
    Phase I1                                                                     200.0
    Housing Subsidy Sector InvestmentProgram (SWAp)                              300.0
    Phase I11                                                                    200.0




CASLinkage.

5.2     The program is fully consistent with the Brazil CAS discussed by the Bank's Board of
Directors on December 9, 2003 as it supports the CAS' three mainpillars o f equity, sustainability
and competitiveness. Most fundamentally, the operation would improve access to affordable

                                                33

housing and basic services, and would strengthen the real assets o f the poor. Housing often serves
as a key source o f capital accumulation and income generation for low/moderate-income
households, and improving urban development enhances the efficiency and competitiveness o f
cities, which account disproportionately for national economic growth. Inaddition, the program
will increase the sustainability and competitiveness o f the housing finance sector and improve
land markets and hence the productivity inthe housing construction sector. The Bank's program
o f interventions would also generate highly positive environmental impacts by supporting a
policy environment for the upgrading o f existing slums and promoting formal-sector development
on appropriate sites. Further, the results-based-CAS set the framework for monitoring progress
towards achieving the CAS goals. Within that framework, it states specifically that the housing
operations would contribute to a more sustainable Brazil. It sets out as medium-term outcomes:
(a) housing programs better targeted to the poorest; and (b) the reform o f housing finance and
land development regulation. This i s entirely consistent with the main thrust o f the Program
objectives.

5.3      Rationale for Bank Involvement. The Bank i s uniquely positioned to support the
Government's program. First, the Bank i s a natural partner given its lead in engaging the
Government inhousing and urban development policy dialogue over the last three years. Second,
the proposed program i s fully consistent with the CAS objective o f building a more sustainable
and equitable Brazil, as it will support the Government's efforts to increase the number o f
households with access to safe and secure formal housing and services. Third, the proposed
operation supports the Government's efforts to maximize the efficiency o f policy interventions in
the housing market through improvements to the structure and targeting o f federal subsidy
programs and through the reduction o f supply-side constraints for housing and land development.
Fourth, the Bank's proposed engagement leverages its ability to simultaneously bring financial
support for programmatic policy reform, technical assistance for policy design and capacity
building, and investment-linked support for housing subsidy programs. Fifth, there is a natural
synergy betweenthe undertaking o f policy and programreforms at the macro level, and the direct
investment inurban slumupgrading and urban planning work the Bank i s doing at the local level
withmany municipal clients.

5.4      Analytical Underpinnings. The proposed operation has its underpinnings in detailed
analytical work and dialogue. While the Bank has had a visible presence in urban upgrading and
municipal projects in Brazil with a marked success, dialogue on housing policy and low-income
housing deepened in the last four years. After access to shelter services was identified as a
priority area for Bank intervention during the pre-CAS consultation process, towards the end o f
2000, the Bank launched field work that led to a comprehensive piece o f ESW (Brazil
Progressive Low-Income Housing: Alternatives for the Poor, Report 22032-BR). In 2001, the
Brazilian authorities explicitly requested Bank assistance inpreparing a National Housing Policy
for Brazil taking into account the new macroeconomic stability o f Brazil, the much wanted
deregulation o f the credit system, and the increased potential for capital market development. The
Bank produced several policy notes and aides memoire reviewing the major impediments for the
development o f the housing sector as a whole, with particular attention to the institutional
framework, subsidy policies, housing finance and land markets (Maintaining Momentum for
Reform, June 2002). In addition, the Bank provided regular assistance and feedback to
background papers and policy documents; offered training sessions to large groups o f officials
dealing with housing issues; organized the presence o f a large number o f Brazilian officials inthe
Wharton Housing Finance course offered annually; commented on draft laws and national
debates and tried to avoid major discontinuities in the dialogue during the change in
administrations.

5.5      The loans and related TAL also drawfrom the Bank's broad experience on shelter and
housing Jinance. World Bank involvement in urban shelter has evolved considerably from the

                                                 34

early poverty-oriented projects, (namely the so-called sites and services projects), initiated by
President McNamara inthe early 1 9 7 0 ' ~Reflecting a major shift inpolicy that favors enabling
                                               . ~ ~
better markets rather than public intervention and construction o f public housing ("Housing:
Enabling Markets to Work", World Bank 1993), the new crop o f projects focuses on bothbroader
policy-based initiatives, as well as on financial projects supported by the Bank, and increasingly
the IFC. Now, thirty years after it began lending for housing, the Bank has supported over 250
projects and more than $13 billion in lending. Lending for the housing sector has traditionally
been one o f the strongest performing sectors in the Bank, with 95 percent o f the last decade's
outcomes being rated sati~factory.~~    Lessons learned in the recent past deal with how to scale up
the efforts leading to the MDGl1, how to combine slum upgrading and poverty alleviation with
the emerging elements o f housingpolicy, giventhe fundamental role playedby the broader policy
environment. Incontrast with the early loans that focused on enclaves that could not be scaled up,
the recent crop of loans gives much greater emphasis to the policy issues that constrain the sector.
These policy-oriented loans are now the dominant form o f lending inthe sector as it i s recognized
that this would be the best way for Bank to effectively contribute to the MDG goal on slums and
generally improve the functioning o f housing markets outcomes for the poor. The recent and
successful examples o f Mexico (Housing Structural Adjustment Loan and Housing Technical
Assistance Loan), Morocco, Poland, Russia attest to the need to consider the housing sector inits
entirety to enable the parallel development o f more efficient organization o f demand (including
subsidies), more responsive supply (including land policies) and adequate institutional and policy
framework. Further, Bank support for tackling the larger policy issues at the federal level will
complement - and enhance - the efforts the Bank i s taking to address living conditions in slums
at the local level throughout

5.6      The loan draws from the long experience with programmatic lending to Brazil in
several sectors and more recently in areas related to the pillars of the CAS. The loan also relates
to several ongoing operations and i s within the cluster o f activities supporting the Growth pillar
of the CAS, which includes the Programmatic Loans for Sustainable and Equitable Growth. The
operation i s closely related to ongoing municipal programs that aim at improving municipal
management and provision o f social housing and urban upgrading as well as with programs
designed to improve the welfare programs designed for the poor. The loan has also been designed
to benefit from the lessons o f those operations (e.g. the monitoring and evaluation component has
drawn from the identical component prepared under Bolsa Familia).

Designof DPL.

5.7      The design o f the loan takes into account the lessons learned from the recent DPLs in
Brazil and the latest thinking on Development Policy lending for well performing middle income
countries.38 The underlying principles o f this operation include (a) upfront actions rather than ex-



35 Robert Buckley, 2005

36 From 1972-1981 the satisfactory outcome rate for shelter projects was 85% relative to almost 80% for
infrastructure lending. After declining to 81% inthe 1980s - still a relatively high value for that volatile
decade - outcomes in the most recent decade increased to 95% satisfactory. Annex 1, based on Buckley
and Kalarickal(2004) presents summary data, which was approved by OED as being representative, on the
Bank's shelter portfolio.
5 /The Bank is working directly in6 state capitals, and this will likely increase -all on urban upgrading
projects -inareas where housing problems are most acute.

38 World Bank 2004. Programmatic Adjustment Lending Retrospectiveand World bank 2004: Good
      Practice

                                                    35

post conditionality; (b) support of reform program instead of specific conditionality; and (c)
aligning program loans with budgetary cycle.

5.8      Programmatic Framework:          The proposed loan supports actions in four areas: (a)
institutional framework; (b) housing finance; (c) subsidies for low-income households; and (d)
land policy. It i s expected that inthe first loans more emphasis would be placedinthe first three
areas and that the emphasis would shift towards the last area as the capacity building efforts
taking place at local level bear hit. The Policy framework i s included in Annex 2. The key
measures highlightedas prior actions for this loan are the following:

         InstitutionalFramework
                 National HousingPolicy discussedwith society
                 Introductionto Legislative of law creating the National Housing Fund(Project of
                 law No 36/2004).
            0    Creationof an inter-ministerial committee to follow up on and elaborate proposals
                 for the market basedand subsidy components of the housing financial system.

         Deepening and StrengtheningHousingFinance Markets
            0    Approval o f improvements inthe Housing credit regulatory framework (Federal
                 Law 10.931/2004)
            0    ProgressinSBPE regulations (Resolution 3,259 of January 2005 of Conselho
                 Monetario nacional) bringing them inline with sector capacity; weighing infavor
                 of low income/low housingvalue.
            0    Resolutionof the Conselho Curador do FGTS 460, Dec 2004, improving the
                 targeting and transparency of the FGTS with explicit upfront calculation of the
                 cost and riskof the subsidy and establishing that, by 2008, all FGTSresources
                 will benefithouseholds of less than 10MW. Increasedthe amount of credit
                 available for households earning less than 6 MW in2005.

         Improving the Effectiveness of Federal Housing Subsidies
                 Approval of Law 10.008/2004-based on ProvisionalMeasure 2.112/2001-
                 creating PSH-Progama de Subsidio b Habitacao deInteresseSocial.
                 Preparation of a Framework for the Monitoring and Evaluation system o f the
                 Housing Program o f the Government, with particular attention to the Subsidies
                 component.

         Improving the Land and Urban Markets
            0    Implemented national policy for sustainable urban land tenure regularization -
                politica nacional de regularizacao fundiaria sustentavel -        Programa Papel
                 Passado aimed at guaranteeing the title o fthe landto poor people.

5.9      Triggersfor future DPL support to the housing policy area. The operation has been
designedto provide timely, appropriate support to a policy reformprogram which is, by its very
nature, medium-term in scope. Eight key actions have been identified as "triggers" for the
preparation o f subsequent DPL - completion of these actions would serve as a clear signal o f the
Government's intentionto maintain the policy trajectory of the program:

         HousingPolicies and InstitutionalFramework
         0   The Government will have finalized the National Housing Plan and its monitoring
             system.
         0   The Government will have regulated the National Housing Subsidy Funds (upon
             approval by Congress) and addressedthe questions o fmanagement and access.

                                                  36

        Housing FinanceMarket
        0    The Govemment will have promoted the access o f financial institutions to FGTS
              funds.
        0    Diagnosis o f SBPE performance, and proposals to improve it with the objective o f
             integrating it in the market in the future when the macroeconomic conditions allow
              and the interest rates go down.

        Housing Subsidies
        0     The Govemment will have published the plan to harmonize and rationalize the
              different subsidy programs in terms o f (a) financing as % o f house value; (b)
              maximum value to be financed; (c) depth o f subsidies across income levels, improved
              access to subsidies including better targeting system.
        0     Design an implementation o f a comprehensive M&E system for the NHP and its
              components.

        Land and Urban Development
        0     Inclusion in the NHP policy directives to increase the supply o f urban land based on
              the identification o f the constraints that limit the rapid and effective supply o f land
              for the lowest income groups.
        0     Launching the national urban upgrading program for metropolitan areas accounting
              for 90% o f the informal settlements.

Social andEnvironmentalImpact

5.10    The team considers that most o f the specific policy measures that are supported by this
loan are expected to have significant positive poverty impacts. Of the major components to be
supported in the program are the implementation o f a better targeted and transparent subsidy
system, reduced cost in land supply and housing construction, great access to house finance both
by the usual intermediaries as by means o fencouragingnon-traditional institutions such as micro-
credit institutions. During the establishment o f the monitoring and evaluation system, particular
attention will be given to the targeting o f the beneficiaries and to the evaluation whether the
targeting i s accurate and reliable. A strategic social assessment o f the Government's programwas
undertaken duringthe proposedprogrammatic loanpreparation.

5.11     Actions under the proposed project are not expected to have any significant negative
environmental impacts. An environmental institutional assessment has been prepared (Annex 5)
to assess the institutional framework inplace to ensure that housing policies are monitored and
there are incentives to avoid settlements and formal sub-divisions in risk-prone areas. The
assessment looks in detail at the new law being prepared by Congress and identifies some issues
related to unrealistic expectations or requirements imposed inmunicipalities which may not have
the necessary technical capacity.


FiduciaryAspects / DisbursementsandAuditing
Flow of FundsandAudit Arrangements

5.12        Once the Bank formally notifies the borrower that the loan is available for withdrawal,
the borrower may submit a withdrawal application so that the proceeds o f the loan would be
deposited by the Bank into an account o f the National Treasury o f the Federative Republic of
Brazil, established at the Central Bank o f Brazil for the borrower's use.


                                                    37

5.13    The Bank will disburse the single tranche o f the loan proceeds into an account o f the
Central Bank denominated inUSD. The Central Bank will subsequently credit the amount o f the
Loanto the National Treasury's account at the Central Bank. This is a government account that i s
used to finance budgetary obligations. The National Treasury will then provide the Bank written
confirmation o f the transaction.

5.14       The IMF Safeguards Assessment o f the Central Bank o f Brazil concluded that, Banco
Central does not present widespread vulnerabilities that could compromise the safeguarding o f
Fundresources. Inparticular its audit is conducted by an internationally recognized audit firm,
while its internal audit function contributes effectively to internal control systems. Therefore
from a fiduciary point o f view, the control environment, procedures and regulations governing the
bank's operations are generally adequate. Given that there i s adequate knowledge about the
soundness o f the country's public financial management system, additional fiduciary
arrangements (such as using a dedicated Deposit Account) have not been deemed necessary in
this case.


Financial Management

5.15    For development policy lending (DPL), effective management o f Government finances
provides the best assurance that Bank funds are used appropriately. A fiduciary framework for
DPLs starts with a sound knowledge o f borrower public financial management (PFM)
arrangements and an appreciation o f the risks they pose to Bank programs and funds. This
informationmay be generatedby a Country Financial Accountability Assessment (CFAA).

5.16    A CFAA analyzes the performance and transparency o f budget management institutions
and systems in the public sector. The analysis and recommendations contained in these reports
seek to help government and the Bank to meet their fiduciary objectives by identifying risks to
the use o f public funds posed by weaknesses in PFM arrangements and areas where further
improvements inpublic financial management could help to strengthen fiscal discipline, increase
operational efficiency, and improve the country's governance environment.

5.17    The World Bank finalized in 2002 a C F A A for Brazil, that was discussed with the
Government and which has been used to draw key conclusions on the country PFM. Brazil has
well developed financial management (among the most robust in the Latin America and the
Caribbean Region), thus ensuring that Bank lending i s done in context o f acceptable oversight
arrangements. Notwithstanding some desirable improvements that could be made (and which are
being tackled within the scope o f the reforms launched to sustain the Government's focus to
improve and modernize public sector management), the Brazilian system o f public financial
management provides reliable information, and adequate systems do exist to manage and track
the receipt and use o f funds at national level and there is a highlevel o f fiscal transparency. In
particular, improved budget formats and enhanced internal controls to support managerial
decisions and external oversight; a new institutional set up for the government's audit function; as
well as the expansion o f S I A F I to increase its programmatic functionality are all important
developments which took place after the delivery o f the CFAA. All these conditions would
support any DPL program. In light o f the adequate control framework assisting public finance
operations, the riskto both Bank and country own funds i s low.

5.18    The conclusion, which i s taken into account in deciding the design o f the proposed
operation, i s that financial management risk i s low and that no additional conditionality need be
introduced with respect to financial management. T o support supervision o f the operation, the
Borrower will generate appropriate reports to demonstrate that the funds were included in the
budgeted sources o f funding and that uses o f these funds, along with all other sources, were duly
recorded andreported inthe budget expenditure report.

                                                  38

Benefits, Monitoring and Evaluation

5.19    The program i s aimed at improving access o f low-income people to shelter services
through the implementation o f reforms to the housing, urban development, and finance sectors.
The series o f operations - including the proposed loan, TAL, and possible SWAP - would
address the core reform and investment agenda, and thus directly contribute to growth and
poverty reduction. The project's direct impacts will be measured ina variety o f ways.

5.20    First, we expect that Board approval and disbursement by mid-calendar year 2005 o f this
proposed loan would help meet the Government's financial objectives and provide financing on
more favorable terms than alternatives for its 2005 budget. This would support Government
goals o f fiscal stabilization and continuing improvement inthe macroeconomic agenda.

5.21    Second, most o f the reforms undertaken for this loan were discussed with the Bank and
influenced by joint analytical work. The proposed loan would be recognition o f the reform
achievements so far. Timely support by the Bank would be also important in forming the basis
for strong engagement inthe housing sector. The Letter o f Development Policy indicates the new
administration's commitments on a range of issues where the Bank has worked with the
Government or intends to. The proposed loan would provide the vehicle for continuity inpolicy
dialogue on the range o f issues which will form the basis for future loans.

5.22    Impacaesults: In terms o f the vision o f the future, the program i s expected to enhance
the possibilities for a better situation in the near and medium term. For example, within 12 to 18
months the Government will have spelled out the National Housing Plan with precise targets,
investments and a "road map" to address the social problems associate with inadequate housing
and accumulated deficits. W e anticipate a proactive, flexible and agile National Housing Policy
working ingreater partnership with private sectors and local authorities, helping to promote urban
growth and development in a more sustainable manner. Success will be measured in terms o f
production of new housing at affordable prices, development o f the rental market for younger
households, decline in unmet demand for social housing, response to illegal or irregular
settlements.

5.23     Inaddition, we anticipate amore efficient andliquidhousingfinance markettranslatedin
number o f housing or real state credits. We can anticipate a substantial increase in the size o f
housing finance in line with results observed in such countries as Spain and Portugal following
the macroeconomic adjustment and market liberalization - and increased housing finance from
5% of GDP to 10% of GDP in 5-7years could berealistic providedthe interest rates fall from the
current heights.

5.24     W e can also expect the implementation of a coherent national program for upfront
housing subsidies to avoid discontinuity in income levels, price o f housing, size and type o f
subsidy between the 4-5 types o f subsidy programs. This will result in an optimization o f the
scarce volume o f resources available for housing subsidy financed by the central government.
W e can expect (a) better targeting at both local and central level; (b) better synergies and leverage
between central and local housing program; (c) enhanced capacity to understand and monitor the
housing program in terms o f understanding whether the program i s able to answer the annual
demand for new household shelter.

5.25     Finally, improvements in the performance of local governments in undertaking their
responsibilities as regards land reform and zoning are to be expected. Local governments are the
main financiers o f infrastructure for housing and will remain so. The impact o f the program i s

                                                   39

expected in increased leverage between levels o f governments and a well-designed national
program to "tease" and guide the local governments to address with priority the need to increase
the supply o f serviceable land, allow households to adopt progressive housing approaches
keeping a good eye on the future demand for land and the alternatives for new households coming
into the market.

5.26    Monitoring and evaluation o f the impact o f the Government's efforts is critical to the
progressive fine-tuning o f the instruments and programs for supporting low-income housing. In
particular, the development of mechanisms to assess the targeting o f subsidies and delivery
capacity o f local financial institutions, developers and municipalities will make or break the
impact o f the Government's efforts to improve the efficiency o f housing subsidy policy. In the
very short run, the Government will define a results matrix which reflects the expected impacts
and outcomes o f the program as well as a concrete set o f activities to be financed under the TAL
to create relevant capacity and ensure that performance monitoring and evaluation i s
mainstreamed inthe Government's housingpolicy.



                                     6. RISKS AND MITIGATION

6.1      A comprehensive program o f reforms is inherently risky inany country, and more so in
the context o f the highlevel o f visibility and priority given to social programs for the urban poor
by the current administration in Brazil. The team has identified seven key risks to the effective
implementation o f the Program:

6.2      First, there will inevitably be a time lag in the implementation o f reforms and their
impact on housing markets and land development. There i s the risk that in a highly politicized
environment, the program may seem to be unsuccessful in the absence o f immediate fruits. This
risk is deemed to be moderate: the inclusion o f subsidy monitoring and targeting efforts, for
example, will provide information on the approach in the very short-term, and the pace o f
Government action inrecent months i s highly encouraging.

6.3      Second,a key player inthe housing finance and subsidy agenda, FGTS, i s an independent
fund and thus technicallv "outside the svstem." However, given the central importance o f FGTS
in the move towards upfront subsidy systems, both MOC and STN would discuss with FGTS
ways to improve the overall subsidy program to increase its effectiveness and avoid distortion
impacts. The Government, through the MOC and Ministry o f Finance, has a prominent position
on the Board o f Directors o f FGTS and it is clear that FGTS is eager to accommodate the
recommendations o f the Government, provided they are consistent with its mandate and with
adequate profitability o f its investment funds. Progress to date has been highlyconsistent with the
Bank's dialogue with both FGTS and the Government.

6.4      Third, while many reforms are being undertaken by the Federal Government, the role o f
the local governments i s essential, notably in the provision o f urban land and in the removal o f
supply constraints. This riski s deemed to be moderate: large municipalities inBrazil have highly
trained officials and the central Government has embarked on an ambitious program to support
capacity building at the local level in areas directly related to the proposed Program. The TAL
and direct oversight and supervision o f the Bank will aim to support these efforts.

6.5      Fourth, there are coordination and institutional risks. The sectors affected by the
Program include a number of actors, inside and outside the Government, Coordination will be a
central aspect o f the successful implementation o f the reform agenda, and there i s a risk that
interagency cooperation breaks down. This riski s deemed to be h&y         coordination difficulties are


                                                   40

inevitable and a major political bottleneck would be likely to significantly sidetrack the reforms
now in motion. Nonetheless, the formation o f the Interministerial Housing Policy Group should
be seen as an important step inthe direction o f coordination.

6.6     Fifth, the roles of the CEF and FGTS need to be assessed in the medium-term. The
long-term expansion o f the housing finance calls for an increase in competition o f agents in the
market. CEF has an enormous and invaluable experience in the sector (especially the lower
income brackets) and this capital needs to be well guarded. However, there i s a clear need to
increase competition in accessing cheap funds such as FGTS. Whether this would be feasible will
depend on how interested the private banks are to enter the low-income housing market.
However, the risk of not requiring major ex-ante reformo f Caixa's role will negatively impact the
proposed policy reforms i s deemed to be low: the team believes that the scope o f the operation
should be focused on those areas which can be achieved in the immediate-term and provide a
clear path for improving sector performance while taking into account the peculiarities and
political economy o f the policy environment, including the current position o f Caixa.

6.7      Sixth, there are inherent macroeconomicrisks associated with any policy-basedprogram
o f support and this i s particularly true in the case o f housing finance. Macroeconomic shocks
could have a profoundly negative impact on the financial sector. Nonetheless, this risk i s deemed
to be low:inthe current macroeconomic environment - particularly as regards fiscal discipline -
the likelihood andbenefits o f future declining interest rates and financial sector stability outweigh
the downside risks.

6.8      Finally, there i s some risk inthe timing o f operations as the program i s being initiated in
the middle o f the current administration's term.The second phase and the requested SWAP may
come at the `end o f the current administration which may slow down the commitment o f the
reforms and impact the preparation o f the second phase and the SWAP. The agreement o f a
National Housing Plan with clear objectives shared by a wide range o f parties could help the
programto stay on track duringthe transitionperiod.




                                                  41

ANNEX1:LETTERDEVELOPMENTPOLICY
           OF




             42

43

.    44

45

46

    J




47

                            LETTER OF DEVELOPMENT POLICY

                       TRANSLATED FROM ORIGINAL DOCUMENT

                                                                               Brasilia, M a y 06,2005

MrJames Wolfensohn
President
World Bank
Washington D.C.

Dear Mr.President

1.       The Government o f President Luis Inacio da Silva has been implementing an important
program o f microeconomic reforms aimed at promoting an increase ineconomic productivity and
equitable growth o f the Brazilian economy.         Inthis context, the Brazilian Govemment has
requested from the World Bank a program o f Development Policy Loans (DPLs) to support the
financing o f its housing sector reform. This reformprogram i s part o f the activities that the Bank
i s supporting inthe area o f Sustainable and Equitable Growth and whose first loan was approved
last year.

2.       The present administrationhas given a noticeable importance to the low income housing
sector as a result of the impact that shelter has inthe daily lives o f the lowest income groups, as
well as inthe creation o fjobs and inthe promotion o f economic activity. Below you will find the
most important measures already taken, or to be taken, to address the main issues afflicting the
housing sector inBrazil.

3.       The Government i s aware o f the enormous challenges ahead. Brazil's housing deficit i s
estimated at about 7 million units; 88% o f this deficit i s concentrated in families earning less than
5 minimumwages. These numbers will not decline ifwe fail to address the excess o f demand for
housing services generated by the new households. A significant portion of the households
formed every year cannot afford even the least expensive market-built house and tum to the
informal housing markets.

4.       The Government has identified four areas where measures and reforms are crucial to
increase the access o f the poor to adequate shelter.          First, the Government is working to
strengthen the institutions dealing with the sector as well as their capacity o f coordination, based
on adequate statistics and sound and detailed analysis so as to define a medium term plan with
clear priorities and within realistic financial targets. Second, the Government i s committed to
produce a greater integration o f the housing finance sector supported by the consolidation o f the
macroeconomic stabilization and the structural reforms which will lead to a consistent reduction
o f the basic interest rates and the financial intermediation spreads. The Government strategy i s in
the short run to improve the situation o f the housing financing system, promoting greater
efficiency among financial agents, harmonizing implicit and explicit subsidies, and creating
mechanisms of credit insurance that protect both lenders and borrowers. In this way, we will be
creating the conditions to reach in the future a greater integration inthe housing finance markets.
Third, the Government will continue its efforts to modernize the housing finance sector and the
capital market instruments in order to increase the volume o f resources to the sector and allow a
gradual reorientationto the lower income classes. Fourth, the Government i s working to improve
the supply o f formal urbanized land. Many o f the challenges are found at the level o f state and
municipal governments, in particular in the supply o f urban land, including formalities in titling
and subdivision, construction licenses, urban and environment licensing.


                                                   48

InstitutionalStrengthening

5.       Housingpolicy and housing finance issues have been the function of several government
agencies which require an effective coordination. In this context, the Government has taken
important measures, beginning with the creation of the Ministry of Cities and its Housing
Secretariat. (Law 10.683,. May 28, 2003) and the creation of the National Housing Secretariat as
the Federal agency responsible for the development, execution and monitoring o f housing sector
policy, programs and actions.       We have taken further steps to ensure the technical and
administrative capacity o f the National Housing Secretariat, including, inter alia: (a) the creation
of a technical unit to design the housing plan and conduct the associated monitoring and
evaluation and (b) the contracting of staff/consultants to ensure adequate in-house technical
capacity.

6.      With the creation of the Ministry of Cities, the Government in collaboration with large
groups of civil society has advance in the preparation of its National Housing Policy, aiming at
establishing the coordinates of the Government policy to guarantee the Brazilian population the
access to adequate shelter. This effort has let to the publication by the Ministry of Cities of the
National Housing Policy document in 2004 defining the main principles and guidelines for the
sector as well as the proposals for its implementation. Adjustments will likely take place during
the implementationofthe housingpolicy andofits effectiveconsolidationthrough its law andthe
multi-year national plan comprisingobjectives, targets and indicators.

7.         In parallel and as a complement to that effort, the National Congress is reviewing a
Project Law which creates the National Social Interest Housing Fund (FNHIS) to coordinate
transfers, subsidies, financial resources and funding to support the housing policy. The Projeto
de Lei was approved by the House of Representatives and awaits its approval inthe Senate. The
creation o f this Fundrepresents an attempt to homogenize the way resources are usedfor housing
policy purposes and to increase synergies betweenprograms financed by the public sector. Inthe
near term, and after the approval by the National Congress, it will be necessary to regulate the
functioning o f the FNHIS, defining its management structure, and promoting a progressive
inclusion of all budget subsidies inthis single structure, as definedby the law.

8.       To ensure the collaboration and coordination of the program, the Government has created
an Inter-ministerial Group to follow the Housing Finance and Subsidy Policy that will follow the
market-based and subsidy components of the HousingPolicy as well as the work developed under
the Bank-financedTechnical Assistance Loan for the sector.

9.         To strengthen the implementation capacity of these policies, the Government has
launched a comprehensive capacity buildingprogram aimed at the institutional strengthening of
municipalities inthe operation of programs and policies of the Ministry of Cities. This action has
been accompanied by measures to map and assess the capacity of the sub-national agencies
involved with housing planning and policy. Finally, we are strengthening the institutional and
training activities in municipalities in metropolitan regions focused on instruments and practices
inurbanandhousingpolicies.

AmplifyingHousingFinance

 10.       Housing finance i s one o f the pillars to promote wider access of housing. In Brazil,
major reforms have been undertaken in the last years to promote the development of secondary
markets and the issuing of securitization papers that can be traded inthe market with confidence
and profitability. Our experience has been quite successful. Although the housing capital market
i s still limited, it has great growth potential which will materialize pari passu with the
consolidation and improvement of the macroeconomic conditions as observed inthe last months.

                                                 49

Important measures have been taken so far to channel savings to this sector, such as the approval
o f L a w 10931, which includes (a) the strengthening o f alienaqao Pduciaria (the trust deed
instrument, created in 1997, Law 9514) as an alternative mode o f collateralization; (b) the
strengthening o f credit institutions interested on housing financing, making it possible to regulate
real estate credit titles (CRI and LCI); (c) regulation o f the Patrimdnio de Afetaqiio ("affected
assets") at real estate developments; (d) introduction o f efficacious means of inspection and
making feasible the continuity o f the construction works in case o f the developers' bankruptcy;
(e) simplification o f the tax over the revenues o f Patrimonio de Afetaqiio, through the creation o f
the Special Tax Regimen (RET - Regime Especial de Tributaqiio); grouping federal taxes in a
single tax aliquot; and (f) regulation o fthe solution o f controversial legal disputes.

11.      In addition, the Govemment instituted legal reforms which allow lenders to securitize
their housing loans, facilitate the creation o f private securitization companies, and establish legal
framework for capital market instruments (CRI) for mortgage derivatives. Trust Letters for the
repurchase o f CRI's - Certzjkados de Credit0 Imobilibrio - were created by Res.3155/2003 o f
the National Monetary Council (CMN), aimed at increasing the liquidity o f these titles,
improving the security o f credit holders, and stimulating the expansion o f a secondary mortgage
market. Finally, Laws 11.053/04 and 11.033/04 facilitate the development o f mortgage securities,
including tax incentives for mutual and pension &nds to purchase long term securities, in
addition to implement income tax exemptions for retail investors holding SFI paper (LH, LCI,
and CRI).

12.      With the objective o f developing and expanding the market, the Government intends to
continue improving the regulatory framework, presenting proposals to reduce the judicial risk o f
the housingcredit contracts and promote the establishment o f a data bank for consumer protection
(positive cadastre) aiming at the housing sector clients. Inaddition, the Government intends to
study the potential to develop risk insurance and to work with the Judiciary to analyzejointly the
specific conditions o f the housing market and to assess the needto enforce the contracts as a vital
measure for the market to flourish.

13.      The consolidation o f the macroeconomic stability and the microeconomic reforms that
have been implemented already contribute and will certainly create an environment more
favorable to a larger participation o f the private banks in housing finance, making it more
interesting for the financial sector to lend for housing relatedproducts.

14.      During this period o f consolidation of reforms in the sector, the long-term housing
finance will require adequate regulation and protection.. The two segmented markets that account
for more than 75% o f the hosing market include SPBE and FGTS. The first has been providing
around 25% o f housing loans. Funded by tax free saving accounts, SBPE system (Sistema
Brasileiro de Poupanca e Emprestimo) has at its disposal a large volume o fresources which have
been partially oriented for housing loans. Given the relatively lower profitability o f such credits,
and sill limitedrole of the private banks inthat segment, the Monetary Council has determined an
increase in the application o f funds to housing loans as well as the monitoring mechanisms to
ensure that banks follow those rules. We believe that inthe medium-term, this system would n o
longer be needed, when the conditions will allow its integration in the full market system. More
recently, Resolution 3.259 o f January 2005 has established an adequate degree o f allocation to
housing finance in line with the sector capacity to produce housing units while defining the
incentives to finance l o w income groups and low housing value.

15.      FGTS (Fundo de Garantia do Tempo de Serviqo) will remain an important source o f
financing for social housing probably even ina longer horizon. It accounts for more than half o f
total housing exposure and it i s the intention o f the Government to focus it to low income
populations while maintaining its profitability and security. In the recent past, the FGTS have

                                                    50

improved management procedures, notably by including explicit upfront calculation of the cost
and risk to lenders of the FGTS interest rate subsidy program differentiated by income group
(Resolution 460, CCFGTS). In addition, it determined that, by 2008, all FGTS resources will
benefit households earning less than 10 minimumwages, increasing in2005 the amount o f credit
available for households earning less than 6 MW.

16.      In the short term the Government will remain committed to ensure an efficient
management of the FGTS, in its double role of provident fund and source o f housing finance,
looking for alternatives that promote the use of these resources by a wider group of financial
institutions.


Improvingthe Efficiencyof HousingSubsidies

17.      For the first time, the Government has created a program o f upfront subsidies. The
Social Housing Program (PSH) has been very successful. It i s a transparent upfront subsidy
program financed from Federal budget resources (OGU) which includes a system of public
auction in the allocation of its resources with the objective of expanding the universe of
participating financial institutions and which has been improved over time. Improvements
recently undertaken include, inter-alia, the expansion of the universe of participating financial
institutions. Other mechanisms are being studied to create a more competitive environment for
alternative lenders and products by (a) establishing an improved system of pre-qualification o f
lenders and other agents, including local public sector companies and (b) further improvement of
the technical accreditation process to reduce the risk of underbiddingand possible unfairhllegal
practices.

18.      In the very near future, the Government will continue its efforts to rationalize and
coordinate subsidy programs. The harmonization of very different programs such as the subsidies
of FGTS, PAR, PSH and others should address questions related to benefits by income level,
procedures to access subsidy funds, and others. As recent innovation, we mention the approval of
Resolution 460 o f the Board of Directors of FGTS which established a new policy of FGTS
upfront subsidies with an allocation of R$1.2 billion for 2005 with well-defined criteria for the
selection of beneficiaries and inclusion of the subsidy component for existinghouses.

19.      The near-term agenda includes harmonization of the subsidy framework, improved
targeting of both programs and Preparation of a Framework for the Monitoring and Evaluation
system of the Housing Program o f the Government, with particular attention to the Subsidies
component.


Reducethe Cost of Formalityand ImproveSupply of UrbanLand

20.      Constraints to an adequate land supply, especially at affordable prices for low income
people continue to be a major problem in attempting to provide universal shelter. Aspects o f the
legislation itself, as well as registry system, impede the action of the Federal and the local
governments to provide formal land on-time. The Government has championed the public
consultation process and supported the drafting o f a new land law, known as the Law o f
Territorial Responsibility, which aims to promote advances based on the new legal framework o f
Estatuto da Cidade,becoming the newregulatory framework for the production and regulation of
urban settlements inBrazil.

21.      Moreover, the Government has launched a program to support the development o f
strategic municipal plans including: (a) the development of a toolkit for the preparation o f master

                                                 51

plans within the framework o f the City Statute; (b) the development o f a national database o f
qualified consultants for providing support to municipalities in preparing participatory urban
strategic plans; and (c) providing budget resources to municipalities for the development o f their
participatory urbanplans.

22.     In the medium term, the Government will launch a program of urban integration and
upgrading in the metropolitan areas, where there are 90% o f the informal settlements. Inrelation
to the urban development policy, the Government will include in the National Housing Plan the
policy guidelines to stimulate the use o f urban land, defining the instruments and incentives for
the municipal governments and other agents to reduce the administrative costs to access the
formal housing market and urbanized land.

FinancialAssistanceRequest

23.     The reform agenda and the initiatives described above indicate the strong commitment o f
the Brazilian Government to the housing sector. Inthis context, the Government is grateful o fthe
Bank's participation in the financing o f the reform program described above and the supported
provided through the Development Policy Lending. We wish to continue working with the Bank
in future programmatic loans aimed at the sustainable and equitable growth of the Brazilian
Economy and the provision o f adequate shelter and housing services for most o f its inhabitants.




Sincerely,




Antonio Palloci Filho                                     Olivio Oliveira Dutra
Ministro de Estado da Fazenda                            Ministro de Estado das Cidades




                                                52


I



I

I


I

71
9

1
r;;
0



a





P
Q
Et
5
0
y


crf
c




a
2




             ANNEX4: ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIALIMPACT OFTHE PROGRAM
                                               AND


The proposed loan will support Government policy efforts inthe areas of: institutional reform and
support o f the national housingpolicy; housing finance and market reforms; low-income housing
subsidy policy; and land and urban development legal and institutional frameworks. The reforms
supported in this program are intended to increase access o f poor and moderate income families
to formal sector housing - including finished housing, urbanized land, and the upgrading o f
informal settlements. These are all actions that would have potential substantial positive
environmental and social impacts. A rapid environmental and social assessment o f the main
issues addressed inthe PDPL was commissioned inaccordance with the new OP8.60. A summary
o f the findings i s presentedhere.
EnvironmentalLegalandInstitutionalFramework

Brazil's legal and institutional framework conceming the environment i s substantially advanced
compared with many other developing countries and i s adequate for regulating and reviewing the
kind o f localized environmental impacts that are associated with urban development and housing
policies and programs.

The Federal Constitution establishes the legislative and administrative competencies regarding
the natural environment, providing for (i)    the Union to legislate general environmentalnorms of a
national interest; (ii) the states to legislate norms o f state level interest; and (iii)
                                                                                       municipalities to
legislate norms o f local interest. States and municipalities, therefore, have competency to legislate
over environmentalmatters, provided that such legislation i s not inconflict with federal law. The
Constitution further requires, inparagraph 1o f Article 225 that any public works or activities that
may cause significant environmental degradation must first be subject to a study o f the
environmental impacts, thus laying the basis for the environmentallicensing process.

Federal law 6.938 o f August 31, 1981 established the National Environmental Policy (PNMA).
The law was regulatedby DecreeNo. 99.274 of June 6, 1990 (altered in 1991and 2001). Among
the preventive instruments established in the policy, and o f relevance to the urban and housing
sectors, are the establishment of environmental quality parameters, environmental zoning and
assessment o f environmental impacts. This law also defined the National Environmental System
(SISNAMA), together with the institutionsresponsible for protecting environmental quality:


     0    Ministry o f Environment, responsible for planning, coordinating, supervising and
          controlling environmentalpolicy at the federal level;
     0    The Brazilian Institute o f Environment andNatural Resources (IBAMA);
     0    State institutions responsible for controlling and overseeing activities that can cause
          environmental degradation; and
          Municipal organizations or institutions to control and oversee activities that can cause
          environmental degradation at the local level.

Environmental licensing i s the most relevant instrument for environmental management at the
local level. The National Environmental Council (CONAMA) edited resolutions No. 237 o f
December 19, 1997, altering Resolution No. 001/86, in order to more systematically treat the
environmental licensing process. This defines works and activities that are subject to
environmental licensing. Among those relevant to the housing and urban development area are:



                                                   68

land subdivision, treatment and disposition o f urban solid waste, activities related to water and
waste water services. While the institutional and legal frameworks are adequate, inpractice there
are often conflicts between jurisdictions and capacity, particularly at the local level varies from
place to place. These problems are prevalent in the urban realm, particularly in the approval o f
subdivisions, social housing projects and the regularization o f informal settlements. This i s an
area that requires greater integration and streamlining between the legal and institutional
frameworks governing urban development and environmental licensing. While it i s not the intent
o f this lending program to reform environmental legislation, the programs support o f a public
dialogue on the reform o f the land subdivision law, 6.766.79, provide a good vehicle to promote
greater integration o f environmental and urban development legislation.



Identified Potential SociaVEnvironmental Issues

A brief assessment o f the environmental and social impacts of the project identified a number o f
areas o f potential risk and weaknesses in as regards environmental and social impacts. The
proposedproject addresses these insystematic way.
Policy Area 1:HousingPolicies and Institutions

Disarticulation of Programs: There i s an historic disconnect between housing programs and
urban development policies and instruments such as territorial planning, municipal zoning and
environmental programs. This can result in construction o f social housing projects in inadequate
areas, such as in environmentally sensitive areas. Inaddition, it has been identified that there has
been an historical disconnect between programs in solid waste management, urban transport,
water supply and sanitation and housing. This can result in the development o f housing that may
prevent low-income beneficiaries o f government housing programs from enjoying the full
benefits o f urban life, with housing often being built far from transport networks and sources o f
employment, for example. There have been advances, however, to mediate these potential
negative social and environmental impacts, several o f which are supported by the PDPL. These
include: creation o f the Ministry o f Cities, the promotion o f good planning instruments as those
identified in the City Statute and technical assistance to municipalities to formulate integrated
planning actions through Planos Diretores and Municipal Housing Plans. The Technical
Assistance Loan, that i s associated with the PDPL envisages actions that would lead to the better
integration o f the various secretariats within the Ministry o f Cities, including transport, water
supply and sanitation, housing and urban development. The national housing policy, to be
monitored through the National Housing Plan, articulates the need for such improved integration.
There i s a risk that still exists, however. The Ministry of Cities i s a new ministry. Its current
structure which segregates housing, urban development, sanitation and transport into separate
secretariats does not facilitate the needed integration and the PDPL could take extra effort to
better integrate these secretariats, especially in the reformulation o f the land subdivision law
which has direct impact on the urban development and housing secretariats, inparticular.

Fragmentation between Levels of Government: Urban and housing policies are generally
fragmented between levels o f government and there i s a need to bring greater harmonization
among these various levels. This i s partly a legacy o f a long period in Brazil's history o f not
having defined housing and urban development policies at the national level. The lack o f
integration among levels o f government has contributed to the low level o f impact o f social
housing programs in Brazil, and a likely poor allocation o f scarce public resources in the sector.
The National Housing Policy addresses these issues by attempting to develop synergies between



                                                  69

federal, state and local policies and to develop institutions, such as National Housing Fund, that
will attempt to establish an appropriate hierarchy o fpolicies and integrationo fprograms.

Weakness in Resource Mobilization: A legacy o f the collapse o f the Brazilian National Housing
Bank (BNH) has been an inability to mobilize resources for social housing and other programs
aimed at improving the living conditions o f the urban poor. The Government proposes to develop
a National Low-Income Housing Fund that would serve as the vehicle to mobilize public (and
potentially private) sources o f funds for housing and urban development programs at the federal
level. The policy calls for a system that would encourage the leveraging of these funds with state
and local resources, and would establish clear rules for accessing the resources available in the
fund.The PDPLwill support that process.


Policy Area 2: Housing Finance Market

The actions to be supported in the Housing Finance Market are aimed at increasing the
availability o f housing finance, the effectiveness o f housing finance and deepening the market for
housing finance, including providing incentives to make existing programs reach lower income
groups, the actions supported inthe PDPL are expected to have positive social impacts.


Policy Area 3: Housing Subsidies

Disarticulation Between Subsidy Programs: One o f the identified deficiencies in the current
subsidy environment, is that there is a greater need to integrate housing programs with national
income transfer and other social programs such as Bolsa Familia, Bolsa Escola and Fome Zero.
The result o f this disarticulation i s continued social exclusion, as it i s implied that housing
programs are not well targeted to the poor. This i s one o f the prime areas to be developed under
the PDPL and the accompanying TAL. It i s recommend that linking housing programs for the
poor with national income transfer programs such as Bolsa Familia, will allow for the better
targeting o f such programs and ensure that the poorest are benefiting. The program aims to
rationalize existing subsidy programs, develop better targeting mechanisms and develop
monitoring and evaluation systems for the existing government programs.

A Lack of Information: The social assessment indicatedthat there i s a lack o f credible information
regarding living conditions to determine if housing programs and subsidies will be targeting the
geographic areas and families in greatest need. One o f the impacts o f this i s that resources may
not be directed to geographic regions with the highest demand for public investment, and thus
continue the current trend o f informal development in certain regions. Historically, for example,
more public housing resources have gone to the south and southeast, at the expense o f the
northeast where housing deficits are considered highest. Developing proper databases will be
important to properly channel public resources to regions o f greatest deficits. The development o f
data bases and monitoring and evaluation systems would be developed under the accompanying
TAL.

Lack of Optimization of Resources: The assessment also indicated that the National Housing
Policy, and its implementation through the National Housing Plan, will be ineffective if scarce
public resources (both financing and subsidy) are not better optimized to allow for greater
coverage o f beneficiaries and to ensure that the poor are properly targeted. Without such
optimization, housing deficits would continue and housing programs would not reach the poorest.
The assessment suggests instruments such as proper local planning would help to optimize
resources for housing programs by ensuring that they are most effectively used at the local level.


                                                  70

The PDPLwould support that, and more, by ensuring that subsidy programs are harmonized and
that monitoring and evaluation systems would ensure that the proper segments of the market are
benefiting from subsidyprograms.


Policy Area 4: Land andDevelopment

Minimum Lot Sizes: The assessment suggests that any debate on Law 6.766179 will need to
balance the elimination of minimum lot sizes, with the constitutional right to dignified housing
and the potential impacts of increased density that an elimination of minimum lot sizes could
induce. However, this should be viewed against the current situation in which many argue that
too onerous o f development standards lead to increases in land prices, a lack o f developed land
for the poor and the resultant process of large-scale informal urban settlements. This i s one o f
many areas of the proposed reforms to the law that will be held to public debate, led by the
MinistryofCities.

Compatibility between Legislation: Environmental legislation i s considered to be further
advanced than the legislation governing land subdivision. Ithas also been noted that conflicts are
inherent in the licensing process of new subdivisions, particularly between state and municipal
jurisdictions, which may disagree on what i s inthe purviewof local authorities and what i s inthe
purview of state authorities. This conflict i s one of the main reasons for the long time it takes to
approve new land subdivisions. This results in unauthorized subdivisions and perpetuates the
problem of informality inurban areas. Revision of 6.766179 will need to resolve these conflicts if
it is to be effective. Likewise, any revised law must resolve the conflicts between environmental
legislation and the regularization of existing informal settlements, many o f which occupy
environmentally protected areas. This will require careful analysis and consensus building as the
law is debated inthe public arena.




                                                  71

             ANNEX5: UPFRONTCASHSUBSIDIESAND HOUSING                          ALLOWANCES39


The most direct mode of finance-linked housing assistance to consumers i s a grant of cash or a
regular cash-payment that lowers the capital or recurring cost of housing. Most other housing
finance consumer subsidies, such as interest rate subsidies and tax subsidies, involve an indirect
process of subsidization, most commonly through subsidizing borrowing for housing. Intheory,
direct grants can be very efficient and non-distorting and can address most of the household
constraints that mightrequire subsidies. Inpractice, however, the implementationof upfront grant
subsidies is muchmore complex.

Subsidizing households through cash grants has several significant advantages over nearly any
other form o f household subsidy. For central banks and finance ministries the transparency of the
subsidy is very important. Ifthe subsidy is a lump-sum,the appropriation is on budget and there
are no future or hidden liabilities to government. Whether lump-sum or recurrent, this type of
subsidy can also be transparent for consumers. The subsidy benefits are clear and it provides the
possibility of greater consumer choice and hence greater efficiency than subsidies through interest
rates or taxes. For housing policy makers, the ease and transparency of targeting cash grants i s
valuable.

For these reasons, most advancedeconomies have moved from providing subsidies to suppliers of
housing and housing finance towards subsidizing consumers directly through cash grants.40This
shift occurred inadvanced economies becausehousing shortages have mostly beenresolved and
the lack of affordability of quality housing is the core issue for the lower end of the market, a
problem that can, conceivably, be more efficiently addressed by cash grants.41Subsidies to the
supply side had already come under political pressure inmany European countries becauseof the
fiscal burdenthey posed during the economic down-turn of the 1970s and 80s and their frequent
regressivenes~.~~Also, during the same period the U S Experimental Housing Allowance Program
provided evidence that in cities (countries) with well functioning housing markets, cash
allowances that increase the housing demand o f beneficiary households were more efficient in
stimulating housing consumption and provision than public housing or other supply-side housing
subsidies, including subsidizing borrowing.43

Chile, a country with a fairly well developed housing finance system in the 1970s but poor
housing conditions and traditional supply-side housingpolicies, built on these insights to develop
a program that would stimulate demand through cash grants rather than provide housing directly.
Its success has made it the envy of many emerging economies, which have tried to emulate its
program (particularly in Latin America), often without appreciation of the prerequisites and
limitations of its application.


39Prepared by Marja C. Hoek-Smit, 2004
40  Few countries have gone as far as N e w Zealand and Australia, where supply side subsidies have
completely disappeared (Kemp, 1997). Inthe UK direct cash grants now comprise more than three-quarters
o f all housing subsidies after mortgage interest tax relief was phased out inApril 2000 (Wilcox, 2000).

41Infact itbegsthe questionwhy a generalincome transfer wouldnotbe more efficient.

42However, the current housing cash grants inmany European countries are often more or equally costly
than the previous supply and demand side subsidies.

43The mainfocus was o n rental housing solutions rather than home-ownership, however. Also, mortgage
Interest Tax Rebates subsidies to beneficiaries were not included inthe experiment.


                                                       72

The major vulnerability o f upfront grant programs that are linked to credit is that they depend on
financial institutions to extend credit to the beneficiaries. This often requires that the state address
some o f the risks and transaction costs related to down-market lending both for mortgage and
consumer or micro-lending, as the case study o f Chile will show.

Some upfront grant programs are tied to additional supply-side subsidies for that reason-e.g.,
assistance with liquidity provisions for small lenders, subsidized finance through non-market
lenders (e.g., Mexico, Brazil) or to non-market based contract savings schemes (Germany).
Depending on their design these hybrid subsidy programs may be less transparent, efficient and
equitable and imbedhigher potential future cost than i s evident from the demand-side component.
The supplemental supply side programs need, therefore, to be evaluated with the same rigor as
the main cash grant program.

The various cash grant programs are discussed in some detail below, including the specific
targeting and implementation issues that frequently arise.


Types of cash grant subsidies

There are many ways a housing grant can be structured. It can be (i) to the financing
                                                                               linked
package, (ii)applied directly to the physical investment. Different types o f cash grants for
housing are often integrated as part o f one subsidy program to reach different types o f
beneficiaries.

1. Lumpsum cash grants linked to financing. The financing package typically comprises a
down-payment, upfront costs and a loan, and, increasingly, some provision for mortgage
insurance. The cash grant can be appliedto any o f these components.

    P Grant towards down-payment, upfront costs, or loan amount. The most common use o f
        cash grants i s for it to pay for part or all of the down-paymentfor a loan or other upfront
        costs such as fees to obtain title and registration o f the land or title insurance and
        mortgage registration. Such a subsidy package i s particularly relevant for households that
        have savings constraints, i.e., first-time home-buyers who have to pay rent and find it
        difficult to save for the down-payment at the same time. It i s one o f the most serious
        hurdles to increase homeownership even in markets where permitted LTV ratios are
        fairly high.44

        Lenders like down-payment grants to reduce LTV ratios, in particular for loans made in
        risky neighborhoods, to make sure there i s sufficient equity in the property to stimulate
        repayment and decrease loss-given-default. Inmost countries where longitudinal data on
        default patterns are collected, the information shows that negative equity in the house is
        one o f the mainreasons for defaults and losses incase o f default.45



44 For example Wachter 1992has shown this for the USA, and Rogozhina, et al, 2003, discuss this for
Russia andHungary.
45 US studies on FHA and regular Freddie Mac and FNMA mortgage data show that approximately 60
percent o f delinquencies can be explained by negative equity in the house. Other main reasons are
unexpected changes inhousehold conditions such as divorce, loss ofjob, etc.



                                                   73

74

         Mortgage insurance often allows a higher loan-to-value ratio which will increase the loan
         amount the borrower can obtain, all things being equal, and therefore increase the house
         price that the beneficiary group can afford. The higher monthly repayments that this will
         entail, can be compensated by combining the grant for the payment for the MIpremium
         with partial monthly repayment as~istance.~'

         There i s an interesting alternative method o f achieving a similar goal when mortgage
         insurance is not feasible for a particular segment o f the market. A cash grant could
         provide for an emergency payment deposit in a blocked account sufficient to pay for a
         number, say six, o f monthly payments. Such a blocked account can be accessed when
         unforeseen and short-term problems (e.g., medical expenses, burial costs, temporary drop
         in income) cause the borrower to miss a payment on the                         This type o f grant
         mechanism protects both lender and borrower by reducing the risk o f default (and
         possible foreclosure). Moral hazard, the fact that the borrower will be less motivated to
         make all payments when she knows that payments will be made up from the special
         account, can be decreased by promising borrowers access to the amount left in the
         account after a specified number o f years plus an additional bonus.50This type o f grant
         support is suitable for both mortgage and micro-finance or consumer-type lending for
         hou~ing.~`

    o Grants towards consumer education. Another type of cash-grant subsidy, and one that,
         like payments for mortgage insurance, benefits both consumers and lenders, i s the
         payment for borrower education. Such education could include boththe ins and outs o f
         obtaining or choosing and maintainingmortgage credit and home-maintenance for first-
         time home-owners.      52


2. Cash grants towards the physical housing investment. A second category o f cash grants i s
applied towards the investment in the house directly and is not linked to debt finance. For
example, Germany pays a cash grant (over eight years) towards the housing investment to all



48 One variant o f this type o f subsidy i s the experimental PSP upfiont subsidy in Brazil. The cost o f
increased credit risk is priced out by the lender (on a competitive basis) and included in an upfiont cash
grant that further includes a down-payment grant to the beneficiary and compensation for the lender's
transaction costs and part o f the interest rate risk. However, the Brazil example also shows that a self-
insurance option for lenders may lead lenders to seek additional guarantees e.g., f i o m municipalities, if the
program targets more risky households than provided for in the subsidy amount, making the subsidy
package non-transparent.

49Experience has shown that it is extremely difficult for a moderate income household to make up missed
payments and that the likelihood o f loan delinquency increases dramatically once a payment i s missed.

50For example to improve or extend the house.
51 A variety o f this type o f subsidy was successfully used in Indonesia as part of a home-improvement
program using small loans. It received funding f i o m a Dutch NGO but was discontinued when program
funding stopped. Inthe U S such type o f "mortgage insurance" was used as an alternative to conventional
mortgage insurance by developers onbehalf o f their clients.
  Experience in countries as diverse as the US and South Africa have shown the benefit o f such input for
both home-owner and lender (Hirad and Zorn, 2001). The Home Loan Guarantee Corporation o f South
Africa (discussed in Chapter 4), a non-profit but non-subsidized mortgage guarantor, has developed a very
hands-on way o f borrower education and immediate counseling upon late-payments, with impressive
results on loan performance.



                                                      75

first-time home-owners, irrespective o f whether or what type o f financing package they have.53In
emerging economies cash grants are frequently used to pay for the provision o f a serviced plot
with or without a house, or for the expansion or improvement o f the house and related services,
with beneficiaries responsible to buildor finish the house with their own savings or sweat equity
or by acquiring credit (which may be facilitated by having property rights and equity in the
property). Experience has shown that it i s nearly always inefficient to provide a complete housing
package to programbeneficiaries without any owner contributions (i.e., beneficiaries do not value
the subsidy at its real cost, and the subsidy i s often larger than necessary).

This type o f subsidy, whether used for upgrading or new housing, makes it possible for those
households who do not qualify for a mortgage loan               --because o f l o w income, uncertain
employment or high asset risk- to still benefit from a subsidy. For that reason, it i s the most
common way o f subsidizing housing for the lowest income urban households in most o f Africa,
Latin America and South Asia. The efficacy o f this subsidy i s seriously hampered, however, by
the lack o f appropriate savings and credit options for this type o f beneficiary group. As we will
see in the cases o f Chile and South Africa below, this leads the Government to provide a larger
subsidy thannecessary, indeedoften a complete house.

TargetingCashGrant Subsidies.

There are many variations in the way cash grant subsidies can be targeted, depending on the
objectives o f the program and the available budget. Several crucial questions have to be
considered:
         i)     Are the quality standards o f the house set too high relative to the goals o f the
                housingprogram?
         ii)    I s the subsidy that i s therefore needed to reachthe targeted income group excessive
                interms o freducingthe number o fhouseholdsthat canbereachedeachyear?
         iii) Can households trade off different quality components of the housing bundle
                withinthe subsidy amount?
         iv)    H o w much leveraging o f household's own resources i s inducedrequired by the
                program?
         v)     H o w does recipient behavior compare under cash grant subsidy programs with
                different housing standards (a finished house, a progressive house)?

For many cash grant and allowance programs, the quality and locution standards to which the
house has to comply are set too highrelative to the income level o f the beneficiary group, which
increases the size of the required subsidy and hence the number o f households that will be able to
participate. Also, deep subsidies often increase the discrepancy between those who are eligible
for the subsidy and those who are above the cut-off point. This will often result in households
misstatingtheir incomes to gain access to the program and vertical inequities.

On the other hand, if standards are set too low relative to incomes and loan capacity o f the
targeted group, the subsidy tends to replace the beneficiary's own contribution and much of the
subsidy amount effectively increases overall consumption other than housing. Lastly, the
locational and quality restrictions or simply the lack o f housing choice in such programs may
introduce a larger gap between the value to the beneficiary and the cost o f the subsidy,
discouraging participation inthe program.


53 InPoland, home-improvement expenditure could be written off completely and directly fiom income
taxes, a close equivalent of a cash grant. This system was however misusedandhas been discontinued,



                                                     76

The other important issue i s whether the program should reach all or only a proportion of
qualzfiing households. For example, in Germany the investment grant applies to all first-time
homeowners, a truly universal program. Housing allowance programs in Western Europe have
traditionally been structured as entitlement programs that benefit all qualifying households below
a specific income c~t-off.'~In most emerging economies with a finance-linked cash grant
program such as Chile, Costa Rica, and Ecuador, the subsidy i s restricted to moderate-income
first-time owners and new houses (and frequently to families with children) and the proportion o f
qualified beneficiaries that will receive a subsidy each year i s limited. The criteria used to select
beneficiaries often include both need-based indicators and those that show a willingness by the
beneficiary to contribute equity (e.g., time on the waiting list, household size, current housing
situation, savings amount and characteristics, and other indicators o f owner contributions).

Priorities can also be set on a locationalbasis using criteria such as local government willingness
to adjust regulatory requirements to suit moderate-income housing development, existence o f
neighborhood organizations or neighborhood improvement plans, etcetera."

ImplementationIssues

Programs differ in the way the finance-linked cash grants reach the beneficiaries, either directly
(as a voucher) or through lenders or developers. A truly demand side subsidy would be provided
directly to beneficiaries, allowing them to look for a qualifying house o f their choice amongst
those offered in the marketplace and then select a participating lender to get a loan. However,
such a system can only work when a sufficient supply o f housing o f the relevant quality i s
developed in the targeted market (may be as a result o f the grant program) and lenders have
incentives to make loans to the beneficiaries. Unfortunately, this i s often not the case, not even in
the efficient housing markets o f advanced economies.

So how do "direct demand" cash subsidies inmost emerging economies reachthe consumer? The
subsidies are frequently allocated through lenders who inturn make agreements with developers
to build houses o f a certain price that pre-qualified households can afford with the subsidy.
Alternatively the grant goes directly to the developer, who may be a private or non-governmental
entity, and who selects the beneficiaries and often pre-approves them for a loan with a lender with
whom they have an agreement. Costa Rica developed an effective network o f non-profit
developers that organized low-income households to build projects and offered construction
finance. Yet another alternative i s that NGOs will help organize beneficiary demand and screen
applicants before they seek out a lender or developer. Investment grants in the form o f serviced
plots will naturally go through municipalities or NGO intermediaries who allocate the "grants".

As a consequence, the size o f upfront grants, the income groups to be reached and the quality
standards o f the house or house-prices are frequently a matter o f negotiation between
government, and developers and lenders. Ineffect, the finance-linked grant is transformed into an
investment grant to developers and lenders and the allocation process becomes less transparent.


              ~~




54 The U S rental housing allowance program i s not designed as a universal program and subsidizes only
approximately 30 percent of all qualified households. InEuropean countries such programs are more often
designed as universal/ entitlement programs.

55 The allocation of non-finance-linked investment grants applied to serviced plots or core houses are
typically done through waiting lists kept by municipalities or by a combination of non-governmental
institutions (NGOs)and community-based organizations (CBOs).


                                                   77

Since developers generally do not have to compete for the grants when these subsidies are
considered "demand" subsidies to beneficiaries, this system can easily lead to inefficiencies, with
much o f the subsidy going to intermediarie~.~~Mexico and Ecuador are examples o f such
targeting systems, while Brazil's hybrid experimental grant program has a competitive bidding
process for lenders who act as allocationagents for the subsidies."

Such allocation systems are usually unavoidable early on in the "direct demand" programs in
emerging economies, because developers will simply not produce low-income housing without
full upfront subsidy commitments.'* And even in countries like Chile, that have long-standing
cash grant programs, the real consumer driven programs only work for middle income households
and break down for low-income groups. The lack o f supply elasticity for low-income housing i s
problematic even inadvanced economies (Malpezzi and Green, 1996,2003).

The possible negatives o f allocation systems through suppliers are the same as for any supply-
side or product subsidy, i.e., lack o f choice for the individual, lack o f responsiveness to diverse
local housing constraints, non-diverse communities, poor housing quality relative to house price,
and often a general increase inhouse-prices inthe targeted segment.           .Another    frequent outcome
i s that recipients o f the subsidy would have bought the same house without the subsidy had there
been a competitive market. Also, such targeting and allocation systems are frequently excluding
the lower income sections o f the potential beneficiary range.

Ironically, because these cash subsidies are developed and labeled as "demand-side" subsidies,
they do not get the scrutiny they would receive if they would be known as what they are,
investment grants to developers or lenders directly.

One additional implementation issue i s worth mentioning. Since cash grant programs are
designed to expandprivate sector participation inthe moderate income housing sector inresponse
to increased demand, the programs need to be sustained for a long time to build sufficient
confidence for the private sector to invest in systems to cater to a lower income client. A stop-
and-go program will have difficulty doing that. This has fiscal consequences, however.

Below we discuss the experience o f Chile with a cash grant program, not only the achievements
o f these programsbut also the hardwork requiredto make them perform effectively.

Chile's: Upfront GrantProgram

In 1978, the government designed a national housing cash grandvoucher program focused
entirely onJirst time home-owners, to stimulate economic development, alleviate the economic
recession, and improve poor and inequitable housing conditions. The development o f the Chilean




56 Seldom will developers on their own volition propose to build a "minimum" quality house.

57 The result is that most lenders bid for the package with the highest upfront subsidy, Le., for the lowest
income brackets, but have considerable freedom to allocate the subsidy to a higher income bracket.

58 Of course, this would not be a problem if used houses qualified for the program. But then other issues
arise, including fraud by sellers and beneficiaries



                                                     78

upfront voucher program provides a unique case of an upfront cash grant scheme since it shows
the successes, complexities and hurdles of such aprogramas it developed over a 25 year period.59

DescriptionandDiscussion
Chile, a country of 15 million inhabitants which i s 85 percent urban, has a long history of
government support to the housing sector as the main channel for redistributiveor social welfare
activities. Before the 1970s, as in most Latin American countries, this support took the form of
direct government construction of houses for specific target populations, coupled with a tolerant
attitude towards informal land invasions to accommodate the poor.

The military government that took power in 1973 followed a market-oriented approach to
economic development, and the housing sector was viewed as an important vehicle to combat the
escalating economic recession. Compared to most of its neighboring countries, Chile had a fairly
well developed commercial banking system (state and private banks), social security andpension
fund system and capital market. The finance sector was considered capable of playing a major
role inexpanding private housing markets, provided that the government improvedthe regulatory
systemand stabilizedandreformedthe macro-economy. This was the premise o fthe new housing
policy developed in 1977178.

The government improved urban development procedures and rationalized infrastructure
provision and land markets, while also improving property right systems and no longer allowing
low-income households to build unauthorized or squatter settlements. The government instituted
a demand side subsidy program that provided upfront cash subsidies towards the down-payment
for a loan. Households had to contribute their own savings to fulfill part o f the down-payment
requirement and take out a loan from a private lender to purchase a house from a private
developer. It targeted new housing since one of the aims was to stimulate the economy through
the construction sector.

The subsidy was designed to be transparent (all inputs calculated on their PV and included on the
budget), and, although substantial inorder to reach its economic development goal, it was not to
create budget deficits. Subsidies were and still are strictly rationed and only about 20 percent of
those who are "eligible" are awarded a subsidy in a given year. The formula for establishing
priority includes family size, income, current housing condition, and size and term of savings
effort.

The original subsidy program set the maximum value o f the house that could be financed quite
high and applied a "fixed subsidy'' amount. While the market responded well to this program,
most of the vouchers were utilized by upper middle and higher income households. Since the
vouchers were not valid for existing housing, the downward filtering of upper income housing
was limited. By the early 1980s it became clear that private developers were not willing to take
on the risks and difficulties o f developing houses for the low-income segment, nor were lenders
interested inmaking loans to low-income households. As a consequence, the housing situation of
the lower income households became untenable and the upfront grant program was revised. The
maximum value o f the house was lowered, and the government decided to take on a more active
role in the provision o f low-income housing both on the construction and the finance side. The
Ministry of Housing and Urbanism (MINVU) contracted out the construction of low-income


59 This experience i s well documented by the government and external experts and this case analysis i s
based on these sources; The Ministry for Housing and Urbanism (MINVU), Rojas, Greene, Pardo,
Kusnetzoff andBrombergand others.



                                                 79

houses ("Basic Housing Program") and provided supplemental loans to beneficiaries directly.
Low-income households were supposed to finish the roughly constructed houses, which were
often built far away from the city center on cheap land. This program remained in place during
the 1980s and was expanded in 1990by the first democratically elected government (Kusnetzoff,
1987; Rojas and Greene, 1985; Rojas 1999; Cummingsand Dipasquale 1996).

Levels o f new construction during the 1980s and 1990s were well above the level o f new
household formation and the need for replacement o f dilapidated structures and resulted in a
noticeable improvement o f housing conditions o f the population.60 When the need for new
construction decreased, the private sector component o f the program was opened to existing
houses inthe mid 1990s (Rojas, 1999).

Many challenges remained, however. In particular, the government construction and loan
program for the lowest income households performed dismally. Fromthe outset it was plaguedby
highdefaults onthe loans.61

In2002, the government decided to leave the mortgage lending business for the lower income
groups and transfer these responsibilities to the private sector. T o do that successfully, it made
several structural changes inthe program.

    (i)      For the very lowest income groups who cannot save nor carry debt, the government
             provides an investment grant inthe form of a very basic dwelling unit (through local
             governments).
    (ii)     For households who cannot realistically take on mortgage debt, but can contribute a
              small down-payment, a core house i s provided that can be progressively expanded
             (with a value lower than approximately $7500).
    (iii)    For households who can afford a mortgage loan for a house with a maximumvalue o f
             approximately $15,000, a down-payment and loan are required on top o f a
             government cash grant towards the purchasing price (a maximum subsidy o f
             approximately $3800).

To induce banks to make loans to this last group, the government has made agreements with four
(mostly state) banks, providing compensation for transaction costs o f catering

to this group o f low-income customers and partial credit risk guarantees. It i s too early to know
how the new low-income lending program works and whether the banks will be successful in
limitingloan defaults and foreclosing on defaulting loans.

The Unified Subsidy program for middle income households remained the same. In2001 a lease-
purchase scheme was added for households who cannot save for the down-payment (Pardo,
2001). Table 1gives a summary o f all programs.


6o Between 1974 and 1989 approximately 76.5 percent o f all houses constructed in Chile received a
government subsidy (33,000 units per year out of a total o f43,250). Duringthe 1990-98 periodbothprivate
and public sector house construction increased dramatically (a total o f 116,3000 houses were builtper year
during that period o f which 75,000 units received a subsidy)

61 Numerous attempts were made to restructure household debt and forgive outstanding payments, but none
were successful (beneficiaries quickly learned that default was rewarded, not penalized). Rojas (1999)
estimates that 60 percent of the 300,000 outstanding government loans were more than 30 days inarrears in
1998.



                                                     80

   Number of beneficiaries          104,000 households in2002 and 96,700 in2003 were
                                  allocated a subsidy
                                   80,450 and 74,300 actually cashed a voucher (MINW 2003)
                                  Out o fa population o f 15.8 million (2003) and 3.87 million
                                  households (2000) (MIDEPLAN - CASEN 2000).

    Costper beneficiary            Basic Housing Programs:
                                     Subsidy = US$4,860 (159 UF)
                                     (Credit = US$4,584 (150 UF))
  r                                Progressive Housing Program:
                                     Subsidy = US$5,960 (195 UF)
                                     (Credit = 0)
                                 (2003 -MINW)

   Share of state budget         Approximately 5% o f annual government consumption for allocated
                                 subsidies and 4% for disbursedvouchers in2002 and 2003.62These
                                 figures do not include administrative costs o f the program(which are
                                 significant).



Rationale

The major impetus to create the housing voucher scheme was to provide incentives for increased
activity in the private residential construction sector in order to boost the economy. For that
reason the grants were only given for new housing, at least initially.

The second objective was a social redistributive one. The cash grant scheme eliminated the
regressive bias o f the previous subsidies; notably, the largest grants went to the lowest income
groups. It included options for those who do not qualify for a loan to benefit from an investment
grant towards the house.

The third objective was to improve the efficiency o f the private housing and housing finance
market. The cash grant subsidy was chosen to avoid distortions in the broad middle income
market which were prevalent under the old system of interest rate subsidies and direct
government construction. It was accompanied by a long-term strategy of improving the
regulatory environment inthe urbanplanning and financial sectors.

Efficiency

One aspect o f the system that i s immediately noticeable i s its generosity. This reflectsthe fact that
housing i s the major social welfare and redistributive program in the country. The side effect o f
such highlevels o f subsidy i s that they may replace some o f the beneficiaries' own spending on
housing or increase house price levels. There i s also a concernthat the highlevels o f construction
stimulated by the subsidy program may have had a negative effect on land prices. No detailed
study has been done on this issue yet.


62 Average allocated subsidy cost in 2002 i s US$ 4,120 x 103,794 = US$ 427.63 million B23.8 US$/UF.
Average allocated subsidy cost in2003 i s US$ 5,260 x 96,679 = US$ 508.53 million         33.5 US$/UF. For
state budget and government consumption expenditure we used the national sources in current Chilean
pesos converted inUS$ (IMF conversionrates).



                                                    81

The scheme i s efficient in its capacity to leverage household savings and expand private sector
participation in mortgage lending and residential development. This i s only true for the middle
income sector subsidy, however. Indeed, the major inefficiencies are related to the higher than
anticipated government intervention in the lower income segments o f the program. This has
created a fairly low quality, monotonous, segmented and inflexible housing supply that i s lowly
valued by the beneficiaries and the market and decreases the mobility o f the lowest-income
families.

The inefficiencies o f direct government lending which resulted in highunforeseen loan losses, i s
now being addressed. This does not necessarily solve the problems, however. Since most o f the
banks involved in the low-income scheme are state banks, the hidden cost o f government
guarantees may turn out to be considerable.

Equity

The upfront subsidy program, after its first targeting readjustment, i s equitable, both horizontally
(a large proportion o f low and moderate income households receivedthe subsidy over the years)
and vertically (the subsidy increases as the cost o f the house decreases and focuses on the below
median income groups).

On the other hand, the side-effects o f the government lending scheme make the subsidy less
equitable, i.e., defaults in MINW loans become a de-facto subsidy, which i s highly regressive
since those with a loan end up receiving a subsidy that i s 50 percent higher than that receivedby
Progressive Housing beneficiaries, who have no loans and lower incomes (Rojas 1999).

Transparency

The Chilean system i s recognized as one o f the first to emphasize transparency inbudgeting and
in allocation. However, it is not a perfect system, even in this regard, because, in practice, it
utilized hidden and unbudgeted loan subsidies. Government provided subsidized finance and
hidden subsidies related to the refusal to pursue foreclosure, even when the majority o f
households defaulted on their loans. Whether the new system o f paying for the risks and costs o f
lending will solve the problem entirely remains an area o f concern.

The allocation and selection of beneficiaries i s considered to be reliable and transparent, based on
a national list o f applicants and a formula-based scoring mechanism (Rojas and Greene 1995,
Rojas 1999).

Implementation:
For the middle income households, the voucher program works as a true demand-driven program.
After households prove their housingneeds and income levels63and complete a savings plan, they
receive a voucher directly, which they can use for a qualifying house o f their choice, either a used
one or one built by competing private builders. Housing options under the low-income programs,
on the other hand, are allocated through the government and consumer choice i s limited (Rojas
and Greene 1995,Rojas 1999,Pardo 2001).

Lessons



63 Households have to fill out a Social Stratification Survey (Ficha CAS).



                                                      82

The premise of the Chilean upfront grant program was its confidence in the power o f markets,
i.e., its presumed ability to trigger a response in the residential development and mortgage sector
by increasing consumer demand for housing. The policy was realistic in that it understood that
regulatory change in the land management and mortgage finance sector had to accompany such a
program. It also was designed to be long-term to give it credibility with the private sector, and it
was fully transparent in its allocation system. It gradually included more housingoptions beyond
new construction when the main housing shortage had been addressed. And indeed the package
worked well for the middle income groups, albeit that most lending was done through the largest
state owned bank.64

However, the original policy 'was overly optimistic in its assumption that such a model could be
effective for the low-income segment o f the market. And many countries that followed Chile's
example, with less developed financial institutions, learned this same lesson the hard way. By the
time it was realized that the private markets failed to respond to the voucher incentives for
moderate and low-income households, the political and economic situation in the country
required immediate and positive action to correct that. Government took over and predictably, the
housing products were disliked and loans were poorly repaid. Little innovation took place in
housing design and production and schemes to provide alternative types o f credit to lower income
households were never developed. Also, hidden, non-transparent subsidies increased program
costs. Only 20 years later are these being addressed again. But, after the long history of poor loan
performance by that target group, state credit guarantees are demanded by the (state) banks to
take over this portfolio. When the banks gain experience with this type of borrower, the
government can gradually decrease its role.




64 As in most cases when state banks are involved, it is difficult to tell if the dominant role of these banks
inthis part of the market was necessary or ifthe private banks would have eventually come inifthe state
had stayed out. The evidence i s that at least some parts o f this market would be served privately without
state involvement.



                                                    83

                       ANNEX6: HOUSING
                                    FINANCE SUBSIDIESINBRAZIL
                                           AND

  Income Brackets                                Available FinancinglSubsidy

   UpperBracket                             Mediumterm Financingby Developers
                           -            N.Loans: 50,000  IValue $3.5 b      Av. Val. $70,000  I
     Income between
 R$5,000 and R$10,000                  t                                                      I
                                              Free Market LoansMade By Banks                  I
                                                        Interest rate: 20%
   No of         % oftotal                               IValue of      IAverage value
 Families       Population
I  2 M.             5%
   Demandfor Housing       -
50,000 to 10,000 unitsayear           B
                                        Interest rate (TR 12%)
                                        N.Loans:        I Value
                                                          +SBPELoansI
                                                               $           Av. Value $56.000



   Middle Income                                       SBPE Loans (TR 12%)
                                                                        +
                                        Number o f      I Value of Loans   Average value


    Incomes between
  R$2500 and R$5,000                  ,   FGTS Funding for New HousesCostingless than
                                                              R$80,000

                           -            Interest Rate: TR+8.16 to10.16
   No of         % oftotal              N.Loans:          Value: $2.35   I Av. Value $15., 200
 Families       Population
  18-22 M         45-55%

Demand for       % of New                           Consorcio and Corporatives
 Housing         Demand
450,000 to 550,000                      Number of         Value of Loans   Average value
                                        Loans: 40,000     $80,000          $3,200


                                        CEF loansw/FGTS funding(TR+6 -8.16%)
                                        FGTS Upfrontsubsidy of R$1300 to 14,000
                                        Number of         Value of Loans   Average value
                                        Loans
                                        PSHUnfront Subsidy of R$3,000to $4,000 and
                                        FGTS loan at TR 6%
                                        Consorciosand Cooperatives


                                        Self Construction usingmaterialloans 18-30

  Income less than $600                 +PSHparcelamentoupfront       subsidy of R$300-45000
                                          municipalsubsidy for remainer ofhousing value

  200,000/250,000 new




                                         84

                               ANNEX7: LAND       ISSUES  INBRAZIL

Available data on housing and land markets suggest that Brazil's urban land and housing markets
have not been able to keep pace with demand. During the decades o f the 1950s, 60s, 70s and
1980s, urban population growth was rapid, exceeding 5 percent during the 1950s and 1960s, 4
percent inthe 1970s, and over 3 percent inthe 1980s.Only duringthe 1990s didurban population
growth decrease to less than 3 percent. While the supply of housing in cities across the country
has increased dramatically, much of the production is not affordable to low and moderate income
households. Formal sector housing (averaging 35 square meters) sells for approximately
R$20,000 and is affordable to households earning more than four minimumwages-less        than 50
percent o f the Brazilianpopulation [World Bank, 20011.

As a consequence, low- and moderate-income households are forced to seek housing in the
informal sector. Some analysts estimate that more than 80 percent of the housing constructed over
the last 20 years has been informally constructed [IBRD, 2001, page 821. The causes of the land
and housing markets dysfunction are manifold and complex, but unfortunately there has been
little empirical researchto draw on.

Based on the poor performance o f urban land and housing markets, one would expect that
economists and policy analysts would be carefully assessing Brazil's housing market problems
and debating various forms o f public policy intervention. In meetings with housing and urban
planning specialists one finds little awareness of the role that land and housing markets play in
shaping housing outcpmes. No comprehensive economic assessment of the current flows of
formal and informal urban housing supply has beenconducted, nor has any microeconomic-based
policy research on the urban housing sector in Brazil systematically addresses housing and land
market performance. Effective policy dialog must be based on empirical and systematic
assessmentsof urban landand housing markets.

The lack of understanding of the urban land and housingmarket i s a serious impediment to sector
reform. Despite the lack of substantial research, anecdotal evidence points to a series of factors
         .
that impede affordablehousing production:

             Constrained supply of vacant developable land
         ...
         ..  Lack of adequate infrastructure networks to serve vacant land
             Inefficient land and property titling and registration
             Poorly developed and restrictive master plans for urban areas
             Inappropriate zoning and subdivision standards
             Inadequate financial mechanisms for infrastructure investment
             Lack o f competition inthe low and middle income housing development sector

 "Vicious cycle" i s an apt way o f describing how these factors interact to thwart affordable
housingproduction. Insome ways the problem starts with poorly conceived andrestrictive master
plans for urban areas. Federal laws 6766 (1979) and 9785 (1999) established the authority and
process for land subdivision and master plans. These laws constrain the supply o f landthat can be
legally developed, and they make it difficult for developers to produce affordable land
subdivisions. A maior impediment i s the requirement that municipalities establish urban
development perimeters bevond which residential development i s prohibited. This effectively
constraints the supply o f residential land within cities and metropolitan areas. Furthermore
residential development i s limited to those areas with infrastructure. This catch-22 makes
progressive or incrementalresidential development illegal.



                                                  85

Subdivision standards and zoning restrictions make it difficult to build affordable housing.
Restrictions on minimum plot sizes, frontage, and setbacks drive up housing costs. So do
excessive dedicationrequirements for rights-of-way and public facilities.

Another problem restraining land development i s the fragmented process o f land titling and
registration. It i s difficult for owners and developers to secure legal title to land and therefore
encourages illegal subdivisionand property transfers.

The process o f infrastructure provision and financing i s not sustainable. Developers are required
to front end the financing o f residential infrastructure even before they start development. Little
attention i s given to recovering the costs o f infrastructure investments. As a result, infrastructure
costs are not recovered from users and this makes it very difficult for the developer or the
govemment to finance community facilities.

A final problem is the lack o f a vibrant low and middle income housing industry.We found few
examples o f low income housing developers. Apparently, most concentrate on the upper end o f
the income distribution. However, if the GOB begins to allocate credit to low- and moderate-
income households, the private sector will likely seize the opportunity to produce housing for the
low and middle income groups. The transformation o f the Bangkok housing market i s a case in
point [Dowall, 19921.

Based on this assessment, three conclusions can be advanced about Brazil's land and housing
market policy environment:

              0    Brazil's urban land and housing policy is undeveloped and asymmetric: It
                   focuses on housing finance and demand side subsidies, and on the supply side it
                   exclusivelv focuses on slum upgrading and regularization. Current policy
                   overlooks the design and implementation o f strategies to increase low-income
                   land and housing supply. Ongoing policy dialogue needs to be grounded in a
                   strong analytical framework. The policy perspective should be more "macro" in
                   orientation-it  needs to be based on an overall urban development stratem, one
                   that considers not iust housing but also urban economic development and
                   employment creation, environmental and social aualitv o f life as well as housing.
                   Policy interventions should focus on strategies to increase land and housing
                   supply, upgradingo f existinghousingandneighborhoods, as well as demand side
                   interventionstargeted on the poor.

              0    Urban land management reform needs to precede housing finance reform:
                   Because o f the profound constraints in the land and housing market, efforts to
                   increase housing credit must be preceded by land and housing market
                   liberalization reforms. To be effective, such reforms must be preceded by a
                   comprehensive empirical assessment o furban land and housingmarkets.



              0    The existing approach to master planning and land subdivision and zoning
                   regulations do notfoster theprovision of affordable housing; Despite the long
                   experience with urban master plans, subdivision regulations and zoning
                   ordinances, most Brazilian cities do not have urban land development policies
                   that are conducive to the production o f low and moderate income housing. The



                                                    86

policies ignore the cost impact o f standards and regulations. Little thought i s
given to the importance o f linking land management policies with the provision
o f land supply for urbanpoor.

Current land and housing policies ignore cost recovery: Most current
government policies on housing for the poor are based on the provision o f
substantial subsidies to households. Little consideration i s given to cost recovery
especially for infrastructure service provision. Several projects we visited did not
include a land titling and registration component to link occupancy and
ownership.




                                 87

               ANNEX8: PROGRAMMONITORINGEVALUATIONEFFORTS
                                                       AND



Obiectives. The Government i s launching a program for comprehensive monitoring and
evaluation o f the National Housing Policy to be supported by the TAL which accompanies the
proposed DPL. The monitoring and evaluation activities seek to support the National Housing
Policy o f Brazil (Politica Nacional de Habitaqiio, or PNH) in designing and implementing a
results based monitoring and evaluations system aimed at: (i)    assessing housing needs at the intra
municipal level to facilitate the identification o f the target population in each municipality, (ii)
monitoring implementation and service delivery of PNH's various programs, for quality control,
accountability and legitimacy purposes, and (iii) assessingofprogram effectiveness and efzciency
via impact assessment and cost effectiveness studies.

The Monitoring and Evaluation System o f Brazil's National Housing Policv. The monitoring and
evaluation system proposed includes four main activities:
        (a) Intra-Municipal Level Housing Needs Mapping to improve the targeting o f PNH's
        programs at the municipal level;
         (b) a Management Information Systemto improveeffectiveness o fprogram delivery;
        (c) Processes Monitoring and Quality Control to ensure accountability and legitimacy;
        and
        (d)Impact Assessment andCost Effectiveness studies.

Intra-Municipal Level Housing Needs Mapping

The objective o f this subcomponent i s to provide a tool to municipal authorities to identify areas
within municipalities that are priority for the implementation o f PNH's programs (PSH, etc.).
The proposal i s to combine census and national household surveys to estimate housing deficits at
the census segment level. This would serve two purposes: First, it would help municipal
governments inprioritizing the implementation o f PNH's programs by targeting geographic areas
in which poor eligible beneficiaries currently reside. Second, by comparing the housing needs
map to the map o f the incidence o f the PNH programs, the federal government would be able to
monitor the targeting performance o f these locally implemented PNH programs. That is,
inconsistencies found between the housing needs map and the actual programs' incidence map
will alert the federal government to inadequate targeting o f the intended beneficiary population
by municipal governments.

Specific activities for this subcomponent include: (i)hiring o f consultants to elaborate the
housing needs map; (ii)  workshop and publications to disseminate results the housingneeds map;
and (iii)hiringofconsultants to develop web page to makemaps available.

ManagementInformation System

The objective o f this subcomponent is to assist the Ministries responsible for the PNH programs
in developing a MIS to gather and process real time information that is crucial for program
management and implementation supervision. Once in place, the system will be able to
instantaneously supply information about various implementation indicators to the program
management teams and policy makers alike. The M I S will be designed to ensure proper resource
use, to facilitate quality control, and to ensure public accountability. It entails the systematic
documentation o f key aspects o f program performance that are indicative o f whether the program




                                                 88

i s functioning as intended or according to some appropriate standard. Thus, the MIS will be
designedto answer questions as, for example:

     0    H o w many individuals (or families) are directly benefiting from the program?
     0    Total number o f families that have applied to the program to date?
     0    Total number o fbeneficiaries receivingprogrambenefits?
     0    Amounts transferred per month and per municipality?
     0    Average time elapsedbetween beneficiary applicationand selection into the program?
     0    Average time elapsed between beneficiary selection into the program and receipt o f
          benefit?
     0    Socio-economic profile o fbeneficiaryhouseholds?

The MIS developed under this subcomponent will gather and process information held by
municipal governments and the financial agencies implementing the various programs under the
PNH. Regular newsletters and reports with detailed information on program delivery information
will be prepared and sent to key policy makers at federal, state and municipal levels. A web site
will also be developed to provide realtime information onprogramdelivery and outreach status.

This subcomponent would support the following activities for the setting up o f PNH's MIS: (a)
the design, training o f staff and implementation o f the MIS system; (b) MIS software and
hardware equipment; (c) system maintenance and updating; (d) operational costs for the first 2
and !h years of the program; (e) training and dissemination workshops for MIS users (including
federal, state and municipal govemment staff and policy makers).

ProcessesMonitoring and Quality Control

This subcomponent seeks to strengthen PNH's efficacy by supporting its programs inthe area o f
quality control audits and the monitoring o f downstream processes to ensure accountability,
legitimacy and transparency o f program execution by establishing effective incentive mechanisms
for decentralized implementation. Therefore, this subcomponent will support the design and
execution o f random audits at the municipal level to check whether beneficiary selection
procedures follow program guidelines, and if beneficiaries are receiving adequate services. A
random sample o f municipalities will be drawn each year. From each municipality, a further
random sample o f beneficiary families will be selected to verify the truthfulness o f their reported
 eligibility, and the quality o f the services delivered. The following questions will be addressed:

          Are those benefited the intended target?
          Are members o f the targeted populationaware of the program, and o f programrules?
          Are necessary program functions beingperformed adequately?
          Are beneficiaries receiving the proper amounts, type and quality o f service?
          Are there eligible targets that are not receiving services?
          Are program resources used effectively and efficiently?
          Are costs per service unit deliveredreasonable?
          Are municipal projects incompliance with requirements imposedby the PNH?
          Are participants satisfied with the services they receive?

 Specific activities for this subcomponent include: (i)hiring o f consultants to design survey
 instruments, sampling strategy, and to implement periodic field surveys in municipalities
randomly selected each year; (ii)      workshop and publications to disseminate results o f the quality



                                                     89

control survey; and (iii) o f consultants to develop program re-design strategies to address
                         hiring
implementation issues identifiedby the quality control survey.


Impact Assessment and Cost Effectiveness studies

An assessment o f program effectiveness and efficiency will be conducted to examine the degree
to which the desired outcomes are generated by the program, and if such outcomes are produced
with the lowest possible costs. Impact assessments cannot be made with certainty but only with
varying degrees o f plausibility. Typically, evaluation studies assess the effects o f social programs
by comparing information about the outcomes for participants and non-participants. The main
objective o f an impact assessment i s to produce estimates o f the net effects o f an intervention,
that i s the impact uncontaminated by the influence o f other processes and events that also may
affect outcome indicators.

The main objective o f an efficiency assessment i s to provide a framework to compare program
costs to outcomes. There are usually two types o f efficiency analysis: (i)     cost-benefit analysis,
and (ii)cost-effectiveness analysis. Cost-benefit analysis requires that program costs and
outcomes be known and valued by a common measurement unit (usually monetary units). When
outcomes cannot be converted to monetary units, cost-effectiveness analysis permits interventions
with similar goals to be compared in terms o f their relative efficiency. To be feasible, cost-
effectiveness analysis requires that several programs (or interventions) are evaluated for impact.
While most administrative costs are captured by the monitoring systems o f the programs
themselves, some non-administrative costs (private or community costs) need to be assessed
through primary data collections.

This sub-component will support PNH's monitoring o f outcomes and assessment o f program
impacts. At a more aggregate level, the project will support monitoring and impact evaluation o f
economic and social indicators, as well as social capital indicators and indicators to measure
municipal level supply o f public services that might constrain program effectiveness. The
monitoring and evaluation o f outcomes at the municipal level will utilize existing and newly
collected data at the municipal level. Existing data sources including the national population
census, and sample data from large national surveys (e.g., PNAD, POF, PNDS, etc.). These latter
will be usedto estimate key municipalindicatorsthrough out o f sample imputationmethods, such
as the methods develop applied in Lanjouw et al.     .The  use o f imputation methods will allow for
the spatial analysis o f poverty and inequality outcomes at the municipal level before and after
program implementation.

At the householdlevel, this subcomponent will support baseline data collection from a sample o f
program participants as well as non-participant households. Program participants included in the
sample will be interviewed right after being selected in to any o f the PNH programs. This will
ensure that sample beneficiary households will be more likely to provide truthful information
when answering the baseline survey, since the probability o f their receiving the program will not
be affected by their answers to the survey. Comparable non-participant households will also be
interviewed.

The data gathered during this exercise will provide baseline information for the relevant impact
indicators. This subcomponent will also support follow up surveys. If possible, the sample o f
non-participant households should be selected from the pool o f applicant households that were
registered, but that were not selected into the program because they did not meet the eligibility
criteria. Surveying these excludedhouseholds will allow for two valuable types of analysis: (i)     an


                                                  90

assessment o f the efficacy o f the beneficiary selection process, by verifying if excluded
households are infact less deprived than beneficiaries, and (ii)
                                                               an assessment o f the impact o f the
program on household level socio-economic indicators via the method o f regression discontinuity
design (see Hahn, Todd and Van der Klaauw, 2001).

Specific activities for this subcomponent include: (i) organization o f a Log-Frame workshop to
identify program outcome indicators to be monitored and for which impact will be estimated, (ii)
hiringo f consultants to develop the monitoring and impact assessment methodologies, including
the design o f survey instruments and sampling strategy, and (iii) workshop and publications to
disseminate results o f the impact assessment and monitoring studies.




                                                91

         ANNEX9:PROPOSED            HOUSING       SECTOR TECHNICALASSISTANCELOAN


To accompany the DPL, the Government has requested Bank support for a Technical
Assistance Loan (TAL) which is expected to be presented to the World bank's Board of
Director's in early FY06. The proposed TAL would support the implementation, monitoring,
and evaluation o f the Government reform program supported by the Programmatic Loan for
Sustainable and Equitable Growth: Housing Sector Reform. The TAL i s expected to be in the
amount o f U$5.05 million.

Proiect components. The proposed TAL would channel Bank financial support to the four areas
o f programmatic support being incorporated under the DPL. The TAL would aim to support the
overall policy reform agenda and, concretely, establish the necessary conditions under which the
Bank could provide investment-linked support to the housing subsidy programs through a sector
investment loan under the Sector Wide Approach (SWAP) beginning in2006. The TAL would be
designed to allow for a large amount o f implementation flexibility to account for the likely
evolution o f the financial sector linked inimitably to Brazil's macroeconomic conditions. Table 1
identifies the anticipated Project components and their associated costs.

                        Table [l]: Components and Financing Sources
                                    Project
Components                                            Indicative       YOof   '    Bank-       YOBank-
                                                         costs        Total      financing financing
                                                        (US$M)                    (USSM)
Component 1-Institutional and Legal                         1.6          32%            1.6        100%
Framework Component
Component 2 - Housing Finance Market                        0.3           6%            0.3           1OO?
Development Component
Component 3 -Housing Subsidiesfor the                       2.4          48%            2.4           1OO?
Poor Component
Component4 -Land and Urban                                  0.7          14%            0.7        100%
Development Component
                                         Subtotal           5.0         100%            5.0        100%
                                  Front-endFee65            0.05         0.5%           -          100%
                                              Total         5.05                        5.0

The four components o f the TAL are:

Component 1: Supporting the Institutional and Legal Framework for Housing Policy (US$ 1.6
million). The TAL would include resources to support the Ministry o f Cities in its internal
reorganization, including the consolidation o f the National Housing Secretariat as the key
technical and policy entity for managing coordinate policy design across the many public sector
actors. The component would finance technical assistance related to the establishment o f the
FNHIS and, critically, to implement a broad program o f capacity building and training for local
officials at the municipal and state level. Because municipalities will be taking on greater


65 The amount o f the front-end fee, which i s financed under the Loan and has been calculated at an amount
equal to 1% of the Loan amount as presentation i s expected in early FY06. However, if the Bank's
Executive Directors approve a front-end fee waiver that applies after July 1, 2005, the Loan amount will be
reduced to reflect the amount o f any such waiver.



                                                     92

responsibilities in the context o f the evolving legal framework, efforts are urgently needed to
strengthen the ability o f local governments to recover costs and manage the basic fiduciary and
technical aspects o f urban development.

Component 2: Housing Finance Market Development (US$O.3 million). The TAL would include
resources to support the improvement o f the legal and regulatory framework for housing loans,
including incremental reforms to the existing housing finance system, the further deregulation o f
the SBPE, and overall strengthening o f the market-based Housing Finance System (SFI). While
the reform agenda i s broad and complex, and the sector actors have initiated a number o f studies
and technical reviews, the Government has requestedthat the TAL activities be highly focused on
(a) efforts to disseminate information about the importance o f a credible regulatory and legal
framework for housing finance among a broad audience which would include the judiciary and
members o f Congress; (b) a technical review o f the issues related to the development o f a
functioning credit insurance market; and (c) a strategic study, by independent consultants, o f the
medium-term future o f FGTS. The TAL activities would complement other Government
technical work on a number o f issues, including: (a) the development o f new legal and financial
instruments for promoting greater primary and secondary market development; (b) the transition
and fiture deregulation o f SBPE, and (c) efforts to support the drafting o f housing-specific
consumer protection legislation, including a short study tour to the United States and/or Western
Europe where such efforts are also underway.

Component 3: Housing Subsidies for the Poor (US$ 2.4 million). The focus o f technical
assistance activities as relates to housing subsidy policy would be the rationalization o f the
Government's various subsidy programs and the establishment o f effective targeting, monitoring,
and evaluation mechanisms. Activities to be supported include (a) technical assistance for subsidy
harmonization and regularization across the various subsidy programs (including Federal budget
or OGU resources, off-budget financing, and FGTS programs); (b) the establishment o f a tiered
system o f monitoring and evaluation, including regular monitoring o f subsidy programs as
regards targeting, impact, unit costs, the performance and compliance o f financial intermediaries,
and which would address both real-time needs and medium-term living standards impact; (c)
demand-side technical assistance to local communities/local governments for structuring and
packaging requests to the PSH; (d) a series o f outreach and dissemination activities as regard
national subsidy programs to improve understanding at the local level; and (e) technical
assistance to improve the targeting o f subsidies, including studies and analysis for the
establishment o f a system for poverty categorization that i s more reliable than the current system
o f self-declaration and i s consistent with Bank and Government experience.

Component 4: Land and Urban Development (US$ 0.7 million). Technical assistance under this
Component would be aimed at (a) federal-level research, monitoring, and evaluation o f the
remaining policy and regulatory efforts for urban development and land subdivision; (b) support
for the Ministry o f Cities' program to strengthen local governments in their efforts to achieve
``gestcoplena," the accreditation o f their institutional capacity which allows them to take the lead
in local urban development policy setting and implementation; and (c) the development of a
series o f toolkits to facilitate the implementation o f the policy innovations supported by the DPL,
including toolkits for progressive housing development, the preparation o f Planes Diretores
(local master plans), and demand-side organizationfor housing subsidy programs.

Kev Indicators. The key indicators o f TAL implementation are directly related to (a) the
implementation o f capacity building; (b) the Govemment's overall policy trajectory; and (c) the




                                                   93

use o f information and knowledge generated by the TAL in redesigning and refocusing the
Government's policy initiatives. Among the key indicators are:


OverallIndicators
   0     Subsequent Housing DPL triggers are met (as far as they are supported by the TAL)
   0    Program implementation, monitoring, and evaluation based on the results o f the
         analytical and technical work of the TAL
Component 1-Institutional andLegal Framework
   0    Preparation o f a draft law for the National Housing Policy
   0    Finalization o f the NationalHousing Plan
   0    Preparation o fthe comprehensive regulations for operation o f the FNHIS
Component 2 -HousingFinanceMarket Development
   0    Workshops held to discuss housing market credibility withjudiciary and legislators
   0     Strategic study on the future o fFGTS completed
Component 3 -Housing Subsidiesfor thePoor
   0    The Government has prepared a program for the harmonizationo f subsidies, including
         federal budget and off-budget resources (including FGTS).
   0     Establishment o f the subsidy monitoring and evaluation system
Component 4 -Land and UrbanDevelopment
   0     Preparation o f toolkits for cadastre andregistry development


Lessons learned and reflectedinthe project design

The experience o f the World Bank and other donors in housing and urban development, and in
TA projects, generally, suggests a number o f key lessons incorporated inprogram design o f the
TAL:

   0     Firstand foremost, the synthetic nature ofthe housingand urban sectors requiresjoining
         reform in a range o f areas to be effective, including credit and household savings,
         subsidies, and the broad urban development agenda. At the same time, selectivity i s
         important, and both the TAL and DPLs focus on what the Government and Bank team
         consider to be the most important issues in developing a robust housing system. For
         example, despite the complexities o f urban land development issues in Brazil, the
         Government's approach to focus on reducing the cost o f formality for the poor and
         improving land subdivision, regularization, and infrastructure development i s a critical
         area o freformwith the necessary political support to take immediate action.

   0     Second, the decision by the Government to pair housing-related DPLs with targeted
         technical assistance reflects both the commitment o f the Government to support the
         strengthening o f the housing sector institutions - and particularly the Ministry o f Cities
         National Secretariat for Housing - and the interest in maintaining Bank involvement
         through hands-on technical assistance.

   0     m,housing        subsidies function best inthe form o f grants made under a unified subsidy
         system that meets criteria for efficiency and equity, and the Government's reforms inthis
         area have made major strides in achieving this. When markets function, these grants best
         take the form o f portable vouchers that households join with their own down payment
         and a market-rate loan to buy the home o f their choice. When distortions disrupt markets



                                                   94

 -the caseoflow-incomehouseholds,ingeneral,andmanymoderate-incomehouseholds
 - reforms that facilitate supply (e.g. organizing households into groups for projects,
  making available serviced lots, and strengthening property rights) are just as important
  and a pre-requisite for the effective hnctioningof subsidy programs.

0 Finallv, in technical assistance operations, it i s important to have flexibility in the
  allocation o f funds. To this end, the TAL has been designed to offer the sector actors
  flexibility duringimplementation.




                                           95

                               ANNEX10: IMFRELATIONSNOTE


Press Release No. 05/67
March 28, 2005

InternationalMonetary Fund
700 19thStreet, NW
Washington, D.C. 2043 1U S A


1. STATEMENTBYIMFMANAGINGDIRECTORRODRIGODERAT0ONBRAZIL


Mr.Rodrigo de Rato, ManagingDirectorofthe InternationalMonetaryFund(IMF), madethe
following statement today:

"On March 21 the Executive Board o f the IMF completed the tenth and final review of Brazil's
performance under the SDR27.4 billion (about US$41.8 billion) stand-by arrangement, which
was originally approved in September 2002 (see Press Release No. 05/64) and i s scheduled to
expire at end-March 2005. The Brazilian authorities and Fundstaff and management havejointly
considered the future form o f relations between Brazil and the IMF. In light o f the sound
macroeconomic and institutional framework in place, the government's commitment to pursuing
further reforms, and a balance o f payments position much stronger than earlier anticipated, the
Brazilian authorities have decided not to request Fund support under a successor arrangement.
The IMF staff and management fully support the authorities' decision.

"The decision by the authorities reflects the impressive results, generally ahead o f expectations,
of Brazil's macroeconomic stabilization and reform policies that have been supported by the
current arrangement. Underpinned by these policies and a favorable global environment,
economic activity has rebounded strongly in 2004, led by robust growth in private consumption
and a sharp recovery in investment, bringingreal GDP growth to over 5 percent-its highest level
since 1994. External performance has been remarkable, with the trade and current account
balances close to record surpluses at present, and net intemational reserves rising to more
comfortable levels. Moreover, inflation i s being reduced steadily under the inflation targeting
framework. A consistently strong fiscal performance has contributed to reducing the level and
improving the structure o f public debt and has greatly assisted in preserving macroeconomic
stability, while private sector efforts to strengthen balance sheets have led to a marked decline in
external indebtedness. These developments have significantly lessened economic vulnerabilities
and bolstered confidence in the economy. The authorities are committed to continuing with their
r e f o m agenda, and further steps to strengthen public finances, through reforms on the social
security system, havejust been announced and are welcomed by IMF staff and management.

"The Brazilian authorities and the staff and management o f the IMF look forward to continuing
with the close and cooperative policy dialogue between Brazil and the IMF through the usual
channels o f surveillance and post-program monitoring."

Public Information Notice (PIN) No. 05/41
March 25, 2005




                                                  96

Intemational Monetary Fund
700 19th Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20431USA


2. IMFEXECUTIVEBOARD CONCLUDES2005 ARTICLE I V CONSULTATION
    WITH BRAZIL


Public Information Notices (PINs) form part o f the IMF's efforts to promote transparency o f the
IMF's views and analysis o f economic developments and policies. With the consent o f the
country (or countries) concemed, PINs are issued after Executive Board discussions o f Article IV
consultations with member counties, o f its surveillance o f developments at the regional level, o f
post-program monitoring, and of ex post assessments o f member counties with longer-term
program engagements. PINs are also issued after Executive Board discussions o f general policy
matters, unless otherwise decided by the Executive Board ina particular case.

On March 21, 2005, the Executive Board o f the Intemational Monetary Fund (IMF) concluded
the Article IV consultation with


                                               BACKGROUND


Since the 2002 crisis, and in the context o f a favorable external environment, strong
macroeconomic policies and the pursuit o f ambitious structural reforms have restored
macroeconomic stability and fostered favorable conditions for growth. Highprimary surpluses-
reaching 4.6 percent o f GDP in 2004-have            helped to improve debt sustainability. The ratio o f
net public debt to GDP fell from 65.5 percent at end-2002 to 54.5 at end-2004, while the structure
of the debt has improved, with a marked reduction in the share o f foreign-currency-linked debt.
Cautious monetary policy kept inflation within the target bandin2004 despite supply shocks, and
inflation i s set to continue on a declining path this year. The passage o f several important
reforms-including       tax and pension reforms and bankruptcy legislation-has                strengthened
confidence and improved the business climate.

The resulting decline in vulnerabilities and rising confidence have helped to fuel a strong
economic recovery. GDP growth was 5.2 percent in 2004, and employment grew by 3.2 percent.
The recovery has been aided by a very strong export performance, which has led to a record
current account surplus o f almost 2 percent o f GDP. However, domestic demand also rebounded
significantly during 2004, helped by declining real interest rates from mid-2003 and reforms
facilitating access to credit. With capacity utilization close to peak levels and rising business
confidence, investment rose by 11percent in2004.




66 Under Article IV o f the IMF'sArticles o f Agreement, the IMFholds bilateral discussions with members,
      usually every year. A staff team visits the country, collects economic and financial information, and
      discusses with officials the country's economic developments and policies. On return to headquarters,
      the staff prepares a report, which forms the basis for discussion by the Executive Board. At the
      conclusion o fthe discussion, the ManagingDirector, as Chairman o fthe Board, summarizes the views
      o f Executive Directors, and this summary i s transmitted to the country's authorities.



                                                      97

Financialmarket conditions are currently the best inmany years. Sovereign spreads have fallen to
around 400 basis points, the real has been appreciating, and strong capital flows have allowed the
central bank to rebuild international reserves. The government has already funded about three
quarters o f its US$6 billion extemal issuance requirements for 2005.

The health o f the banking system has continued to improve over recent years and progress has
been made in strengthening financial sector supervision. Overall, banks are well capitalized and
profitable and capital adequacy ratios are high by international standards, although financial
institutions remain significantly exposed to the public sector. The system withstood the pressures
stemming from the intervention o f Banco Santos inNovember well, partly aided by the prompt
actions taken by the central bank.


EXECUTIVE      BOARD  ASSESSMENT


Directors welcomed Brazil's impressive economic achievements over the last two years, and the
remarkable track record o f performance under the Stand-By Arrangement, which reflected the
authorities' continued pursuit o f strong macroeconomic policies and steady progress with
structural reforms. Helpedby a generally supportive extemal environment, these policies have led
to a significant transformation o f the economy, which has resultedina strong economic recovery,
income and employment gains, a declining public debt burden, andrising internationalreserves.

Directors pointed out that despite these successes, vulnerabilities and challenges remain. They
noted that public debt was still high and sensitive to global financial conditions. Moreover,
Directors stressed the need to persevere with structural reforms in order to boost long-term
growth prospects, critical to addressingpersistent poverty and inequality.

Directors observed that the inflation targeting and flexible exchange rate regimes had worked
well inrecent years and commended the authorities for their skillful conduct o f monetary policy.
They considered that, in light o f the supply-side shocks faced by Brazil over the past year, the
reduction o f inflation to within the target band in 2004 was a substantial achievement. Directors
supported the central bank's emphasis on keeping inflation on a downward path, and its cautious
approach in the face o f sticky inflation expectations and persistently high core inflation. They
observed that the challenge for the central bank i s to bring inflation down further while
minimizing the impact on growth. In this regard, they noted that the recent appreciation o f the
real together with rising interest rates and the moderating pace o f activity should contribute to
slowing inflation inthe coming months. Directors generally shared the view that the effectiveness
o f monetary policy would be enhanced by the passage o f legislation to provide the central bank
with full operational autonomy.

Directors supported the recent resumption o f foreign exchange purchases by the central bank.
They noted that continuing capital inflows could provide opportunities for further reserve
accumulation, although a deteriorationinexternal conditions could leadto some unwindingo f the
recent build up in real positions. They supported the authorities' continued commitment to a
floating exchange rate regime, and stressed the importance o f allowing the rate to move in the
face o f market forces, while continuing to take advantage o f opportunities to build reserves.
Directors welcomed the recent announcement o f measures to streamline foreign exchange
regulations, noting that carefully sequenced reforms in this area should help to strengthen
integration with the global economy, promote trade openness, and enhance the efficiency o f
capital markets  .


                                                 98

Directors congratulated the authorities for consistently achieving highprimary fiscal surpluses. A
number o f Directors saw merit in a further moderate tightening, which would accelerate debt
reduction while supporting monetary policy and helping to reduce pressures for appreciation o f
the real by lessening incentives for capital inflows. However, other Directors considered that the
fiscal target for 2005 and beyond appeared prudent, while providing room for infrastructure and
social spending. Directors commended the cautious approach taken in the first budget execution
decree for 2005, given that determined efforts would be needed to contain nonpriority current
spending so as to create room for additional spending on infrastructure. Inthis context, Directors
welcomed the progress made under the pilot project to strengthen mechanisms for selecting,
implementing and monitoring public investment, and the recent advances in establishing the
framework for public-private partnerships. A key aspect o f the pilot program will be maintaining
full transparency inthe context o fthe budget.

Directors stressed the importance over the medium term o f fiscal reforms to increase budget
flexibility, so as to provide more room for priority programs. Raising the flexibility o f both
revenue and expenditure and containing entitlement spending would allow for an expansion o f
targeted social spending, facilitate further tax reforms, and reduce vulnerabilities.

Directors welcomed improvements inthe debt structure and agreed with the authorities' focus on
lengthening maturities and reducing the share o f exchange-rate and short-term interest rate linked
debt. Directors also highlighted the need to develop the domestic debt markets further, including
by continuing the dialogue with large institutional investors and reducing impediments to
participationby foreign investors.

Directors pointed to the considerable strengthening o f Brazil's banking system in recent years,
observing that the system had coped well with the failure o f a mid-sized bank in late 2004. They
considered that further steps to strengthen the prudential framework would help the central bank
to deal even more effectively with banking distress, thereby limitingthe likelihood o f contagion
from problems in individual banks to the system as a whole. Directors encouraged the authorities
to promote financial intermediation by gradually reducing directed lending requirements, and the
distortionary taxation o f financial intermediation. Directors also encouraged the authorities to
implement the remainingrecommendations o f the FSSA, and welcomed their intention to explore
an FSAP update.

Directors emphasized that the current environmentprovides a favorable opportunity to address
structural weaknesses inthe Brazilian economy and reduce poverty and inequality. Substantial
progress has been made inrecent years, although structural rigidities and bottlenecks continue to
constrain Brazil's growth potential. Looking ahead, the authorities' reform agenda-including
centralbank autonomy, reform o f the state-level VAT, and further measures to enhance the
business environment4overs important areas. Other critical reforms would include measures to
increasebudget flexibility, address the large remaining imbalances inthe pensions system,
promote financial intermediation, and reduce labor market informality through reforms o f the
labor code, so as to substantially increase flexibility inlabor contracts. Inthis regard, Directors
emphasized the importance o f careful sequencing o freforms and buildingconsensus around
them.




                                                   99

                              Brazil: Selected EconomicIndicators
                                                  2000     2001      2002     2003   2004
                                                        (annual percentage change)

Domestic economy

Real GDP growth                                     4.4      1.3       1.9      0.5   5.2
Inflation(IPCA, end-of period)                      6.0     7.7       12.5      9.3   7.6

                                                        (inbillions ofUS.dollars)

Balanceof payments
Exports, f.0.b.                                    55.1     58.2      60.4     73.1   96.5
Imports, f.0.b.                                   -55.8    -55.6     -47.2    -48.3  -62.8
Current account balance                           -24.2    -23.2      -7.6      4.2   11.7
Capital and financial account                      19.3     27.0       8.0      5.1   -7.3
o/w Foreign direct investment                      32.8     22.5      16.6     10.1   18.2
Current account balance (inpercent o f GDP)        -4.0     -4.5      -1.6      0.8    1.9
Gross reserves to short-term external debt 1/      52.6     56.6      59.7     85.3   94.8

                                                        (inpercent ofnominalGDP)
Publicfinances
Public sector net debt                             51.1     55.1      65.5     58.7   54.5
Public sector primary balance                       3.5      3.6       3.9      4.3    4.6
Public sector overall balance                      -3.6     -3.6      -4.6     -5.1   -2.7

Money and credit
Change inbase money (inpercent)                    -1.5     11.7      37.7     -0.1   21.2
Change inbroad money (M2) (inpercent)               3.3     13.3      23.6      3.7   19.3
Average overnight interest rate (inpercent)        17.4     17.3      19.1     23.2   16.2


Sources: Brazilian authorities and IMFStaff estimates.
1/ On a residual maturitybasis, inpercent.




                                                  100

                                  ANNEX11STATUSOFBANKGROUP                     OPERATIONS


                                                                                                            Differencebetween
                                                                                                            expectedand actual
                                                         Original Amount inUS$Millions                        disbursements

ProiectID FY   Pumose                                  IBRD       IDA      SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb. One.      Fm. Rev'd
PO82328   2005 BR-Integ.Munic.Proj .-BetimMunicipality  24.07      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   24.08    0.00        0.00
PO83533   2005 BR TA-Sustain. & Equit Growth            12.12      0.00     0.00     0.00    0.00   12.12    0.00        0.00
PO87711   2005 BREspiritoSanto Wtr & CoastalPollu       36.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   36.00    0.73        0.00
PO69934   2005 BR-PERNAMBUCO INTEG DEVT:                31.50      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   31.50    0.79        0.00
               EDUC QUAL IMPR
PO60573   2004 BR Tocantins Sustainable RegionalDev     60.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   60.00    7.00        0.00
PO80830   2004 BR Maranhao Integrated: Rural Dev        30.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   30.00    1.92        0.00
PO83013   2004 BR Disease Surveillance& Control APL    100.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   99.50    0.00        0.00
               2
PO87713   2004 BR (CRLl) BolsaFamilia 1st APL          572.20      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00  572.20    0.00        0.00
PO70827   2003 BR-2nd APL BAHIA DEV.                    60.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   42.19   20.68        0.00
               EDUCATION PROJECT
PO49265   2003 BR-RECIFE URBAN UPGRADING                46.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   44.99    6.25        0.00
               PROJECT
PO58503   2003 GEF BRAmazon RegionProt Areas             0.00      0.00     0.00     30.00   0.00   26.31    0.00        0.00
               (A"
PO54119   2003 BRBAHIA DEVT (HEALTH )                   30.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   28.27    6.27        0.00
PO80400   2003 BR-AIDS & STD Control 3                 100.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   91.85    17.15       0.00
PO76977   2003 BR-Energy Sector TA Project              12.12      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   12.12    4.02        0.00
PO74777   2003 BR-Municipal PensionReform TAL            5.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    4.90    4.30        0.00
PO51696   2002 BRSA0 PAUL0 METRO LINE 4                209.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   163.48  126.58       0.00
               PROJECT
PO73192   2002 BR TA Financial Sector                   14.50      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    9.30     6.48       0.00
PO55954   2002 BRGOLiS STATE HIGHWAY                    65.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   34.46    34.12       0.00
               MANAGEMENT
PO57653   2002 BR-FUNDESCOLA IIIA                      160.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00  209.31   -22.78       0.00
PO57665   2002 BR-FAMILY HEALTH EXTENSION               68.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    50.81   38.67       0.00
               PROJECT
PO70552   2002 GEF BR PARANA BIODIVERSITY                0.00      0.00     0.00      8.00   0.00     8.59    5.99       0.00
               PROJECT
PO74085   2002 BRSergipe Rural PovertyReduction         20.80      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     3.13   -1.96       0.00
PO60221   2002 BR FORTALEZAMETROPOLITAN                 85.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00   111.47   57.35       0.00
               TRANSPORT PROJ
PO66170   2002 BR-RGN2ND Rural Poverty Reduction        22.50      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    13.68    6.48       0.00
PO43869   2002 BR SANTA CATARINA NATURAL                62.80      0:oo     0.00      0.00   0.00    59.96   19.11       0.00
               RESOURC& POV.
PO73294   2001 BR Fiscal& Fin. Mgmt. TAL                 8.88      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     6.74    5.78       0.00
PO50881   2001 BR PIAUIRURAL POVERTY                    22.50      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00     8.78    7.45       0.00
               REDUCTION PROJECT
PO59566   2001 BR- CEARA BASIC EDUCATION                90.00      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    71.32  -18.68       0.00

PO50772   2001 BR LAND-BASED POVRTY                    202.10      0.00     0.00      0.00   58.13  151.01  152.74       0.00
               ALLEVIATION I(SIM)
PO50880   2001 BR Pemambuco Rural Poverty Reduction     30.10      0.00     0.00      0.00   0.00    16.65   12.92       0.00

PO57649   2001 BRBahiaRuralPovertyReduction             54.35      0.00     0.00      0.00    0.00    5.02   -1.77        0.00
               Project




                                                               101

                                                                                                           Differencebetween
                                                                                                           expected and actual
                                                      Original Amount in US$Millions                         disbursements

ProjectID FY   Purpose                             IBRD        IDA       SF       GEF    Cancel. Undisb.  Ong.      Frm. Rev'd

PO50875   2001 BRCeara RuralPovertyReduction        37.50       0.00      0.00   " 0.00    0.00    7.26     2.01        0.00
               Project
PO50776   2000 BRNE Microfinance Development        50.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   30.15   -19.85        0.00
PO47309   2000 BRENERGY EFFICIENCY (GEF)             0.00       0.00      0.00     15.00   3.29    9.39    11.17        6.25
PO39199   2000 BRPROSANEAR2                         30.30       0.00      0.00     0.00    6.40   22.29    28.69       22.29
PO06449   2000 BRCEARA WTR MGT PROGERIRH           136.00       0.00      0.00     0.00    0.00   61.27    41.14        4.00
               S I M
PO35741   2000 BRNATLENV 2                           15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   2.32    5.61     7.93        2.29
PO48869   1999 BR SALVADOR URBAN TRANS             150.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00   85.95    85.95        0.00
PO50763   1999 BR- Fundescola2                     202.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    17.29   17.29        0.00
PO58129   1999 BR EMER. FIRE PREVENTION (ERL)        15.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    5.46     5.46        0.18
PO42565   1998 BR PARAIBA R.POVERTY                 60.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    11.16   11.16        0.00
PO35728   1998 BRBAHIA WTR RESOURCES                 51.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    4.03     4.03         0.03
PO06559   1998 BR (BF-R)SP.TSP                       45.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    0.02     0.02         0.00
PO06474   1998 BR LAND MGT 3 (SA0 PAULO)             55.00      0.00      0.00      0.00  10.00    36.98   46.98        21.63
PO38895   1998 BR FED.WTR MGT                      198.00       0.00      0.00      0.00  40.00    54.67   94.61        26.23
PO43421   1998 BR RJM.TRANSIT PRJ.                 186.00       0.00      0.00      0.00  27.78    92.14  120.52         0.00
PO57910   1998 BR PENSIONREFORM LIL                   5.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.50     1.48     1.98        1.28
PO43420   1998 BR WATER S.MOD.2                    150.00       0.00      0.00      0.00 125.00    19.33  144.30         3.78
PO06532   1997 BRFED HWY DECENTR                   300.00       0.00      0.00      0.00  50.00    61.51  111.51      111.51
PO43873   1997 BRAG TECH DEV.                        60.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    15.24    15.24       15.24
PO43868   1997 BR RGS LAND MGTPOVERTY              100.00       0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00     8.79     8.79        8.79
PO34578   1997 BR RGS HighwayMGT                     70.00      0.00      0.00      0.00   0.00    30.09    30.09       30.09
PO37828   1996 BR (PR)R.POVERTY                    175.00       0.00      0.00      0.00  10.00    38.36    48.36       48.36
PO06210   1996 GEFBR-NAT'L BIODIVERSITY               0.00      0.00      0.00     10.00   0.00     1.87     2.59        1.30

                                            Total: 4,325.34     0.00      0.00     63.00 333.42  2,666.68 1,323.62    303.25




                                                            102

                                          15,00    15.00          0.00    74.07    0,00    0.00
                                  55.71    0.00     0.00   OB0   40.72     0.00    0.00    0.00
                                  27.50    0.00    10.00  16.67  27.50     0.00    ZO.OO   16,67
                                   7.21    0.00     0.00   0.00   4.72     0.00    0.00     R B O
                                  50.00    0.00     0.00   0.00  58.00     0.00    0.00    0,00
                                  20.00    7.00     0.00  18.33  20.00     7.00    0.00   1833
                                  22.73    0.00     0.00  17.25  22.73     0.00    0.00   1925
                                   1.24    0.00     0.00   0.66   1.24     0.00    0.00    0.66
                                   1.19    0.00     0,00   1.75   1.z9     0,00    0.00    1.75

                                   0.00   20.00     0,00   0.00   0,00      1.60   0.00    0.00
                                  11.78    0.00     0*00   5.26  11,78     0.00    0.00    5.26
                                  29.04    0.00    20.00  31.59  29.04     0.00   20,00   3139
                                   0.00    0.00     0.00   0.00   0,00     0.00    0.00    0.00
                                   0.00    0.00    40.00   0.00   0.00     0.00   40.00    0.00
                                   0,00    0.32     0.00   0.00   0.00     0.32    0.00    0.00
                                  f 1.50  78.17     0.00   0.00  11.50    18.17    0.00    0.00
                                  4500     0.00     0.00  45.00  12.50     0.00    0.00   12.50
                                   4,69    5.43     0.00   0.00   4.69     5.43    0.00    0.00
                                   0,00    1.12     0*w    0.00   0.00      1.os   0,oa    0.00
                                   0,00   14.90     0.00   0.00   0.00    14.90    0.00    0,00
                                   6.76    0.00     0.00   3.95   6.76     0.00    0,00    3.95
                                  19.20    0.00    13.00   0.00  19.20     0.00   13.00    0.00
                                    5,00   0.00    l0,00   0.00   5.00     0.00   10.00    0.00
                                  25.79    0.00     6.00   0.00   5.79      0,OO   6.00    0.00
                                   5.30    0.00     0.00  21.36   5.30     0,00    0.00   21.36
                                    6.00   0.00    10.00   0.00   6.00     0,00    6.70    0.00
                                    0.94   0.00     5.50   0.00   0.94     0.00    5.50    0.00
                                    0.00    @,PO    0.00   0.00   0.00     8,62    0.00    0.00
                                    9.00   0,ao     0.00   0.00   9.00     0.00    0.00    #,OB
                                  20.99    0.00     0.00  28.74  20.99     0.00    0.00   28,74

                                    0.00  16.00     0.00   0,00   0.00    12.62    0.00    0.00
                                  12.50    5.00     0.00  30.00  12.50      5.00   0.00   30.00
                                  23.62    6.32     0.00  39.75  23.62     6.32    0.00   39.75
                                    0.00    5.34    0*00   0.00   0.00      5,M    0~00    0.00
                                  99.29    0.00     0.00   0.00  71.69     0.00    0.00    0.00
                                    7,57   0.00     7.00   0.00   2.57     0.00    7.00    0.00
                                    2.00   0.00     0.00   0.00   2.00     0.00    0.00    0.00

                                  12.50     0.00   10.00   0.00  12.50     0.00   10.00    0,00
                                  45.25    0.00    10,00  37.50  45.25     0.00   f0.00   3730
                                    0.00    1.25    0.00   0.00   0.00     0.42    0.00    0.00
                                    0.00  36.39     0.00   0,oo    0,RO   46.39    0.00    0.00
                                    8.60   0.00     9.00   0,oo   8.60     0.00    9.00    0.00

                                    2.19    0.00    0.00   0.00    2.19    0.00    0.00    0.00
                                  12.52     5.15    0.00   0.00  12.52     6.45    0.00    0.00


                                    2.67    0.00    0,00   0.00    2.67    0.00    0.00    0.00
                                            0 00   1000            5 on    0.00

                 Part
1987J 1997I 2003 Si" A   ~    ~ ~ 36 67
                                  r    ~ ~ ~0 00a ~ 0 00   0 00  22 67     0 00    0 00    0 00
19941            Sadia              6.11    0 00    3 83  38.74    6.7 7   0 00    3.83   38 74
19951
1997
1997             ~ a m g a f ~      6 30    0 00    0.00   0 00   6 30      0 00   0 00    0 00



                                                  103

2003                                       10.00   0.00   12.86    0.m    m o o    0.m
2000                                       5.00    0.00   11.85    0.00    5.00    0.m
1@%I                                       0.00    o,o0    0.00    15.00   0.00    0.00
2001                                       OB0     0,oa   l5A3     0,00    0,00    0.00
1B 6                                       0.00    0 00    7,92    0.00    0,00    0,00
1998 f 2004                                5 . s   15.52   4 70    0.00    5 50    7.43

2am J ~ B O J                              0.00    4.15    3 30     1.32   0.00    4,15
2004                                       0.00    0.00    5.00    0.00    0.00    0.00
I981I 1987                                 0.00    0*00    0.00    0.00    0.00    a m
2002 I 2003                                o,oa   30.00    0.00     3.00   0.00    0.00
19a8J 1@4/ f 986J                          0.00    0,00   57.18    0.00    0.00    0.00
2002 i 2003 f 2004
1999              wiesr     0 00    0 00    0 00   0 00    0 00     0 00   0 00    0 00
Tgtal Poftfofio:           833.48  344.W  202.83  386.23  $66.18  fB1.74  179.53  319.63

                                     ANNEX13:BRAZIL AT A GLANCE


                                       Brazil at a glance                                                               &`15/04

                                                                 Latin   Lower-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                             America   mlddle-
                                                      Brazil   & CarL.   income      Devcdopmentdlamond'
2003
Powlabon mid-war Imhsl                                 1766        534     2656
GNi p e r q n b (Atlasmehod. USSl                      2720      3.260     1.480                  Life mpcctancy
GNI (Aliasmcthal USSbdfms)                             479 5     1.741     3.934
Average nnnualgrowth. 1997.03
Popllabon6)                                              1 3       1 5       0.9
Laborforce (96)                                          1 5       2 1       1.2
Most recentestimate (latestyear avrulablo. 1997-03)
Fwertyf4 dpcpulabmbolownabonalpowRylmo)                   22
Urbanpopulation(Y dfot8/populalonl                        83        77        50
Life emectancvat birlhIvears)                             69        71        m
lhfantmqtality(mr1CkV&w&#hs)                              33        28        Y
Child malnubition1% ofchrhjrenundr5l                       6                  11          Access to improwd water source
Acc~sstoanimpmvodwdtpr source (% ofpcpuhbm)               a7        86        81
lllltoracy (94 pfpwufeahonsgo7%)                          14        11        10
GmssFimary enrdlmont (s;dschooCagepopulabn)              148       129       112
     Malo                                                153       131       113
     Female                                              144       126

KEY ECONOMtC RATIOSand LONG-TERMTRENDS
                                                1983    1993      2002     2003
GDP USSb U W W                                  203 3  433 3     460 8     4923       ECOnOmlCrafkw

Gmsdan~sbcInwsb-nonVGDP                          167    208       198       20 1
Exp~rtsd p d sand sonicDsXjDP                    114               155                                 Trade
                                                                            23a
                                                                             16Q
GmSdmOslic sanngdGDP                             19 1   a10 53    21 8
O m s nabmalSavingsffiDP                                a 2        185      207
CurrentaccountbalanwEDP                          -34     41        -1 6
intoresfpawnenkdGDP                               3 9    0 6       2 8
Total debE0P                                     485    329       49 6
Total dQbtmMlColPXprOr                           s7     244       70 3
Prosentvalue of dObtGDP                                           52 6
Presentvalue Dfdebtkxperts                                       329 6
                                                                                                    hdobtadncss
                                   1983-93 1993-03      2002      2003   2003-07
lawrage annralqmwthl
GOP                                     24        2 3              4 2                   -Emad
GDP parcapita                           06        10     0178      -1 4       32 69             tmw-mrmienrame woup
Expartsof a d s and sermes              6 3       7 5   14 2        7 0       16


STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
                                                1483    1993      2002      2003      Growth of investmentana GDP yb)

Agncultum
(U" P I                                          109     7 6        5 8       5 8     ?p
Industry                                         440    41 6       206       191      ID
    Uanufa~rina                                  332    250        124       114
SpMCOS                                           451    508        735       751       0
Privatemsumptim                                  712    60 1       581       569      10
Generalgwemment consumpbm                         9 7    177       201       183
Importsof goods and SOF/ICCS                      9 0     9 1      134       131                 -GO           -COP



(average snnuslgrcMbl                         1483-93 1993-03     2002      2003      Growthor exportsana imports ~~~1
Auncultum                                         2 4     318
                                                            9
Industry                                           12
    Manukcbring                                   0 0     1 4
Spwcea                                            3 0     2 5       16       -02
Pnvatpmsumptim                                    0 8     1 9      0 4       -33
Generalqwemmentconsumpflm                         6 4     2 0       1 0      11 6   a
Gmssdomoshc invesbnent                            4 9              -43       -45              -      b a t s   - i m p
Import5of goods and sewicss                       5 9     412
                                                            0     -123       -19

Note 2003 data are prellmlnaryestimatos
`The diamondsshowfourkeyindicatcrsin thocounb) (in bold)comparedwth ik income-groupaverage lfdata aro missing the diamond will
     be inampleto




                                                               105

PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
                                             1963         1993           2002      2003
Domeslrc prices                                                                              inriation (XI
(% change]                                                                                   15                                             I
Consumer pnces                               135.0      1.928.0          12.5        Q.3
lmpliclt GDPdeflator                         140.2      1.986.6          10.2       12.0
Government finance
(% of GDP InCbdQScurrentwan&)
Currentrevenue                                                           23.9       23.7                c     a   m   m    o    i   m    m
Currentbudgetbalanw                                                        2.B       3.O
Overallsumlusldeficit                                                                                  -GDP         ddala- &CPi


TRADE
                                             1983         1993           2002      2003
(US$mdncns)                                                                                   ~ x p o n a n dimport IRW~S
                                                                                                                        tusi mill)
Totaleworts (fob)                                       38.563         60.362     73.084
  Coffee                                          ....   2,466                               mam
                                                                        3.049     3.456
  Soybeans                                         .     3,074          3.032     4.290
  Manufactures                                          25.935         33.000     39.653
Total impcrts lclo                                                     47.237     48.260
  Food                                            .... 25.256
                                                         1,089          1.085       924
  Fueland energy                                         2.139          6.240      6.577
  Capitalgoods                                    ...    8,369         11,643     10,348
Exportprice index (199.5-700)                   &I91                       88         95
Impat pnw index r'19@5=1001                     57           67            91         90
Terms of trade 11985=faa)                      140          136            97        105

BAUNCE of PAYMENTS
                                             1983         1993           2002      2003
f US$ mdl"                                                                                    current account balanceto GOP ~sb)
Expork3of goods ands~rvices                 23,611      41.616         69.913     83,567     2
lmprrts of gmds and s e " w                 19.534      31.795         61.709     63,819
Resourcebalance                              4.077       9,821          8.204     19,748
Netincome                                  -1l.OP      -12,099        -18.191    -18.552
Netcurrenttransfers                            103       1.686          2.390      2,867
Current acmunt balance                       6.837         592          -7.597     4,063
Financingtoms (net)                          4.946       9,805          -6.003      -963
Changesin net reserm                         1.891      -9,213          13,600    -3.100     0
NIem0
ReservesIncludina BoldIUS%m#ions)            4.563      32,211         37.823     49.296
Conversicn rate lDEC loca/iUS$l           2.10610 3.22E-2                  2.9       3.1

EXTERNALDEBT and RESOURCE FLWS
                                             1983         1993           2002      2003
(US%mdlrons)                                                                                  composition or 2003 debt (us$ mil1.j
Total debt outstanding and disbursed        98.525     144104         228,662    236,245
   IBRD                                      3.628       6.575          8.586      8,588
   IDA                                           0             0             0         0
Total debt setviw                           13.3W       10.883          51.636    56,793
   IBRD                                        507       1,858           1.518     2.010
   IDA                                           0             0             0         0
Cornpsition of net msoufceflows
   Offiaal grants                               16           59              0
   ORiaal a'edibvs                           1.576      -1,033             916
  Pnvai-acreditors                           2.654      10,073          -9,541       233
  Foreigndired inmshent                      1.609       1.292               0
  Portfolioequity                                0       6,570               0                         F: 155,904
Wmld Bankpreqram
  Commit-tients                              2.067          636          1.276     1.217                                         -
  Disbursements                              1.2W           471                               A- IBRD                         E Btleteml
                                                                         1.384     1,291      B laR         0 - marmltilakral F -Private
  Pnncipalrepayments                           270       1.279           1,063     1,633      C IMF
                                                                                               .-                             G S,t~orl-lerm
                                                                                                                                 -
  Netflovrs                                    934         408             322      342
  Interestpayments                             2??          579           456        377
  Net transfers                                6QB      -1.387           -134       -719

      P.                                                                        LL
The Wodd Bank Group.This tablevas propared bym n t r y unit staff, figures may dfferfran otherWald Bank published data               Qi15,04




                                                                      106

                           70W                 To Ciudad Guayana      60W                                                          50W                                                 40W
                                               R.B. DE                GUYANA
                                          VENEZUELA                                                              French                                                                                                                  BRAZIL
                                                                                                                Guiana
                                        O ri noco                                           SURINAME               (Fr.)                                          ATLANTIC
                    COLOMBIA                               Boa Vista                                                                                                OCEAN
                                                                                                                     AMAP
                                                                                                                     AMAP                                                                                                            STATE CAPITALS
                                                               RORAIMA
                                                                                                                      Macap
                                                                                                                      Macap                                                                                                          NATIONAL CAPITAL

               0                                                                                                                                                                                                 0                  RIVERS

                                                A       m Negroa      z      o           n                    Amazon                       Belm
                                                                                                                                           Belm                                                                                      MAIN ROADS
                                                                                                                                                                   So Lus
                                                    Amazon     Manaus                                                                                                                                                                 RAILROADS

                                                                                                                                                                                                                                      STATE BOUNDARIES
                                                     B      a      s     i  Madeira                 Tapajs                                                                                      Fortaleza

                                                                               n                                                                        MARANHO
                                                                                                                                                        MARANHO                Teresina               RIO GRANDE                     INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
                                A M A Z O N A S                                                                 PA R                                                                      CEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                           CEAR
                                                                                                                                                                                                       DO NORTE
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Natal

                                               Purus                                    Teles                                                                                                        PARABA
                                                                                                                                                                                                      ARABA    Joo
                                                                                                                                                                    P I A U I
                                                          Porto Velho                        Pires                   Xingu                                                                                      Pessoa

                         ACRE                                                                                                                  Tocantins                                     PERNAMBUCO
                                                                                                                                                                                                               Recife

                            Rio Branco                                                                                                                                                                       Macei
               10S                                RONDNIA
                                                   RONDNIA                     Juruena                                       Araguaia        Palma                                                       ALAGOAS
                                                                                                                                      TOCANTINS                                                         Aracaju

                     PERU                                                                           M A T O                                                          SoFrancisco
                                                                                                                                                                         B A H I A                   SERGIPE

                                                                                                  G R O S S O

                                                                            Mato Grosso                                               B r a z i l i a n                                           Salvador
                                                                               Plateau
                                                                                                      Cuiab
                                                                                                      Cuiab                               F.D.
                                                  BOLIVIA                                                                     BRASLIA
                                                                                                                              BRASLIA
                                                                                                                          GOIAS          Goinia
                                                                                                                                         Goinia        M I N A S G E R A I S

                 PACIFIC                                           To                                                                 H i g h l a n d s
                                                                Santa Cruz
                                                                                                                                                                   Belo
                 OCEAN                                                                            MATO GROSSO
                            CHILE                                                                                                                                                       ESPRITO
                                                                                                                                                                                        ESPRITO
                                                                                                       DO SUL                    Grande                          Horizonte
                                                                                                                                                                                        SANTO
               20S                                                                        Paragu      Campo                                                                                                    20S
                                                                                                       Grande                                                                   Vititria
                                                                                                                                                                                  ria
                                                                          To                  ya
                                                                      Santa Cruz                                           SO PAULO
                                                                                                                           SO
                                                                                                               Paran                                                       RIO DE
                                                                            PARAGUAY                                                   So
                                                                                                                                       So Paulo                Rio de      JANEIRO
                                                                                                                    PARAN
                                                                                                                     ARAN                                     Janeiro                       ATLANTIC
                                BRAZIL                                                                                                  Curitaba
                                                                                                                                                                                               OCEAN
                                                                                                                                         STA CATARINA
                                                                                                                                         Florianpolis

                                                                                                       RIO GRANDE
                                                                                                           DO SUL
                                                                                                                            Porto Alegre
SEPTEMBER      30S                                 ARGENTINA                                                                                                 0      200             400    600 Kilometers      30S                                                                      IBRD
                                                                To Buenos                                                                                                                                               This map was produced by the Map Design Unit of The World Bank.
                                                                    Aires                        URUGUAY                                                      0                 200           400 Miles                 The boundaries, colors, denominations and any other information
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        shown on this map do not imply, on the part of The World Bank         33377
         2004                                                                                                                                                                                                           Group, any judgment on the legal status of any territory, or any
                                    70W                                   60W                                             50W                                               40W                                     endorsement or acceptance of such boundaries.
                                                                                                   To Montevideo

