Page  1
PROGRAM INFORMATION DOCUMENT (PID) 
CONCEPT STAGE 
Report No.:  AB1489 
Operation Name 
Second Programmatic Loan for Sustainable & Equitable Growth: 
Supporting Housing Sector Policy 
Region 
LATIN AMERICA AND CARIBBEAN 
Sector 
Other social services (100%) 
Project ID 
P078716 
Borrower(s) 
THE GOVERMENT OF BRAZIL 
Implementing Agency 
INISTRY OF FINANCE 
Date PID Prepared 
March 24, 2005 
Estimated Date of 
Appraisal Authorization 
April 14, 2005 
Estimated Date of Board 
Approval 
June 28, 2005 
1.  Key development issues and rationale for Bank involvement 
 
The Government is committed to a Low Income Housing strategy 
aimed at improving the living conditions of 
the poor and strengthen their access to assets, notably housing and serviced/serviceable land, and to expand new 
housing construction in the formal housing market while maintaining fiscal discipline. Specifically, the 
Government’s agenda includes efforts to: (a) develop a sound national policy and institutional framework for 
housing and urban development; (b) strengthen the housing credit and savings systems, and provide incentives for 
the housing finance market to expand as well as move “downmarket”; (c) reform the existing federal housing 
subsidy system to increase the affordability of housing solutions for the lower income groups, and make subsidies 
more transparent and efficient; and (d) reduce the costs of formal urban land development by strengthening land 
legislation and regulations and real property registries and rights so as to increase the supply of serviced and 
serviceable land. 
 
The 
final goal is to improve the wealth basis of the poor and the living conditions of the 20% of the population 
that lives in less-than-adequate housing conditions
 (40 to 50% in some states) and would be an important 
element in the efforts to improve public health and environmental conditions in which the urban poor live
1
.
The 
government program aims to support the expansion of the housing finance system and to facilitate the 
construction of new low-income housing. The approach builds on the country’s comparative advantage in having 
active private developer and construction markets and sophisticated financial systems which can be called upon to 
play a role in the development of the housing markets. It further benefits from international lessons on housing 
sector interventions, including the need to address housing and urban policy reform in a comprehensive manner, 
to address the linkages between (a) public sector subsidy programs for the poor; (b) the financial sector and 
formal housing finance markets; and (c) “real” side issues, including markets for land and the construction sector. 
 
Housing Policy and Poverty. 
The
 government has committed itself to the objective of reducing Brazil’s rate of 
extreme poverty by 50% by the year 2015.
 
The strategy to achieve this objective includes sustained economic 
growth based on financial stability, investments in the poor through better education, health and other social 
services as well as improved access to physical and financial capital improved access and enhanced social 
protection including social assistance and conditional cash transfers linked to specific social targets. World Bank 
financed projects support several elements of this poverty reduction strategy World Bank analysis shows that the 
government poverty reduction strategy can be achieved through a combination of 4.5% annual growth, continued 
increases in educational outcomes and human capital and further improvements in social policies. The proposed 
reforms would have a bearing on poverty reduction by
:
(a) increasing access of the poor to essential shelter 
services; (b) enhancing the capacity to accumulate and improve housing assets, by expanding access to housing 
1
Including the achievement of Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 7. 
Page  2
credit and upfront subsidies for housing, Indirectly, access to improved shelter in poor communities has been 
demonstrated to lead to improved self-
image, higher returns for children’s education and increasing opportunities 
for better paid jobs.
2
The reforms the Government is undertaking will help increase the access to adequate shelter in different ways, 
including: 
 
(a) better targeted subsidies to the poor (formerly excluded from all the housing subsidize public 
lending); 
(b)  improved availability of mortgage credit to low income families – with the benefit of teaching the 
financial market how to work with this type of clients and therefore contributing to risk reduction; 
(c) contributing to a more liquid and seamless housing finance market attracting a wider base of 
resources for the low income segment; and  
(d)  expansion of the policy making capacity of government entities in terms of land policy, regulations 
and other supply bottlenecks. 
 
2. Proposed objective(s) 
 
The objective of the program is to support the Government's efforts to improve access of the poor to improved 
housing and serviced/serviceable land, while maintaining fiscal discipline. Brazil has witnessed enormous 
progress in all economic and social fronts, the exception being the critical situation of the shelter for the poor. 
Continuing urban growth, coupled with persisting income inequality and absence of targeted shelter policies, has 
led to a situation where more than 60% of the households coming to the market are unable to find an affordable 
shelter solution and join the ranks of informality. The Government is committed to address this challenge by 
supporting the needs of the very poor and the development of a market that could and should cater to the less 
poor.  
 
Specifically, the proposed operation supports the Government in its efforts to: (a) develop a sound national policy 
and institutional framework for housing and urban development; (b) strengthen the housing credit and savings 
systems, and provide incentives for the housing finance market to expand as well as move “downmarket”; (c) 
design and implement a unified federal housing subsidy system to address the affordability of housing solutions 
for the poor; and (d) reduce the costs of formal urban land development by strengthening land legislation and 
regulations and real property registries. 
 
3. Preliminary description 
 
The proposed operation is part of a cluster of operations which support the Government of Brazil in its growth 
agenda. This loan focuses on housing sector reform and is integrated in the Growth Programmatic Series. The 
proposed loan, in an amount of US$500 million, will support initiatives already completed. It will be 
2
Access to adequate shelter or housing services can help predict subsequent improvement in both cash income of the family 
as well as its well-being measured by health indicators, education performance (including dropout rates) and probability of 
exiting extreme poverty (Geoffrey Payne, 2004). In addition to providing shelter, housing also plays a more standard role as 
an asset, as acquisition for the urban poor offers the opportunity for small incremental investments (World Bank, November 
2004, Report No 30465, The Urban Poor in Latin America ). The returns to housing as an asset include the flow of housing 
services it provides some of which can be monetized in case of need by taking in new tenants or extended household 
members who share in the upkeep of the household . In addition, homeownership provides a constant flow of services and 
frees the family from the constraint of having to generate a fixed sum for rent every month. Given the large share of the poor 
employed in the informal markets, the poor will prefer to own they own shelter and avoid commitment to a fixed and regular 
payment as a housing rent. This can be important especially at time of crisis: in Uruguay, 10% of renters declared they had to 
move following the crisis in order to cut down on cash payments. Evidence from surveys on risk management in Chile and 
Peru finds that investment in housing acts as a substitute for formal retirement systems
.
Home ownership in LAC tends to be 
higher than in other parts of the world and some authors tend to believe that this is a way to cope with uncertainty and the 
negative consequences of financial crisis and macroeconomic disasters.  
Page  3
accompanied by a Technical Assistance Loan to assist the Government in pursuing its housing policy and design 
the necessary policy reforms which will be supported by the Bank by a follow-up loan (for $400 million) and an 
investment-linked SWAp to finance an integrated subsidy program and the national urban upgrading efforts.  
 
4. Environment Aspects 
 
Not applicable. 
 
5. Tentative financing 
Source: ($m.) 
BORROWER 0 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND 
DEVELOPMENT 
500 
 Total 
500 
 
6. Contact point 
Contact: Maria Emilia Freire 
Title: Sector Manager 
Tel: (202) 473-9508 
Fax:  
Email: Mfreire@worldbank.org
 
