Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFYICIAL USE ONLY
Rq»rt No. 7279-MOZ
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
July 1, 1988
Southern Africa Department
Infrastructure Operations Division
1T»b doc   t h«s a red d1bud  amd may be used by rodpints only Ia the perfornmace of
| etr ofI does. IS esteos may .   herwise be disdosed wt     Wodd Dauk 9mthoriZatDo.



CURRENCY EQUIVAT.ENTS
Currency Unit              -      Metical (plural Meticais)
US$1                       =      450 Meticais (Mts)
Mt 100                     =      US$0.22
MEASURES AND EQUIVALENTS
1 Meter (m)               =       3.28 Feet
1 Square Mleter (m.sq)    =       10.76 Square Feet
1 Hectare                 =       2.47 Acres
1 Kilometer                =      0.62 Miles
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
A de M              =      Agua de Maputo
A da B              =      Agua da Beira
AfDB                       African Development Bank
APIE                5      Administracao do Parque Immobiliario do
Estado
BPD                 =      Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
BM                  -      Banco de Mocambique
CECB                =      Conselho Executivo da Cidade da Beira
CECM                =      Conselho Executivo da Cidade de Maputo
DCU                 -      Direccao de Construcao e Urbanizacao
DFP                 =      Direccao da Funcao Publica
DNA                 =      Direccao Nacional de Aguas
DEC                 =      Direccao de Economia e de Construcao
DNEP                =      Direccao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes
DSU                 =      Direccao de Servicos Urbanos
ERP                 =      Economic Rehabilitation Program
FINNIDA             =      Government of Finland Development Agency
GPE                        Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego
HABITAR             =      Housing Management and Supervision Unit
INPF                =      Instituto Nacional de Planeamento
Físico
MCA                 =      Ministerio da Construcao e ..-uas
MAE                 =      Ministerio da Administracao Escatal
MT                  =      Ministerio do Trabalho
PIU                 =      Project Implementation Unit (MCA)
PROHABITA           =      Gabinete de Programas de HaDitacao



FOR OYICIAL USE ONLY
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
CREDIT AND PROWTECT SUMMARY ........... ...........   o .... .   i iíi
I.  PROJECT BACKGROUND                      . . .                      1
A. Introduction                    . .                        1
B.  Sectoral Context......             ... . .. ....... .     2
C. Ratior.ale for Bank Group Involvement       .     .6 
II. THE PROJECT                         .....   7
A. Project Objectives                ....    7
B.  Project Descríption ... ...... . .                        7
C.  Project Cost and Financing Plan ..................       10
D.  Cost Recovery ........... * ................ ....... .   10
E.  Relocation and Resettlementns ......de...se t e....me .nt  13
F. Employment Generation               ....    14
G.  Justification, Benefits and Risks        ....    14
III.   PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION  .. ......        .    ........... .    15
A.  Institutional Arrangements ........... ............      15
B. Action Plan ...... ****... ..O ...................... *......* ....  17
C. Procurement ........ o........... * .............. .. .   18
D.  Disbursement. **.. ......... ....*.......... ...* .      35
E.  Accounting and Auditing.........................         21
F.  Technical Assistance and Consulting Services .....       23
IV.    AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND PECOMMENDATIGNS  .       .24
A. Agreements and Conditions ........................        24
8.    Recommendations  ............. . .... ....... *.............. * .  25
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission to Mozambique
in Apríl, 1988, consisting of World Bank staff Mr. D. Graham (Mission
Leader), Mr. R. Chavez, Ms. T. Genta Fons and Ms. S. Brebion and
consultants Messrs. Echeverria, Fontanals, Gatuelas, Homanen and Nankman.
Ms. L. Iacono was responsible for report processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipibnts only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contenta (Cont'd)
ANNEXEo
1      Selected Documenta Available on the Project File
2      Infrastructure R*habilitation
3      Housing Rehabilítation
4      Sclid Waste Management
5      Lineas of Credit
6      Institutional Development
7      Detailed Project Costs
8      Economic Analysis
9      Employment Generation
MAPS   IBRD No. 20914 (Mozambique)
IBRD No. 2Q915 (Maputo)
IBRD No. 20916 (Beira)



MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITA'PION PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUMMRY
Borrower:           Peopl.'s Republic of Mozambique
Beneficiarles:      Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA), Ministry of
Labour (NT), Ministry of State Administration (MAE)
Conselho Executivo da Cidade de Maputo (CECM), Concelho
Executivo da Cidade da Beira (CECB), Agua de Maputo
(AdeM), Agua da Beira (AdaB), small and micro-
enterprises.
Amounts             SDR 44.0 million (US$60.0 míllion equivalent).
Termss              Standard with 40 years maturity.
Project
Descriítion:        Within the context of Mozambique's Ecosnomic
Rehabilitation Program, the project would rehabilitate
key elements of urban infrastructure to enhance the
efficiency of the urban sector and to help offset the
social costa of strue-tural adjustment through the
generation of some 35,000 jobs in productive employment
during the project's szx year implementation period.
The project would also atrengthen the institutions
responsible for planning, operation eand mainterance of
urban services and assist their efforta to achieve
financial viability through resource mobilization at
the local level and with the introduction of affordable
cost recovery mechanisma for urban services and
housing. The project consista of inter-related
elemento constituting a unified and comprehensive
response to the decline in the country's infrasture by
focusing on the rehabilitation of vital infrastructure
and housing in conjunetion with demonstration of
policies that would make possible the provision of the
physical, human and financial resources for future
maintenance. To deliver this, it brings together the
following aspectas (i) the rehabilitation of
infrastructure networks, housing and municipal services
in Maputo and Beira; (ii) demonstration of policies for
cost recovery and replicability in rehabilitation; and
(iii) training and technical assistance to provide the
human resources and institutional strengthening to



- ii -
carry through and replicate these programs. An
integral part of the project would be (iv) the creatil>o
of employment thr>ugh labour intensive methods of
rehabilitation and lines of credit to small and micro-
enterprises with training and technical assistance.
Benefits
and Risks:          The expenditure of relatively small amounts on
infrastructure rehabilitation will save the need for
much larger future investments in reconstruction and
will yield relatively high economic rates of return,
estimated at 39%. The investments in Beira are
essential to the development of the Beira transport
corridor which will be one of the country's main
foreign exchanpe earners, while much of the investment
in Maputo will assist in foreign exchange earnings or
savings. Risks are that the project may exceed
implementing capacity and that the security situation
may impede the completion of some project components.
The project's restriction to the two principal cities
is intended to minimize the risks associated with
limited implementation capacity and the security
situation. The Government's demonstrated strong
commitment to the objectives and approach proposed and
the careful consideration given to the appropriate
level and type of implementation assistance and
manpowe. development provided by the project will also
help to minimize these risks.
AF6IN
June, 1988



- iii -
r    rBlquE
Urem Rmbeb.littima Projcet
Semm rg Prej.ct C.sts ai Fl"e mi a Piam
PROJECT COMPONENTS                         LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL
-$----  - SUS Million---------
1 lfretructur. Rffbelltatie                7.00   24.30   31.30
11 Iuim, lRela tlitati.m                    4.20    19.00   23.20
111 S1lih W»te hM~gemt                      0.80     3.30    4.10
IY Limo ,f Creait                           0.00     4.90    4.90
Y latittieml DV,lepSmt                       0.10    3.30    3.40
vi Pr.ject Admiistratiem                     0.40    2.70    3.10
BASE COST                     12.50   57.50   70.00
Physical Contingencies                       1.20    5.00    6.20
PriceContingencies                           1.40    6.20    7.60
TOTAL COST                    15.10   68.70   83.00
FIIMANCIM PIAM                             LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL
------- tUS Mtllion------
~overnment                                   6.00    0.00     6.00
IDA                                         6.OC    54.00   60.00
Paralell Fin ncing, Finnnida & Spain        3.10    14.70    17.80
TOTAL                         15.10   68.70   83.80
IDA DISBURSEIEMTS    -------------------US$ million-----------------
IDA Ficel Yeur    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annuol Amount     1.00     7.00    14.00    16.00    14.00    6.00     2.00
Cummulatlve       1.00    8.00   22.00   38.00   52.00   58.00   60.00
%of Total          1.7    13.3    36.7    63.3    86.7    96.7         100



MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A.  Intr. uction
1.01     The EconomIc Rehabil±tation Program (ERP) implemented by the
Government of Mozambique has brought about much needed economic reforms and
has helped to reverse the economic decline of previous years. The success
of the ERP at the macro-level has highlighted the need to rehabilítate the
country's rundown infrastructure in order to increase efficiency and
facilitate a supply response. Particularly at risk is the provision of
services essential to the effective fun.,tioning of the main transport
corridora, which used to be the country's principal foreign exchange
earners. At the same time, the economic stringencies of the EP.P in the form
of higher prices and public sector lay-offs have, at least temporarily,
exacerbated an already cr-.tical situation of urban unemployment and low
income levels. Government's growing concern with these issues and its
desire to rapidly develop a program to alleviate the situation, led to
identification of an Urban Rehabilitation Project that would rehabilitate
key elements of the country's infrastructure and, in so doing, also help to
mitigate the social impacta of structural adjustment through the rapid
creation of jcbs, in both public and private kectors.
1.02     To respond to this urgent situation, ID.A has assisted In the
accelerated preparation of a project (identified in October, 1987) which,
although not classified as an 'Emergeney Project", contains many of the
elements of such a project, including a simplified and shortened
implementation schedule under a tightly defited action plan (see paras 3.03
- 3.06).  The- project combines actions to address immediate issues,
including:
(a) immediate rehabilitation of infrastructure to avoid more
costly reconstruction later;
(b) provision of essential urban services to enable the transit
trade - MHzambiqueis principal foreign exchange earner - to
function; and
(c) generation of productive employment;



- 2 -
with the initiation of actions to address medium to longer term issues,
including:
(d) introduction of affordable standards and cost recovery t>
ensure replicabílity;
(e) strengthening of the capacity of local government
institutions to plan, operate and maintain infrastructure and
services with training, technical assistance and resource
mobilízation: and
(f)  development of a housing strategy to address the pressing
problems posed by rapi. urban growth.
1.03     Progress in e'Jdressing these medium to longer term issues would be
monitored closely during the implementation of the proposed project and the
results incorporated in sector policies and future investment pzograms.
B. Sectoral Context
Population and Urbanization
1.04     Mozambique, one of the poorest countries in the world, with a per
capita GDP of US$150 (1986), has an area of nearly 800,000 square
kilometers and a population of approximately 14 million.  Between 1970 and
1985, total population grew from 9.25 million to 13.85 million, an average
annual growth rate of 2.7%. During the same period, urban population grew
from 0.8 million (9% of total population) to 2.2 million (16% of total
populeslon), an average annual growth rate of 7.0%. At these rates, about
one quarter of the total population of 21 million projected for the turn of
the century would be living in urban areas.
1.05     About half of the urban population lives in Maputo, which
increased in population from 385,000 in 1970 to over one million today.
The other major city, Beira, has a population of about 300,000. Some
estimates indicate that Maputo's population is growing by more than 8% per
annum. With the revival of Beira's transit trade, that city is also
expected to experience very rapid growth. The current urban growth has
been fuelled by the war in the countryside, where continued attacks by
armed bandits, which have intensified since the early eighties, have caused
large sections of the population to move, cither into cities or into
neighbouring countries.
Sector Issues
1.06     The urban sector is currently in a state of disarray, with
severely deteriorated infrastructure, límited or non existant serviíes,
weakened institutions and virtually no independent financial resources.
This is not to say that Government is not taking action to remedy the
situation, but a number of difficult issues need to be resolved, some of
which are described below.



- 3 -
1.07     Trained Personnel ShortaRe - Prior to independence in 1975, most
of the urban infrastructure and services were managed and operated by
Portuguese, with very little training of Mozambicans. Thus, when all but a
handful of the Portuguese left at independence, there were virtually no
trained personnel left to run the cities. This problem extended to private
businesses involved in constructíon and the supply of building materials,
most of which were abandoned by their owners and which, for lack of any
alternative management, were taken over by the S+ate. Despite progress in
education since independence, the shortage of skilled personnel at
technical and managerial levels is still 'ne of the most critical issues
facing the country today. The proposed ptoject would help to address this
lsst;e in the urban sector by providing assistance to the local government
training institute and direct technical assistance for the management of
the cities of Maputo and Beira.
1.08     Deteriorated Infrastructure  - Despite the rapid rate of urban
growth since independence, urban infrastructure and services have scarcely
been extended, while the existing systems have deteriorated with lack ol
maintenance. In Maputo, the water distribution system has deteriorated to
such an extent that unaccounted for water is now estimated to amount to
between 45% and 65% of water produced, a proportion that is likely to rise
when pressure increases as new supplies are brought into operation later in
1988. New production and treatment schemes will bring supply into balance
with demand for a brief period in 1990, after which new source development
will be required. In Beira, where electric power is out for more than half
the year on average, the water distribution system is in a worse condition
end the sewerage system is blocked, causing a considerable health risk. In
both cities, the municipal servie?'s are unable to cope with mounting
quantities of solid waste. In summary, conditions are such that, of the
two main transport corridor cities, which are the main potential earners of
foreign exchange, Beira is scarcely habitable and Maputo is facing severe
infrastructure and service deficiencies. The proposed project would
address these issues with infrastructure rehabilitation programs (see para
2.02 (a) and (c»j and strengthening of cost recovery programs (para 2.07).
1.09     Nationalized Housinz - Rental housing was nationalized in
February, 1976, while owner occupied housing remained in private hands. A
State Housing Agency (APIE) was set up to administer the nationalized
housing stock, which consists of some 80,000 apartments - about a quarter
of the urban housing stock.   However, the notional rental of 2% of income
charged by APIE has been quite inadequate to provide even the most
rudimentary maintenance and in many buildings the electrical systems,
plumbing and sewerage are falling to pieces, some being uninhabitable and
posing serious health hazards. In April, 1988, Government announced
substantial increases in rents (about 2-5 times their previous levels) to
at least cover maintenance costs. While this action begins to solve the
problem of inadequate maJi,tenance, it also raises the practical issuee of
finding alternative acconmodation fnr the thousands of families who are now
unable to afford the rent of their exlsting apartment and will need to
relocate. The housing rehabilítation schemes and relocation schemes
proposed under the project (see paras 2.02 (b) and 2.09) are intended to



demonstrate a means of addressing this issue, while progresa towards the
development of a national housing strategy, including policíes for cost
recovery and rehabilitation and maintenance of the public sector housing
stock, would be reviewed annually by GOM and IDA during project
implement.tion.  During negotiations, the Government províded assurancea
that it would:
(a) not later than Juno 30, 1989; and
(b) not later than June 30, of each year, thereafter, review
jointly with the Association progress achieved in designing
and adopting a National Housing Strategy, including policies
of rehabilítation and maintenance of the existing public
sector housing stock and the achievement of full cost
recovery (para 4.01).
1.10    The low level of new residential construction during the last
decade, together with a high rate of urban population growth, are creating
a large urban housing shortage.  To keep pace with demand, increased supply
of sites and services together with assistance to self-help housing and the
provision of credit facilities will be necessary including plot development
on a cost-recovery basis, as an alternative to subsidized housing provided
by the StaLe. In this respect, the development of realistic and affordable
standards in terms of infrastructure, plot sizes and housing is critical.
1.11     Local Resource Mobilization -  There is an urgent need to generate
municipal revenues to finance urban infrastructure and services. A large
proportion of local government expenditures sre financed from transfers
from central government. There are no substantial land or property taxes
and no municipal taxes, although local governments are empowered to levy
charges for some services, theae user charges are very low and have not
been adjusted in many years. More effective local resource mobilization is
envisaged as a result of the on-going IDA assisted lo0al government finance
and administration study (see para 1.12).
1.12     Weak Instítutions - After independence, the former Camaras
(municipal councila) were abolished, as were most forma of local taxation,
and the lo( 1 authoritles, the Conselhos Executivos das Cidades (CECs),
became larg -y dependent on the Central Government. This situation is now
beginning to be reversed; in 1983 the Fourth Congress condemned over-
centralisation and called for a greater role for the private sector in the
nation's economic development. In 1986 the Ministr> of State
Administration was created, with one of its three areas of responsibility
being to develop local administration, and a special task force was
established to review the atructure of the Cliy Government of Maputo. Most
recently, in December 1987, the Government requested World Bank assistance
in the restructuring of local government administration and finance, thus
providing an opportunity to revitalise local institutions. A Bank assisted
study of local government administration and finance is underway and is
expected to be completed by August 1988. It will be followed by a seminar
on local government operations, management and finance in September, 1988.



- 5 -
Durin& neRotiations the Government provided assurances that the action plan
based on the recommendations of the study to strengthen local govern=ent
institution' and fir.ances would be sent to IDA by March 31, 189 and
reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1989.  Progress in implementation would be
reviewed annually thereafter. The strengthening of local government bodies
would be aided by technical assistance and traíning to be prov4ded under
the project through thc center for Urban Management (see para 2.02 (e) (ii)
and Annex 6).
1.13     Financial Constraints -  Lack of financial resources, particularly
foreign exchange, has frequently prevented local institutions from
purchasing apares and equípment needed to keep services fune.tioning. For
example,in Maputo and Beira the municipal workshops are devoid of apare
parts. The transít trade that flows through the ports of Mapuco, Beira and
Nacala is expected to become a growing source of foreign exchange, as it
was in the past, part of which needs to be reserved for the essential urban
servíces of these cities, on which the efficiency of this transit trade
depends.
International Aid
1.14     With the proposed project, IDA would be one of several donors
providing assistance to rehabilitate Mozambique's key urban centera
servícing the transit trade: Maputo, Beira and Nacala. Precise figures on
the amount of these investments are not readily available, but they can be
estimated to have amounted to about US$30 - 40 million per year over the
past few years, almost entirely in the water, sewerage and drainage sector
and mostly in Maputo. Extensive drainage works and rehabilitation of the
sewerage network in Maputo have been assisted by the Netherlands, wnile
water production and transmission mains have been finan ced by Italy and the
African Developmanli R-1 'AfDB). In Beira, rehabilitation of the water
treataent plaur. and pumping stations are being financed by the Italian
Government and rehabilitation of sewage pumping stations by the
Netherlands. Finland is financing the rehabilitation of the water
distribution network in Beira (see para 2.04) and, with the Netherlands,
the provision of technical assistance to the water company (AdaB). Finland
is also assisting in the reh?hilitation of the city of Nacala and, together
with IDA, will be aponsoring the local government seminar in September,
1988. One of the aims of the proposed project is to complete the
rehabilitation of the remaining essential paris of the infrastructure
network in Maputo and Beira and develop a programmatic approach to future
rehabilitation and maintenance efforts. To achieve this, improved donor
coordination is essential, and the project envisages exchange of
information between Government and IDA and the calling of donor meetings as
needed.
Sector Oblectives
1.15     The Government's main objectives for the sector are:
(a) to rehabilitate the existing infrastructure in ordez to prcserve
and make full use of investments that have been made in the past;



- 6 -
(b) to strengthen local Rovernment particularly the plan.iing,
operatiorn and maintenance of urban services by municipalities,
which are to be reinforced and made more fiscally independent;
(c) to reduce subsidies for housinz and municipal services through the
establishment of cost based pricing systems and encouragement of
private ownership;
(d) to extend affordable services to low income areas hitherto
unservíced; and
(e) stimulate the growth of small and micro-enterprises to create
productive employment.
C. Rationale for Bank Group Involvement
1.16     The Government of Mozambique has been working closely with IDA in
developing and implementing its Economic Rehabilitation Program, for which
two IDA credita have been provided and a third is under preparation. In
support of these initiatives, IDA is also developing a program of project-
based credita to atrengthen the adjustment process. The intervention
proposed under thís project is an integral part of this process in that it
would directly assist in offsetting some of the social costs encountered in
the transitional phase of adjustment and at the same time improve the
environnent in the two key urban centera, creating conditions for broad-
based economic development through rehabilitation of infrastructuro and
services and institutional strengthening, particularly of local government.
These activities would coaplement existing and proposed IDA interventiona
in other sectors, including education, health, industry, transport and
agriculture. The cost recovery aspects of the project, in conjunetion with
more affordable housing standards, are an important step towards more
rational pricing of urban services. These, and the introduction of more
effective user charges and possibly new local government taxes, will
provide a significant impetus to local resource mobilisation.
1.17     IDA intervention is also appropriate to complement the investments
of bilateral donora in the sector and to help ensure an overall coherency
to sector development. Finally, IDA's extensive experience in the sector
will provide technical support to GOM for the adoption of appropriate tnd
replicable solutions.



-7-
II. THE PROJECT
A. Prolect Oblectives
2.01     The primary objectives of the project are to assist Government in
achieving its objectives (se. para 1.15), i.e. to stem the deterioration in
basic urban infrastructure and services and to mitigate the social costa of
atructural adjustment through the implementation of a program c.f urban
rehabilitation and employment generation. This program would, through an
integrated approach to infrastructure rehabilitation, employment generation
and institutional development, aim to:
(a) rehabilitate key elements of urban infrastructure and
housing;
(b) provide employment through labor-intensive construction
methods and stimulation of small and micro-enterprises;
(c) strengthen the local institutions responsible for provision
and maintenance of urban infrastructure and services and the
offorts towards becoming more financially independent through
cost r<covery and stimulatíng local resource mobilization;
and
(d) support initiatives already being undertaken by the
Government in cost recovery, institutional reform and new
policy directions.
In addition, the project is intended to complement a number of bilaterally
supported investments already underway, and it incorporates other
components to be carried out through parallel financing by other donors.
B. Prolect Description
2.02     The project would include the following components:
(a)  Rehabilitation of Infrastructure (Annex 2):   Rehabilitation
and limited extensions of infrastructure systems in Maputo
and Beira, including (i) roads -- resurfacing or
reconstruction and maintenance of key primary roads in both
cities plus, in Maputo, reconstruction of the Costa do Sol
bridge and upgrading of the access road to the sites and
services area; (ii) water, sewerage and storm drainaze --
leak detectíon and emergency repaira of the secondary water
dlstribution system and the extension of a water main to
Mahotas and the sites and services area, including the
associated distribution network, construction of storm
drainage for a critical traffic circle (Praca 16 Junho) in
Maputo, a study of the long-terrn sources of water for Maputo



- 8 -
of the long-term sources of water for Maputo and the
rehabilitation of the water distribution network (to be
parallel financed by Finland) and the main sewage collector
and the secondary sewage system in Beira; and (iii) coastal
protection -- priority repairs to erosion control groynes and
sea walls and construction of some new groynes and sea walls
in both cities.
(b) Housing Rehabilitation (Annex 3): will be effected through
inter-related solutions, including: (1) the completion of
three unfinished highrise buildings in Maputo and one in
Beira covering about 249 residential apartments and 26,OOC m2
of office space, most of which would be made available for
rental in foreign currency; (2) the rehabilitation of 7
apartment complexes in Maputo (about 775 residential units)
and 11 in Beira (about 220 apartments), which are currently
in an advanced stage of deterioration due to lack of
maintenance. Three hundred of the Maputo> apartment units
would be made available for rental in foreign currency; (3)
new sites and services areas as well as infrastructure
upgrading in existing low-income settlements, for about 2,285
plots ia four different locations in Maputo, and for about
1,500 plots in one location in Beira. The legal document
assigning all project sites to MCA has been reviewed at
negotiations. The Government of Finland will finance in Beira
the provision of 1,150 serviced plots on the Inhamizua 1 site
(1,000 of which would be provided with core houses and
allocated to CFM workers), and the upgrading of
infrastructures in the existing but only partly occupied
Muchatazínha housing project (where most of the approximately
250 unoccupied plots would be provided with core houses and
made available to CFM workers); (4) relocation,
resettlement and integration of existing occupants: (i)
households occupying apartments earmarked for rehabilitation
and unable to afford the new rents (Para 1.09) will be
relocated on sites and b -vices plots provided with core
houses under the project. About 300 households in Maputo and
80 in Beira would be involved. Rental revenues in foreign
currency from the buílding completion and rehabilitation sub-
components would be used to cross-subsidize the core houses;
(ii) about 25 squatter households to be displaced by the
rehabilitation of the Praca de 16 Junho in Maputo will be
resettled on sites and services plots provided under the
project; (iíi) about 90 existing dwellings on two of the
town sites ín Maputo and 300 households on the Beira site
will be maintained on these sites and accomodated within the
new site lay-outs.
(c) Solid Waste Management (Annex 4): Upgrading of the solid
waste management services of Maputo and Beira, including
vehicles, equipment, spare parts and technical assistance and
training for the garbage collection systems and municipal



-9-
vehicle and equipment maintenance workshops (to be parallel
financed by Spain, see para 2.04). The approach to be
adopted would include involvement of prívate sector
cooperatives in the solid waste collection process.
(d)  Credit Lines (Annex 5):  Provision of employment-generating
credit programs in support of the project components,
including: (í) assistance to small and micro-enterprises --
to finance equipment, spare parts, and working capital, as
well as technical assistance, particularly for the
construction related sectors; loans would be made available
through the Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD) to micro-
enterprises employing ten or less people (up to 50 people
where building materials industries are concerned) on the
BPD's current terms which range from 18-24% for up to to 5
years (a review of interest rate structures is currently
underway). (ii) building materials credita -- for individuals
or groups of families for rehabilitation of dwellings and
construction of core units or pit latrines, in connection
with the housing rehabilitation component (para 2.02 'b)).
These loans would be made available through BPD to sites and
services residents under existing terms, i.e. 25 years at a
minimum of 9% interest (para 2.08).
(e)  Institutional Development and Prolect Administration (Annex
6): Funding for appropriate technical assistance and
training to strengthen project execution capability, as well
as to assist in strengthening local governments, would be
provideds (i) to the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) in the
Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA) and HABITAR, for
project coordination, as well as for developing investment
planning capacity; (ii) to the Ministry o£ State
Administration (MAE) through the Direccao da Funcao Publica
(DFP) for strengthening the Center for Urban Management for
training local government officials; and (iii) to the
Ministry of Labor (MT) for the Gabinete de Promocao de
Emprego (GPE) and (iv) to the CECs in Maputo and Beira for
institutional strengthening. Technical assistance for
implementation and administration of all individual project
components would be provided to each of the respective
executing units (see para 3.01 for detailed description of
project ímplementation arrangements).
2.03     In all the components, the use of labour intensive methods of
implementation, operation and maintenance would be emphasized in order to
create the maximum amount of employment consistent with sound engineering
practices and the overall financial and management constraints. In
addition, the proposed housing rehabilitation scheme (para 2.02 (b) above)
is intended to test an approach to solving the problem of the deteriorating
atock of apartments throughout the country, through financially viable
rehabilitation schemes coupled with arrangementa for improved maintenance
and periodic reviews by GOM and IDA of levels of rents and the adequacy of
maintenance provisivas.



- 10 -
C. Prolect Costs and Financing Plan
Prolect Costs
2.04     The total cost of the project is estimated at US$83.8 million
equivalent, with a foreign exchange component of at US$68.6 million
equivalent. A sumnary of project costa and the financing plan is shown in
Table 2.1, below (and in more detail in Annex 7). Base costa have been
estimated in Meticais in June 1988 prices, and converted to US Dollara at
US$1 - Mt 450. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 30% for all
itema except institutional development and project management. Price
contingencies have been calculated for all costs on the basis of estimated
foreign prico increases of 5.6% for 1988, 5.4% for 1989, and 1% a year
thereafter, based on the region's best estimates for the period of project
execution. The project would be implemented over a six year period ending
December 31, 1994 (see para 3.07).
Financing Plan
2.05     The financing plan foz the project is shown in Table 2.1.  An IDA
credit of US$60 million would finance 72% of total project costs. The
credit would be on standard IDA terms for 40 years with a 10 year grace
period. GOM would directly contribute US$6 million equivalent, or 7% of
project costs. The project is being closely coordinated with the
Government of Finland which undertook the study of infrastructure in Beira
and is planning to parallel finance the water distribution rehabilitation
(US$6.1 million, base costs) and low income housing components (US$6.2
million, base costs) in Beira. Spain will parallel finance equipment and
technical assistance for solid waste management in Maputo (US$3.9 millioa,
base costs) as part of the project under a twinning arrangement between the
cities of Barcelona and Maputo.
2.06     Flow of Funds.  The Government of Mozambique would pass on the IDA
credit to the Ministries responsible for project implementation in the form
-f budget allocations.
D. Cost Recovery
2.07     Government poiicy is to move toward full cost recovery wherever
possible and this policy has been carried out in a number of recent
actions, including the removal of food subsidies, increases in rents and
water tariffs. The project would assist the Government in making progress
towards this goal through strengthening cost recovery measures in
infrastructure, housing and urban services. About 63% of project costs
would be recovered directly from beneficiaries for water and sewerage
rehabilitation, housing rehabilitation and línes of credit, while recovery
of a further 30% of costs, mainly for roads and drainage and municipal
sergices, would fall within the purview of local taxes and fees which will
be established through the ongoing local government finance and
administration study, the ímplementation of which would be reviewed by GOM
and IDA. Given the precarious economic situation of Mozambique and the



- 11 -
Urbe. Rehebilitetiem Prpject
$-merg Prsject Cets aeS Flmmctmg Piem
PROJE;. COMPONENTS                        LOCAL FOREIGN    TOTAL
Million- …---
1 Ifretructure Reumbilitetfem              7.00   24.30   31.30
11 H.simg ReIebilitetie                    4.20    19.00   23.20
111 Solid Wmte le egFmt                     0.80    3.30    4.10
IY Limes of Crudit                          0.00    4.90    4.90
Y Imstttimeml Deveispmeut                   0.10    3.30    3.40
Vi Preject Amimistretica                    0.40    2.70    3.10
BASE COST                    12.50   57.50   70.00
Physical Contingencies                      1.20    5.00    6.20
Price Contingencies                         1.40    6.20    7.60
TOTAL COST                   15.10   60.70   83e00
FIINCING PIAM                              LOCAL FOREIGN   TOTAL
-------SUS Million------
Government                                  6.00    0.00    6.00
IDA                                         6.00   54.00   60.00
Pareleli Financing, Finnida&Spaln           3.10    14.70    17.80
TOTAL                        15.10   68-71   83.80
IDA DISBURSEMENTS    -------------------US$ rnlion-----------------
IDAFiaxal YVor   1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994    1995
Annual Amunt      1.00    7.00   14.00   16.00    14.00    6.00    2.00
Cummuletive       1.00    8.00   22.00   38.00   52.00   58.00   60.00
% of Totll         1.7    13.3    36.7    63.3    86.7    96.7        100



- 12 -
wid.spread price increases associated with the economic rehabilitation
program, socio-economic surveys are being undertaken to determine the
impact of recent price increases on the target groups. Durinz
n.gotiations, the Government provided assurances that the results of these
surveys would be furnished to IDA by March 31, 1988 and be reviewed with
IDA by June 30, 1989, when an *ction plan to address their findings and a
timetable would be drawn up.
2.08     The achievement of full cost recovery for maintenance and
replacement of buildings would be reviewed by GOM and IDA as part of the
annual review the national of housing strategy (para 1.09). Each of the
provincial capital cities has a separate water utility which, for
administrative and financial purpose, comes under ckc control of the
Direcao Nacional de Aguas (DNA), which determines che control of the
national water tariff. The national tariff for water supply is set in such
a way as to yield a surl-Lus to Agua de Maputo (AdeM) which is used to
cross-subsidize the amaller towns (the 15Z sanitation surcharge, on the
other hand, is insufficient to cover the cost of the service). Agua da
Beira (AdaB) is unable to provide an adequate servíce and does not cover
its costs. AdeM and AdaB are receiving substantial technical assistance
from bilateral donors which should help to improve their operatlonal and
financial performance (including their accounting systems - see Annex 2).
Both water and sanitation tariffs would be studied under the project and
would be reviewed by GOM and IDA with the objective of enabling the water
and sanitation agencies in Maputo and Beira to achieve financial viability
by 1993. The proposed cost recovery mechanisms, on which the Government
provided assurances at negotiations, are outlined below:
(a)     sites and services: on-site project costs would be
recovered directly from beneficiaries through plot
allocation fees; recovery of off-site electrical
infrastructure costs is included in the existing tariffs
of the utility company, while recovery of off-site water
infrastructure would be the subject of the tariff study.
(b)     cost of completed buildings, rehabilitated apartments and
core houses would be recovered through rental or lease
purchase of the units, in local or foreign currency; the
annual review of housing strategy would include a review
of the adequacy of these charges to recover costs (para
1.09);
(e)    water and sewerage and storm drainage investments and
maintenance would be recovered through user charges and
fees. During negotiations, the Government provided
assurances that a study of water and sanitation tariffs
would be completed by December 31, 1989 and reviewed with
IDA by June 30, 1990, wlen an action plan to implement its
findings would be agreed upon and targets set for the
water and sanitation agencies in Maputo and Beira to
achieve financial viability by FY-1993.



- 13 -
(d)     recovery of the costa of road and storm drainage
investments and maintenance would be through taxes *nd
user charges to be determined as a result of the study to
strengthen local government institutions and finances
(para 1.12);
(e>     garbage collectíon operations and maintenance would be
recovered through the introduction of local government
taxes, which are being reviewed (se. para 1.12);
(f)     building materials credita and small and micro-enterprise
credits, would be recovered from beneficiar$es through the
intermediary banking institution, Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento (BPD). Existing rates of interest applied
by BPD would be applicable to the small and micro-
enterprise credits, that is 18-24% per annum, while a
minimum rate of 9% per annum would be applicable for
building materiala credits (see Annex 5). During the
current period of structural adjustment, inflation is high
in Mozambique (estimated at 35% in 1988) as prices adjust,
but is expected to reduce in the future. Interest rates
on 9he línea of credit would be reviewed at the annual
project reviews to ensure that they are consistant with
national credit policies.
E. Relocation and Resettlement
2.09     As indicated in para 1.09, Mozambique faces a serious issue in
relation to maintenance of the public sector housing atock. As a first
step towarda resolving this problem, the Government has raised rents very
substantially effective from April, 1988, changing the basis of assessment
from a percentage of income to floor area and location of the dwelling
(thus the mount of the inerease varies according to the income of the
inhabitant and the floor arca of the house, but on average may range
between 100% and 4002). Although a more appropriate method of assessment,
the change is likely to lead to (a) a large relocation of population in the
cities, as people move to smaller, lesa well lotated dwellings that they
can afford; and (b) greater density as families double up to be able to
afford the rent.
2.10     The housing rehabilitation components are intended to serve as a
pilot means of addressing this issue through the provision of alternative
low-income housing suitably located in central arcas for çhose unable to
afford existing rents. In the first phase of the project, 300 core unita
would be buílt in inner city locations in Maputo and 80 in Beira, wh$ch
would then be used to house families moved from decaying apartment blocks
which are to be rehabilitated. Surveys carried out amongst the residents
of apartment blocks to be rehabílitated show that over 60% of them would
prefer to move to the more traditional ground level core unit to be
provided under the project, which would offer the possibílity of hce
ownership.



- 14 -
2.11     To make such a scheme replicable, a proportion of the 990
apartments to be rehabilitated (about one third) would be rented in hard
currency at rate; that are very much higher (US$3.60 per m2 per month) than
those applicable in Meticaís (US$0.2 per m2 per month). This would enable
the scheme to benef't from the great demand for housing from expatriates
and others with the means to pay in hard currency. At the same time, it
would contribute to resolving the critical shortage of housing for
technical assistance facing all aid projects in Mozambique. The surplus
generared by this arrangement would be used to cross-subsidize about two-
thirds of the cost of housing provided for the lowest income groups to be
relocated from apartments. It would also be used to ensure that the
buildings are adequately maintained in future and to replicate the scheme
on a wider basis (Annex 3 describes in more detail the concepts underlying
the housing rehabilitation component and the modalities of its
implementation). The resettlement plan was reviewed by IDA at
negotiations, when assurances from the Government were obtained concerning
its implementation (para 4.01 (i)). Assurances were also obtained that
Government would enforce the agreement by the State Housing Agency (APIE)
to rent a proportion of rehabilitated apartments in hard currency, which
was also reviewed at negotiations.
F.  Employment Generation
2.12     About 35,000 man years of employment would be supported directly
and indirectly by the rroject over a six year period, at an average cost
per job of about US$1,800 equivalent. Direct employment is estimated at
about 24,000 man years or 4,000 jobs in construction over the six years.
The infrastructure rehabilitation components would generate about 11,700
man years of employment during the construction period and then would
require about 500 permanent jobs in the city council of Beira and 1,100 ln
that of Maputo, for the ongoing maintenance of the rehabilitated
infrastructure systems. The housing rehabilitation components wculd
require about 8,500 man years for the completion of buildings, the
rehabilitation of apartments and the construction of the serviced plots.
In addition, about 2,000 man years of employment would be generated through
the use of the materials loane and micro-enterprise credits. Only about
200 additional jobs would be added in garbage collection as staff of the
respective departments are largely already in place; their productivity,
however, would be significantly increased through the introduction of
appropriate equipment and vehicles.
G. Justification, Benefits and Risks
2.13     The expenditure of relatively small amounts on infrastructure
rehabilitation will save the need for much larger future investments in
reconstruction and can be expected to yield relatively high economic rates
of return. The investments in Beira are essential to the development of
the Beira Transport Corridor, which will be one of the country's main
foreign exchange earners, while much of the investment in Maputo will also
assist in foreign exchange earnings or savings. Direct benefits to
households include improved water, sanitation, shelter and transportation.



- 15 -
There would be significant decreases in working days lost for health
reasons, and reductions in health costs, as well as tlme savings associated
with improved transportation. From an environmental point of view, the
improved sanitation of low income housing areas and of high-rise buildings,
as well as better solid waste managemer.t and coustal erosion protection are
considered to be direct benefits to the urban environment.
2.14     The components for which the ERR was calculated consist primarily
of infrastructure and housing rehabilitation and amount to 38% and 33Z
respectively of total project costs. Their average ERRs are estimated at
38% and 40% respectívely (for details see Annex 8). No estimate is
avaílable of the benefits from the lines of credit to small and micro-
enterprises, but the additional employment likely to be generated is
considered to be significant (see para 2.12 above).
2.15     Risks are that the project may exceed the implementing capacity of
the executing agencies and that the security situation may impede the
completion of some project components. The project's restriction to the
two principal cities is intended to minimize the risks associated with
limited implementation capacity and the security situation. The
Government's demonstrated strong coimítment to the objectives and approach
proposed and the carefui consideration given to the appropriate level and
type of implementation assistance to be provided will also help to minimize
these risks. Experience during project preparation has shown that
Government has a highly competent management team in place and this same
team will be strengthened with technical assistance, including a project
coordinatoc, procurement adviser and financial controller, tc. ensure timely
implementation of the project (see para 3.01 and Annex 6).
III. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
A. Institutional ArranZements
3.01     Responsibility for implementation of most of the project would
reside with the Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA), with small
components being the responsibility of the Ministry of State Adminístration
(MAE) and the Ministry of Labour (MT). Within MCA, the overall policy and
strategic planning will remaín with each of MCA's National Directorates
involved, while a Project Implementation Unit (PIU) has been established
within MCA for project coordination (see proposed Organization Chart 3.1).
The Director of the PIU will report directly to the Minister of
Construction and Water under the advise of MCA's Steering Committee, which
4i made up of the National Directors of the Economy and Construction
Directorate (DEC), the National Water Directorate (DNA) and the National
Roada and Bridges Directorate (DNEP . The legal instrument establishing
the PIU was reviewed at negotiations. Through technical assistance and a



- 16 -
MOZAMBIQUE
Urban Rehabilltation Project                               CHART 3.1
Prmgot Progmt Implnentatin Units Orlzan
|      tntMsn of
Co«ruction "  ftWer
St.rIng Commtttss
DEC, DNEP, DN
Projot lmphmntstto.
Un1t Dirntor
.
Prwurumet                           Pro_ct _                              Fl_cbl
Adviur                          Icuortnato
IPro. sPr es                                              met
PROHABITA Directo
[  (MCA)
Director
[ ProJect   _                            Ftnicbl
Cort tor                                Ocntrolbor
Fleld Implomentetion                   | Fisld !mplementatton
Tem MAPUTO                               T"m BEIR
Potudil to h flct pubr
to  al  dracm        "
*hown ln bd««.



- 17 -
limited number of internationally recruited conaultants, the financial
control and construction cost control would be províded along with
supervision of procurement, bidding and contracting actívities as shown in
the draft organization chart of the PIU. The appointment of key staff of
the PIU is a condition of credit effectiveness. DNEP will be responsible
for road rehabilítation and th. DNA for drainago rehabilitation and,
through the Maputo Water Company (AdeM), for the water supply component in
Maputo, and through the Beira Water Company (AdaB) for the water and
sewerage components in Beira. DNEP would be responsible for the emergency
erosion control component. The rehabilitation of the apartments and the
completion of buildings would be the responsibility of the Gabinete de
Programas de Habitacao (PROHABITA), the Housing Planning Department of DEC,
within which a Housing Management and Supervision Unit (HABITAR) has been
established to implement these components of the project. The sites and
services upgrading and core units and buílding materials components would
be the responsibility of the City Councils' (CECs) Departments of
Construction and Urbanization (DCU) with the assistance of HABITAR. Legal
agreementa between MCA and the CECs and between DNA and the water
companies, specifying their mutual obligations for project implementation,
were reviewed at negotiations. The funds for small and micro-enterprises
and the buílding materials credits componenta would be channeled through
the state-owned Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD) to eligible
applicants. In accordance with national banking regulationa, financial
agreements would be entered into between BPD and MCA. for the building
materials credita and between BPD and MT's Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego
(GPE) for small and micro-enterprise credits. Execution of these
agreements would be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 4.02). IDA
approval of the model Loan Agreementa to be entered into by BPD and
eligible beneficiaries in accordance with the elígibility criteria to be
included in the fii.ancial agreementa would be a condition of disbursement
for thiz component (para 4.03). a condition of credit effectiveness.
3.02     To maximize the employment generated by the project, MCA's
Steering Committee and the PIU would also monitor the manpower requirementa
of each of the civil works components and ensure that the works maintain
the most appropriate labor-intensive constructior. methods, as proposed in
the engineering documenta. A careful accounting of employment generation
would be maintained during projet^t implementation through quarterly
employment budgeta and reporta as part of PIU normal quarterly project
reporting responsibilities.
B. Action Plan
3.03     To achieve the immediate objectUves of the rehabilitation of the
two major cities, the project implementation schedule of most of the civil
works is planned over a four-year period with some of the sites and1
services and upgrading schemes, lines of credit, atudies and policy
measures extending over a further two years. The contract approval
procedures have been carefully a;nalyzed to identify critical stepa to
reduce the processing time to minimum achievable time frames. The PIU



- 18 -
within MCA would monitor the progresa on each component and coordinate the
overall project. A series of action plans have been developed for each
component which would be updated on a quarterly basis. Work schedules
based on these plans would be overlayed to determíne the critical path for
the implemer.tation of the project as follows:
Datail.d Engin..ring     Execut on
Phastna                                     Documnntation A Blddlno    of Works
Plan I,   Infrastructur. Rehab. - UtilIti6s     4/88 - 8/88        10/88 - 12/90
PIan II.   Infrestructur. R.hab. - Roads         6/88 - 0/88       12/88 - 6/91
Pian III.  Houuing R*hab. a) APT R.hab.          4/8e - 9/88       11/88 - 3/91
b) upgrading, S & S & Core Unita    4/88 - ô/88         9/88 - 9/94
c) completion of bidg.               4/88 - 6/88       10/88 - 9198
Plan IV   Municipal Service Support             4/88 - 6/88        10/88 - 9/91
3.04     Plan I and II, Infrastructure Rehabilitation Works, would be
phased to ensure coordination of the rehabilitation of the utility networks
and their installation prior to paving and surfacing drainage works.
3.05     Plan III, Housing ReSh4bil1tation.  The success of the housing
rehabilitation of the low-income apartment buildings depends on an early
start of the urban infill sites and servíces with core units. About 300
families of the 1,000 occupying the Maputo apartments to be rehabilitated
will not be able to pay the new rent and will need the alternative
accommodation referred to above. The Habitar team will coordinate these
activities with the CECs.
3.06     Early Project effectiveness is expected for October 1988, and the
completion date for the project would be December 1994, with a closing date
one year thereafter. The six year project implementation period compares
with seven years for similar projects in the region and is considered
realistic in view of the close attention paid to project management and the
preparation of tightly defined action plans.
C. Procurement
3.07     All goods and services to be financed by IDA will be procured in
accordance with the  Bank's procurement guidelines.  Table 3.1 summarizes
the procurement procedures to be applied to the various components. The
rehabilitation of the infrastructure - major roads, water, sanitary sewer
and drainage networks and marine structures for coastal erosion control,
(US$27.7 million) as well as the completion of buildings (US$9.5 million)
would beprocured through international competitive bidding (ICB). The
total ICB for the project would be US$41.2 million of which US$37.1 million
would be disbursed from the IDA credit. Parallel financing by other donora
would provide US$17.8 million to finance parta of the water networks, sites
and services and solid waste management using procurement procedures from
each donor country.



- 19 -
TABLE 3.21
11=MUIQUE
Urbe. Rel.ItlmtIt.a Prjuet
PROCURE MEIT ARRANSEIIEENT
ln US$ milllon
C'mponnts                               ICC       LCS      LocOl     P rull.l    Other      Total
Shooiru  Financino Procedum       Cost
e) Iertra turs kh.bil.l»
1. Roed & Drinqoe ReIubilttaton    13.99                                                13.99
12.59                                                12.59
2. Watr & Svarae Rahubilitation    13.70                          6.72 (a)              20.42
12.33                                                12.33
3. Emsrgency Erosion Control        3.05                                                 3.05
2.75                                                 2.75
h) IHwi.g Rhbehlitmtiem
1. Rehsb. Liw InomApartnunts                  6.21       0.71                            6.92
5.59      0.64                            6.23
2. Upgruing & Sltw & Servlcas                 4.39       0.69    6.72 (b)                1 1.80
3.95      0.62                            4.57
3. Complstton of Butidingp          9.52                                                 9.52
1___ =___ ==______________   _8.57                                                         0.57
1. Gorbog Collocthn Equtp. I puto                                 4.35 (e)               4.55
2. Grbep Collactton Equi p. Beira   0.97                                                 0.97
.________________________       0.87                                                 0.87
d) Lil cf Credit
1. Suli & Micro Enterpris                                3.32                            3.32
2.99                            2.99
2.   ingq Improvement/ ornstr.                           2.!2.
1.90                            1.90
e> Ialtutteusl Dw.1.p..t
1. TA. & Tr. and Project Mnqem.nt                                             1.15       1.15
1.15      1.15
2. Studios and Enrnwori ng(incl. PPF)                                          2.75      2.75
__________________________          _2.75                                            2.75
f) Pr,ejt Admiltratlem
1. YetMcls and Equtpment            2.80                                                 2.80
2.80                                                 2.80
2.0portng9Costa                                                               0.51       0.51
. ______________________                                                        0.51       0.51
Toblt                    44.03     10.60      6.83       17.79      4.41      83.66
Amue  te  e disburu  bg IBRD    39.91            9.54      6.15       0.00       4.41      60.00
(a) and (b) to beco-finoncd by FINNIDA; (c) te beco-finencad bySpatn.



- 20 -
3.08     Because there are geograph$cally scattered, of amall size and
involve labor intenslve works, the housing rehabilitation contracta
(US$5.59 miliíon) will be packaged into 6 lots for Maputo and 3 lota ln
Beira for local competitive bidding (LCB). Since work can not start until
the oecupants are temporarily relocated I-"- core houses (which are the
first priority), the construction sta:         be staggered over three
years.  This process precludes ICB prot      a.  The average value of these
contract lots is US$660,000 while the average value per site is US$165,000.
Similar reasons would apply to limiting the upgrading and sites and
services contracts (<S$3.95 million) to LCB.  The   4.'l LCB would be
US$10.6 million of which US$9.5 million would be disbursed from the IDA
credit. There remains a number of small tasks such as flushing the sanitary
networks out to the street sewers and cleaning of water supply systems
which would be packaged for local shopping (LS) (US$0.7 million) along with
small drainage works in the upgrading and site development component
(US$0.7 million). The average value of these amall works would be about
US$20,000 and works and itema or groups of items estimated to cost lesa
than the equivalent of US$50,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
not to exceed US$1.5 million would be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations solicited from a list of at
least three suppiíers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to IDA. In addition, the goods and materials to be
procured under the lines of credit, with an average credit value of about
US$1,000 would slso be procured through Local Shopping (LS) procedures up
to an aggregate amount not to exceed US$5.0 million. The total LS would be
US$6.8 million of which US$6.2 million would be disbursed from the !DA
credit.
3.09     Draft standard LCB and LS contracta were reviewed at negotiations
and referred to the Bank's Procurement Unít for detaíled review. The
equipment, vehicles and imported materials would be packaged into lota
procured through ICB procedures. Lccal building materials costing less
the.s US$50,000 per component would be procured through LCB procedure.
However, the aggregate amount so procured would not exceed US$1.5 million.
Consultants would be contracted locally and internationally ín accordance
with Bank guidelines. Quarterly updating of unit costs and materials and
equipment will be maintained along wilh close and continued on-site
supervision which will facilitate timely procurement. MCA will have the
responsibility for having contracts reviewed by ita existing Bid Evaluation
Committee. The Ministry of Finance and the Bank of Mozambique will approve
the financial terms of contracts after vetting by PIU. The first LCB
contract would be reviewed and cleared by IDA to ensure compliance with the
Bank's procurement guidelines. For all contracts with an estimated value
of US$750,000 or more, IDA will review and approve procurement documenta,
specifications and awarda prior to the signing of the contracts. Other
contracts will be subject to post award review by IDA supervision missions.
Assurances on procurement arrangements were obtained from Government at
nexotiations.



- 21 -
D. Disbursement
3.10     Disbursements by IDA at the rate of 70% would be made against
eligible local project expenditures net of taxes and duties for civil
works, materials and equipment. Disbursementa would be 1002 against
eligible foreign expenditures. Amounts to be disbursed by IDA are
indicated in Table 3.2 Disbursement Arrangementa. Disbursement for
consultant services, training, atudies and surveys would be made at the
rate of 100% of total expenditures. Disbursements would be made against
statementa of expenditures (SOEs` for the following items: (a) contracta
for works and goods valued at lesa than US$250,000 equivalent; (b)
contracts for consultants' services valued at less than US$100,000
equivalent; (c) local training programs; (d) operating costs; and (e) lines
of credit. Documentation in support of the SOEs would be retained by the
executing agencies for inspection by IDA's supervision missions. If the
experience in the first year of project implementation confirms that SOEs
are being used correctly, IDA could consider raising the SOE limit to match
the prior review limit. All other disbursements would be fully documented.
3.11     In order to help accelerate project implementation and Credit
disbursements, a single special account would be established to serve all
project components. This account would be opened in a commercial bank, and
operated through the Bank of Mozambíque (BM) lr. accordance with exlsting
Government regulations which require that ali foreign currency payments be
authorized through BM. The Financial Controller in the PIU would approve
all payments from the Special Account and would be made responsible for
aggregation of documents, reconciiation of bank atatements as required by
IDA and preparation of replenishment applications for signature by
officials designated by BM. Assurances on disbursement arrangementa were
obtained from the Governêent at negotiations.
E. Accountina and Auditing
3.12     The PIU would maintain consolidated accounts for the entire
project. The responsibility of the detaíled accounting for roads would be
w$th the DNEP and for water and sewers with Aguas de Maputo (AdeM) and Agua
da Beira (AdaB). HABITAR would maintain accounta for all housing-related
and resettlement plan accounts and GPE would maintain aeccounts for the
lines of credit to small and micro-enterprises. For urban services, the
DSU of the CECs of Maputo and Beira would maintain detailed accounts. The
PIU would be required to recruit a qualified financial analyst fcr the post
of Financial Controller with an accounting support staff that would prepare
consoiídated expenditure accounts, quarterly reporta, annual financial
plans and internal audita. The appoíntment of PIU's key staff (Director,
Project Coordinator, Procurement Advisor and Financial Controller), would
be a condition of Credit effectiveness (para 4.02).
3.13     The Project Coordinator of the PIU would supervise and monitor the
systems of cost control, critical path and monitoring. Technical
assistance and consulting services would be provided under the project to
the ímplementing and operating agencies - DEC, DNA, DNEP, AdeM, AdaB, the



- 22 -
Urne  Rebmhilitatism Pr.jet
Dislursmet Arreapgm        ts
Tht IDA credit vil] be disburud on the folloving beis:
Catsrg    Item                                   am.mt             Hlmaermenmt
(US$ million)
1      Civil Works
a) Infrastructure Relbtblltation,   19.70        1 00% of forelgn and 70% of
Extenuion and Miantenence,inciuding                  loal expenditures.
labor, miteriais and tools for vorks
1) Custel Protection Works           2.20        100% of foreign and 70% of
local expenditures.
c) figh and Low Income               1170        100% of foreignand 70% of
ApartmentRehabtlitatfon and                          local expendltures.
Buulding Completion
d) Upgrading and Sites & Services    3.50        1 00%  of foreign and 70% of
loal expendKitures.
2      Umos f Credit
a) For Nemo Improverent and          1.80        1 00% of foreign and 70% of
Construction                                         local expenditures.
b> For Small & Micro Enterpris       2.60        100% of foreign expenditures.
3      VYlielo, Eq  pmomt,                   2.80       100%C of foreign and 705 of
Office Equi pmmnt, Supplies                          local expenditure.
and Spare Parts
4      Co.ltoat $srvls.                      6.10       100%
Training, Studies,
and Surveujs.
5      Opsr Rtim  Cot                        2.10        100% of lcalexpenditures.
6      PPF Rofimi                            1 50       Amiunt Due
7      UNlloeti                              6.00
Total   60.00



- 23 -
DSUs and MAE (DFP) and MT (GPE). Short-term technical assistance would
also be made available at the end of each fiscal year to ensure that
project accounts are in order, that the financial statements suitable for
auditing are drawn up, and that the project is audited by independent
auditora acceptable to IDA. During negotiations, the Govern=ent provided
assurances that audited financial statements acceptable to IDA would be
aubmitted to IDA within six months of the end of each financial year.
Statements of expenditures (SOEs) would be included in the audit and
mpecifically addressed in the audit report.
3.14     Quarterly Reportinz.  In addition to their annual accounting and
audit reporting responsibilities, the PIU of MCA would prepare quarterly
progress reports which shall include budget reports for each component
(including employment budgets) on actual and projected expenditures and
disbursement categories. These reports would be due within one month of
the close of each quarter.
F. Technical Assistance and Consulting Services
3.15     Assistance would be provided under each of the project components
(see Estimated Cost Table Annex 7, Page 1), in order to accomplish the
following:
(a)    strengthen the capacity of ímplementing agencies to execute
the project and to provide for on-going maintenance
t}.ereafter, such as in the case of the road rehabilitation,
vater rehabilitation and solid waste management components;
(b)    provide a project administration capability, were there is
none, within the existing institutional structure, such as
ín the case of the PIU and HABITAR; and
(c)    for developing the institutional capacity in areas related
to, but not directly involvíng implementation, such as in
the case of development planning in DEC and land
registration or management of housing in ".oth the city
councils of Maputo and Beira.
3.16     About 320 man months of assistance would be required for
consultants to assist in the detailed final design and contract
documentation, and mainly, in contract supervision of the civil works
componenta. In addition, about 140 man months of technical assistance would
be provided to improve and manage project financing, budgetary, accounting,
auditing, and reporting activities. The cost of technical assistance and
consulting services, as well as that of the related equipment and operating
expenses are shown in Annex 6. The Table also shows where and what type of
technical assistance or other consulting services are provided. In view of
the shortage of housing for expatriate technical assistance, care has been
taken to ensure *hat housing will be available when needed under the
project. The agreement of the State Housing Agency (APIE) to make this
housing available was presented at nezottations (when the Government
provided assurances concerning its implementation.



- 24 -
IV. AGREEMENTS, CONDITIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS
A. Agreements and Conditions
4.01     DurinR negotiations assurances were obtained from the Government
on the following matters:
(a)  an action plan based on the recommendations of the study to
strengthen local government institutions and finances would
be sent to IDA by March 31, 1989 and reviewed with IDA by
June 30 t       x,hen a timetablc f.r implementation of the
recommendations, including cost recovery mechanisms, would be
agreed.  Progress on implementing the action plan to
strengthen local government bodies would be reviewed with IDA
annually thereafter under the proposed project (para 1.12);
(b) The on-going socio-economic sample surveys under the building
rehabilitation component to assess the impact of recent price
increases, should be sent to IDA by March 31, 1989 and be
reviewed with IDA by June 30, 1989, when an action plan to
address their findings would be drawn up (para 2.07);
(c) A study of water and sanitation tariffs would be completed by
December 31, 1989 and revíewed with IDA by June 30, 1990 when
an action plan to address its findinga would be agreed upon
and targets set for the water and sanitation agencies in
Maputo and Beira to achieve financial viability by FY-1993
(para 2.08).
(d)   GOM to review with IDA progress on the development of a
housing strategy by June 30, 1989 and annually thereafter
with the objective of achieving full cost recovery for public
sector housing. These reviews to include policies for
rehabilitation and maintenance of the existing public sector
housing stock (para 1.09);
(e) cost recovery arrangementa for project components
(paras 2.06 - 2.08);
(f) the institutional arrangements for project implementation and
the action plans, including the timing of appointment of key
staff to the PIU and the housing units (paras 3.01 - 3.06);
(g) employment of technical assistance and consulting services,
including provision of counterpart staff (paras 3.15 - 3.16);
(h) provision of housing for project consultants (para 3.16); and
(i) implementation of the resettlement plan for persons to be
relocated under the project (para 2.11).



- 25 -
4.02     Conditions of effectiveness would be:
(a) the execution of the financial agreements between BPD and MCA
and between BPD and MT's GPE (para 3.01); and
(b) appointment of key staff to the PIU (paras 3.01 and 3.12).
4.03     Condition of Disbursement would be IDA approval of the model loan
agreements to be used under the lines of credit for amall and micro-
enterprises and for building materials loans (para 3.01).
B. Recommendations
4.04     On the basis of the above actions and agreements, the proposed
project would be suitable for an IDA credit of US$60 million equivalent on
standard terms.
AF6IN
June, 1988



- 26 -
ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 3
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
SELECTED DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE ON THE ?LAOJECT FILE
Reporte on Urban Infrastructure, Housing and Municipal Services in
Be'ra by Plancenter of Finland, October 1987 (23 volumes).
Engineering and Economic Feasibility reports on roada in Maputo
and Beira by Roughton and Partners, February and April 1988.
Inception Report and Detailed Engineering Report, on Maputo Water
Distribution Extension and Rehabilitation and Report on Maputo
Control Erosion by Sir M. MacDonald and Partners, January and
March 1988.
First phase viability study on building rehabilitation and
completion by Bratex, January 3988, plus detailed engineering
atudies for each building, March 1988.
E'easibility reporta and Final Designs of Beira Sewerage
Rehabilitation, Beira Control Erosion and Drainage of the Praca 16
Junho in Maputo by DHV, March 1988.
Feasibility reporta on the Laulane-Mahotas (Maputo) sites and
services component by UNCHS-Habitat, January and March 1988.
Preliminary report on the Inhamuize (Beira) sites and services
component by Comiassao Provincial do Planeamento Fisico, December
1987.
Reports on small scale enterprises in Maputo and Beira by Fion de
Vletter, February and March 1988.
Projetos de Ceramicas da Maputo by MCA, February 1988.
Extracts from the Constitution of the Popular Republic of
Mozambique.
Lei de Terras (effective as of September 25, 1979), with
introduction and explanatory notes, in 4a Sessao, Assembleia
Popular, Documentos No.l.
Lei do Arrendamento, with introduction and explanatory notes, in:
4e Sessao, Assembleia Popular, Documentos No.3.



- 27 -
ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 3
Lei das Cooperativas, No.9179 de 10 de Julho, in: Sa Sessao,
Assembleia Popular, Documentos, No.l.
Estatuto do Ministerio da Construcao e Aguas, Diploma Ministerial
iz: Boletim da Republica, 21 de Janeiro 1987.
DDecreto No.24/87 de 27 de Outubro; determinacao da renda dos
imoveis que constituem o Parque Imobiliario do Estado ins Boletim
da Republica, 30 de Outubro de 1987. (With explanatory note).
la Reuniao Nacional sobre cidades e bairros comunais, Doc. No.l;
Resolucao Geral, 1979.
la Reuniao Nacional sobre cidades e bairros comunais, Doc. No.3t
Resolucao sobre as zonas verdes, 1979.
la Reuniao nacional sobre cidades e bairros comanais, Doc. No.5:
Resolucao sobre o urbanismo, 1979.
Problemas Habitacionais na cidade de Maputo; o fornecimento de
materiais de construcao, by Dominique Raynauld, DCU of CECM,
January, 1984.
O Sector Foral da D.C.U., April 1984.  (Paper on situation up to
1984 by Titus Pereira and Paul Jenkins).
O Cadastro Predial na Cidade de Maputo, March 1984. (Paper on
situation up to 1984, by Titus Fereira and Paul Jenkins).
DCU of Conselho Executivo de Maputo - administrative forms:
Various forms used for land requests.
Normas para distribucao de terrenos
Form for survey of occupation of plots.
Request for building license.
Cidade de Maputo - Plano de Estrutura, (1985)
(Selected photocopies from the document).
NGO shelter activities in Mozambique
IYSH, SINA (Settlements Information Network Africa, December,
1986.
Territorial Dilemmas; Urban Plannin; and HousinR in Independent
Mozambique, by Barry Pinsky, with Jens Svendsen and Erik
Gregersen, June 1983.



- 28 -
ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 3
NO:
In 1984-85, INPF prepared a series of internal discussion documento on
urban land use and its control.  As a result of the modifications of
institutional responsibilities for Planning and Housíng at that time, these
documents were never approved or elaborated upon. Although very
informatíve, they could not be photocopied. This series includes the
following paperss
Orientacoes para uso dos terrenos urbanos:
O controlo de utilisacao dos terrenos urbanos:
lo Cadernos    O planeamento urbano
2o Caderno:    Normas e regulamentos
3o Caderno:    Metodos e processos de atribucao de terrenos
a novo ocupacao.
4o Caderno:    Metodos e processos de atribucao de terrenos
(2) legalizacao da ocupacao existente.
5o Caderno^    Cadastro urbano e registo da ocupacao.
AFMIN
June, 1988



- 29 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 9
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
REHABILITATION OF INFRASTRUCTURE NETWORKS
Oblectives
1.       Over the past decade the urban population of Mozambique has grown
from 0.8 million to 2.2 million. During that period the urban
infrastructure networks practically were not extended as the operating and
maintenance capacity of systems gradually broke down. As a result of over-
utilization and deferred maintenance urban infrastructure networks have
deteriorated to a level were major elements of the systems are in danger of
uúIng totally lost. The priruary objectives of this component are to atem
the deterioration of basic infrastructure networks, and extend them were
necessary, in order to bring them back to basic operating levels which in
turn would permit user charges to be collected and thus ensure the ongoing
maintenance of the systems.
Description
2.       This component would include the rehabilitation and límited
extension of priority sections of the road, storm drainage, water supply
and sewerage networks, and of coastal protection works for the urban areas
of Maputo and Beira. The proposed investments are intended to complement
initial efforts already being unlertaken by the government with support of
other multilateral or bilateral 4gencies. Water transmission and treatment
facilities in Maputo, financed by the African Development Bank (ADB), are
nearing complUtion; sewerage and drainage projecta, finarzed by the
Netherlands are also nearly completed; in Beira, water transmission is
being financed by Italy while the water distribution component included in
this project would be parallel financed by Finland; sewerage pumping
etation rehabilitation is being financed by the Netherlands. The proposed
project would include the following components, organized by systems:
a)   Priority Road and Storm DrainaRe Network Rehabilitation.  In
Maputo the proposed project would provide for:
i)    rehabilitation and maintenance of priority sections of
the primary toad network;
ii)   reconstruction of the Costa do Sol bridge, to
consolidate direct access to fishing and agricultural
production areas for Maputo;
iii) drainage of the June 16th circle, which provides access
to the city and is subject to serious periodic
flooding;
iv)   in Beira, the project would include rehabilitation of
the main highway serving the industrial areas, and
maintenance of the primary road and storm drainage
network.



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 9
b)   Priorit, Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation.  This component
would include:
i)    design and execution of the emergency water
distribution network rehabilitation and priority
extension program, for Maputo;
ii)   in Beira, a similar water distribution network
rehabilitation program, (to be parallel financed by
Finnida), plus,
iii)  the rehabilitation of the water-borne sewerage network;
and,
c)   Coastal Erosion Control.  This component would includes
i)    design and rehabilitation of erosion control works
(groynes, sea walls etc.) in Maputo, and,
ii)   similar urgent works in Beira.
Costs
3.        The estimated direct (base) costs for the component are as follows
(see cost tables in Annex 7 for detailed cost and contingencies):
Subcomponente                                                      USS Million
a)   Priority Road and Storm Drainage Rehabilitation:
1)  rohabilItation of road network, Maputo ..6.. ....   ô.99
11) reconstruction of Costa do Sol bridge, Maputo ........   0.S
111) drainago of tho June lôth cirole, M*puto ... .     0.94
iv) r.habiltation of road n-twork, Beira ..4. .         45
b)   Priority Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation
1)  wat.r network rehabilitation and ext.nsion, Maputo  8.44
Ui) water network rohabilitation, Beira          .      . 13
i11) rehabliltation aeweraga network, Beira .. .... .    2.2
e)   Em.rgoncy Erosion Control
1)  rehabilitation of *rosion control works, Maputo ...    0.86
11) rehabilitation of *rosion control works, Beira .    1.68
Subtotal ... .  31.83



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 3 of 9
Financing and Cost Recovery
4.       Parallel financing would be provided by Finnida for the water
distribution network rehabilitation for Beira. The remaining costs would
be financed by the IDA credit and the government counterpart (see Financing
Plan, Table 1). To the extent possible, costs of the different components
would be recovered from the project beneficiaries in order to allow for the
replication of the varíous programs. The cost recovery mechanisms to be
used are:
a)   water and sewerage investments and maintenance would be
partially recovered through user charges and fees;
b)   road and storm drainage investments and maintenance would be
partially recovered through the vehicie regístration feca and
petrol user tax and other charges as necessary; and,
c)   there is no direct cost recovery foreseen for the coastal
protection works.
Implementation
5.       The overall coordination of project implementation would be under
the responsibility of the Ministry of Construction and Water (MCA). The
water supply component for the capital would be done by the Maputo Water
Company (AdM), while the sewerage component for Beira would be carried out
by the Beira Water Company (AdB). Road upgrading and erosion protection
works would fall under the responsibility of the National Roads and Bridges
Authority (DNEP), through ita regional offices. Once rehabilitated, the
ongoing maintenance of these works would devolve to the respective City
Councils. Technical assistance for institutional development would be
provided to the Ministry of Construction and Water at the central level,
directly to the local City Councils, and to the executing agencies. Civil
works administered by the various agencies would be carried out, as
appropriate, by small or large private enterprises, in accordance with
procurement procedures acceptable to the Bank (see chapter on procurement).
Status of Prolect Preparation
6.       Maputo Road Rehabilitation.  With the present low level truck
flows, of which 75% are empty, their pattern is not critical today;
however, truck routes should be established with appropriate enforcement
regulationas for both cities to reduce damage to the residential streets in
the near future. Given the high volumes of pedestrians and carts mixing
with automotive traffic, there is a need for including low-speed vehicle
patha from Laulane-Mahotas to the city center, and on the proposed Maputo-
Machava road. The complete Draft Engineeríng and Economic Feasibility
Report (February 1988) have been reviewed, together with the revised list
of road sections to be rehabilitated (125,530 m) for an estimated US$5.4
million (base-cost). The final bílls of quantities and specification and
contract documents will be completed by June 1988. Further detailed
testing will be undertaken in phase II to ensure that only the priority
sections will be included. This component will include a fu.l1 slow-moving



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 9
traffic and pedestrian lane to extend from the northern and of Av. Vladimir
Lenine to the junction of Av. Julius Nyerere using concrete pavíng blocks
with retaining curbs. In addition, consultants will design four road test
sections of 75 m using concrete pavers along Av. Mariana M'Gouabi, to be
bullt during the first 9ix months of the project, ao that their performanc-
can be evaluated, and if favorable, the use of concrete block pavera can be
increased along that road, or others. The cost of emergency repairs and
resurfacing/maintenance is estimated at US$0.5 million and US$1.08 million
(base cost), respectively. MCA has employed local consultants to design
the slow-moving trafflc 2.1 km access road to serve the Mahotas sites and
services project and the adjoining agricultural area, with a 5.5 m
carriageway, using concrete blocks.
7.       Beira Road Rehabilitation.  As with Maputo, the road priorities
were revised to rehabilitate 6.6 km of the EN6 for US$2.55 million (base
cost). The possibility of includíng a slow-moving traffic lane for
bicycles, carts and pedestrians along this road is being reviewed. The GOM
will determine if there is any overlap of this road with the proposed
improvements to the Beira-Harare highway, financed by the AfDB. The
accompanying emergency repairs and resurfacing/maintenance suas of US$0.25
million, and US$0.65 million, respectively, have been retained. The final
Bills of Quantities specification and control documents will be completed
by June 1988.
8.       Drainage of the June 16th Circle.  The proposed design solution of
sealing the box culvert to withstand a 5m hydrostatic head has been adopted
which includes open channel draans on the inside of the circle. Pedestrian
circulation and water standpipes would be located accordingly. The
preliminary estimated costs is US$710,000 plus US$170,000 for the road link
which would be provided in the last phase.  Coordination and approval of
the railway, AdM and CECM have been obtained and the detailed engineering
will be completed by June 1988.
9.       Costa do Sol Bridge.  The reinforced concrete single lane bridge
on piling has been adopted, since there will be no adverse ecological
effects on the salt water marsh. The alternative embankment solution would
require extensive sand dune protection works (not included in the initial
cost estimates) to keep the outfall channel open, and high operation and
maintenance costa for the sluice gates. The estimated cost is US$660,000.
The ERR is estimated at 28% assuming a traffic growth of 6% per annum to
serve the thriving fishing village and tourism as well. DNEP has reviewed
this proposal with the Zonas Verdes and other relevant authorities dealing
with the land use for the salt ponds, etc., before proceeding with the
final designs.
Priority Water and Sewerage Rehabilitation - Beira Sewerage
10.      Background.  The sanitation of Beira city is organized basically
on three different levels depending on the availability of water and water
borne sewer systems.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 9
i)   Pit latrines are used in those areas which are serviced only
by standposts or shallow wells.
ii)  Septic tanks are used 3n areas where houses are connected to
the piped water supply systotm, but where there are long
distances to the existing sêwer system.  Also the industrial
area and the port are served by septic tanks.
iii) Water borne sewerage ís used especially in the "cement city".
The newtwork was constructed in the late 1960'8.
Because it was known at the early stages of project identifícation
that very limited amounts of funds were available, the main efforts were
concentrated on identifying the problems of the existing sewer system, and
to find areas which could (at low cost and with existing housa connection5
to water supply system) be easily connected to the existing sewer system,
because the development of the water distribution network will be based on
plot or public tapa for some years to come due to the dífficult economic
situation.
11.      Problems with the Existing System.  The Beira water borne sewer
serves about 85,000 people mainly líving in the cement city. The system
consista basically of four different components: 1) secondary sewerage
collectora; 2) small underground pumping stations; 3) elevation atations;
4) main transmission línes.
1)   The secondary system is badly clogged because of the low
amount of water flushed into the system, but there is no need.
for rehabilitation.
2)   The amall underground pumping atations have been
rehabilitated (new pumps and electrical installations) with
the assistance of the Netherlands during 1984 - 1987.
Because of minimu  supervision most of the puzping atatíons
(70Z) are agaín out of order. Most of the damage is due to
faulty electrical installations.
3)   The rehabilitation of the elevation stations is also going on
with the assistance of the Netherlands, although only apare
parts are provided for three stations and only three out of
four new pumps will be installed in a fourth atation.
4)   The main sewerage transmission line is collapsed in one
place, is severely corroded in two places, and the pressure
main of elevation station No. i'J is collapsed.  In total,
approximately 1,100 metera of the 9,000 metera should be
rehabilitated.
12.      Extension of the Sewer System.  Because of the high investment
costs of the water borne sewer system only the areas with septic tanks and
with house connections to pipe water supply system were investigated under
this project. The major areas served with septic tanks are Manga. The
Industrial Zone, Matacuana/Esturro, Munhava Central, Macurungo and



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 9
Matacuana North. Of these, Matacuana/Esturro ia situated near the existing
sewer network and can be connected by gravity.   Only this component is
proposed to be included in the pzoject.
13.      Management Issues.  The management of Aguas de Beira, which i8
also responsible for the sewerage system, is suffering from lack of
managerial and technical staff. The Government of Finland and the
Government of the Netherlands are committed to support AdB by providing
equipment and materials and large technical assistance programs. Finland
will concentrate its assistance in the water supply system (at least 4
persons) and the Netherlands in overall management and the sanitation
sector (at least 4 persons).
14.      Other Issues.  Because of the lack of maintenance, the connections
of individual houses to the sewer system are functioning unsatisfactorily
causing obvious he41th hazards. Because the connections (inspection wells
of septic tanks) are owned by the houses and in most cases by APIE, all the
problems cannot be solved by supporting the AdB. The project would provide
a lump sum to be used for the rehabilitation and for cleaning of septic
tanks and house connections. Also equipment for cleaning the sewer has
been included.
BEIRA  SEWERAGE REHABILITATION
x 106 USD
Foreign   Local      Total
1. C-'vil Works
i)    Main sewer                        1100      200        1300
ii)   Extension (Esturro)                100      100         200
iii)  Repair of house connections        100      100         200
1300      400        1700
2. Equipment
i)    Trucks (2 pcs)                     200                  200
ii)   Tractor-trailer                     28                   28
iii)  Equipment (tools pick-up)           52                   52
300                  300
3. Technical Assist_.nce
Supervision of construction              200                  200
TOTAL 1 - 3                      1800       400       2200
15.      Cost Recovery.  Tihe Government of Mozambique has allowed the water
companies and other authorities responsible for the sewer and drainage
systems to charge a surcharge of 15% of water tariff to cover the cost of
the systems. The cost calculations and financial analysis have been
reviewed and it is obvious that the approved tariff is far lesa than the
actual costa. The issues related to tariff structure will be reviewed
separately.
Rehabilitation and Extension of Maputo Water Distribution Network
16.      Background.  The water supply services in Maputo are inadequate
for the present population, which has grown more rapidly than expected due



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 9
to the difficult economic and security problems of the country.  In some
areas population growth has been very much higher than indicated. The
distributior. system is badly suffering from deferred inaintenance.
Unaccounted for water is estimated to amount to 45-65% of the water
supplied. About 50% of the population served by the existing distribution
system have house connections and 40% are served by standpipes; the rest
have boreholes and shallow wells. The system is also affected by the lack
of source water. However, through ongoing construction and further
extension work of the Umbeluzi treatment works, the demand anid production
will be in balance by the year 1990.  Further source development is needed
shortly after that. The planned project proposed for financing by IDA
would (i) solve the major leakage problems in the existing distribution
network, (íi) strengthen and to extend the distribution network to the
areas where the need is most urgent; and (iii) study the long-term water
sources for the city:
i)   Rehabilitation of the existing network (leaKage control).
DNA has not yet received all the necessary equipment to start
the detailed network analysis. The estimated rehabilitation
needs - particularly for the distribution mains - must still
be considered as estimates.
ii) Rehabilitation of the distribution network.
- 50 km large mains (Cli + 150 mm) cleaning/relining;
- 30 km small mains (Cli - 150 mm) renewal/cleaning;
- rehabilitation of valves;
- 10,000 water meter connections.
iii) Extension of the distribution network would include:
- 6,75 km of transmission líne Chamanculo-Mahotas;
- Extension of Mahotas pumping station and reservoirs;
- Extension of Chamanculo pumping station;
- 105 km of new distribution mains in Mahotas;
- 7 km of reinforcement of the distribution system
in Malhangalane Coop and Alto Mae.
17.      Conclusions
i)   Rehabílitation of the existing networks.  The leakage atudy
is proceeding well although the programme is a líttle late
from what had been originally planned because of the late
mobilization of the resident staff. The interim report is
according to agreed TOR. During the mission, the consultant
submitted the statement of AdeM profits and losses and
projection up to 1992. The installation of water metera (in
open places) is in many places causing a situation where
meters are easily damaged, perhaps deliberately. Careful
rethlnking and designing is needed before replacing of water
meters is started on a large scale. The matter should be
solved in collaboration with the appropriate construction
authorities, APIE and ALM. The consultant will continue the
unaccounted water study to be able to submit the draft final
report by the end of September as well as necessary tender
documents for the rehabilitation works.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 8 of 9
ii)  Extension of the dístribution network.  The general pianning
has beon finaliíed and only some minor modifications will be
made in this atage. The detailed design will b- startad only
*fter the agreement has been aigned.
COST ESTIMATES
A. Rehabilitation of the existing networks
x 106 USD
Foreign   Local      Total
1. Civil Works
i)   Cleaning/relining (int. contr.       289        434       723
ii)  Rehabilitation (local contr.+adn)  438          356       794
iii) District meters                       29         46        75
75c       836       1592
2. Equipment and Materiais
i)   Water meters                         142         90       232
ii)  Equipment (cara, tools, etc.)        210         11       221
iii) DI-pipes                               7                    7
iv)  AC-pipes                             328                  328
V)   Valves                                35                   30
vi)  Fittings                              30                   30
752       101        853
3. Maintenance Programme
i)   Leak detection study,
t,aining, detailed engineering,
supervision                          200                  200
TOTAL 1 - 3                         1708       937       2645
B. Extension of Network:
1. Civil Works
i)   Mahotas distrib. center,
Chamanculo & Transmissian main.    858         410       1268
ii)  Extension of the network            1005       813       1818
1863      1223       3086
2. Ecuipment and Materials
i)   Pumps (includes installation)        441         10       451
ii)  Equipment (cars, tools, etc.)         38          2        40
iii) DI-pipes                             782                  782
iv)  AC-pipea                             655                  655
v)   Valves                                91                   91
vi)  HOPE-fitting                          36        _36
2043        12       2055
3. Design and Supervision
i)   Supervision                          300                  300
ii   Detailed design of extension         350                  350
TOTAL 1 - 3                         4556      1235       5791
u3=u      uma=



- 37 -
ANNEX 2
Page 9 of 9
The execution of the extension programme for Mahotas is highly dependent on
the amount and tim$ng of water avaílable at Chamanculo. The two projects
effecting that are the extension of the water treatment plant and at the
Umbaluzi (financíng by France) and the transmission main from Chamanculo to
Mahotas (f$nancing by Italy); in general, the coordination among the
various bilateral and raltilateral investment programmes as well as among
the road and water components in the proposed project is very critical.
18.      Coastal Erosion Control Maputo.  The proposals for fencing and
ground cover of sensitive areas, with controlled pedestrian access have
been adopted along with the relocation of vehicle parking areas to the
opposite side of the road. Grazing, specifically of goats, would be
prohibited. For protection of beach and dune erosion, the construction of
10 groynes of 100 m lengths has been adopted similar to the three existing
ones (1 km south of the Club Maritimo) in the critical areas: (i) the
desígn of the groynes would utilize local rock of 50 kg and include
concrete atructures as well as interlocking stabilized sand-cement bags;
(ii) for the severe erosion above the Costa do Sol bridge, km 6.3 and
above, mortared masonry revetments would be placed upon a geotextile fabric
at strategic locations. The revised: estimated for this component is about
US$0.86 million. Final contract documents will be prepared by June 1988.
19.      Emergency Erosion Control Beira.  A reduction in the longitudinal
protection of the dune alopes by interlocking stabilized sand-cement bags
has been adopted. About half of the existing groins would be extended to
below low-tide at one end and above high-tide at the other. As part of the
dynamic defense system, the interlocking stabilized sand-cement bags would
protect the groyne system and other devices. The main drainage channel and
aluice gates have severe problems at the sea outfall; the protection of
these is to be financed by West Germany.
AF6IN
May, 1988



- 38 -
ANNEX 3
Page 1 of 19
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOUSING COMPONENT
Introduction
1. Oblectives: A double objective has been assigned to the shelter
component:
(a)    To address urgent shelter needs in the two main urban areas
through three inter-related sub-components:
-  completion of unfinished state-owned office and
residential buildings;
- rehabilitation of state-owned residential buildings;
- sites and services, including effective development of
existing sub-divisions, new servdced plot development
and upgrading of existing settlements.
2,775 new dwelling units and 2,529 upgrade ones (including
apartments and plots in both cases) would thus be made
available.
(b)    To address policy issues in the fielda of housing and urban
development. In the changing urban context in Mozambique,
policy issues are coming up that will require answers in
the near future. By selectir.g shelter sub-components that
offer opportunities to tackle some of these iesues, though
on a amall scale, the project will provide the Government
with a testing ground where new approaches can be worked
out for future application on a wider scale.
2.       Urgent Shelter Needa:  The building completion sub-component
concerns buildings that were started before independence (1975), then came
under Government control, but were never completed due to shortage of funde
and of buildín4g materials. They represent considerable investments, now
immobilized, but that can be made productive at only a fraction of their
replacement cost. Since there is an increasing demand for office space and
housing from expatriates in both cities, it is proposed that all of the
offices and most of the apartments in the buildings be made available for
rental in foreign currency. This would produce surplus revenues to be
recycled into other shelter sub-components benefitting mainly Nozambican
households. About 26,230 sq.m. of office space and 153 apartments would
thus become available.



- 39 -
ANNEX 3
Page 2 of 19
3.       The building rehabilitation sub-component applies to residential
buildings (some of whích were abandoned by the Portuguese at independence)
that were nationalized in 1976 and rented to Mozambican households at
subsidized rates. They are managed by APIE, but lack of maintenance has
caused extensive deterioration. In order to preserve the investment the
buíldings represent, their rehabilitation (at only a fraction of their
replacement cost) is proposed, as well as their future management on the
basis of full recovery of investment and maintenance costs. This fits in
with the Government's recent decision to raise rental rates and to fix
these in function of dwelling characteristics and not, as previously, of
the tenant's income. Sitting tenants unable to afford the new rents would
be relocated to state-owned apartments of lower standards or to serviced
plots with core houses. Part ot the vacated apartments would be rented out
to foreigners to produce foreign currency revenues. About one thousand
apartments would thus be rehabilitated in Maputo and Beira.
4.       The sites and Services sub-component addresses housing supply
through plot development, in two different ways:
(a)    New sites and services areas laid out in urban extension
zones as well as in infill sites within the buílt-up areas.
The latter type of plots is to be provided with core houses
and is specifically intended for households relocated from
rehabilitated apartment buildings; and
(b)    Effective develpment of existing sub-divisions that have
remained largely unoccupied because of insufficient
infrastructure and services, shortage of building materials
and credit, and tenure problems.
5.       Building materials and credit facilities would be available to
beneficiaries under another component of the project. Rental revenues from
the building completion and rehabilitation sub-component would be used for
cross-subsidy. Approximately 1,540 existing plota w'ould thus be serviced,
and 2,530 new serviced plots provided.
6.       As a whole, the shelter component would achieve full cost
recovery, as vell as a better balance in allocation of housing as a
funetion of income and affordability. Completed or rehabilitated
apartments of high standards would be allocated to the higher income
groups, including expatriates; rehabilitated apartments of lower standards
would be allocated to middle income groups including some of the sitting
tenants; and sites and servíce plots would be allocated to sitting tenants
unable to afford the new rents, as well as to lower income households from
the general public. Surplus rental revenues in foreign and local currency
from offices and high-standard apartments would be recycled within the
component to cross-subsidize the plots with core houses for relocated
households.
7.       Policy Issues: Some of the general policy issues that would be
addressed through the preparation and implementation of the different
shelter sub-components are outlined below:



- 40 -
ANNEX 3
Page 3 of 19
Management of the State-owned housing stock on a cost-
recovery basis, with re-allocation of dwelling units in
function of affordability, and the generation of surplus
revenues for cross-subsidization. Ultimately, this could
lead the way to partial divestiture of the State-owned
housing stock to the private sector, which may be envisaged
at some future time.
Relocation of Households on a large scale is expected as a
result of the recent rent increases. The project would
address the issue by providing affordable alternatives to
households wishing to relocate.
Plot development on a cost-recovery basis, as an
alternative to subsidized housing provided by the State.
The low level of new residential construction during the
last decade, together with a high rate of urban population
growth, are creating a large urbani housing shortage.
Increased supply of sites and services together with
assistance to self-help housing and the provision of credit
facilities may be necessary to keep pace wiíth demand.
In this respect, the development of realistic and
affordable standards in terms of infrastructure, plot sizes
and housing is critical.
Urban land administration raises a number of important
issues. All land is nationalized and allocated free of
charge (except administrative fees) and, in the absence of
a legal private land market, there are inefficiencies in
the allocation of urban land, which lead to land banking by
institutions as well as individuals, and to discontinuous
and inefficient urban development.
There is an urgent need to generate municipal revenues to
finance urban infrastructure and servíces. Land is
allocated practically free of charge and there are no land
or property taxes and no municipal taxes. The introduction
of municipal taxes is envisaged as a result of the on-going
local government finance and administration study.



- 41 -
ANNEX 3
Page 4 of 19
BUILDING COMPLETION SUB-COMPONENT
A. Oblectives
1.       The completion of unfinished residential and office buildinga
owned by the State, in order to (a) preserve and make full use of earlier
investments; (b) alleviate the present shortage of housing and office
space; and (c) to generate income in foreign currency through rental of
apartments and offices to foreign organizations and individuals.
B. Descríption
2.       The buildings carmarked for completion were started before
independence in 1975 and if not already owned by the State, they were taken
over at that time. Designs were revised to reduce standards and costs.
After a few years the works were continued but had to be interrupted again
because of the shortage of funds and building materials. The following
buildings are included in this component:
Maputo:
(a)    The "33 Andares" Buildnjzg
Of the 37 floor levels of this building, the 26 upper
floors are already completd and occupied and only the
eleven lowest (including sub-grade) levels would be
included in the project.  These comprise 11,390 sq.m. cf
floor area, including 2,600 sq.m. of shops and 8,790 sq.m.
of offices. The building is located along the main avenue
in downtown Maputo. The total cost of completion is
estimated at US$1.77 million for civil construction works,
electrical installation and elevators and related design,
or US$155 per sq.m. Most of the office space would be made
available for rental in foreign currency.
(b)    Tower 'A" of the "Torres Vermelhas" Complex
This complex is situated in a prime residential location in
the south east of the city. Construction started in 1971
and vas interrupted twice for five year periods. Around
1975, the original plans were revised and the apartments
subdivided to produce more units. The complex comprises
two towers one of which is ready to be occupied. Only the
remaining Tower "A" would be included in the project. It
has 25 storeys with a total floor area of about 18,600
sq.m. and 153 apartments, most of which range from 70 to
115 sq.m., with one to three bedrooms. The estimated cost



- 42 -
ANNEX 3
Page 5 of 19
of completion is US$2.16 million or US$133 per 3q.m.
Since these apartments will not be available for occupation
by foreigners, inclusion of Tower "A" in the project is
dependant on agreement by CECM/APIE to release 50 houses,
which will be vacated by people moving into Tower "A", for
rental. ín foreign currency, and to recycle the rental
proceeds within the project.
(c)    The BCCI - Central Bank Building
This building, also situated in downtown Maputo, comprises
12,250 Sq.m. of office space distributed over 21 floors.
The cost of completion is estimated at US$2.16 million for
civil construction works, electrical installation,
elevators, water supply and sewerage, air conditioning,
telephones and related design, or US$177 per sq.m.   In
future, the building would be entirely occupied by the
Banco de Mocambique, which would transfer part of its
services and 650 of its 1,100 employees to the new
building, thus releasing part of the office space presently
spread over several buildinga in downtown Maputo, part of
which wculd be rented out. The gross floor area per BM
employee would increase from a low 10 sq.m. at present to
20 sq.m. because of the move. Although no direct benefits
in the form of rental revenues in foreign or local currency
would be produced, certain indirect benefits can be
expected that would justify completion of the building
under the project. The additional floor space would enable
BM to effectively implement the scheduled separation of its
central banking and commercial functions and to increase
efficiency in both. In particular, improved service to its
13,000 clients would produce estimated yearly savings of up
to US$0.9 million in reduced waiting time, and management
of the increasing amounts of foreign aid would be
significantly improved.
Beira:
The ATCM Building
Construction of this building located in the central part
of the town proceeded in two periods 1972-1975 and 1978-
1984. In 1978, the original plans were revised, the height
of the building was reduced from 21 to 15 floors, and the
number of apartments was increased by subdividing the
original ones. The total floor area is 12,450 Sq.m.,
including 96 apartments totalling 10,040 Sq.m., 1,000 Sq.m.
of shops and 1,410 Sq.m. of offices. The cost of
completion is estimated at US$1.24 million for civil works,
electrical installations, elevators, pumps, telephones,
site development and related design costs or US$99 per
Sq.m.   Part of the apartment and office space would be
made available for rental in foreign currency.



- 43 -
ANNEX 3
Page 6 of 19
C. Financing and Cost Recovery
3.       The completion of the four buíldings is economically justified
because the cost of completion is only a fraction of the cost of new
construction. For commercial buildings, completion costs per sq.m. range
from US$100 to 200, while the cost of new construction is estimated at
US$400 tc 600. Completion costs per sq.m. for residential buildings vary
from US$100 to 130, as compared to US$400 to 450 for new construction.
4.       About 80% of the total cost of the component would be financed
from the IDA credit and the remainder from other sources, including rental
downpayments in foreign currency by prospectiíe tenants.
5.       For the "33 Andares" building in Maputo and the ATCM building in
Beira, full cost recovery would be achieved through rental in foreign and
local currency at rates fixed in accordance with the council of Ministera'
Decree No. 24187 dated October 27, 1987 (regarding the determination of
rental rates in local and foreign currency for properties owned by the
State). The rates currently are as follows:
Rental Rates Per Sq.m. Per Month
0ffices and Shops      Apartments
Foreign Currency Rents (US$)                  5.4                3.6
Local Currency Rents (MT)                       -                90 Approx.
6.       In the case of Tower "A" of the Torres Vermelhas complex, which is
not available for rental in foreign currency, cost recovery will be
effected indirectly through rental proceeds in foreign currency from 50
houses to be made avaílable for payment in foreign currency. An
undertaking by CECM/APIE to this effect is a condition of negotiation.
Rental revenues would be recycled in the following mannert
(a)    part of the revenues in foreign and local currency would
enter into a revolving fund for the completion of other
buildings;
(b)    part of the revenues in foreign and local currency would
enter into a fund for maintenance of the completed
buildings; and
(c)    part of the revenues would be used to cross-subsidize other
sub-components of the shelter component, specifically the
provision of core houses to relocated households.



- 44 -
ANNEX 3
Page 7 of 19
D.  Summary of BuildinR Comiletion Component
~Ar          _ _        _        _ _____;n_____   Complto;n                1v R.nt.I R-v..-n- i USt
Nuob-   Ertanta  Ofice-.Shor,-    TpT  gaIj 53   za r uinv                          riinCrs
38 Andares                -              O         11,6              11.388       1,767.290             o             737,94S
Tr_-r A                   158         16.18          o              16,185       2.159.030          43.704           600,000 jj
IlCCIntre l bnk           -              o         12 248            12 248       2 164 219            n/v               n/a
total-                             18.188       23,6              39,S21       6,090.539
ATOl                      9A 10.039                 2412            12.451       1,2óJ!00           17.706          294 984
Orand Total:          249          28,224       26.048            52.272       7.327,339          61.410        1.632.927
Suparvyiaor (4%)          -              -            -                 -           293.093             -                 -
lb. Cost:              -              -            -                 -         7.620,432             -
1/ R*ntal revenu. froo 80 hou ea to bh r.l.aesd for rental to foraignora.. oti.t1d on the basi. of
tJ5I.000 por .onlh por houes.



- 45 -                              ANNEX 3
Page 8 of 19
HOUSING REHABILITATION SUB-COMPONENT
A. Oblectives
(a)    Urgently needed preservatlon of the existing State-owned
housing stock that has been deteriorating as a result of
deferred maintenance;
(b)    To assist the Government in gradually phasing out housing
subsidies, by rental (and possible future sale) of
apartments at economically justified rates; and
(c)    To generate income through rental of apartments in foreign
currency, for cross-subsidy within the housing component.
B.  Descríption
The buildings to be rehabiitated were constructed during the last
25 years of colonial rule and came under State control in February 1976,
when nati`onalization of all rental properties, mostly abandoned by the
departed Portuguese, was proclaimed. APIE was entrusted with the management
of the properties, and rental rates were fixed as a (low) percentage of
tenants' incomes.  Lack of maintenance as a result of APIE's limited
resources and occupation by lower-income households with little or no
previous experience in apartment living, have caused extensive
deterioration. Because the buíldings' systems (water supply, sewerage,
elevators, electricity, garbage evacuation) are in most cases out of order,
they constitute a health hazard to the occupants.
In addition to gradual increases of utiíity rates, the Government
has recently decided to determine rental rates in function of the buildings'
characteristics and floor area and not, as previously, on the basis of
tenants' incomes (Council of Ministers' Decree No. 24/87 dated October 27,
1987).
These steps mark a policy shift towards the reduction of housing
subsidies and towards management of the Government-owned housing stock on a
cost recovery basis. In this context, 2,100 apartments in 142 Governmant-
ow.ed buildings in Maputo and Beira were selected for rehabilitation. A
little less than half of thes  would be rehabilitated under tL2 present
project.
In order to provide temporary accomodation to households vacating
their apartments during the rehabilitation works, about 380 serviced plots
with core houses (300 in Maputo and 80 in Beira) would be made available
under the sites and services sub-component. After completion of the
rehabilitation works, these core units would serve to permanently relocate



- 46 -
ANNEX 3
Page 9 of 19
households who cannot afford the new rentals and who prefer to move to these
uníts. Part of the rehabilitated apartments would be rented to foreignera
and rental revenues in foreign currency from this and the previous (building
completion) sub-components would be used to subsidize these core units.
Maputo
A total of 774 apartments ranging in size from about 50 to 120
Sq.m. and located in seven different high-rise buildings or walk-up
apartment complexes, were selected for rehabilitation. The works would
include repair or renewal of sewerage, water supply, electricity systems and
of elevators as appropriate, replacement of fixtures, doors, windows where
necessary, as well as refinishing of the buildings. The total estimated
cost is US$3.88 million or an average of US$60 per Sq.m.
Beira
A total of 216 apartments ranging in size from 65 to 120 Sq.m. and
distributed over eleven high-rise buildings or walk-up apartment complexes
would be rehabilitated in a similar manner. The total cost is estimated at
US$1.53 million or an average of US$68 per Sq.m.
C. Financing and Cost Recovery
About 80% of the cost would be financed from the IDA crediít and the
remainder from other sources such as enhanced rental downpayments by foreign
tenants.
Because rehabilitation costs are low in comparison to the cost of
new residential construction (US$60 to 68 against US$400 to 450 per Sq.m.),
full cost recovery will be achieved through rental. Housing renta fixed in
accordance wiíth Decree No. 24187 are currently US$3.60 per Sq.m. for rental
in foreign currency and about MT 90 per Sq.m. for rental in local currency.
In Maputo about 39% of the rehabilitated apartments (i.e. 300) and in Beira
a. ut 21% (i.e. 45) will be rented in foreign currency.
Rental revenues would be re-cycled in the following ways:
(a)    part of the revenues in foreign and local currency will be
used to give a subsidized core house on a serviced plot to
the 345 permanently relocated households;
(b)    part of the rental revenues in foreign and local currency
will enter into a revolving fund for the zehabilitation of
other buildings; and
(c)    part of the revenues in local currency will enter into a
fund for maintenance of the rehabilitated buildings.



- 47 -
ANNEX 3
Pago 10 of 19
D.  Summary of BuildinR Rehabilitation Sub-Component
Numb-r of    Nunb-r of   4sJkr of        R.habiltateon   _  riv Runtal Raenu   ;n JSS
Buildinfa o,r Croup of silIdinnla        Iuijd;na      Flor         ant in U                               rr fi       e      ur n
~tuO
A. 25 de Setembro 1123 -Cardoa'              1            14            82
AV. Marl Marc* 501 1                         1             7            55             881.894           18,042            184,560
Av. Karl Marx 939                            1            13            70
Av: Kar' Mar* 1462 #Zlab.zo"                 1             9            52             316.466            7,32S             74,906
Bai rro Maiang,                             47             3           141             523,031           19.807            199.s48
Bairro Acto MNa                              3           14-56          79             780.163           15,549            159,054
Ebairro M'ilhangalena                                                               LIZ1LJ7Z32           4.4s46
Totel Maputo:                           130             -           774          3.878.426           104,946          1,073,533
Supervieion (6S)                                                                       232,705
Ba* Coat - Maputo                                                                   4.111,131
Rua Cap. P. Raaoz 'Nicola'                    1           12            49    )
'Tudor'                                      1             9            14    )       417,206
Rua N. Albuquerque 'Cooperativa'              1           12            aO             776.214
Corroia de Brito 80                           1            4            12 )
Rua Padre Aaauncao 54                        1             2              8a
Rua Coa. Caivao 578                          1             3            10 )                             47,727           202.990
--o R. Baptiat.a 489                         1             2             6)
Rua P. Nuna. 183                             1             4            24 )            232,361
Rua N. Caolho 54                             1                           6
Rua e. Cpeio 5842                                          2             3
Rua R.aid.ncia 841                           1            _              4    )
|   ToaI Baizi                           11             -           216            1,823,781        47.727             202.990
Superviaion (68)                                                                         91 546
Bage Coat Buira                                                                       1.617.327
Crand Total:                            141             -           990           5,728,458        152.673          1,27r"523



- 48 -                             ANNEX 3
Page 11 of 19
SITES AND SERVICES SUB-COMPONENT
A. Oblectives
(a)    To provide alternative accomodation in the form of serviced
plots and core .louses to households relocated from
rehabilitated apartments (see previous sub-components);
(b)    To provide serviced plots to households in the lower-middle
income groups; and
(c)    To provide a framework in which new approaches to housing
and urban development can be developed f:om practical
experience.
B. General Description
Types of Plot Development
The essential aím of this sut-component is to increase housing
supply through development of servicec plots, in several ways:
(a)    New sites and services in peri-urban semi-agricultural areas
that have been occupied spontaneously at low densities
(Mahotas in Maputo; Inhamizua in Beira);
(b)    New sites and services on small infill sites within the
built-up areas of the towns. (Polana Canico and Bairro
Ferroviario in Maputo). These sites have remained
undeveloped for reasons related to inefficiencies in the
urban land allocation process and it is desirable that they
be developed before further extensions of the town are
considered. These sites are intended for more urban-
oriented households, specifically those relocated from
rehabilitated apartments; and
(c)    Upgrading of existing sub-divisions that have remained
largely unoccupied because of the absence of essential
infrastructures, the shortage of building materials and
inefficiencies in the plot allocation system. By addressing
each of these problems, the project would encourage
effective occupation of these areas (Laulane D in Maputo;
Muchatazinha in Beira).



- 49 -
ANNEX 3
Page 12 of 19
Standards and Levels of Service
Because in the present context incomes are low and construction
costs high, the standards of infrastructure and housing proposed under the
project are low with some variations:
(a)    All sites will be provided with basic infrastructures
including a paved main aecess road for public transportation
and storm water drainage, where necessary, graded local
access roads, a water distribution network generally with
standpipes, individual pit latrines, a power distribution
network with basic sheetlighting and mostly optional
individual connections;
(b)    A limited number of plots, mainly on infill sites, would be
equiped to higher standards including individual water and
electricity connections and a 32m2 3-room core house in
basic finish. These plots are intended for households
relocated from rehabilitated apartments.
(c)    Building materials kits corresponding to a basic 2-room
house and related credit facilities will be made available
under a separate project component to some of the other
beneficiaries; and
(d)    Plot sizes will range from 150 Sq.m. on infill sites in the
buílt-up areas to 450 Sq.m. in the peri-urban sites.
Relocation. Resettlement and Present Site Occupants
Relocation. For the first implementation stage of the building
rehabilitation program to start, it is critical that about 380 of the
apartments earmarked for rehabilitation in both towns be vacated at an early
stage. In order to provide temporary accomodation for households vacating
their apartments, a corresponding number of plots with core houses will be
provided early on, including 300 in Maputo (on the Polana Canico and Bairro
Ferroviario infill sites) and 80 'n Beira (on the Macurungo infill site).
Ultimately, 345 of these plots (300 in Maputo and 45 in Beira) will be used
to permanently relocate households who cannot afford the apartment rentals
Provision of core houses to these households will be subsidized with rental
revenues from the building completion and rehabilitation comoonents.
Resettlement. Rehabilitation of the June 16th Circle in Maputo,
under another project component, requires resettlement of about 25 squatter
households. These will be resettled in one of the sites and services areas
in accordance with CECM rules (Municipal Decree dated May 17, 1982).



- 50 -
ANNEX 3
Page 13 of 19
Present Site Occupants. All Sites selected for sites and services
development, except the Polana Canico infill site, are at present occupied
by small numbers of semi-rural settlers (about 95 households in Maputo and
300 ín Beira). These households will be accomodated on the sites anid where
possible, layout plans will be adapted to maintain their present locations
and preserve their houses. They will further be treated as project
beneficiaries.
FINNIDA's Workers' Housing Project (Beira)
FINNIDA is planning to finance a housing project which would mainly
benefit CFM workers. It includes the provision of serviced plots, core
houses and community facilities on two sites. Other components of the
FINNIDA project are: estabiíshment of hardware, brickmaking and carpentry
cooperatives, self-helf housing assistance, building materials credits and
institutional support to CFM's housing cooperative as well as to CECB/DPCA.
This project would be implemented through BCA and DPCA, while the
IDA financed project would be implemented through DPCA/CECB. Coordination
between the two projects is being achieved in the following ways:
-      Simultaneous appraisal in April, 1988;
-      Topographic survey of one of the FINNIDA sites to be
financed under the IDA credit;
3      Future coordiration in terms of site development housing
standards as well as institutional aspects.
C.  Description of the Project Sites
Maputo
(a)    Mahotas (10 km North of the city center).
The bairro Mahotas is a spontaneously settled peri-urban
agricultural zone. Most of the 81 existing dwellings are of
non-permanent nature and the present density is low (2-3
dwellings/ha). The area is partially serviced with water
from privately-owned boreholes and electricity and there is
a small bairro center with an administrative office and a
few shops. In the Structure Plan of Maputo, the area is
earmarked for low-density peri-urban residential development
(10-15 dwellingslha). The total project area is 51.4 ha.
The following is proposed under the project:
Roads: A 2 km paved road from Avenue Julius Nyerere through
the Laulane D site will give access to the site. All other
roads to be of consolidated earth constructio-..
Water: Until 1993 when connection to the city mains is
expected, water will be supplied from on-site ground water
resource. The distribution network will be designed in such
a manner that it cah later be connected to the city mains.
Out of the 628 plots, 200 will be equipped with individual
.rrnn   Fr 



- 51 -
ANNEX 3
Page 14 of 19
Sanitation: All plots to be provided with pit latrines.
Electricity: A power distribution network with basic street
llghting, and 200 of the 628 plots equipped with individual
connections.
Plots: 828 plots ranging in size from 312.5 to 450 Sq.m.;
200 of these with individual water and electricity
connections.
Materials Kits/Credits and Self-Help Housinz Assistance:
For about 500 of the 828 plot beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries: (i) Present site occupants; (ii) households
re-settled from 16th of June Circle; (iii) others as
selected by CECM
(b)    Laulane "D"  (9 km from the city center).
Situated immediately South of Mahotas, this 130 ha site was
subdivided in 1984 by CECM into about 2,330 plots with a
target density of 90 persons/ha. However, most of the plots
remain undeveloped because of the non-availability of
infrastructures, the general shortage of building materials
and land administration problems. The following is proposed
under the project, which would cover 66 ha in the northern
part of the site.
Roads: Main access from Avenue Julius Nyerere over a 4 m
wide double asphalt surface road and all other roads of
consolidated earth construction.
Water: As in Mahotas, but no individual connections.
Sanitation: Individual pit latrines to be provided if not
already available.
Electricity: As in Mahotas, but only optional individual
connections.
Plots: 1,144 existing plots of 344 Sq.m. each.
Materials Kits/Credits and Sel-Help Housing Assistance: For
about 520 of the 1,144 beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries: The present plotholders; the plots of
absentee plotholders not effectively developing and
occupying their plots withln a given period would be re-
allocated by CECM.
(c)    Bairro Ferroviario: (Infill site at 6.5 km from the city
center)



- 52 -
ANNEX 3
Page 15 of 19
Two small tracts of land totalling 4.2 ha were identífied
here. They are situated immediately next to an existing
suburban nucleus which includes railway staff housing built
before independance as well as row houses and walk-up
apartments built around 1980. This zone :s relatively well
provided with infrastructures, social equipment and public
transportation. The existing density is of the order of 120
personslha or 24 dwlha. The following is proposed under the
project:
Roads: Internal access roads of consolidated earth
construction, to be connected to existing road networks.
Water: Distribution network connected to nearby city maina
with individual connections to all plots.
Sanitation: All plots to be provided with individual pit
latrines.
Electricity: Distribution network connected to nearby
transmission lines, with basic sheetlighting and individual
connections to all plots.
Plots: 153 plots ranging from 200 to 250 Sq.m.
Core Houses: All plots to be equipped with a core house.
Beneficiaries: Households temporarily or permanently
relocated from rehabilitated apartments.
(d>    Bairro Polana Canico B  (Infil3 site at 3 km from the city
center).
This site consists of about 60 ha of land situated between
the university complet and a low-income settlement (Bairro
Polana Canico B) that was partly upgraded in 1977-79. About
17.3 ha are occupied by squatters and the remainder is
vacant. No infrastructures exist on the site but they are
available nearby. Existing densities in the squatter
settlement and in Polana Canico B are at least 250
persons/ha (or 50 dwlha) and the average plot size is 150
Sq.m. or lesa. The following is proposed under the project:
A plan will be drawn-up for the whole 60 ha site in order to
ensure its adequate integration into the urban context.
This plan sh,uld form a guideline for future developments on
the site, -hich could possibly iLclude upgrading of the 17.3
ha squatter site, new sites and services and/or other
housing development, new social equipment and new
infrastructures.
A vacant area of 3.6 ha situated between the university
complex and the squatter area will developed immediately as
an infill-site, with tne following characteristics:



- 53 -
ANNEX 3
Page 16 of 19
Roads, Water, Sanitation, Electricity, Core Houses,
Beneficiaries: As in Bairro feriiovario.
Plots: 160 plots of 150 Sq.m. each.
Beira:
(a)    Inhamizua II  (At 12 km North of the town center).
Situated on the northern side of the main road, this 79 ha
peri-urban site is presently occupied by a semi-rural
population of about 300 households. Most of the existing
constructions are of a non-permanent nature and no
infrastructures are available. Parts of the site are
subject to occasional fiooding. The following is proposed
under the project:
Storm Water Drainage and Roads: Site grading will be
limited to the local access roads cut hollow in order to
double-function as drains, and gravelled. An unlined main
drainage canal will be dug through part of the site. No
main access road is required since the site is bordered on
two sides by existing roads.
Water: Water distribution network with public standpipes
only, connected to the city maíns.
Sanitation: Owner-built individual pit latrines.
Electricity: Distr'bution network with basic streetli'"...ing
and optional individual connections, connected to nearby
transmission línes.
Plots: About 1,700 plots.
Materials Kits and Credits and Assistance to Self-Help
Housing: For all plot beneficiaries.
Beneficiaries: Present sites occupants and other households
as selected by CECB.
(b)    80 Plots with Core Houses for Relocated Households
Eight plots at Macurungo would initially serve to provide
temporary accomodation to 80 households vacating their
apaLxments during implementation of the building
rehabilitation component of the project. Eventually, 45 of
these core houses would serve to permanently relocate 45
householda unable to afford the new rents and who have a
prefe-rence to move to these core houses.
(c)    The CFM workers' housing project to be financed in parallel
by FINNIDA includes:



- 54 -
ANNEX 3
Page 17 of 19
Muchatazinha (3 km from the town center).
In this existing 15 ha sub-division of about 335 plots, only
60 of which have been occupied due to lack of
infrastructures and of building materials, the
infrastructures would be completed and about 250 core houses
built.
Inhamizua I  (About 10 km North of the town Center).
This 175 ha site across the road from the Inhamizua II site
would be sub-divided into about 1,150 agro-based plots and
equipped with basic infrastructures. About 750 plots would
be allocated to CFM workers and the remainder to members of
the public.
(d)    Financing and Cost Recovery
80% of the project costs would be financed from the IDA
credit and the remainder from Government contributions and
other sources. The topographical survey of the Inhamizua II
site and infrastructures and core houses for 80 plota on the
Muchatazinha site in Beira, to be allocated to households
relocated from rehabilitatad apartments, would also be
financed by IDA.
The main access road to the Laulane D/Mahotas areas would be
financed under the Road Rehabilitation component.
Recovery of Site Development and Infrastructure Costs
The cost of land demarcation and roads (excluding the main
access road to Laulane/Mahotas), drainage and sanitation
(latrines) as well as part of the project management cost
would be directly recovered from the beneficiaries.
At least part of the investment cost of water supply would
be recovered through the usual connection fees and rates in
the case of individual connections and, in the case of
collective access to standpipes, through systems which are
being studied by DNA.
The present electricity tariff includes capital and
recurrent costs and therefore no separate charge would be
made to the beneficiaries.
Recovery of the site development and infrastructure cost
would be effected in the following way:
(i)     20% of the cost to be recovered per plot would be
paid as an "allocation fee' (or downpayment) when
the provisional land title is given to the
beneficiary;



- 55 -
ANNEX 3
Page 18 of 19
(Ui)    the remaining 80% would be recovered through annual
fees over a period of 20 years. In time, this
annual fee may be transformed into an "urbanization
tax', the amount of which would be proportional to
the level of infrastructure offered and which would
be introduced city-wide.
Both fees would be collected by CECM and CECB and
deposited in a revolving fund, supervised by MCA,
for the financing of similar projects.
Recovery of the Cost of Core Houses
In order to pay for their core house, the 345 households
relocated from rehabilitated apartments would benefit from a
credit scheme which would be subsidized with rental proceeds
from the building completion and rehpbilitation components,
in order to match their affordability level. The amounts
colected would be deposited ia a special fund.
Recovery of the Cost of Materials Kits
Recovery of these costs and operation of the corresponding
credit system would be through mutual loan associations to
be created. Beneficiary-members would make a downpayment of
20% and repay the remaining 80% at 9% interest rate over 25
years (see also Annex 5).



- 56 -
ANNEX 3
Page 19 of 19
E.  Summary of Sites and Services Component
i_______________ D-r Iru                                 M           Kit/Credit&      Total
Town A Site           &uLIm rhl      Po   05DOt(B                                               áN"erKt   OtSI
Makota.                   51.4          828 <1)                                                     500
MauIag=   D               -66.0       1,14  <2)1                                                    520
Farro serio                4.2          153 <3)                         153
Polana Canico              3,õ          160                              2
Sub-Total:            125.2        2,285           1.10              313      1.88            1,020        1.18          4.16
BEIR
Inhaizua JI               79.0        1,700                                                      1,700
Cor- Hou-e-                     (6)      80                              Q
Sub-Total:              Ld17   (4)                 027                õO      0 70                                       1.84
TOTAL:                206.7        4,065           1.37              393      2.60            2.720        2.03          6.00
Inhaminzua 1             175          1,150            n/,             ',150     n/.              n/&         n/.
Mnhetazi nl a             15,-          j   (5)        n/a               250     n/:              n/.         n/.
TOTAL.                190          1,485            n/.             1,400     n/.              n/a         n/.
NOTES   Ali costa incude the coat of aupervieion, but not *al.. tax.
1)  Includint  about 81 preaent occupantU to be accomodat.d *n-Cita.
(2)  Plota in *n *xisting eub-dcivjion, oniy part of whêch ia *ffectively occup;ai.
<8)  Includ;ng *bout 14 proa*nt occupanta to bh  accomodat.d on--ite.
<4)  Including abeut 300 prea*nt occupanta to b. accaodt.d on-oite.
<5) Includhng abaut 60 plote *lr.ady occupi;d.
(6)  No *et* eelct.d ao y*t, *eti,ate of ar-a ne.d-d.



- 57 -
ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 7
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
A. IMPROVEMENT OF SOLID WASTE AND OTHER URBAN SERVICES IN MAPUTO
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
The Present Situation in Maputo
1.       Garbage is accumulating on the streets, building yards, and vacant
lots of the city of Maputo for a variety of reasons:
-     The fleet of garbage trucks is under utilized.
-     The maintenance workshop can not repair the vehicles due to
lack of equipment, spare parts, and enough personnel with
good mechanical skills.
-     Rented trucks are too expensive for the available budget of
the D.S.U. and totally inadequate for urban garbage
collection.
-     Street cleaning is badly organized and is too inefficient
due to the lack of human and material resources.
-     Companies in charge of drainage laying act independently
without obeying Municipal regulations.
2.       The solid waste disposal system contaminates the environment and
surface water and groundwater. Hospital wastes and dead animals are dumped
without treatment.
3.       The prospects of finding a solution within the municipality's owr
resources are at present remote. The current cost of garbage collection is
2.914 MtITm. but it could be done satisfactorily for 2.000 MtITm.
4.       There are about 2.000 Tonnes of garbage accumulated in the city,
increasing at a rate of about 30 Tonnes daily.



- 58 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 7
Summary Cost of Equipment and TA Needed
5.       The estimated cost of equipment and TA needed is as follows:
TOTAL COST                                            US DOLLARS (xlOOO)
- 6 Compactor trucks 15 m3 @ $80,000                                480
- 5 Roll-on roll-of trucks with hooked
10 m3 container @ $65,000                                      325
- 2 1 m3 mechanical shovels @ $85,000                               170
- 2 Tank trucks for emptying septic tanks
($75,000 + $80,000)                                            155
- 60 10 m3 containers @ $2,500                                      150
- 800 1 m3 containers @ $350                                        280
- Spare parts                                                       195
- Tools, clothing, and cleaning material                            165
- Repair shop equipment                                             270
- Tow trruck, mobile shop                                            80
- Civil works, containers, and shop                                  80
- Platform and fenced disposal area                                  50
- Compost manufacture (see annex) plant                             580
- Material manufacturing containers fib-e                            80
- Technical assistance                                              370
- Plus contingencies                                                370
TOTAL   3,800
COSTS BY PHASE
1 Phase                                                           500
II Phase                                                          1700
III Phase                                                          1600
TOTAL                                                   3,800
Ptoposal for Organization and Management of Urban Servíces
6.       After analyzing the existing constraints, a solution along the
following broad lines is proposed:
*     Evaluate the potential for involvement of the people.
*     Develop an independent system with the structure of a
cooperative for garbage collection.
*     Develop ways of recycling scrap, paper, and glass and open a
compost plant.
*     Increase control over the cleaning brigades.
*     Provide productivJtv incentives.
*     Train personnel for municipal services at the local level.



- 59 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 7
7.       All these measures are consistent with a policy of minímizing the
atructure of the D.S.U. and strengthening independent initiatives within
the municipal control systems.  It is hoped to gen,rate approximately 200
new permanent jobs not attached directly to the structure of the D.S.U.
The compost plant would absorb 95 people and urban and selective collection
would comprise about 105 people.
8.       The organization and implementation of the proposed scheme during
the following two years would be managed by three technical advisors, one
of them an expert on organizing cleaning and collection systems (2 years),
another, an expert in maintenance of vehicles and equipment (2 years) and
the thírd, an expert in compost plants (1 year). These technicians would
be supported by the Municipal Government of Barcelona, in the event that a
special relation be established between the two cities. Also technicians
from Maputo will be trained in Barcelona, through a course in garbage
collection and disposal, with 9 months duration.
9.       The garbage would be collected in the central area by 5 compacting
trucks of 15 m3. and 1 truck in reserve. It would be deposited in 45
containers of 10 m3., (expandable to 55 containers) grouped in transfer
centres located in each neighborhood close to the markets. Hospital waste
and dead animals would go through a system of special disposal and would be
collected in 5 containers of 10 m3. The compost plant would produce 11,000
Tm./year of fertilizer, the sale proceeds of which would contribute towards
financing garbage collection services.
10.      A detailed consultants' report reviews the financial aspects of
the proposed cooperative system. Included among the recommendations are
proposals that Business companies would pay 2.000 Mt per Tm. of collected
gar.age and 4.000 Mt. per container of 10 m3 transported.
Prolect Implementation Phases
11.      The project will be executed in 3 phases of 2 years and 2 months.
(a)   I Phase 1: Urzent Plan for Urban Cleaning
During 1 112 months there would be a disposal of
approximately 6.000 Tm. of urban waste accumulated in the
middle of the city. Equipment and other needs are as
follows:
- 2 front-end loaders
- 3 self-loading trucks with hook
- 30 containers of 10 m3.
- 50 employees to clean the 15 areas of the city.
Plus Technical Assistance to support the management of the
operation for 2 months.
Total cost, US$500.000.
(b)   II Phase 2: Minimal Pick-up and Disposal Plan
Provision of 700 containers of 1 m3. in the middle of the
city and 50 contaíners of 10 m3. in the periphery and
hospitals.



- 60 -
ANNEX 4
Pago 4 of 7
The containera of 1 m3. will be emptied 5 compactor trucks,
keeping one truck ín reserve. The containera of 10 m3. vill
be transported by 5 self-loadíng trucks with hook, ke.ping
one in reserve.
Total requirements would bê as follows:
- 800 containera of 1 m3. (700 + 100 reserve)
- 50 containers of 10 m3.
-   6 compactor trucks.
-   6 aelf-loading trucks (5 new + 1 rebuilt) will transport
the 231 Tm. of daily produced garbage.
The workshop will be equipped to perform all types of
repairs.
At the disposal site, a partially fenced platform would be
installed.
Equipment would be provided for tne cleaning brigades.
Technical assistance w$ii be provided by two professionals
for one year: a technician in organization of cleaning and
collecting, and ore technician in maintenance. Government
would have líne management positions as well as timing of
counterparts sta:f.
Training: 9 months for municipal technicians in Barce!ona.
Duration of plans 1 year.
Total costs $1.700.000.
(c)   III Phase 3: Urban Services Development Plan
Will cover the following objectives:
-     Organizational consolidation of the collection system.
-     Consolidation of collection with containera.
-     Production in Maputo of new containers of fiberglass.
-     Establish and opening of a plant of 11.000 Tm/year of
compost.
-     Recovery of the scrap material, paper, and glass.
-     Rationing of the disposal arca.
-     Consolidation of the repair shop.
-     Self-financing of urban services through the
establishment of local taxes to be determined by the
ongoing local government study.
-     There will be technical assistance of 3 professionals,
2 extending the functions of thk 2nd phase and a thírd
one to establish and functionin& of the compost plant.
The aid package would include:
-     Compost plant.
-     Material plant of fiberglass.
-     Repair shop equipment.
-     One towíng truck shop.
-     One container washing truck.
-     10 containers of 10 m3.
-     Tools and cleaning material.
-     Spare parts.
There will be a gain of about 200 employment slots.
The duration of the plan will be of 1 year.
Total cost of necessary aid: $1.600.000.



- 61 -
ANNEX 4
Pago 5 of 7
Self-Financinf System ThrouRh Taxation
12.      The costs of cleaning services, collection and disposal of
garbage, once the system is established, at 1988 prices, is estimated to
be:
Collection of garbage ... 170 M. Mt/year
Street cleaning ......... 130 M. Mt/year
Disposal   ............ self-financing
Overhead .....*..........  60 M.Mtlyear
TOTAL   .    ....... 360 M.Mtlyear
The local government finance servíces will consider means of cost
recovery.



- 62 -
ANNEX 4
Page 6 of 7
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION AND EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
B. IMPROVEMENT OF SOLID WASTE AND OTHER URBAN SERVICES IN BEIRA CITY
SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS
Present Sítuation in Beira
1.       The D.S.U. of the city of Beira has insufficient material and
personnel to be able to offer appropriate services to the citizens of
Beira. This lack of resources causes not only a deterioration in the
appearance of the city, but also serious sanitary problems. These
deficiencies are compounded by the fact that:
(a)   The repair shop has great difficulty in repairing vehicles
due to the lack of essential spare parts.
(b)   Street cleaning is badly organized, with a high level of
absenteeism and lack of adequate materials.
(c)   Enterprises dedicated to construction of infrastructure do
not obey the regulations of repaving working zones after
repairing.
(d)   The present system of disposing of garbage in dumping areas
is contaminating the environment and the surface and
groundwaters.
(e)   The high rate of population growth accentuate the lack of
municipal services.
(f)   No efforts are currently being made to organize the proceas
of decentralization and autonomy of the D.S.U.
(g)   The possibilities of finding solutions from the
municipalities own resources are limíted.



- 63 -
ANNEX 4
Page 7 of 7
Summary Cost of Equipment
2.       The estimated cost of equipment is as follows:
-  2 Compactor trucks 14 m3. ($80.000 each)                               160.000
-  2 Trucks with hooked 10 m3. containers ($65.000 one)                   130.000
- 20 10 m3. containers (20 x 2.500)                                        50.000
- Material for the manufacturing of 3.750 buckets of 60 liters             10.000
- 1 1 m3. Bulldozer                                                        70.000
- Spare parts for vehicles                                                 40.000
- Technical advisor-organizer (1 year)                                     70.000
- Tools and material                                                       20.000
GARBAGE COLLECTION TOTAL       550.000
- 1 Tank truck                                                             75.000
- 1 Tow trvck                                                              30.000
- Spare parts                                                              15.000
- Tools and plant equipment                                                30.000
- Workshop equipment                                                       50.000
TOTAL CLEANING          200.000
TOTAL          750.000
There should also be technical assistance in the form of an advisor to help
improve the organization and structuring of Urban Services. Provision
should also be made for the training of a technician of the Municipality of
Beira in Spain with the Spanish TA program.
3.       Estimated costs for cleaning services, collection and disposal of
solid waste are as follows:
Garbage collection                        60 M. Mt/year
Cleaning                                  45 M. Mtlyear
Disposal                                   5 M. Mtlyear
Overheads                                 20 M. Mtlyear
TOTAL     130 M. Mtlyear



- 64 -
ANNEX 5
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
LINES OF CREDIT
1.       This annex describes the two different types of lines of credit
that would be made available under the project:
(a) building materials loans; and
(b) loans for small and micro-enterprises.
BuildinR Materials Loans
2.       The loans for the purchase of building materials form an important
part of the sites and services componenta in both Maputo and Beira, in that
they would enable plot holders to finance the materials they need to build
their homes by self-help methods. An integrated approach to the provision
of technical assistance, building materials and loans is envisaged, as
outlined in Annex 5(a).
Loans for Small and Micro-Enterprises
3.       The loans for small and micro-enterprises (SMEs) would contribute
to employment generation in the urban areas, particularly ín construction
related activities.   While they are intended to assist SMEs on a city wide
basis, they would in some cases integrate with the project's shelter
components at the Bairro level.
4.       In concept, this component would provide small loans averaging
leoas than US$1,OOO to micro-enterprises, mostly with lesa than 10 workers,
to purchase sparts and equipment to enable the enterprise to function. It
would complement existing micro-enterprise assistance achemes, which are
mainly concentrated in rural areas, and the proposed IDA assisted small and
medium acale enterprise project which would follow shortly after (appraisal
envisaged towards the end of 1988). The latter would cater for larger
enterprises in the more formal sector with larger loans.
5.       The líne of credit for small and micro-entreprises would also
provide loans for larger (but still small) enterprises in the building
materials industry, to enable these enterprises to purchase apare parta and
small items of equipment and thus begin functioning again. This would
provide an adequate supply of building materials, which is essential to the
implementation of the proposed project and other projects under
preparation/lmplementation in Mozambique. A more detaíled description of
the component follows in Annex 5(b).
AFWIN
Mv 1 Q°°



- 65 -
ANNEX 5<A)
Page 1 of 4
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
BUILDING MATERIALS LOANS
AND THE SELF-HELP HOUSE CONSTRUCTION MECHANISM
1.       The proposed levels of support for self-help house construction
are as follows:
Technical Support
-    Provision of technical documents "Plantas Tipos"
-    Possible construct4on of "Show Houses"
-    Overall technical supervision
-    Construction training courses
-    On-site technical supervision of construction, with building
control linked to material supply.
Material Support
-    On-site provision of building materials
-    On-site fabrication of building components
-    On-site availability of equipment and tools
Financial Support
-    Building loans through the BPD to cover material and/or
construction cost.
Organizational Support
-    Formation of collective groups for buildíng loan applications
-    Training of collective groups inc. administration and
accounts.
2.       This programme is based on that initiated in 1982 within the
Direccao de Construcao e Urbanizacao of the Maputo City Council, through
the Sector de Apoio a Auto-construcao.  The programme is presently
supplying support to a construction "Intercooperativa" including two small
housing cooperatives and a carpentry cooperative, and 13 construction
cooperatives engaged in prefabrication of dry pit latrine componente under
the nation-wide bas.ic sanitation programme.
3.       Detailed proposals for the self-help house construction programe
would be developed by the Direccao de Construcao e Urbanizacao, Sector de
Apoio a Auto-construcao. Detailed proposals for the credit mechanism would



- 66 -
ANNEX 5(A)
Paga 2 of 4
be developed by the Coordination Unit for the project within the Direccao
de Construceo e Urbanizacao together with the Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento. Detailed proposals for the collective group formation
programe would be developed by the Direccao de Construcao e Urbanizacao,
Sector de Apoio a Auto-construcao on the basis of the existing experience
within the sector with cooperatives.
4.       For self-help house construction it is suggested that a contract
for direct material distribution from a local depot be let on a local
competitive tender basis, uith preference given to already existing amall
builders merchants. The conditions of the contract would include
guaranteed material supply, and fixed price mark-ups for transport. The
winner of the contract should be eligible for assistance under the GPE-UMF
scheme, and this should include loans for purchase of adequate transport
and construction of a depot. The mechanism for payment of mate-ial by
households is suggested below.
5.       For component fabrication - maiíly latrine slabs, sand-cement
blocks and possibly prefabricated lintels, doors and windows - it is
suggested that this be undertaken by direct contract with a new
construction cooperative, or an extension of tn existing coop., as these
have specific expertise in latrine slab construction. Conditions should be
as above, and the coop. should 'ue guaranteed support from the Sector de
Apoio a Auto-construcao, Direccao de Construcao e Urbanizacao, and the
National Programme for Basic Sanitation.
6.       For equipment assistance, it is necessary firstly to decide what
type of equipment should be available, but it is suggested that tools for
construction be sold, and heavier equipment - for material transport to the
plot, block making and scaffolding, be hired. It would seem logical to
link this to the direct material distributor.
7.       It is suggested that the construction of the buildings for the
above activities be a local competitively tendered contract, financed from
the GPE-SI4E Scheme, and possíbly administered by DCU, as would be the
construction of the Project Site Office, financed out of project funds.
8.       The type of mechanism suggested for self-help house construction
is as follows:
(a) On allocation of a plot within the area proposed to benefit
ftom the self-help house progra=me, the plot beneficiary will
be informed by the DCU when receiving his/her land allocation
document, via a printed leaflet of the possibility of a
building loan, and what this may entail, and where advice can
be sought - at the Direccao and Site Office. All plot
beneficiaries should be chosen from plot applicants wbo
accept me"bership of mutual savings associations.
(b)  The personnel at the site office should be two permanent land
cor.trol monitors, and two permanent construction control
moritors, with previous experience in the DCU Seccao Externa,



- 67 -
ANNEX 5(A)
Page 3 of 4
and basic training, which should be undertaken in the first
year of the project. These should be supervised by a medium
level construction technician and a medium level trained
urban planner, based at DCU Sector de Apoio a Auto-
construcao, and Sector de Planeamento Urbano, respectively,
where they wíll be assisted and supervised by professional
staff in charge of the project implementation.
(c) Information on "Plantas Tipos", costs and bank loans should
be pernianently available at the site office and Direccao for
consultation. As the project gets under way, communal
meetings of plot holders could be held to better advertise
and explain the self-help house construction mechanism. It
is envisaged that some families may be relocated to the
project area from Bairro Ferroviario infill site, and these
families and their houses should be initiated first and serve
as models for other new and existlng plot holders.
(d) On decision to apply for a bank loan, individuals may be
formed into collective groups for mutual savings of, if
possible, approximately similar income levels and locations,
including instruction in basic collective organization, to be
undertaken by the Cooperative organization staff (1
professional, 1 medium technical level accountant, 2
mobiíizers). These group formations could be at specific
time intervals. On formation of a group, of a suggested 50
families, the group should either elect or employ someone
with sufficient schooiíng to be trained in basic accounting
for the group. All families will be ínformed of the bank
loan mechanism and its implications, but the accounts clerk
will have specific training.
(e) After formation the group should be assisted in its
appiícation for building licenses (which should be an
extremely simplified, almost automatic process, as it is
based on DCU plan types), and after concession of this, its
application for a collective bank loan - the BPD accepting
the collectivity of the group as collateral.
(f) The applications should be collected by th. DCU, and proposed
to the BPD, who should meet with the grout, collectively, to
explaín the implications, and individually, to independently
assess savings capacity, which will be an integral part of
the application. On appzoval by the BPD, a líne of credit
would be opened for the collective grouS, subject to regular
payments, with details of each individual credit limit and
respective material kit. These details *ould be registered
in an individual credit book, which should include detaila of
monthly group account credits and material debits. Both the
individual and the collective group would have copies of this
book, and the cooperative suppor-. unit within the DCU Sector
de Apio a Auto-construcao should meet regularly with both
individuals and famílies and check these.



- 68 -
ANNEX 5(A)
Page 4 of 4
(g)  The individual plotholder and collective groups can decide
whether to build collectively, semi-collectively (e.g.
sharing heavy tasks only) or individually. Material can be
"bought" from the Construction Coop. or Retailer on
production of the credit book, when they will be entered as
debits. Material kits should be divided in phases,
representing phases of construction, and the DCU construction
monitor should sign approval of completion of each atage
before the next phase can be started. The phases suggested
are:
(i)   excavation of foundations and latrine (to check layout
on plot and depth);
(ii) completed foundations and footing walls;
(iii) completed walls;
(iv) roofing and doors and windows;
(v)   completion (inc. plaster and floor slab);
Labour costs would be paid out of collective group funda.
(h)  On completion of his/her dwelling, the house owner should be
given the final land title and building license. The
collective groups will continue to exist until bank loans are
repaid, and could be used as a basis for future requests for
assistance for house extensions.
(i)  The rate of interest to be applied to building materials
loans would be the existing rate applied by BPD which is 9%
per annum, subject to review by GOM and IDA as part of the
annual review of housing strategy.
AF6IN
June, 1988



- 69 -
ANNEX SB
Page 1 of 9
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
LOANS FOR SMALL & MICRO-ENTERPRISES
THROJGH THE GABINETE DE PROMOCAO DE EMPREGO
(MINISTRY OF LABOUR)
Background and Justification
Loans for Small and Micro-enterprises (SME) will be provided to
facilitate the attainment of several important goals within the general
strategy of urban rehabiitation and employment generation. The findings
of a recent report on small enterprises in Maputo and Beira found that a
major constraint inhibiting the operation or expansion of these firms was
the lack of foreign exchange needed to purchase basic reqttirements (i.e.
spare parts, replacement equipment or new equipment for expansion).
Furthermore, credit facilities have, to date, not focussed on the needs of
urban businessmen, concentrating almost exclusively on the promotion of
rural production. Where credit is available, stringent collateral
requirements make loans impossible for most small firmas. At the s--e time,
with substantial rationaiízation of the state sector, greater hopes are
being pinned on the private sector to create more employment opportunities.
Finally, many of the inputs for the urban rehabilitation programme will be
provided by small construction firms needing assistance in acquiring
equipment. the provision of credit and basic business training.
The recently established Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego (GPE) of
the Ministry of Labour, whose principal mandate is to seek ways of
resolvíng the growing unemployment problem through initiating employment-
generating schemes, will be the executing agent for loans to SMEs. The GPE
will be expected to stimulate interest amongst small entrepreneurs in
taking advantage of the support funds while also providing assistance
(often through other existing structures) in management training, technical
advice and general adminístrative procedures. The key component of this
initiative will be the USS3.Om foreign currency fund provided under the
project which will be used for buying imported goods.
The fund will focus its attention on those micro-enterprises
employing about ten or less employees through labour intensive methods, but
will also be available to larger amall scale enterprises employing up to
about 50 employees in the building materials sector. Many ot the smaller
firms will be operating in the informal sector and are likely to be
initially unregistered. It has been recognized that these firms hold great
potential for employment creation as well as a capacity to significantly
contribute to the urban rehabiiitation program. Foreign currency loana
will generally be small amounta ranging from a few hundred dollars to
US$10,000 (but may be up to US$100,000 for larger firms in the building
materials sector, which would be subject to more rigorous standards of
appraisal than the micro-.enterprises).



- 70 -
ANNI:X 5B
Page 2 of 9
Operation of the Lines of Credit
Figure 1 offers a simplified diagrammatic representation of the
main eleronts comprising the operation of the lines of credit.
Through the World Bank's Urban Rehabilitation Project's special
account with the Bank of Mozambique a line of credit of US$3.5m will be
opened with the GPE. Of this, about US$3.Om will be earmarked for the
purchase of import requirements of small and mícro-entrepeneurs and US$0.5m
for technical assistance to the GPE.
Countervalue meticais must be pledged initially against the
technical assistance component. The meticais countervalue for funds used
for imports only have to be paid against each foreign currency payment to
import agents and will be guaranteed by the Banco Popular de
Desenvolvimento (BPD).
The GPE, responsible for executing a strategy of employment
promotion in conjunction with a program for supporting urban micro-
enterprises through the SME lines of credit, will define the criteria for
the selection of borrowers, prioritize sectors of support (largely
determined by the needs of the overall rehabilitation project) and set
conditions for lending. The BPD, operating on behalf of the GPE in its
capacity as a financial institution, will manage the fund and administer
the loan accounts as well as participate in the selection of successful
loan applicants.
Bearing in mind that one of the main objectives for establíshing
this special fund is to allow for easier lending terms than normally
available to entrepreneurs, the increased risk will be borne by the GPE.
To reduce and shift the onus of the risk, the GPE will seek to promote loan
guarantees through groups of borrowers such as trade associations.
Recognizing the SME loans will not generally conform to the stricter
selection requirements of commercial BPD loans, the BPD will be paid a
management fee for its involvement, while the GPE will be held responsible
for all aspects outside of the management and administrative functions
allocated to the BPD.
SME loan application forms will be made available at and be
submitted to all Maputo and Beira branches of the BPD and the offices of
the GPE. All applications will, however, be first processed and assessed
by the GPE. Applications felt to need more careful analysis of credit
worthiness or technical inputs may be passed on to the BPD or consultants
for further consideration. (It should be noted that the GPE will draw
extensively on the technical and management services offered by such
agencies as the Institute for the Development of Light Industries (IDIL)
for which consultancy fees may sometimes be charged).
Applications deemeá to qualify for loans will then be considered
periodically (as determined by demand) by a committee composed of senior
officers of the GPE and at least one official of the BPD (at the chief of
service level or above). Those applications approved by the committee



- 71 -
ANNEX 5B
Page 3 of 9
would then be submitted to the BPD. The BPD would subsequently verify that
applicants have no outstanding loans within the Mozambican banking system.
Once cleared, loan agreements could be negotiated with the applicants. The
BPD would determine the rate of interest, repayment schedules and other
relevant conditions for which it may be held responsible.
Loans will generally consist of two components: (i) the meticais
countarvalue of imported gooda purchased through the GPE's foreign currency
account with the BM; and (ii) a meticais loan for the purchase of
domestically available resources. The rate of interest applicable would be
that currently applied by the BPD for similar loans, wh'ch ranges from 18
to 242 per annum according to the size and duration of the loan and the
sector. The rate would be subject to revision by GOM to ensure consistency
with national policies for credit as these are developed. Where a client
can immediately repay the meticais countervalue of the imported goods, he
will not be subject to any interest fee.
The acquisition of imported gcods as requested by loan applicants
will be processed by the GPE through an import agent and paid for by the
Bank of Mozambique. On receipt of the imported goods, the import agent
will inform the BPD who will then issue a clearance certificate to the
client to receive the good. On accepting the clearance certificate, the
client has a period of ten days to lodge a complaint if goods were received
in unsatisfactory condition. If no complaints is lodged, the client will
be debited the meticais countervalue against his loan account.
The BPD will treat SME loans similarly to other commercial loans
in terms of monitoring and collection of payment. The GPE, as part of its
role in supporting micro-enterprises and promoting employment, will provide
a type of extension servíce, monitoring the developments of SME clients and
offering them advisory services. Repayments of loans including interest,
less the administrative fee levied by the BPD, will be deposited into the
SME revolving fund.
A Note on the Role of the Import Agent
There are some 260 registered import agents of which about 40% are
operated by the state sector. The GPE will be al'rowed to choose any of
these for the acquisition of materials. There are no fixed rules as yot
about engaging import agents and no standard contractual arrangements. The
Unit for the Coordination of Import Programs (UCPI) is currently working on
regulations which would establish conditions for tendering, etc.
Currently, import agents are expected to conform with the basic
World Bank procedures such as obtaining three separate quotes from
suppliers before placing orders.  In certain cases (sítuations which are
unlikely to affect SMIE loans), a tendering process will have to be
undertaken to select an import agent for a particular order.



- 72 -
ANNEX 5B
Page 4 of 9
FIGURE 1
PROPOSED INSTITUTIONAL ARRANGEMENTS TO ESTABLISH GPE'S
SMALL AND MICRO-ENTERPRISE LINES OF CREDIT
IDA
Banco de Mocaubique
BM
s9                        _
2
3
4
o-port            nbinet   e Ptroaocao de Empreg          nistry of
Agent   Ban                                     Finance
Ban o Popur de Dsenvolvimento
BPD



- 73 -
ANNEX SB
Page 5 of 9
Key to Institutional Framework Represented in Figure 1
1 - 2.   IDA - BM - GPE.  Standard procedural arrangements between the
World Bank, the Bank of Mozambique representing the Government of
Mozambique and the GPE for a loan agreement establishing the GPE small and
micro-enterprise line of credit.
3.       BM - GPE.  The BM estabiíshes a credit line of US$3.5m from the
special account of the IDA Urban Rehabilitation Project. US$3.Om is to be
used for purchaslng imported requirements and US$0.5m .for technical
assistance to the GPE.
4.       GPE - Minístry of Finance.  The GPE, through an agreement with
Ministry of Finance, will be províded with countervalue meticais fund to
cover the technical support for the GPE as we?l as contingency funds to
cover loan defaults.
5.       GPE - BPD.  The GPE through an agreement with the BPD will
establish mechanisms for operating the SME líne of credít.
6.       BPD - Client.  The BPD will administer all loans to the clienta
once final approval has been given by the joint GPEIBPD selection
committee.
7.       GPE - Client.  The GPE will determine the types of beneficiaries
and sectors which would he given priority.  It wilI promote the micro-
onterprise support fund amongst potential clienta.  It will estabiish
criteria to be used for selecting categories of borrowers.  The GPE will be
expected to work in close collaboration with other bodies dealing with
other aspects of small scale business development such as GAPI, IDIL and
the DPIE.
8.       GPE - Import Agent.  Engagement by the GPE of ímport agent(s) to
purchase materials through the BM credi  líne.
9.       Import ARent - BM.  The import agent, working on the basis of
orders submitted by the GPE (compiled from clíent applications), will be
paid by the BM through letter of credit or goods in advance of payment.
10.      Import ARent - Client.  The import agent will supply the client
(who will be informed by the GPD of arrival of goods) with the imported
materials.
Proposed BudRet for the GPE Small and Micro-Enterprise Line of Credit
I. Technical Assistance (Non-recoverable costs)
(i)    1 Consultant with specialization in small scale
enterprises, preferably with degree in economics and
business administration as well as experience in Africa.
24 months at US$10,OO0  per month:                US$240,000



- 74 -
ANNEX 5B
Page 6 of 9
(ii)   Equipment:
1 computer, 1 printer, software,
1 photocopier, 2 typewriters,
4 filing cabinets, room dividers (1)                OS$25,000
2 vehicles (one each for Maputo and Beira)          US$40,000
operation and maintenance of vehicles               USS50,000
(iii)  Training of GPE Staff
4 staff travelling overseas for an average
of 3 months (travel 4 x US$2,000;
per diems 4 x 90)                                   US$40,000
(iv)   Basic Skílls TraininR for Micr',-entrepreneurs
Provision of materials, printed documents and
tuition costs to supplement ILO-IDIL management
training sec-inars (3)                              US$20,000
(v)    Sub-Contracts to IDIL and other technical units
to provide technical advice on feasibiity of
loan applications and on appropriateness of
imported requirements (over 3 years)               US$25,000
Total non-recoverable costs:                 US$440,000
Notes:
(1)    This assumes that the GPE will receive equipment allocated
to it under the PPF agreement.
(2)    Two vehicles are essential for the project as much of the
support for micro-enterprises will consist of "extensionu
visits by GPE staff to loan beneficiaries.
(3)    A management training program has recently been initiated
by the ILO through IDIL. Course material is relevant to
the naeds of micro-enterprenaurs and it has been agreed
that IDIL would provide seminars to entrepreneurs
identified by the GPE who in return would fund some of the
costs of mouniting such seminars.



- 75 -
ANNEX 5B
Pag. 7 of 9
II. Recoverable Costs
(i)    SME Lines of Credit                              US$3,000 000
Total Project Cost:                        US$3,440,000
Staffing Reauirements of the OPE Small and Micro-Enterprise Lines of Credit
Director-General
Duties. In addítíon to the normal duti.es associated with the
operations of the GPE, the Director will be expected to undertake the
following activities:
-      coordinating the activíties of the SME line of credit;
-      workíng ín close collaboration with the SME consultant in
determining general procedures, policy and selection
criteria for SME loans;
-      maintaining elose contact with the relevant atructures
likely to be associated with the SME line of credit (e.g.
BPD, Bank of Mozambique, IDIL, DPIE and GAPI);
-      presidíng over the joínt GPE-BPD commisslon which will
regularly meet to evaluate loan applications -as processed
by GPE staff;
-      deciding on the engagement of consultants to analyze
certain loan appiícation.
Consultant
Duties:
-      esteblíshing, in close collaboration with the Director-
General, SME loan policy, selection criteria for loan
applications and conditions for lending;
-      teaching staff how to evaluate loan applications with GPE
selection criteria;
-      developing an extension program (training and monitoring)
to be administered by the GPE with all SME clients;
-      establishing a computerized records system for the GPE and
to familiarize staff with the use of computera;



- 76 -
ANNEX SB
Page 8 of 9
-      liaising closely with all the relevant bodies concerned
with the operation of the SME lines of credit and to ensure
smooth liaison between coordinating structures;
-      advising the Director-General *jout other issues affecting
the operation of the GPE which may fall within the the
consult,nt's field of competence.
Qualifications.  The consultant should hold a post-graduate degree
in economics or business administration, having experience in both
development problems and small-scale businesses. Working experience in
Africa would be essential, preferably with some knowledge of the Mozambican
economy. The consultant should also be able to work and communicate in
Portuguese and be familiar with data base computer systems.
Administrator
Duties:
-      working in close collaboration with the Director and the
consultant, being responsible for executing their decisions
and orders;
-      responsible for the day-to-day administration of the SME
lines of credit;
-      administering the documentation and records system for the
SME lines of credit;
-      coordinating the scheduling of appiicant Interviews and
extension visits by GPE staff;
-      responsible for all routine correspondence not requiring
intervention by the Director or Consultant.
Qualifications. The Administrator should have an educational
level of Standard 11 or Standard 9 with equivalent supplementary
professional qualifications, while holding a government grade of "Tecnico
"B" or 'C" or Administrative Officer "A" with at least ten years of
experience. Working experience should have been at least at the level of
"Director" or "Chief" in the central or provincial governments or 3 years
of management experience in a business. The administrator should have a
working knowledge of English.
2 Economists
Duties:
-      interviewing applicants and issisting them in the filling
out of SME loan app$ications forms;
assessing application forms in terms of GPE selection
czitería;



- 77 -
ANNEX SB
Pago 9 of 9
applying economic feasibility analysis to applications
where possible;
preparing reports on potentially suitable candidates for
the joint coímission of the GPE;
regularly visiting SME loan clients to monitor activities
of the enterprises and to give advice where possiblQ on
basic management and accounting principles as well as
practical information about more specialized sources of
information;
-      maintaining regular visits and consulting when necessary
with relevant structures such as IDIL, DPIE and GAPI;
-      organizing s;inars for entrepreneurs;
-      promoting the SME lines of credit amongst potential
clients.
Qualifications. The Economists should hold a bachelor's degree in
economics or business administration and have at least 3 years of working
experience in either the civil service or business. The Economist should
be familiar with project appraisal techniques and basic business concepts.
They should also have a working knowledge of English, while some experience
with computers would be an average.
1 Accountant
Duties:
-      undertaking cash flow analysis of projects;
-      advising entrepreneurs on the maintenance of basic
bookkeeping procedures and other elementary business
applications;
-      assisting with applicant interviews;
-      assisting other staff in undertaking basic calculations;
-      maintaining the general accounts of the GPE.
Qualifications. The Accountant should have an educational level
of Standard 9 (basic) at commercial scho ,l with specialization in
accountancy plus 3 years of relevant wor; experience in the state or
private sector.
AF6IN,
Juni.n 1988



- 78 -
ANNEX 6
Page 1 of 7
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT
Obhectives
1.       One of the risks of the proposed project lies in exceeding the
local implementing capacíty, given the limited number of technically
qualified personnel available, from government officials and project
managers, to skilled construction workers and equipmer.t operators, and
particularly in view of the numerous other projects being undertaken that
will place simultaneous demanda on the pool of human resources.  To counter
this risk, the main objective of this component is to provide the
institutional support, training and technical assistance to ensure the
capability of project execution, operation and maintenance. In addition
the component also ais to support the implementation of the agreed local
government restructuring and financial strengthening, issuing from the
study of local administration and finances.
2.       More specifically, consultant services or technical assistance,
training, vehicles and equipment, and operating expense would be provided
for central government and local authorities (see Table A):
(a)    to strengthen the capacity of the implementing agencies to
execute the project and to provide on-going maintenance
thereafter, such as in the case of the road and water
rehabílitation and the solid waste management components;
(b)    to provide a project administration capacity were there is
none, such as in the case of establishing the Project
Implementation Unit (PIU) and HABITAR (Housing Management
and Supervision Unit) in the MCA; and
(c)    to develop institutional capacity in areas supportive of,
but not directly involved in project execution, such as in
the case of the land registration and titling and
management and maintenance of the housing stock.



- 79 -
TABLE A                                  ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 7
11AIBQUE
Urben Rbebtlitatton Project
l"ft§tleml Dnelepmad
Projot Tecklleal Troimtq Eq.ip.& Oporotig      --- USS mlili.- - -
UIogmmt  alst.            v*lIid    Cta         Lesel Florn   Toal
MIE                    DHFP    DNFP    DNFP    DNFP          0.00  0.60  0.60
1ff            GPE     OPE      GPE     GPE      GPE         0.00  0.44  0.44
MC/DNIEC       PIU              PIU     PIU      PIU         0.03   1.20  1.50
DMEP/Mpeto          IPrP.MonutJ  PM   I  PM   I  PM          0.71   1.09  1.80
DNEPBIr.             P  .Mmnut  PM1    PM   IP               0.45  0.70   1.15
DNEC/PMHNA IU.-s-t.b. IIUGH                      UGH         0.05  0.45  0.50
CECM/DCU   IA.Auton                  EZ I   AAC Ii           0.14  0.10  0.24
CMDCU/DU            IXAECdnt                                 0.02  0.10  0.12
CECn/DIU              Tr.t.LtXO          TL       TLI        0.71   3.16  3.87
C ME.*1". 1 E       IE/O&                                    0.01   0.07  0.08
CEC8fDPCA   UGti.HI UGH  IUGH                                0.03  0.31   0.34
CEC8/DCU    I A.AUtaCo               IZMhZIZ                 0.12  0.08  0.20
CECB/DUrI.           MAE/CUil                                0.02  0.10  0.12
CECI/hIU            [jT:rGjj-Li      I  TL        TL         0.16  0.74  0.90
CECI/APIE            CE l                                    0.01   0.07  0.08
Tota      2.46  9.21  11.94



- 80 -
ANNEX C
Page 3 of 7
Description
3.       Under the component funds would be provided for the agencies
listed in Table A. At each of these levels the emphasis would be on direct
operational involvement, institutional building and in-service training of
Hozambican counterparts:
(i)    the Ministry of State Administration (MAE), would channel
US$1 million in technical assistance, funding for training,
vehicles, equipment and operating costs to the Center for
Urban Management. The Center will provide financial and
administrative management training for municipalities, and
asaistance in management reform to local government, with
the support of the Eduardo Mondlane Universit" and IBAM
(Institute Brasileiro de Administracao Municipal), and
funding from the EEC (about 550,000 Ecu). About US$400,000
would be specifically targetted for land registration
training and technical assistance for the Directorate of
Urbanism of Maputo and for the Directorate of Construction
and Urbanism of Beira, as well as for housing management
training for the APIEs of both City Councíls;
(ii)   the Ministry of Labour will provide US$440,000 to the
Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego (GPE) for project
management, technical assistance, training and equipment,
vehicles and operating costs to run the small scale and
micro-enterprise credit scheme (see Annex 5B);
(iií)  the DEC within the Ministry of Construction and Water,
vould receive about US$2 million for project management,
technical assistance, training, and vehicles, equipment and
operating costs for the overall pcoject coordination and
tracking, for project implementation management (by the
PIU, page 5 of this annex, and HABITAR page 7 of this
annex), and for the development of a country-wide
investment programming capacity; and to the MCA's regional
offices for the execution of the building completion and
apartment rehabilitation componenta;
(iv)   the city councils of Beira and Maputo would receive about
US$3.77 million in technical assistance, vehicles and
operating costs for the DSU's (Urban Services Directorates)
for the solid waste management components, and about
US$240,000 for project management vehicles and operating
costs to the DCUs (Construction and Urbanism Directorates)
for the respective sites and servíces and upgrading self-
help programs, aside from the training provided by the
Institute (MAE), and the housing management units provided
by MCA; and



- 81 -
ANNEX 6
Pago 4 of 7
(v)    the agencies responsible for the implementation o>f the road
rehabilitation and coastal protection works, DNEP/Beira *nd
DNEP/Maputo, would receive about US$2.95 míllion in
technical assistance, training and vehicles, equipment and
operating costa for establishment of the on-going
maintenance programs, which would eventually devolve to the
municipalities upon project completion.
Implementation
4.       MCA would be responsible for reviewing Terms of Reference and
directing all technical assistance. The project coordinator of the PIU
would ensure that the two HABITAR field implementation teams (for Beira and
Maputo) establish appropriate and compatible accounting and reporting
systems. The technical assistance and consulting services would be
channeled to the executing and operating agencies mentioned above - DNEP,
the DCU's and the DSU's. In addition, short-term assistance would be
provided at the end of each fiscal year to ensure that all project accounts
are in order and that suitable financial statements are drawn up for
external auditora acceptable to the Bank.
5.       The total cost of technical assistance, training (including
travel), equipment and vehicles and operating expenses under the overall
heading of institutional development is of about US$11.9 million.
Technical assistance and atudies, i.e. consultant services, amounts to
about US$4.6 million or the equivalent of 460 man/months of consultant
services, excluding work already undertaken with PPF funds . It is
estimated that about 320 man-months would be required for completing
detaíled final design, contract documentation, and contract supervision of
the works component. In addition, about 140 man-months of assistanca would
be provided to improve and manage project financing, budgetary, accounting,
auditing and reporting activíties. Detaíled Terms of Reference for the
provision of the technical assistance and consultant services, as well as
each of the action plans for their respective set of components, are under
preparation by the MCA.



- 82 -
ANNEX 6
Page 5 of 7
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION UNIT (PIU)
1.       The PIU, established in the MCA shall be responsible for the
overall coordination and supervision of project implementation, reporting
directly to the Minister of Construction and Water under the advíce of the
MCA Steering Committee.
2.       The PIU shall be headed by a full-time director with
qualifications and managerial experience acceptable to IDA.
3.       The PIU's Director shall be responsible inter alia for the
following:
(i)    coordination of all project activíties among MAE, MT, MCA,
DNA, DNEP, the Conselhos Executivos, the Banco de
Mocambique, the Ministry of Finance and other government
agencies, official entities and IDA;
(iii)  preparation of project evaluation, progress reports and
phasing of major components;
(iv)   meeting regularly with operating agencies to oversee
project implementation activities; and
(v)    ensuring appropriate compilation and ma!.ntenance of project
documentation and files.
4.       The PIU will include ín addition to its Director, the following
key staff:
(i)    Prolect Coordinator wIho shall assist the Director in
discharging his responsabilities, and shall be responsible,
inter alia, for supervising the overall implpmentation of
the project, participating in the selection and
appointments of engineering, planning and architectural
consultants, reviewing designa and other technical studies,
preparing systems of cost control and critical path,
monitoring of the physical progress of each component of
tbe project, and establishing an appropriate communication
network with the field supervision staff for Maputo and
Beira. The Project Coordinator must have a BS in Civil
Engineering with ten years experience in field supervision
in construction of urban infrastructure, housing and
community facilities valued at US$50 miLlion or more, with
a thorough knowledge of quantity surveying. He or she must
have a working level of Portuguese or Spanish;



- 83 -
ANNEX 6
Page 6 of 7
(ii)   the Financial Controller, whc shall be responsible, inter
alia, for keeping financial accounta and project accounts,
preparing withdrawal applications for signature by the Bank
of Mozambique, liaison with the appropriate office in the
Ministry of Finance, approving payments on bills with field
supervision certifications, preparing expenditure accounts,
quarterly reports, and annual financial plans and
submission of accounta for audit. He will also, assist the
operating agencies and the CEs of Beira and Maputo in their
financial management programs. The Pinancial Controller
must have the equivalent of a BS in Business Administration
or Management with ten years experience in Financial
Control concerned with construction and/or municipal
management. He or she must also have a working level of
Portuguese or Spanish; and
(iii) the Procurement Advisor, who shall be responsible, inter
alia, for preparing appropriate procurement arrangements
for the project implementation, packaging procurement lots
for civil works, equipment, furnishing, etc, and reviewing
certification of contract awards. He will also maintain
guarterly updatlng of unit costs of materials and equipment
and continued close liaison with field supervision staff of
Maputo and Beira, and maintain weekly snhedules of
procurement. The Procurement Director must have a BS in
Engineering and Accounting with ten years experience in
purchasing and contract administration.
HABITAR (HousinR Management Supervision Unit)
S.       HABITAR, to be established under DEC, shall be responsible for:
(i)    coordinating the implementation of all the housing related
project components; and
(ii)   the overall management of the resettlement plan under Part
B (f) of the Project.
6.       HABITAR shall be staffed as follows:
(i)    a full-time Director, with qualificatiors and experience
acceptable to the Association, and who shall report
directly to PROHABITA's Director. The Director shall be
responsible for, inter alia: coordination of the
resettlement plan and al' Project evaluation and progress
reporta, and ensuring appropriate compilation and
maintenance of Project files;
(ii)   Prolect Coordinator (Engineer) -who shall report to the
Director and be responsible, inter alia, for the following:
supervising (including contracting supervision of) the
construction and technical aspects of the housing related



- 84 -
ANNEX 6
Pago 7 of 7
Project components and the resettlement plan; preparing
cost control and crítical path systems; reviewing
procurement arrangementa, calling for international or
local shopping and certifying of contracz awards;
(iií) Financial Controller (Economist) who shall report to th.
Director and be responsible for keeping financial accounto
for all the housing related Project components and th-
resettlement plan, preparing expenditure accounts,
quarterly reporta, annual financial plans and submission of
accounts for audit, submitting for approval to PIU and
processing certifications. He shall also review socio-
economic and affordability aspects of housing related
Project components and the resettlement plan; and
'iv)   Field Implementation Teams (one for Beira consisting of a
civil engineer and an architect, and one for Maputo
consisting of a civil engineer) who shall be responsible
for, inter alia, monitoring physical progresa of ali the
housing related Project components and the resettlement
plan, coordinating the activities of APIE and DCU of the
CECB and CECM, reviewing the field supervision reporte,
maintaining weekly progress charts, coordinating the civil
works with those of road, water and storm drainage
rehabilitat$on, Project components as necessary.
AF6IN
June, 1988



- 85 -
MOZAMBIQUE                                         A~  7
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT                                    Pa-e 1 of 16
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING PLAN
H~   ro»olté fO             H l     O      t      i     0.9
I Iulurlr , Ss&s M Ibtlah
Mwul ha Is44IIu               lZ SI      141
mêmi tWIas                 *.20       8 30       1.56
Ir_dmp ISéJua                 0.1        0.75      0.14
MnC~34*4 r                    017        0.49      0.64
kin em  _Iltah                062        1.94      2.55
hin b       uoi M.s                       0.75     0.10
w~ & srm   bl tiia                    3.559      3.1     16.77
f_se Wur     0Itsl            0.94       1.71      3.5
n» w~ CdW~                    1.24       456       5.7
SOIft1Oê.sBoftflS.           0.40       1.80      2.20
b^.7»brrin <fV                1.02      5.11       6.13
Cmtst tBnIC r                         0.49       2.13      2.52
§ara                          0.33       1.33      1."6
tho*                         016        0.70       066
7.04     24.39      51.55
11 Wautw  ebeIltd1on
mmebttíílebdlulmmuu.                 1.09      4.64       5.72
0.78       .34       4.11
kIn                           0.31       1.30      1.61
uegrUmgauiSIla&~rvhos                 1.04      7.17       9.72
Iisgiis                       0.23       1.11      1.41
IisguICutOb                   0.28       1.18      1.46
*len                          .05        0.17      0.23
hinãn v  ib Core mu0.08                 0.34       0.42
1.20      5.0        6.20
CamMsfhfSoidwm                       1.34      6.45       7.79
fim.~                         1.10      5.33       6.42
0.25      1.12       1.37
4.27     18.16      23.25
tII SslUi WnseHboguat
*  4'J                  04i?       2.74      S.43
0.8-4     0.4       40.6
0.83      3.28       4.11
Imil lr E~Itorrl  Sot                 0.00       3.00       3.00
Cnotr MC.tr.                          000        190        190
0.0o      4.90       4.90
v lutttleuoMl Dsislog.uat
IA&T.hrMuui.*r  tPlOSl                0.07       0.42       0.40
TA.T. arS idiWb/oSIhS)A0A             0.00       0.51       0.51
TAAI.*rMoklguli~nmg.um It>            0.00       1.00       1.00
TA& T.fr SIl &   nre "trrwle (1PE)    0.00       0.44       0.44
SuIst~ fa ommmnIf(8.1PPV>             0.05       0.90       095
0.12      3.27       5.30
vi Prejult itmwm t
TA.T. rlt9 AMU                        0.06       1.44       1.50
TA~O001M03rSM&JRshm                   029        1 29       1 Se
0.35      2.73       3.08
USEi  T                     12.61      57.43     70.03
Plyslw a4fifibnhgem                     1.23       497        6.20
Prl.Csf,tIgmulss                        81.39      6.17       7.56
TOTAL «OST        15.23     68.57      03.79
flMICIG PUM                             LEAL    fREIGi       TOTAL
----- US iaMllZa-----_-_-__-
iwram.ut                     6.01       0.00       6.01
IDA                          6.14      53.86     60.00
ib- tmeciw         *         3.08      14.71      17.79
ro"la              2.32      11.12      13.44
S80m               0.76       5.59       4.55
TOTAL             15.23     *8.57      835.8



- 86 -
ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 16
MOZAMBUQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS
~CICOT POWNT5 0              ..e.....   ....... o....                   .  .......             .              1---- -------Ml-------   ------- FM ...... 1 993  ........ TOtAL.
L~a Fuw   TGd  L~  F~  Toi L"  Fug  Tol tL     F~  T_  L~  Fo   T~  L    Fo.  T~  Loi F                          T*S
AoadSD,i.sgeRh~~~~0Ib0oi  000 .1 mIm  9 sim 7 06?    4  2051  11.1  4.70   .    . 1. 41 0.0   2.0   14                       tio   mui,t0
_dRP           __                 em0  0em    21  00  li  eu   l5   225  0em   142  te?                                          Ia   lu   ,41
_Ib. Miiid_i                           O                0* 0  10   em   1.1t12  e.l?  044  15%                                   120  l.   1.1
lifiidaDM        8                000e  em   0.14  SI  OU   005  010  023                ou                                     sim   ms  1.
_z»*d00I sie                      0 02   02             1    o 7 0   47 0     u           O                                      07 1  L4  1
IRo5.e e.3  003  121  074  0095  04   11   1.n                             6                                                     9 *.1 1on 4 tU
S, Ro           ,0                                      D.U1  010  040  OU S0   0.24  0.31                                       &.1   13  0.
wd_ a   s_                         SU 0  45  .Ut  5.30  1.00 2T1   1.3»  44S  1S   077  1t34 1.11 0s.  1.11  1.03                      ao013.10 to.7
* -              _          004  0.25  030  1.34  097  1.32  130  928.05 0e25  023  0.4                                          104  1.71  LU
t4       W~.hE _.                      0ee                         030  031  07n  3.14   .00  1I  1.11  1.3                      1.24  4k    s
Ds.Sswqghh                        020  020  004  052  0sq  03   1    144                  o                                      O0U 1.0 t t2
~      AR _f                           O«               0.00             10 1Z                                                   1.2  S11  ali
Co~ Em~  dn                             ILO? ail? 1.0710     .0 1   0.7  11.11.1 1.31 0.2  0.0  1.11                                   1.42 L04 L26
coo ee00 e .11  0.44  0.QS   0.22  e0ts  1.11                                            133  1.33  1.U
_gp~                              107  0.0?             000011  0.1o.e74  00"             ag e_c e.u  ea   e                     zIe  171  10L
0.04 171 e  .75 e.n   3.14  4.79  3.10  .31 13.0  1.04 4n2 e.1t                                     7.4 4.  31.34.
1ahiOmm~a olImh~ A4uh              00000041111    1.111  -   O.00.0   0.30  1.00 2.001  0.00  20   1.04                                1.0  4.00 6.7
M~                                     o a              oo0  0.2s        1.65  0a4 2t0   2.56                                    170  134  411
e~h                                    000              0.00  010  0.44  0 54  0210  000i  1.0                                  131  1.11  1.02
Upgu~    tdS s~  a        en       1    0.0  0.0  0.11  1e.39 1.72 t.n  000  1e1  tt   0.20 8.34 8.00 0.20121                          1.00  7.017 0.n
m~                               BOI  0.01  0.11 0Q47  o.5   O 02  0.21  024  0.05  0.20  834 0. 0s  0.20  0.25                 123  1.10  1.41
m_Cwews                           oc0  0o.   0.1  0.5    n 0.   014  e.0s  0.73          o.00                                   12.  t.t1  1.
eet                               9.01  0.01  0.05  0Q16  0.22           0Q00           0o.S                                    0.5 0  .7  L1
0.00  0.04  01.7  0.21  0.04  0L.7  0.21          0.00                                    00  134  14
OU9             000              0.00            0Qe                                     1.20  LU er  --
o   g      edh9lb0s                0.10 .17 a '?  0.0   47   5.LU  Q35  1.67  1.t3 0U.40011000                                        1.34 0.40 L .7t
MbMs                             o0     - 0 e0 0.2  401  484  027  1.23  16.0            0ee                                    l1  1.33  .42
aeS  Oeel  017  000   u11  oU   0.35  0.41             cee                  _21  1.12  1.17
1.e   .2  e.2t  1.14 S.ee 7.41 e.ts 424 1.10  e.74 3.25 3.00 10.01 1.201 0.5  100! e.          u- .0  4127 10.0 ii
_to                                    000              0.00             0.00 ee                                                0.00 o.74  3.
em                                     0ee  0.14  0s4  0u6               0at             0.0                                    114  164  e1
100.000 .0   0. 14 0.64 L.U      10.0 . *.0t   0 1.00.00                                            0.0  £20 4tu  t
B~JIM~         I    _' SI 1                 .1           0.60 5           7   0.75        *.7  175        *.a1  1a         1.0  11   0.0  3.0 
o4     twHomu e4I                  1.0                   e.se .5 U            0ese  Qa     e0 .   .u       .rt  1210        120  1LU  1.0  t.Sr  1.
8.m    m L Mj   99111 t   «ltJ   . lt 1.r  i,S   t .2 1    21r tS0170 t..  t.7t0 .0i 4.UI  4.0 
T.ÃLT,.|SP2brP/DtD                            0.D0             000  |04  024  12t 03 e0.l1  1.7  Q4   Q1
TA4T.^8.OdT./00U s(8pI8E)A                    0.00        10?  0.07       007  107               O.                                     100  161 a1
T.A.LT.MIwiiqad2 _?auiq4AE>                   0ee         140  0.40       0.I  0.30        0e.3e  0.3                                  1*0  1 t.0 a .
T.Ku       m.  OE                        4-11 0.U4  104   0.20  0.20      0.1-  0.10       0.1e  el                                    100  L44  1.4
ShBE.uue udPW                      Dos  04e  0.45              0."        e.1e  ooO        0.25  0.2s       0.25  0.25                  10, 10  1a
0.0, 0.44 0.4  0.0  0S.7  0.87 104 0.711  .1  0.03  .03 4.i             0.S  0.26             0_      2  3.21 3-.0
TÂI8T.1ír ~                              103  0.03  .02  0.47  411  002  0.47  14   .02  0.47  040                                      10   1.44  1.
T.I O1MI  lEfCy   SlSfsap~               0.03  O03  0.00  0.42  0.o1  0.10  0.42  0.62  L.O  042  0.52      e_2r  1.20  1m.!
1U0     10.00 e.11  0.N  1.n  e.12    11.01  0.12 e.n  1.01 ___                                           2.. 1.00
e~C1OST                     LU   1.4t  t.u  2.S4 13.12 116.s   4317.11t4 2t.71t t U.S21.3 13.21  CLCS| t.151 1.20 |   .70 0Lt| L.7t tLC1 17.42 7111103
p'qsi -   COgm                                  0.   0.21  0.94  116  0.34  122  1.16  121  e.c6  0.s7  101 1.131 Q1t  100  0.00  1a   1.23  4?7  .20
Rlb>gm                                           100  hIs 1    7e  o.  0O2  210  2.s3  O.UC  133  176         e.1l  tl i      el   110 lu1  120  7.6
TOTAL    COST               100 t.4 t.U  2.01 ;4.74 17.U5  a.12.21S.0 _    -35 t    2.UtC.57 1*.? 8.111 t.u1 1.14 L«1     L    @1.22 00.» f.



- 87 -
ANNEX 7
Page 3 of 16
MOZAHBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
MAPUTO WATER REHABILITATION AND EXTENSION
tIn US$0o00)
Natverk     blllto 190-                              989----1- -----1990 -1991-----     -----TOTAL-----
Lotal Forolgn Total  ^.cel foruígn Total  Local Forelgn Total  Locel Forelgn Total  Loalí Forgign Total
I CvIl Werts
Claanig/Relintno                         O   145    96   241   145    96   241   144    97   241   434   289   723
Natwork lalntenenct        35    44    79   106   132   238   106   132   230   107   132   239  354   440   79
Distriet Met.rs                          O                   O    46    29    75                    O    46    29    75
11 Equi"aat
Watar Mters                              O    90   142   232                    O                   O    90   142   232
Whicl & quipmant            o   158   166       3    52    55                   O                   O    tl   210   221
Dl PipeToolb                             O            7      7                  O                   O     0      7     7
AC Pip                                   O          328   328                   O                   O     O   328   328
Valvas                                   O           35    35                   O                   O     o    35    35
Fltmn,                                   O           30                         O                   O     o    30    30
elo Praofóni*l Servi.
MalntonanceProgram               50    50           150   150                   O                   O     0   200   201
lASE cOST        43   252   295   344   972  1316   297   257   554   251   229   480   935  1710  2645
Phglscl Contpngens        4.3  25.2  29.5  34.4  97.2 131.6  29.7  25.7  55.   25.1  22.9   48  93.5   171 264.5
Pric Contingncloes       2.58 15.12  17.7 20.64 58.32 78.96 17.82 15.42 33.2  15.06 13.74  28.8  56.1  102.6 158.7
TOTAL COST    49.88 292.3 342.2   399  1128  1527 344.5 298.1 642.61 291.2 265.6 5568  1085  1984 3068
Natvark Exteasalm         ----- 1988------  -----1989------  -----1990------   -----TOTAL-----
Loal Forelgn Total  Locl Foralgn Total  Local Forelgn Total  Loual Forelgn Total
I Civil W.rks
ilahotas Dist./Chamanc. Llne             O   307   644   951   102   215   317   4091  059  1268
Network Extenuion                        O   406   502   908   407   503   910   813  1005  e188
11 Eqtupirt
Weter Pumps                              O      5   220   225      5   221   226    10   441   451
hiecles &Equiptent          2    28    30       1     9    10                          3    3.7   40
Di PipaToola                             O          782   782                   o      O   782   782
AC Pipe                                  o          655   655                   O      O   655   655
valves                                  O           91    91                   O      o    91    91
HDPE Flttlngs                            O           36    36                   o      O    36    36
111 Pratsalemal Srvcea
Det. Eng. & Sup*rMlion          275   275           200   200           175   175      O   650   650
lASE COST         2   303   305   719  3139  3858   514  1114  1628  1235  4556  5791
Phjsical Contlngmncia     0.2  30.3  30.5  71.9 313.9 385.8  51.4 111.4 162.8 123.5 455.6 579.1
Pric*ContingoncIu        0.12 10.18  18.3 #3.14 188.3 231.5 30.e4 66.84 97.68  74.1 273.4 347.5
TOTAL COST     2.S2 351.5 353.1  834 3641  4475 596.2  1292 1881  1433  52S5 6718



NOZAMEBIQU
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
BEIRA SEWERAGE RERABILITATION
(In Us$'*OO)
PROJECT SUBCOMPONENTS -  ----- 1988 -       - ----- 1989------  ----1- 990 ------           --TOTAL-----
Local Foreign Total  Locel Foreign Total  Local Foreign Tetal  Local foreign Total
I Civil Works
Mal n Sewer Reconstructio n                      40   220   260   160   880  1040   200  1100  1300
Externsion Secondary Network                                        100   100   200   100   100   200
Dwelli ng Connection Repai rs                                       100   100   200   100   100   200
1I Equipment
Trucks (2)                                             220   220                               220   220
Tractor Trailer                                         28    28                                28    28
Tools                                                   52    52                                52    52
111 Professional Services                                                                                    .
Supervision (covered by Dut h eid)
Studies & Engineering (PPF')      200   200                                                    200   200
BASE COST               200   200    40   520   560   360  1080  1440   400  1800  2200
Physical Contingencies                                                                   24   108   132
Price Conti ngencies                                                                     40   180   220
TOTAL COST                     __                                             464  2088  2552
Io
a'1-



URE&N RE&BILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED PROJECT COSTS2 DRAINAGE JUNE 16 CIRCLE
(In US$'000)
PROJECTSUBCOMPONENTS       ----1988------   1---i989------  -    1990 ------  -----TOTAL-----
Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Foreign Total  Local Forcign Total
1 Civil Workcs
Road                                                               47   151   198    47   151   198
Drai nage                                     143   429   572                        143   429   572
Il Professiosol Servicms
Supervision                                           82    82           28    28           110   110
Studies& Engineering              54    54                                                   54    54
BASE COST              54    54                                             190   744   934
Physical Contiíencies             10    10    26    85   111        8    28    36    34   123   157
Price Conti ngencles               3     3      9    44    53       4    lS    19    13    62    75
TOTAL COST              67    67   178   640   818_ 59   222   281   237   929  1166
o 1
0%'



- ól ú
àwm 7
Paga 6 of lu
liOZUAIQll
u1al REAIITÂTION PROJECT
ROADS REAIILITATION - NAPUTO
(Cost Ia U.S. Dollar.)
COMPONENT                    FOREIGN      LOCAL        TOTAL
__-___________                   -------- - ---------------------------
General provision:
Laboratorv and office     300.000
Operation lab. and off.    368.000
Vehicles                   45,00o
Operation of vehicles      27.00o
General provision total                345.,000     63.000      408,000
Karl Marx                              138, 000     66,000      204, 000
Guerra Popular                          39,000       17.000      56,000
Tanzania                               114,000      49,,00     163,000
Paulino S. Gil                          36,000       18,000      54,000
Mao Tse Tung                           195,000      85.000      280.000
O.A.U.                                 183.000      78,000      261,000
Eduardo Mondlane                       263,000     130.000      393,000
Vladimir Lenine                        124.000      56°000      1825000
Marien NQaubi                          200<),000   106,000      306,000
Trabalho                               240 * 000   125.000      365.000
Antol a                                20 1 ! , 000  1 0.3000   30400 oo
Volcano                                191 .000    107,000      298,000.
16 de Junho (roundabout)                28,000      12,000       40,000
24 de Julho                            164,00:0o    70t 000     234 * 000
Non--mottrised lane                    117,000      65,000      202,000
Mi sc<, llaneoun items                 174. 000     70.000      244.000
Surf. treat.& emerQ. rep.              667,C00     277, 00<0    944"000
Supervisi on:
1 Site Enaineer           186000<
1 Quantity Surveyor       120,000
2 Inspectors                8 .<-,C)
Air- travels               30. 000
Housing                    486000
Supervision total                      378,000       8 * 000    386,000
Maintenance                          1,3739, 000   237 ,000   1.576.000
GRAND TOTAL MAPUTO:                  5! 136, 000   1 , 764, 000   6, 900, 000
DNEP 22.04.88



-n -
AUU 7
Po 7 of 16
NOZAEIQtUS
U  l~ REILITATION PROJECT
ROADS REIIILITATION - BEIRA
(C.t Ia U.S. Dollar.)
COMPONENT                     FOREIGN       LOCAL        TOTAL
General provision:
Laboratory and office       150,000
Operation lab. and off.    24,000
Vehicles                     39,000
Operation of vehicles        16,000
General provision total                  189.000      40.000      2299000
Rehabilitation EN6                    1,066,000      416,000   1,482,000
Miscellaneous items                 .    29,000        9.000       38.000
Surf. treat.& emerg. rep.               3986000      142,000      540,000
Supervision:
1 Site Engineer            120,000
1 Quantity Surveyor         80,000
2 Inspectors                  8,100
Air travels                  155000
Housing                      32,000
Supervision total                       247.000        8.000      255.000
Maintenance                             755,000      155.000      910,000
GRAND TOTAL BEIRA:                    2,684.000      770,000   3,454,000.
DNEP 22.04.88



92  -                         -~~~~A~E    7
- 92 -                                   Pas8 of 16.
IOAD   REHAILITMTOI4-IEl
111  MUIILITATIOII NOJS
(Cost lu U.S. DoDlar.)
Com~IENT                 1M9                             1              l990             1              MUTL
1 ÇWfE!      LOCAL      TOTAL   1 FOIIl    LOCAL        TOAL   1 FUI1N    LOCAL          TOTA
l   isian:
Láuatory ud affice       150,000
q"ration lab. Wd off.   24,000
Ydicln: 39,000
t, ation of weiicls       14,000
hwal   ision total                   140,000   20,000   liO,QQO       29,000   20,000    49,00       199,000    40,000   229,00O
.háilitation o%                      352,000   137,000   49,000      714,O0   279,000 m o 93M,'0   1,066,000    416,000  1,482,000
lmisllaI    its                       15,000    5,000    20,000       14,000    4,000     18,000      29,000     9,O0     39,000
&W '. treat.& eerg. rep.             128,000   47,000    175,000   .270,000  :95,00    365,000    398,000    142,000    4,
ki   sian:
1 Site Egineer           120,000
1  .amtity 9urvw          90,000
2 In rctai                 8,000
Air travs                 15,0M0
IHminq                    32,0%
&~§rvisia" total                      80,000    2,000    82,090    167,000    6,000    173,000    247,000        9,000   255,050
uintitenmce                          520,00    77,000   597,000       :35,n0O    78,00   31'"000     755,000    155,000   910,000
gNi) TOTAL lEIRA:                  1,255,0M0   288.000  1,543,000   1,429,000  4E2,000  1.911,000   2,684,000   770,000 3.454,000
NE 25.04.99



- *3 -
una IAILVTATIOI M  p                         KT OINATIOUM f=CT
b »SO R~IIITATI01 - Nou                                            1
(Cout lu 11.1. L 11.ra)
I             198              1              19S0              1               191               1             0992              I             TOTU
em~            f          31   El;   LU           MAL íIU TaTOTALL  IG                    1  UUIS5 ÇQ<             IOTAL  O FII         L          IGlI.  1 FU.1 7        0T0U      lTOIW
L.'.twy md cOocn    300,t000
*iVt1. lá. md elf.   26,000
-  dat    of voh6cl   v7,0%
- w-ço.' total               300,0»    15,000   315.000       15,000   16,0       31,0         l1,00      lé,        31,0       15,0      1,0       J01,00     345,00      03,00    *
*1308,00    a,000   2^4,000                                                                                                       18,000    6,0        200,00
--  .. ,ral#                         39,G~0    07,843      6,o0                                                                                                        39,00      17,000      6,0
1a..ía                    ~~~~~~~114,00  49,00    165,00.                                                                                                     114,000    49,000    l03,00
PmI,o 5. 6f1                          36,00    18,000    54,11                                                                                                          36^,00    00,000     54,000
Im  m  Tg,q                                                       195,00    e5,0       296000                                                                        095,00     115,00     MI,M
0...                                                                 103,1a    78,1a0      1,W00D                                                                      0a3,00     78,00    26 ooo
fEhwo  Im41 r*.                                                      263.     1e».000      ao3,000    I,M    993,9
Y1.iir Lu- mc                                                        124,00l>  SO.,M    IEC,00                                                                         i24,000              10,00  IE,f O
10,000   70,noo    210,1         1(,001     3b,0     la ,0eo                                     2e0,00e              206,000
3h.                                                                                               240,00-      125,UO0   305,000                                   240,000    1250,00    305,00
_.v.1                                                                                                 2o1,DD     103,0DO    304,000                                    201,000    108  3O 4,0m0
46lcao                                                                                                190,001.   107,0   208,000                                       141,000    107,00    20,000
14 de Jr  aro ~       ?t                                                                               26,000    u2,000    40,000                                       29,00      12,000    40,000
24 do Jho                                                                                                                              064, 000    7D,VO   234,0O      164,000    70,000    234,000
I~otVíu1d 1                                                                                                                           117,00 40 5,0    202,000        117,000     65,000   202,000
Y    ,llyd      ltm I Fmiw   a       40,000   01,000    62,000       44,000   1I,OD0      S2,000       G,ODO      17,000    6O,000      4Z,J    17,000      60,00      174,0DO     70,DO    244,000
3k0,. treat.Q ewq.  (0.               S4,Q00    2,000     S0,0>7    503,      2cs,051    7QS,0aO       1o0,000    46,000   .146,000                                    667,       2,Q00    944,000
O Soto inqiuv            19),000
I 0 ity 9s,              12D,O
2 T~tw s                  12,000
#ir trawí                 70, O0
-rq nT48,007
- rInin    total                    63,QOD     2,        05,000    126,000    4,DOD    130,000       126,ODD      I  oo0   020,000      ',o       2,QOD     o5,DM     r.8,002     12,00D0   390,0DO
bintu oc901 ,0r   119.000  1,0201                                   *38,000  010,000   5ss,0on                                                                       i,rg9, u    237,0W  l,s57,00
lUTO.   lT                   1           S6990   ,0OQ  2,024,000  2,701.00    7"2,'n  2,9go,000  1,014,V»    4b,6    1,424,001    4>:,000 1w0,u4    59.,000  55,1U6,O   1,70,000  6,904,000
_ _ -                                                =         -       -   _ -. -
iiP  2s.04.00



- 94 -                          ANEX 7
Page 10 of 16
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJEC-
ROADS REHABILITATION - IAPUTO
(Maíntenance Costs in U.S. Dollars)
FIRST YEAR
------------------------------------------------------------._----__---
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL       LOCAL        AID  -
RESOURCE    FUNDS
--------------------------------------------------------------__------
Equipuent                     39,450    420,550    460,000              O    460,000
Tech. ass3st.                 19,250    120,000    139,250    19,250   .120,000
Materials                     27,902    164,637    192,539    27,539    165,000
Hand tools                     2,915       6,657        9,572      5,572        4,000
Sal. & wages                  47,454            o      47,454    47,454          .  O
Veh. & eqpt. op. cost    24,930    192,837   217,767   172,767                45,000
Roaduarklng                      885       16,825      17,710    17,710              o
…--_---------__--__-__--__------------------------------------------_
Subtotal                     162,786    921,506 1,084,292  290,292    794,000
------------------------------------------------------------__----__--
Overhead                      15,613      57,143       72,756    72,756              o
TOTAL                        178,399    978,649 1,157,048  363,048    794,000
'3______________________________________________________________-------
SECOND YEAR
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL       LOCAL        AID
RESOURCE    FUNDS
Tech. assist.                 13,250      87,500    100,750    13,250         87,500
materials                    27,902    164,637    192,539    27,539    165,000
Nand tools                     2,915       6,657        9,572      5,572       4,000
Sal. & vages -               47,454             o     47,454    47,454              o
Veh. 8 eqpt. op. cost    24,930    192,837    217,767   172,767               45,000
Roadaarking                      885      16,825       17,710    17,710             O
______________________________________________________________________
Subtotal                    117,336    468,456    585,792  284,292    301,500
-------------------------------------------------------------__-------
Overhead                      15,613      57,143      72,756    72,756              o
--------------------------------------------------------------------_
TOTAL                        132,949    525,599    658,548  357,048    301,500
…------------------__      ----------------------------------------__           -____
FIRST + SECOND YEAR                                1,815,596               1,095,500
Hereof:
Equlpnent                                                                    460,000
Tech. assíst.                                                                207,500
Materials                                                                    330,000
Hand tools                                                                     8,000
Veh..& eqpt. op. cost                                                         90,000
DNEP 22.04.88



-95 -                         ANNEX 7
Page 11 of 16
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
ROADS UHABILITATION - BEIRA
(Maíntenane.  Costs in U.S. Dollara)
FIRST YEAR
…------------------------------------------------.----------------__---
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL       LOCAL        AID
RESOURCE    FUND:
…------------------------------------------------------------__ -------
Equipuent                     25,500    259,500    285,000              O   -285,000
Tech. assist.                 19,250    120,000    139,250    19,250    120,000
Materials                     16,005      69,918       85,923    15,923        70,000
Hand tools                     2,204        3,563       5,767      3,767        2,000
Sal. & vage3                  31,776             o     31,776    31,776         -    O
Veh. 8 eqpt. op. cost    16,590    124,945    141,535   107,535                34,000
Roadaarking                      330        6,270       6,600      6,600             0.
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Subtotal                     111,655    584,196    695,851   184,851    511,000
______________________________________________________________________
Overhead                      10,036      30,704       40,740    40,740              o
______________________________________________________________________
-TOTAL                       121,691    614,900    736,591  225,591    511,000
SECOND YEAR
LOCAL      FOREIGN       TOTAL       LOCAL        AID
RESOURCE    FUNDS
Tech. assist.                 13,250      87,500    100,750    13,250          87,500
Materials                     16,005      69,918       85,923    15,923       70,000
Hand toola                     2,204,      3,563        5,767      3,767        2,000
Sal. L wages                  31,77.6           o      31,776    31,776              o
Veh. 8 eqpt.-op. cost    16,590    124,945    141,535   107,535                34,000
Roadaarking                      330       6,270        6,600      6,600             o
------------------------------------------------__------------------
Subtotal                      80,155    292,196    372,351   178,851    193,500
Overhead                      10,036      30,704       40,740    40,740              o
TOTAL                         90,191    322,900    413,091  219,591    193,500
FIRST + SECOND YEAR                                1,149,682                 704,500
H.roaf:
Equlpment                                                                    285,000
Tech. assist.                                                                207,500
M&terials                                                                     140,000
Hand tools                                                                      4,000
Veh. 8 eqpt. op. cost                                                          68,000
DNEP 22.04.88



- 96-                       ANNEX 7
Page 2 of 16
HOZAMBIQUS
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
UPGRADING, SIM S SERVICES AND HOUSING
globa l   es
TOTAL      Foreign     Local     Seles T.x
Currencg    Curreney
1. OU SITE CIYIL WORKS       793805    637745    120691         35369
1.1 Site Preparation
Compensation              22750         o        22750         o
Plot Demerketion          28296       24529       3767         o
1.2 Roed                      9261        6174       2646        441
1.3 Senitation                59981      57125         o         2856
1.4Water Dfstribution        203178      163700      29804       9675
1.6 Water Connection         163506      127622      28098       7786
1.7 Electrical Distribution  222202      177995      33626       10581
1.8 Electrical Connction      84630      80600         o     -  4030
2. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES    1050474   912604    137869             o
2.1 Project Management       620000      520000     100000         O
2.2 TA.&T. Self-Help         120000      120000        0           o
2.3 Superviston Infr&Shelter  310474     272604      37869         o
3. SHELTER                  2463615   2088300   258000    117315
3.1 Core Units               1354500    1032000    258000       64500
3.2MlterinlCredit        -  1109115    1056300         o        5281t
BASE PROJECT COSTS          4307893   3638649   516560    152684
Phoical Conttngencies        430789      363865      51656       15268
Prices Escalation            646184      545797      77484      22903
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS         5384866   4548311    645700    190855
4. ASSOCIATED PROJECTS
4.1 Ac  Road                 187605      134003      44668       8934
4.2 Support S.S. Entreprises  700000     700000        o           o
BASE ASSOCIATED COSTS        887605    834003       44668        8934
Phgsical Contingencies        88760      83400       4467         893
Prices Escahlton             133141      125101      6700        1340
TOTAL ASSOCIATED COSTS      1109506   1042504    55835          11167



- 97 -
ANNEX 7
Page 13 of 16
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
UPGRADING. SITES. SERVICES AND HOUSING
Mia  Iu_  Ia.    i_         tata  f_  MM    i$_        Wa  í.t  Mm                 taU  f_i 
i u_em"  V~                       t_4s I_i 13                                     _ _ mi                 _      _ 
mo10  4$111I     o               3      5     ou              .3  13P41   e    J     .   tE    134* e
teu   M     40    7 34  tlt?   4    1           $~   1313 _7    lo          us    315   i_  5
t.rtt   P                          O404   3                       i7tt "lE   _i           O7 3         45M    4175    Ot 353_7t t
I4WB*fr,db      t aio  um,             tu,      suo  missa  em   ai:       vmn ts    um  mi.           vumo          site    _ W o
LI V~~ouo.      mIl    M    1011            m   u?u           m       as u~Mame                      o            1 
Z._m~~~"& *7          X    _|_                                                         em"§"  -7X   ~E- *_ _      *
I3~td5   11                                              0t  tO mS    37 *t t_
1. meu             *??   UI    SS            a        ~    um *M   m    a                 eM um     Mt   s_    _           _m
ou. ~tsim  81040w lism na   e usu     iu'i simum o   ssumim          ,,i *.     o.    íu.m 14    gm,    sOis
mtt i Ett            m _U t0   07   O 7 t _i  2#                        O    b  SM   <I *0W *~        lit    Ifl
15140   MB? _UI    StOt «1810 1811 4040   OS mSO_ _33 *UO 40_    _ UO 8181 <SB-*                    OO   ttlNt7 t<iate im



- 98 -
ANNEX 7
Page 14 of 16
MOZAMBIQUF
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
UPGRADING, SITES, SERVICES AND HOUSING
vim  -í.                           vim  -a-                              v       am  s-
wr10I   r         ~ ls     hIm              roo I .   L      li          1#A    fup a
tunu  Cw>u    I=                    Cng  Cor~    Ia                     eCalm   C         leu, 
o. mmii av tem 03a6  43 I tosam 24~                           18818  1           1*11    8414        usas   817          a  st71 * 1s
*-|                       n7R              U751                                                                    7UU
u0s                      3 31             337410
_                                                     m         $        *leu 430  4000  3e0  3601    810  18  3n1  mn       lia
1.4wl4_                    307   170 304  1n
Mw_Cn0a                     18678n   38845   0703  34t         1137       00 51  1838    7n
8. PUiUUOL UU C           8710    310031t            7U0I0  Ot 1       1118  1 0 aO                3l7sU      10   3
3.1    u     _             333    Im3     100                  11001    1n3     31000               19335   17       310 20
3.3?AA1.1sI<-IMp            30       300                        45000    40                          41       40
3.8~~,*InMrUM~r     111726    #a%   3800                1142    la11am   14L0                 1613     1413       o      o
8.LE                      873    4100  s1300  83             12_38100  10 l44110 1300  581         1111   1311           O 3
3.Ir.I                     67131    8160   1320  8*1           4731    1120   300   31
1_t@0ltn11 Cr                                                 5550  8316             36400       154518   5311           50
PIOdIU? 31511       1104631 144160J 8088   1431221    108113£ 115111  108             6ft0     081141   04010  3        308
a=PPI        B                4     124418  30333 1I41          083  183114  100» 6IS                033      04000  3       n00  3036 2S
PnIaIIaIn                 32406t  106741  4841   U47           2714"   38307        81  10317 l1400I   131011710  438
SUTL ~*.t ali            2308l0  18833 8»157 70889   3232147 1141N917  a831  0141 49              11161   lOsI  51310  f1183
41 hmnh                    10760    18003  44688,0344
42.3  ..9t8     ~ ro                ío                         400      400 t0000   li0000
IlIOCUStI 31618      817488  234N01 44          e134     40000   460080         a      a      17,0   117980         a      a
4CuiluOsIIms           31761   23400  4447   08            400      4w000       o      a        1000    17tO!       O      O
Pilem                       47441   81600   67 o 10             6        6           O      O        31       3W         O      o
SUIL _3870    8884    111 1111681                             10        00      aO   *             318   3 m             a 



- 99 -
ANNEX 7
Page 15 of 16
!4OZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOUSING COMPLETION AND REMABIl!TATION
GLOBAL. COSTS
( U.S.DOLLAPS )    :=====
:~----====~====_=-=======' TOTALS:
:                 : ~~~~~~-- - ------  -- - -----   -- - - -  -- - -- - -  -- -- --
DKSCRl-;ION      :  TOTAL       FOREIGH      % OF       LOCAL    : XO       :
:             :            : ~~~~~~~~~CURRENCY    TOTAL  :CURRENCY  :TOTAL:
1.- CIVIL WORKS         12 731 546 : 10 37 926      80,96 : 2 423 620:   19,04 :
1.1.- RKRABILITATION     5 404 207    4 323 366 :  80,00    1 080 841      20,00
:1.1.1.-- aputo          3 878 426    3 102 741 :  80,09       775 685 :  20,00
1.1.2.- Beira          : 1 525 781    1 220 625     80,00      305 156 :  20,00 t
-- - - - - -- - - - - -    :- - - - - -  -- - -- - -  -- - - -  -- - -- - -  -- - - -   :
1.2.- COHPLKTION       : 7 327 339    5 984660 5    81,67 : 1 342 779 :  18,33 :
-- - -- - - -- - -- - -   -- - -- - -   -- - -- - -                         ---------…
1.2.1.- Maputo           6 090 539    4 995 120 :  82,01    1 95 419 :  17,99
' 1.2.2.-Beira       :        ...... 1 236 800  989 440 :  80,00  247 360 :  20,00
2.- SUPERVISION            617 347 :   617 347 :  100,00             O      0,00 
2.1.- RflEBILITATZON   :   324 253      324 253    l 100,00 ,        O :   O,00
2.1e.  apeo                                               oe            e
: 2.1.1.- Naruto       :   232 706      232 706    1Ce,00 :          O :   O,O0
:2.1.2.- Beira                91 547:    91 547:  100,00:              O:    O,eO :
2.2.- CONPLETION           293 994 :   293 094 : 100,00 :            e :   0,00
2.2.1.- Naputo             243 622 5   243 622 :  100,00             O :   0,00
2.2.2.- Beira          :    49 472 :    49 472 :  100,00             o 0    0,00 :
B:EA  PROJECT COSTS     13 348 893   10 925 273 1  81,84 1 2 423 6201   18,16
Phyuieal Contingencios    1 334 889    1 087 400 :  81,46 '   247 489 :  18,64 e
Price lscalation     .,  2 002 335    1 631 099 :  81,46       371 236 1  18,54
TOTAL PROJWCT COSTS    : 16 686 117  13 643 772     81,77 W    3 042 345   18,23
3.- PROWCT NANAGKNKNT    1 0000 0    1 000000    100,00              0 e    0,00
T O T A L              :17 686 117 : 14 643 772:  82,80:  3 042 345 1   17,20:
NOTE: 'B.C.C.I." and Torre 'A' included



- 100 -
ANNEX 7
Page 16 of 16
MOZUMBIOUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
HOUSING COMPLETION AND REHABILITATION
GLOBAL COSTS
< U.S.Nm.LIA   1 t -        -       ----- -
|:                       ~~~~      ~~19.1   :            20.191             1             30.I19            1
t IE!  ;I     1 N             1 T                    t       -1 t          t               FRIO$  1 t 
E|1 U   Iu.    1t~                            1 SD. O        Fl:Yt            á    I:i a  t o~  17c.   1RNEIU 1
l 1.-CIVIL w        1 5413911  4494w51    9151 39t5711 307331t  74t2171 3436fI   2451   67311
1.lrl-IlUTATIO  1           41         41        e: 17M           577791   334431 34U61  27495971   69751
11.1.1.-Nhpa            91ei                      o 1, 1 451 374 1 1167 51   291 9741 2419  t1 11  2411   4 381 1
11.1.2.-bira      -I         CI         01   o1   5479491   46t279    101 591 14171321   9143 6    21M5971
5 1.21- E[Ill       t  S739f 1 4 49 1   I 9            1 1 339  1I *      t 1       1m  t1 t1 t1
11.2.1.- 1&         1 49641451 30Z51   124ff1  14410 I 1 I169 762 1   271 3211    t            1        41         41
1 1.2.2.-lleir      1  94541   6596271   164471   4122 66    329113            9 62f43 1     *í t1                 41
1 2r- 19UVISIO      1  218 961   21990             1 o t   1521681   1921681 t          206 219 1  2  216 2  11
1 2.1.- I1tLtttiT   5        01         4 1       41 1191341   lí 11911            4 1   2062191   206211          41"
21.  flUAI   1              01         #I          1   li  u1   liR1              01   M      1   2 11            $1
1 2.1.1r-l0O        1         1          1 t1    97563 1    97t51                   t1 145143       451431         1
1 2.1.2.- kira      1         1 t                   1    3 4711    3 4711 U  t1    61476 1    61 476               41
1 2.2.-OIITIO0N     1  219901   21890 t           C      74 11    74 1341          41        41t        4          41
1 2.2.1.-ua-a -    1   1859791   15S791 t1    576  t1  5764 31                    *1        41         41         *1
1 2.2.2.- kira           32191    3211            45 *   16491.   1649111          *I        41 *1                 41
|_^@1    t                St -Itr-1-i-  t-1- - - -
1 lP1E  CT SIS    : 562-9151 47139401   199151  44127391 3265n1   747217m  36432041 209061   OM3:9|
PicCmtinqi              561295-  474351 s      9101   412741   324241    7lMI   364321   2955911              689731
1 picsE,ala ti      1  9513    715921t  149 351 1    1911:1   482 97  11   111775    5t6 4911   0t 371    1131141
1 TUL F WaJSS   1 7116 131 1 5 P 952  1  2!& 2i1 5 415 92Z    4069 O      946 9  1 4 55   1 t 3694M1   02471
1 3rT1         1N       30I        Z*0W t1 tt                1t  3%4 1             1   3 00 1   3044  t1          41
TOTAL              1 7466181 6291321  1236251 5            95241 441M12    9469421 41154M1 3947511   952471
1                       1---1                                                    t t tt
lMIEi  .C.C.1. ad Trw #4 IncliÉd



- 101 -
ANNEX 8
MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
ECONOMIC ANALYSIS
1.       The overall Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for those componenta for
which it could be measured, representing ;:ome 70% of total project cost, is
approximately 39% Tnese componenta, which consist primarily of
i.ifrastructure and shelter rehabilitation, are described below. Items for
which the ERR was not calculated include emergency erosion oontrol (base
cost US$2.5 million), solid waste management (base cost US$4.1 million),
lines of credit (base cost US$4.9 million), institutional development (base
cost US$3.4 million) and project management (base cost US$3.1 million).
The benefits for these items are not easily quantifiable, although there
would clearly be benefits to infrastructure and amenities from erosion
control, to health and environ=ent from municipal servíces and to
productive employment from the lines of credit.
Infrastructure Rehabilitation
2.       The following ERRs are estimated for the main project cowponents:
Cost
Component                        (US$ million)          ERRa (%)
Maputo Road Rehabilitation (a)         6.99                85%
Maputo Drainage (b)                    0.94                20%
Maputo Costa do Sol Bridge (a)         0.66                28%
Beira Road Rehabilitation (a)         3.45                 52%
Maputo Water Rehabilitation (c)        8.44                20%
Beira Water Rehabilitation            6.13                 15%
Total:                          26.61   Average      38%
Notes:
(a)   For methodology, see "Draft Engineering and Economic Feasibility
Report", February 1988, Roughton and Partners.
(b)   For methodology, see "Drainage Praca 16 Junho, preliminary
design, April 1988, DHV.
(c)   For mrthodology see "Inception Report", January 1988, Sír M.
MacDonald and Partners.



- 102 -
ANNZX e
Housina Rqhabilitatlon
3.       Th- following ERRa are *stimat-d for the main project componente:
Cost
Component                            (US$ million)       ERR M
BuElding Reh-bilítation and             13.51              732
Completion (a)
Sites and Services                       9.72              182
Total:                             23.23              402
(a)    For methodology see Bratex report on rehabilitation and
completior of buildings.
AF6IN
June, 1988



- 103 -
ANNEX 9
MOZAHBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
ESTIMATED DIRECT SKILLED AND UNSKILLED EMPLOYWENT GENERATED
BY PROJECT IN CONSTRUCTION INDUSTRY
Total Comt            Total Labor  Saiary
Proi ct Com~Ontnts                        USI Hl?Iion  % Labor  US HMililon  US/IMo.  Man-Monthu   Man-Y*9rs
1.    Infrastructura RehabilItation         81.88         18X         5.0       46       140,000       11,700
I1.   Houmins Rehabilit.ation               28.28         221         5.10       »0       102,000        8,500
III.  Municipal S.rvic.  Support             4.11         16          0.00      40        16,000        1,801
IV.   Llno  of Cr dit                        4.90         201         1.00       40        24.500        2,0
Sub-Total:                       ô8.67        19%          12.8                281,S00      28,610
V.    Indirect E.ployment                                                                               11 700
(at 5% of Dlr.ct EL-,:Oyunt)
lotal:                                                                                      85,200
AF0IN
June, 1988



l
M{AP SECTION



q   ,<",  F   » ,   {~/ \   ~640  42
-;1    «   «       /                \                                     /            f      > t         o Mocimboa da Praia
12,
MeCUbUri               MOur l
war.  ÓLrsoX{l~ ~ ~ un                                   Cua<NIASn,X ê 
Fingoe ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-Mocambique
l   M A L A  W  I t   ,,                      A         J t, MoMOI  ue
16'                                                                     olne        r
-LILONGWEógA 240             \          B               Ma Z IA
Hs°   ARBAR                  2u a a                                                                      <)1
Z~ 1r M B A J W E
20ARENR                                                                          O000                                0KLE
VZsa                                                                 O Z A M E W E    U E
7oungaberaK 
\ t    ) \~~~~N                                  URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
g    2          )       ~~~~~~Mambnon
/ r r ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~PRCtJECT CITIES
/   |   j _        \                                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~OTHER BANK SUPPORTED PROJECTS:
22°                                                             OVIbanculos                //         BEIRA CORRIDOR
_             /° Chicu~~~~~al.cuala                                                                 INDUSTRIAL REHABIUITATION CREDIT ÁREA
/    X   >  fl   %  g                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~PAVED ROADS
\  às   \%        X     57   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~-------    PAVED ROADS. UNDER CONSTRUCTIOIN
\ \ G A ~Z A                                  )                              EARTH ROAOS
\ > \ <_ \ _ -< ~~~~~~~~~~RAILWAVS
{      5               >                           *        Q~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~TERNATIONAL AIRPORTS
%   \   1 ~~~~~~~~~~)                               t ~~~~ OTHER AIRPORTS
t   F  /  @             i) INHAMBANE                     ~~~~~~~~~~RIVERS, PORTS
-24°                  Mss ngi(                                       INHAMBANE                       SWAMPS24
>   >  >   i      /                            t3      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PROVINCE CAPITALS          4
SOU T H         l,.       hó                ij    /                                i      NATIONAL CAPITALS
A F R I C A         |4'!;  :)QUscoPROVINCE BOUNDARIES
MasudeO                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIFS
X  \  tAI-XAI
26              (        \          APT
SYAZ ILAN D.|
MBABANEf rS                                                                             s;dos SS-> f!^    O ° 10D  200  300 KILOMETERS



IBRD 209 15
M O Z A M B I O U E
URBAN REHABILITATION AND
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
4,                                   BEIRA PROJECT SITES
\ s
PROJECT:
\  *  Apartment buildings rehabilitated
\  z.L3 Housing sitos
Coastal protection works
EXISTING:
Rice and ot+iar intensivo low
ground cultivation
Built-up arcas
Main roads
/NHA MIZA 11                                                 Raliroad
Rivers
International boundarles
\  (~~~- N                                        v   e 
V/HA M/ZUV   f
*«-fb  >|tg  w  ,   f        ty   /<; j»         ;    %   t)\  v~~~~AIRPORT
ZAMBIA
l4Fo  di0O1 1      .0             \ 0                    / 0f0l 
01LA ero° 1                       rl       6 f_lfd8'.UfJAANA|
floOo0 Foloc             e C0-- Wo- e00k6ael. 
22~~~~~~~~~~2
lÀO1,4 N1,5~
SOUTMh    >X:         
AFRttC                   e      '             Ind&icwtn  Qc6an.'  ''t;s}:tudinX' ' '       Q#4.TÊMS
MAY 1988



IBRD 2091 6
T                    ZANIA              M O Z A M B I O U E
ZAMPIA  LAE& MÁLAW/                        URBAN REHABILITATION AND
EMPLOYMENT GENERATION PROJECT
M-ALAWI _>            )                       MAPUTO PROJECT SITES
PROJECT:
Apartmont bulidings rehabftltat.d
/) S ,fz ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Housing sitos
..  7    rL    I Coastal protection works
June 16th circis
22          \            22                                          EXISTING:
.PÓCDIA N                                             Low int-nsity r.sidentíal/agricultural
SOUTHX     y                                                           Intensivo cultivation
26         _?            26                             1      -  _    1  BuilIt-up     ar-as
Main roads
To Moamba and Swaziland                                   Railroads
Rlvers
International boundaries
Casta do sol1
TO lVio~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~10'O*,0'0n 1,
i~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~nm. .s 0\  1                           Wo'k .   *
X~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n ,              à,le,fahOna 1,00
lana Cand h c rs.,th
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f resetti ment)
/   \ e   t  2 v. '\                                                  ees Mw,«>~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~dosISOd~ 0<8?.01 I
TOI.    -8 ~.
/0en/  MAn 19?8
MAY 1988



