Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 16747
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1949-MOZ)
June 20, 1997
Water, Urban and Energy I
Eastern and Southern Africa
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
perfornance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT (Period average)
Currency Unit = Metical
1987        Mt  291
1988        Mt  525 (appraisal)
1989        Mt  745
1990        Mt  929
1991        Mt 1,434
1992        Mt 2,517
1993        Mt 3,874
1994        Mt 6,039
1995        Mt 9,024
1996        Mt 11,294
1997 (March) Mt 11,004
FISCAL YEAR
Government and Public Enterprises: Calender Year
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AdM                Agua de Maputo (Water Company of Maputo)
AdB          =     Aguas da Beira (Water Company of Beira)
BPD         =      Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento
DNA         =      Direccao Nacional de Aguas (National Directorate
of Water)
DNEP        =      Direccao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes (National
Directorate of Roads and Bridges)
GOM         =      Government of Mozambique
GPE                Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego (Office for the
Promotion of Employment)
HABITAR            Housing Management and Supervision Unit
MCA/MOPH =         Ministerio da Construcao e Aguas (Ministry of
Construction and Water), renamed Ministerio das
Obras Publicas e Habitacao (Ministry of Public
Works and Housing)
MAE         =      Ministerio da Administracao Estatal (Ministry of
State Administration)
MT          =      Ministerio do Trabalho (Ministry of Labor)
PIU                Project Implementation Unit
PROL        =      Programa de Reforma dos Orgaos Locais (Local
Government Reform Program)
PRU         =      Projecto de Reabilitacao Urbana (Urban
Rehabilitation Project)
ROCS        =      Roads and Coastal Shipping Project(s)
Vice President: Callisto Madavo
Country Director: Phyllis Pomerantz
Technical Manager: Jeffrey Racki
Task Manager: Bernard Becq
ICR prepared by: Catherine Seibert



MOZAMBIQUE                                FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1949-MOZ)
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
CONTENTS
PREFACE
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction ............................................................i
Project Objectives ............................................................i
Implementation Experience and Results ...........................................................           ii
Future Operations, Summary of Findings, and Key Lessons Learned ................................................... iii
PART I: ASSESSMENT FOR THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. Introduction .........................................................I
B. Project Objectives and Description .........................................................1
C. Achievement of Project Objectives .........................................................3
D. Implementation Record and Major Factors Affecting the Project .......................................................6
E. Project Sustainability ........................................................8
F. Bank Performance .........................................................9
G. Borrower Performance ........................................................ 10
H. Assessment of Outcome ........................................................ 10
I. Future Operations .........................................................11
J. Key Lessons Learned .........................................................11
PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:        Summary of Assessment
Table 2:        Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:        Project Timetable
Table 4:        Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
Table 5:        Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Table 6:        Key Indicators for Project Operation
Table 7:        Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:       Project Costs
Table 8B:       Project Financing
Table 9:        Economic Costs and Benefits
Table 10:       Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:       Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:       Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:       Bank Resources: Missions
Appendix 1:        March 1996 Supervision/Completion Mission Aide-Memoire
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1949-MZ)
PREFACE
This is the implementation completion report (ICR) for the Urban Rehabilitation
Project (PRU) in Mozambique, for which Credit 1949-MOZ in the amount of SDR 44
million was approved in August 1988 and became effective on February 14, 1989.
The credit was closed October 31, 1996, ten months after the original closing date
of December 31, 1995. The last disbursement took place on January 9, 1997, at which
time a balance of SDR 5.3 million (about US$7.4 million) was canceled. In addition to
the Government counterpart contribution, cofinancing for the project was provided by the
governments of the Netherlands, Denmark, Spain, and Finland.
The ICR was prepared by Catherine Seibert (financial analyst) of the Water,
Urban and Energy 1 Unit of the Africa Region (AFTU 1). It was reviewed by Phyllis
Pomerantz, country director, Jeffrey Racki, technical manager, AFTU1, Jacomina de
Regt, principal operations officer, Operations Support 1, and former task managers
including Bernard Becq, senior operations officer, Richard Beardmore, senior operations
officer, Zambia, and Roberto Chavez, resident representative, Mozambique. Preparation
of the ICR was begun during the supervision/completion mission in February 1996 and
continued during subsequent missions. It is based on material in the project file and
mission findings.
Because of several months' delays in the Borrower's final project cost report, this
ICR has been finalized based on estimates of project costs, using disbursement reports.
Comments were requested from the Borrower and from cofinanciers, but by the time the
ICR was finalized, only informal comments had been received from the Borrower.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1949-MZ)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Urban Rehabilitation Project (PRU, Cr. 1949) was the first Bank project in
the urban sector, and it was designed in a difficult environment. A bloody civil war, that
had begun about 15 years before the project, was still raging, resulting in destruction to
infrastructure, large scale movements of the population, and loss of employment
opportunities. The urban sector faced major problems, stemming from inadequate
financial resources, weak institutions, deteriorated infrastructure and housing stock, and a
burgeoning population with a substantial refugee population in squatter camps. PRU
was designed in the context of a Bank strategy to promote economic reform supported by
a series of adjustment operations and investment projects that contained the elements of
emergency projects. IDA lending to Mozambique began in 1985 with the Rehabilitation
Program (Cr. 1610); the Second Rehabilitation Program (Cr. 1841) followed in 1987.
PRU was one of the emergency-type projects, along with the Education and Manpower
Development (Cr. 1907) and Health and Nutrition (Cr. 1989) projects.
Project Objectives
2.    The primary objective of the project was to assist the Government of Mozambique
(GOM) to stem the deterioration in basic urban infrastructure and services, and to
mitigate the social costs of structural adjustment through the implementation of a
program of urban rehabilitation and employment generation. The project comprised five
components: (1) rehabilitation of infrastructure in the major cities of Maputo and Beira;
(2) housing rehabilitation in Maputo and Beira; (3) upgrading of solid waste
management in Maputo and Beira; (4) employment generation, through two lines of
credit; and (5) strengthening of institutions andproject administration, through technical
assistance and training for implementing agencies. The objectives and design tried to
establish a balance between physical components and capacity building, with some
enabling policy reforms. The design of some components, notably the housing
component, showed a creativity not normally found in Bank projects. Notable covenants
in the Development Credit Agreement related to the financial sustainability of the
Maputo and Beira water companies, and to the development of a housing policy. The
strategy underlying the project objectives, of pursuing an integrated approach to the
rehabilitation of the key subsectors of infrastructure in the two largest, and fastest



- ii -
growing cities in Mozambique, was appropriate. In general, however, the scope of the
project proved to be too ambitious, and the project design too complex, for the limited
human and financial resources of the country.
Implementation Experience and Results
3.    The project was identified in October 1987 and went to the Board in August
1988, only 10 months after identification. The project became effective on February 14,
1989, and closed on October 31, 1996, 10 months after the original closing date of
December 31, 1995. Two extensions of the closing date, one of four months to April 30,
1996 and a second of six months to October 31, 1996, were granted to allow completion
of activities. Of the credit amount of SDR44 million, SDR 5.4 million or 12 percent was
canceled. Total project costs are estimated at US$65.7 million, compared to US$83
million at appraisal. By category, the most significant deviation from appraisal estimates
concerned the provision for consulting services, training and surveys; estimated at
appraisal at about SDR 4.4 million, over SDR 11 million was eventually disbursed.
4.    Overall, achievement of project objectives has been very mixed, with significant
variations between components. The best performing subcomponent under the project
was the roads subcomponent of the rehabilitation of infrastructure component, which
fully met the objectives set under the project. Achievement of the objectives related to
the other components, however, was partial at best. Implementation of all components, in
particular the housing component, was adversely affected by limited availability of
counterpart funds. The project also overestimated implementation capacity within the
country, on the part of Government and the local private sector that was to be involved in
project activities. The sustainability of the various components of the project is
uncertain. Although much of the physical investment took place, sustainability of the
investments rests on the willingness and ability of Government to introduce appropriate
policy measures, in particular cost recovery. Inattention to the latter has resulted in lack
of sustainability for several of the PRU components, in particular for the solid waste and
water supply activities. The development of local governments, in particular, the
devolution of fiscal responsibilities to the local level, was required to sustain the
achievements of PRU; although the design of the project recognized the importance of
viable local governments and tried to support their development through strengthening of
local units and creation of a center for urban management, implementation of these
aspects of the project was not satisfactory. The impact of the project on the labor market
also needs to be highlighted as a sustainability issue. The paying of significant salary
supplements to civil servants began a practice of salary top-ups by some donors that
continues today. This, in combination with the paying of salaries to the Mozambican
consultants in the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that were well out of line with the
local salary structure, contributed to significant distortions in the local labor market.
Both practices have been stopped in all IDA-financed projects.
5.    Bank performance during project design was satisfactory. The project was
designed in record time for a non-emergency project in a high-risk environment. The



- iii -
integrated subsector approach, emphasizing local structures, was conceptually
appropriate. Ultimately, the design of the project proved too demanding for the limited
human and financial capacities in Mozambique; however, it is not clear whether the
extent of the limited resources would have been known without extensive sector work,
which would have resulted in major delays to project investments. Overall,
implementation of the project was fair, although from both the view of the Bank and the
Government, the earlier years of the project were marked by more assiduous
implementation. Time spent on supervision dropped after the first three years, due to a
number of factors (change in task managers, limited funding for missions, overshadowing
by preparation of subsequent projects).
6.    While the Bank drove the design stage of the project, GOM was involved and in
agreement with the objectives. However, the project clearly tested the capacity of the
involved institutions. The Direccao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes (National Directorate
of Roads and Bridges, DNEP), which oversaw the roads component, proved itself a adept
implementor; however, other implementing agencies had limited success. Across the
board, counterpart staff struggled to follow Bank procedures related to disbursements and
procurement, at the same time they followed complex GOM procedures. The
performance of the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) was mixed. In the early years of
the project, the PIU appeared to operate effectively; however, like the Bank team, the
borrower's implementation team suffered from changes in staff. Communication
problems between the PIU and other implementing agencies on several occasions resulted
in less than satisfactory implementation. As the project wound down, and staffing of PIU
reduced, PIU became much less effective. In addition, as the bulk of PIU work was done
by consultants, the impact of the project on the development of skills within the parent
ministry.
7.    Evaluation of the project was hampered by the lack of information; in fact, the
evaluation process highlighted the weakness of the information systems for the project,
which increased in the last half of the project. In particular, the PIU was unable to
produce final project costs for each component and subcomponent. In view of the mixed
results in implementation and the questionable sustainability of project achievements, the
project outcome has been rated overall as unsatisfactory.
Future Operations, Summary of Findings, and Key Lessons Learned
8.    As noted above, the strategy underlying the design of PRU was well thought out,
and appropriate. However, it became clear during implementation that the scope of the
project was too optimistic, particularly in terms of borrower capacity. Learning from the
experience of PRU, the design of the operations that followed PRU, and developed the
initiatives begun under PRU, were more tightly focused in design. The first and second
Roads and Coastal Shipping projects (Credits 2374 and 2599) have emphasized policy
reform and institutional development along with a large investment program in the roads
sector. The Local Government Reform and Engineering Project (Cr. 2530) has expanded
and intensified PRU initiatives in local government and urban planning to three other



- iv -
cities in Mozambique. A National Water Development Project is also under preparation;
learning from the lessons of PRU, the major objective of this project, which is the first in
the water sector, is to improve sustainability of the water supply function through private
sector management and market-oriented tariff structures.
9.    The key findings and lessons emerging from this operation, in relation to projects
in Mozambique and in the infrastructure sector are:
In a complex and uncertain environment, marked by weak capacity in the country,
project design has to be well focused on the key issues and constraints. Design
should be clear and preferably simple, and above all, focus on building the
capacity of the involved agencies. While all the objectives of this project were
laudable, Government resources - human and financial - were clearly
overwhelmed by the carrying out the complex project activities (along with
numerous other donor activities). Implementation capacity- financial but
especially human capacity - must drive design, if the achievements of the project
are to be sustainable after the project has ended. The design team needs to
carefully debate and come to agreement on this issue, and the resulting decisions
made known, in order to manage the expectations of all involved, including
clients and beneficiaries.
Implementors must be diligent in enforcing appropriate policy measures. Without
such, the sustainability ofphysical improvements is undermined. While the
design of PRU was fairly forward looking in terms of the emphasis on policy
reform, especially cost recovery, implementation should have been more
aggressive in ensuring that more of the agreed upon reforms were made. In some
cases - for example, the measures related to development of local government
structures, the decision to defer implementation to a follow on operation
specifically focused on local governments, was appropriate in view of limited
government capacity. On the other hand, the Bank should have pressed more
strongly for cost recovery mechanisms: The sustainability of improvements in
water supply, sanitation, housing and solid waste have all been put into question
by uneconomic tariffs and charges.
The experience of the project underscores Bank experience to date with project
implementation units: while PIUs may successfully implement the specified
project activities, they rarely make a lasting improvement in the implementation
capacity of the involved government. The PRU PIU had little impact on capacity
building within the Ministry. Because consultants to the unit did most, if not all,
the work related to project supervision, procurement and disbursements, the PIU
had little impact on developing capacity within MCA/MOPH to manage projects.
Following from the above lesson concerning project design and capacity, if the
project design requires the specialized services of an implementation unit, the
design team would do well to revisit the complexity of the operation.



v -
More emphasis needs to be put on creating strong information systems and
insisting on regular and timely progress reporting, throughout the life of the
project. In the case of a ministry or similar government implementing agency,
such systems should be applicable to general operations as well as to the project.
One of the most useful outputs that a project may leave behind is a reliable
information system, and more generally, an appreciation on the part of the
implementing agency of the importance of timely and accurate information.
Clearly, without such a system, evaluation of outcomes will be difficult, if not
impossible. While an attempt was made to put such systems into place for PRU,
the systems and procedures were not maintained and getting accurate information
on project outcomes was difficult.






IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
URBAN REHABILITATION PROJECT
(CREDIT 1949-MZ)
PART I: ASSESSMENT FROM THE BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
A. INTRODUCTION
1.    The Urban Rehabilitation Project (Projecto de Reabilitacao Urbana or PRU, Cr.
1949) was the first Bank project in the urban sector, and it was designed in a crisis
environment. A bloody civil war that had begun about 15 years before the project was
still raging, resulting in destruction to infrastructure, large scale movements of the
population, and loss of employment opportunities. The availability of trained people,
capable of planning and operating urban services, was virtually nil, as the Portuguese
who had run the systems fled the country at Independence, having trained few
Mozambicans. Population growth was (and remains) a serious problem: at the time of
project design, about 10 percent of the population lived in the two main cities of Maputo
and Beira, with population growth rate in the urban areas about seven percent per annum.
The urban sector faced major problems, stemming from inadequate financial resources,
weak institutions, deteriorated infrastructure and housing stock, and a burgeoning
population with a substantial refugee population in squatter camps.
2.    PRU was designed and put in place in the context of a Bank strategy to promote
economic reform supported by a series of adjustment operations and investment projects
that contained the elements of emergency projects. IDA lending began in 1985 with the
Rehabilitation Program (Cr. 1610), which was followed in 1987 by the Second
Rehabilitation Program (Cr. 1841). The adjustment process was supported by a series of
investment projects that, although not classified technically as emergency projects,
contained the elements of such projects, including a simplified and shortened
implementation schedule under a defined action plan aimed at mitigating the social
effects of adjustment and the effects of the civil war. The Urban Rehabilitation Project
(Cr. 1949) was one of these emergency-type projects, along with the Education and
Manpower Development (Cr. 1907) and Health and Nutrition (Cr. 1989) projects.
Because of the need for quick action, no sector work was undertaken as a basis for PRU.
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND DESCRIPTION
3.    The primary objective of the project was to assist the Government of Mozambique
(GOM) to stem the deterioration in basic urban infrastructure and services, and to



-2 -
mitigate the social costs of structural adjustment through the implementation of a
program of urban rehabilitation and employment generation. The objective of the project
was clearly spelled out in the project documentation, and there appeared to be good
understanding and commitment to this objective on both the Government's and the
Bank's sides. The project comprised five components: (1) rehabilitation of
infrastructure in the major cities of Maputo and Beira including roads, water/sewerage
and storm drainage, and coastal protection (about 45 percent of base project costs); (2)
housing rehabilitation in Maputo and Beira (33 percent of base project costs); (3)
upgrading of solid waste management in Maputo and Beira (six percent); (4) employment
generation, through two lines of credit, one for loans to small businesses with
employment generating capacity and the other to consumers purchasing building
materials (seven percent); and (5) strengthening of institutions andproject
administration, through technical assistance and training for implementing agencies (nine
percent). Base project costs were increased by 20 percent to allow for physical and price
contingencies.
4.    The SAR lists seven institutional beneficiaries of the project, plus small
enterprises. The beneficiary and implementor of the infrastructure rehabilitation
component was the Ministerio da Construcao e Agua (MCA/MOPH)'. Within
MCA/MOPH, the Direccao Nacional de Aguas (DNA) implemented the water and
sewerage component, and the Direccao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes (DNEP)
implemented the roads and coastal protection component. MCA/MOPH, through
HABITAR, also implemented the housing component. The upgrading of solid waste
removal capacity was implemented jointly by MCA/MOPH and the City Councils of
Maputo and Beira. The lines of credit were implemented by the Ministerio do Trabalho,
through the Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego (GPE). The above beneficiaries and
implementors, plus the Ministerio da Administracao Estatal (MAE), which has
responsibility for development of local governments, were the beneficiaries of the
technical assistance components. To assist in implementation, two project
implementation units were set up within MCA/MOPH. The Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) monitored the implementation of all components except housing, and comprised
about seven staff from MCA/MOPH, supported by a minimum of three non-Government
staff. The second implementation unit, HABITAR, was established to monitor and
implement the housing component; it was comprised of about three staff within
MCA/MOPH and field implementation units in Maputo and Beira.
5.    The project was supported by a set of legal documents, including the
Development Credit Agreement, Maputo Implementation Agreement, Beira
Implementation Agreement, Maputo Water Agreement, Beira Water Agreement,
Financing Agreement between the Banco Popular de Desenvolvimento (BPD) and
MCA/MOPH for the self-help construction line of credit, and Financing Agreement
between BPD and GPE for the small business line of credit. Notable covenants in the
'Later during project implementation, MCA was renamed the Ministry of Public Works and Housing
(MOPH). For the purposes of this ICR, the Ministry will be referred to as MCA/MOPH.



-3 -
Development Credit Agreement related to: (i) the financial condition of the water
companies, including water tariff studies for the water companies in Maputo and Beira
and generation of internal funding equal to at least 25 percent of the annual average of
capital expenditures; and (ii) development of a housing policy.
6.    The strategy underlying the project objectives, of pursuing an integrated approach
to the rehabilitation of the key subsectors of infrastructure in the two largest, and fastest
growing cities in Mozambique, was appropriate. The objectives and design tried to
establish a balance between physical components and capacity building, with some policy
reforms intended to support both. The design of some components, notably the housing
component, showed a creativity and propensity for risk taking not normally found in
Bank projects. In general, however, the scope of the project proved far too ambitious,
and the project design too complex, for the limited human and financial resources of the
country. In retrospect, a tighter focus to the design, perhaps on a subset of activities
(either sectors or cities), might have improved the chances for timely implementation and
sustainability.
7.    A significant problem with the design, but perhaps more so in the implementation,
was that the project was never adequately involved the city councils, making them feel
responsible for the success and sustainability of the works. The design of the project
recognized the importance of the development of viable local governments; it included
mechanisms to develop such local structures on a pilot basis (e.g., through strengthening
a specific unit in solid waste collection or in road construction), and intended to support
the establishment and development of a Center for Urban Management as a tool for the
development of local government expertise. However, implementation of these
initiatives was inadequate, with the result that PRU was not able to influence a
sustainable change in the functioning of local governments. The works undertaken to
improve drainage in Palmeira (Beira) illustrate the dangers of this approach: at the same
time that works were being undertaken to rehabilitate drainage, the City Council engaged
in intensive mining of sand close to the works, which threatened the completion and
sustainability of the rehabilitation. Despite IDA warnings and discussions, this mining
was still being done one year later.
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
8.    Overall, achievement of project objectives has been very mixed, with significant
variations between components. While a good proportion of the physical works was
completed, achievement of the enabling policies required for the sustainability of the
physical improvements, in particular, that of cost recovery, has been uniformly
disappointing. Achievement of objectives in relation to capacity-building initiatives also
has been disappointing. In general, components that were located in Beira were not
carried out as well as similar components in Maputo (e.g., SME line of credit, coastal
protection); this probably underscores the weak capacity at the level of the municipality



-4-
and the need for the support from the national level, and the ineffectiveness of programs
aimed at developing capacity.
9.    The best performing subcomponent under the project was the roads
subcomponent of the rehabilitation of infrastructure component, which fully met the
objectives set under the project. All the physical activities were completed, and in a
timely fashion and close to budget. Because of donor support that materialized after
appraisal, the scope of this subcomponent was increased to include the Machava Road in
Maputo, which has proved to be a very heavily traveled road and an important addition to
the Maputo road infrastructure. As a result of the work begun under this project and
developed under the subsequent Roads and Coastal Shipping projects (Credits 1790 and
1804), DNEP has developed into a capable planning and implementing institution.
10.   Achievement of the objectives related to water supply activities has been
problematic. In Maputo, only one of the two contracts (the Maputo water works
rehabilitation and extension) envisioned at appraisal was let; the Mahotas extension was
to be picked up by another donor, but had not been done at the time of the ICR.
Implementation of the Maputo water network and subsequent achievement of objectives
was adversely impacted by several factors. The lack of capacity and/or inexperience of
the local contractor undertaking the works caused major delays, resulting in increased
costs related to supervision by the consulting engineers, and exposed weaknesses in
DNA's implementation capacity. In Beira, the water distribution network and sewage
system were rehabilitated. The physical works in water were to have been supported by
tariff improvements for Agua de Maputo (AdM) and Aguas da Beira (AdB) that were
needed to sustain the rehabilitation. However, the French-financed tariff study for AdM
was completed only in April 1995, several years behind schedule, and the tariff study for
AdB was never done. In view of the delays, and in recognition of the need to look
beyond the two major cities, the Bank, with participation from Dutch and Danish aid,
agreed to finance a tariff study to look at all 13 provincial capitals; this study was
expanded to cover technical, legal and environmental aspects. The draft report was
completed in September 1993 and the final in early 1996; the results of this work are
being incorporated in the design of the National Water Development Project.
11.   Achievement of the objectives related to coastal protection measures were
mixed, with activities in Beira significantly delayed. The technical assistance contract for
coastal and road maintenance was canceled during implementation due to poor
coordination between MCA/MOPH and the two city councils. It was decided to put the
onus for implementation squarely on the city councils.
12.   Supported by other donor assistance, the solid waste activities got off to a fairly
strong start, and achieved noticeable differences in Maputo in particular in the early part
of the project. However, the lack of cost recovery and subsequent problems with
counterpart funding eventually resulted in the collapse of project activities.



-5 -
13.   Physical objectives related to housing rehabilitation were only partially met. The
success of this component rested on the recycling of the revenues from the completion of
three buildings and some apartment units and subsequent rental to expatriates, to other
subcomponents - rehabilitation of apartment units, building of core houses and
development of serviced sites - that would benefit Mozambican households. Because of
difficulties in mobilizing counterpart funding, Government turned the three buildings
over to three state-owned entities, who in turn got a 100 percent stake in the future stream
of income and rented the apartments out to relatively well-heeled employees. The
collapse of revenues from this subcomponent effectively limited funding for the other
components benefiting the Mozambican households. Accordingly, only about 340 of the
774 low-cost apartment units in Maputo and about 80 of the 220 units in Beira were
rehabilitated. The success of the rehabilitation of low-income apartments rested on
achieving triangulation of residents from the dilapidated low-income apartments to core
houses during the rehabilitation, and then out of the core houses or serviced sites and
back to either the rehabilitated apartments or other housing, which ever was affordable.
This component stalled primarily because virtually none of the apartment dwellers could
afford the new rents on the rehabilitated houses. All corehouses were built, and despite
uneconomic rents, maintenance and upkeep appears to be good as a result of renter
efforts. Resettlement under the project was handled well, in accordance with socio-
economic surveys and guidelines. One positive indicator of the satisfaction of resettled
families may be in the high levels of maintenance and investment they are making to the
core houses.
14.   The two lines of credit had little positive impact. The line of credit for building
materials was never disbursed, and only about half of the credit for loans to small
businesses was disbursed. Follow up on the loans was poor, due at least in part to
confusion between the implementing agency and the commercial bank as to which was
responsible. Documentation on the results of the SME line of credit is poor; it appears
that little if any reliable information exists on the status of the businesses, ex poste
employment or repayment of loans. It has been estimated that recovery of the line of
credit is lower than 30 percent.
15.  In terms of institutional development andproject management, the achievement
of project objectives again was mixed. The institution building of DNEP begun under
PRU and expanded under the ROCS projects has clearly left a much strengthened
institution that is capable of planning and implementing sectoral programs. DNA, the
water directorate, continues to be a weak institution, and has struggled to manage the
relatively small Maputo water works contract; strengthening DNA will be a focus of the
upcoming National Water Development Project. HABITAR, the housing agency, was
intended to emerge under this project as a center of strategic thought and implementation
for the housing sector; however, HABITAR was disbanded in 1994 and housing activities
were put under the national directorate for civil construction until April 1996 when two
"subordinate institutions" were created in the Ministry, a fund for promotion of housing
(Fundo de Fomento de Habitacao) and a national institute for housing and urbanism
(Instituto Nacional de Habitacao e Urbanismo). The action plan that MAE was to



-6 -
develop related to the development and strengthening of the municipalities was very
delayed, and relatively unsatisfactory, and efforts to develop the Center for Urban
Management as a tool for the development of local government expertise never took off.
However, the follow on project to PRU, the Local Government Reform and Engineering
Credit (Cr. 2530, PROL) supports measures to address these objectives. For the other
institutional beneficiaries, the project had little positive impact on the institutional
strength.
16.   While an economic rate of return was estimated at appraisal, the available
information in relation to costs and benefits is inadequate to re-estimate the ERR.
D. IMPLEMENTATION RECORD AND MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING THE
PROJECT
17.   Summary of Costs. Table 8 compares the expected project costs at appraisal to
estimated project costs. At the time of finalizing this ICR, seven months after the closing
date, the PIU had not yet presented to the Bank the finalized project costs, on a
component by component basis. The costs in Table 8 have been estimated by the Bank,
using IDA disbursements and contract information, available donor information, and
audits of GOM contributions to the project. Total project costs are estimated at US$66
million2, compared to US$83 million at appraisal. Of the IDA credit amount of SDR 44
million, SDR 5.3 million (equivalent to about US$7.4 million) or 12 percent was
canceled. Actual expenditures by category varied significantly from appraisal estimates
for several categories. The most significant deviation from appraisal estimates concerned
the provision for consulting services, training and surveys; estimated at appraisal at about
SDR 4.4 million, over SDR 11 million (equivalent to about US$15.8 million) was
eventually disbursed. Expenditures related to many consulting contracts came in higher
than the original contract price because of changes to the contracts, in particular
extensions; this underscores the very thin human resources in Mozambique, which was
underestimated at the time of appraisal. GOM contributed the metical equivalent of
US$10.9 million to the project; it is estimated that most, if not virtually all, of GOM's
contribution went for customs and duties.
18.  Implementation Schedule. The project was identified in October 1987 and went to
the Board in August 1988, only 10 months after identification. The project became
effective on February 14, 1989, and closed on October 31, 1996, ten months after the
original closing date of December 31, 1995. Two extensions of the closing date (one for
four months, a second for six months) were granted to allow completion of activities; a
GOM request for a longer extension to cover preparatory activities related to the National
Water Development project, was not granted.
2Not including cofmancing from Finland and Spain



19.  Implementation Experience. Issues regarding implementation, by component,
have been brought out in the previous section. However, there were several
implementation issues that affected virtually all the components of the project. All
components were adversely affected by the worsening budget situation which resulted in
limited availability of counterpart funds. While in some cases it was possible to move
ahead by drawing in other donor resources, the lack of counterpart funding has seriously
undermined the sustainability of many of the works undertaken by the project. Efforts,
both on the part of the Bank and the implementing agencies, to introduce the cost
recovery mechanisms required for sustainability, were not successful; water tariffs, for
example, dropped precipitously in real terms over the project period. The project also
overestimated implementation capacity within the country, on the part of Government
and the local private sector that was to be involved in project activities. Government
implementation required reinforcement by consultants throughout the project; when
consultant resources were cut, near the end of the project, there was an immediate
deterioration in implementation.
20.   Government procurement procedures, involving the Ministry of Finance and Bank
of Mozambique, were complicated, and resulted in major delays in start up for many
contracts. The Maputo water works contract illustrates procurement problems (and also
problems in working with perhaps less than adequate consulting services and the weak
local contracting industry). Expected at the time of appraisal to be completed by 1991,
the contract was not advertised until January 1991, and the order to the contractor to
begin work did not come until October 1992. Once under way, the work continued to
experience delays, and completion date slid from June 30, 1994 to June 30, 1996, posing
problems for the closing of the IDA credit and contributing to the need to extend the
closing date. Virtually all contracts involving local contractors ran into problems, due to
financial and management inadequacies; in one case, a bank guarantee had to be effected
because of non-performance. However, because of resistance from the guaranteeing bank
and lack of follow-up from PIU, four years elapsed between the first request to make
good the guarantee, and the eventual paying of the guarantee.
21.   An interesting issue that arose during implementation related to the impact of low
Government salaries on project staff. Stemming from the scarcity of skilled human
resources in Mozambique, particularly within GOM, and in order to retain and stimulate
government staff working on the project, the Bank agreed to pay salary supplements in
US dollars to 42 staff in the various implementation agencies. Supplements ranged from
US$500 per month to National Director level staff (a little over three times the
Government salary), to US$200 per month for stenographic secretaries (about four times
Government salary), to US$100 for administrative assistants. As project implementation
wound down, the number of Government employees receiving supplements also went
down; as of late 1995, 13 were receiving supplements. PRU was one of the first projects
in Mozambique to top up salaries, a practice which has caused much concern over the
subsequent years. In addition, because of lack of information about the Mozambican
labor market at the time, the Bank agreed to pay salaries to the Mozambican consultants
who staffed the PIU that were several times their previous levels of pay within



- 8 -
Government, and the pay of the counterparts with whom they worked; in one case, the
increase was more than 40 times the previous pay. These practices have been stopped in
recent IDA-financed projects.
22.   Compliance with key credit covenants was less than satisfactory. Key covenants
related to tariff studies and internal fund generation for Agua de Maputo and Aguas da
Beira were never met; in fact, the real value of tariffs dropped 50 percent over the life of
the project, which has seriously undermined the water sector component. It should be
brought out that when these covenants were put in place, neither AdM nor AdB were
preparing accounts that were audited by external auditors; the accounts in particular of
AdB remain unauditable to date. In the light of such poor and unreliable information, it
can be questioned how useful a covenant on internal fund generation was to start with.
Implementation of an action plan to strengthen local government institutions and
finances, which was to have been at least begun by June 1989, was not implemented
under the PRU, although the follow-on PROL project, which was approved in June 1993
and became effective in July 1994, has squarely addressed this issue.
E. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
23.   The sustainability of the various components of the project is mixed, leading to a
rating of "uncertain" for overall project sustainability. Whether the infrastructural
improvements will be sustainable rests on the willingness and ability of Government to
introduce the appropriate policy measures, in particular cost recovery. Inattention to the
latter under the project resulted in lack of sustainability for several of the PRU
components, in particular for the solid waste and water supply activities. The
development of local governments, in particular, the greater involvement of local
governments in providing services was an important element in achieving sustainable
results from PRU; however, it was recognized early during implementation that PRU was
an inadequate vehicle to address this objective, and agreement was reached with
Government to begin design of a separate project, specifically targeted on the
development of local governments. The Local Government Reform and Engineering
Project (Cr. 2530) became effective in July 1994, and implementation proceeded in
parallel with PRU.
24.   The impact of the project on the labor market through the experience of the PIU
and the paying of salary supplements needs to be highlighted as a sustainability issue.
Such "topping up" is typically done in response to low civil service salaries and only for
those people working on special projects, thereby introducing a significant element of
inequity into Government pay structures without addressing the real underlying problem
of civil service salaries. The paying of salaries to Mozambican consultants that were well



- 9 -
out of line with the local salary structure (although well under what expatriate consultants
might have been paid), contributed to significant distortions in the local labor market.3
F. BANK PERFORMANCE
25.   Bank performance during project design and the early stages of implementation
was good. The project was designed in a very difficult and high-risk environment, but
was designed in record time for a non-emergency project. The integrated subsector
approach, emphasizing local structures, was conceptually appropriate. Ultimately, the
design of the project proved too demanding for the limited human and financial capacities
in Mozambique; however, it is not clear whether the extent of the limited resources would
have been known without extensive sector work, which would have resulted in major
delays to project investments.
26.   Overall, implementation of the project was fair, although from both the view of
the Bank and the Government, the earlier years of the project were marked by more
assiduous implementation. The project was supervised intensively during the first three
years of implementation; Bank missions visited Mozambique four times in each of the
first three years, averaging a total of about 80 person days in the field. Mission
composition was diverse, and usually included both technical and finance people, and
aide-memoires were frequently left in both English and Portuguese. Early Bank missions
took a flexible approach to the project, showing a willingness to make changes to the
design in response to changing circumstances, such as the availability of donor funding
for a component (Mahotas water) that subsequently freed up IDA funds for a new activity
(Machava Road). Time spent on supervision dropped after the first three years, due
probably to a number of factors. Task managers changed fairly rapidly; due to
unforeseeable events (e.g., transfers to another division and to field assignment) in the
space of about 14 months, responsibility for the project passed among four task managers
before being resolved. Limited funding for supervision missions also limited the size and
skill mix of supervision teams. Finally, and as is frequently the case, the implementation
of PRU was overshadowed as the attention of both the Bank and the Government shifted
to the development of the next project, the Local Government and Engineering Project
(PROL). Bank missions, particularly in early implementation, were effective in working
and coordinating with donors involved in the sector.
27.   Although technical support provided by Bank teams was good, supervision
missions were less insistent on the policy reforms aimed at under the project. While
some work was done in regard to the strengthening of local government structures, it was
recognized during implementation that this objective could be better addressed under the
follow project, PROL. The Bank did not press for timely completion of the tariff studies,
and the financial condition of the water companies continued to deteriorate, largely as a
3 The topic of donor (especially Bank) involvement in the labor market in Mozambique is treated in depth
in a 1995 discussion paper by Ame Disch, Technical Assistance and the Labor Market in Mozambique.



- 10-
result of inadequate tariffs. In response to this situation, a National Water Development
Project is under preparation, which emphasizes cost recovery for the sector. The Bank
reacted more strongly in regard to on this issue in relation to solid waste, but to no avail;
this issue will be addressed in the context of the Urban Environment Project, now under
design.
G. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
28.   While the Bank drove the design stage of the project, GOM was involved and in
agreement with the objectives. Implementation of this complex project clearly tested the
capacity of the involved institutions. The borrower's performance varied widely by
component. DNEP, which was in charge of the roads component, proved itself a very
adept implementor of projects. In contrast, DNA, GPE, MAE and the other
implementing agencies clearly struggled, with limited degrees of success, in
implementing their components. Across the board, counterpart staff struggled to
understand and follow Bank procedures related to disbursements and procurement, at the
same time they followed the complex GOM procedures. There were major weaknesses in
moving procurement and disbursements through the Bank of Mozambique, which
adversely impacted implementation; these weaknesses, although improved in some
respect, continue to cause problems today.
29.   The performance of the PIU was mixed. In the early years of the project, the PIU
appeared to be well organized and submitted detailed quarterly reports on time.
However, like the Bank, the borrower's implementation team suffered from rapid
changing of staff; the project coordinator changed four times during the project. Several
supervision missions highlighted communication problems between the PIU and the other
implementing agencies, particularly on financial matters. As noted previously, PIU was
unable to finalize project costs at the time of the ICR. The bulk of the implementation
work -- and corresponding development of procurement, contract monitoring,
disbursement, etc. skills - was done by consultants to the unit. Accordingly, the impact of
the project on the development of skills within MOPH has been minimal at best. The
experience of PRU in this respect underscores the experience elsewhere in the world with
project implementation units staffed by non-government officials.
H. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
30.   PRU was the first Bank operation in the urban sector in Mozambique, and it was
designed and largely implemented during a tumultuous period. The combination of these
factors -- possibly the poorest country in the world, civil war, impoverished human
resources, and poor information base -- combined to make PRU a very risky project,
which the complexity of the design heightened. However, while in general the formal
successes of this project are relatively few, PRU did achieve important physical and



institutional success in the roads sector, and some very limited, but notable, success in
terms of the provision of core houses and serviced sites. In addition and more broadly,
the project set the stage for several subsequent operations in the roads and urban sector,
which have learned from the lessons of PRU and taken different approaches to achieving
development in those sectors. These operations are discussed in the next section.
I. FUTURE OPERATIONS
31.   The strategy underlying the design of PRU was well thought out, and appropriate
the needs of the sector. However, it became clear during implementation that the scope
of the project was too optimistic, particularly in terms of borrower capacity. Learning
from the experience of PRU, the design of the operations that followed PRU, and
developed the initiatives begun under PRU, were more tightly focused in design. The first
and second Roads and Coastal Shipping projects (Credits 2374 and 2599) have
emphasized policy reform (sectoral planning and cost recovery) and institutional
development at the same time a large investment program was launched. The Local
Government Reform and Engineering Project (Cr. 2530) has picked up the dialogue on
local government and urban development that was begun under PRU, and has expanded
the PRU initiatives in urban planning to three other cities in Mozambique. Preparation is
beginning on an Urban Environment Project that will support the development of urban
infrastructure working within the context of the local governments. A National Water
Development Project is also under preparation; learning from the lessons of PRU, the
major objective of this project, which is the first in the water sector, is to improve
sustainability of the water supply function through private sector management and
market-oriented tariff structures.
J. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
32.   The key lessons emerging from this operation are:
In a complex and uncertain environment, marked by weak capacity in the country,
project design has to be wellfocused on the key issues and constraints. Design
should be clear and preferably simple, and above all, focus on building the
capacity of the involved agencies. While all the objectives of this project were
laudable, Government resources - human and financial - were clearly
overwhelmed by the carrying out the complex project activities (along with
numerous other donor activities). Implementation capacity- financial but
especially human capacity - must drive design, if the achievements of the project
are to be sustainable after the project has ended. This may involve a much more
limited scope of project, or it may involve a different approach to design, stressing
the least expensive, basic levels of service. The design team needs to carefully
debate and come to agreement on this issue, and the resulting decisions made



- 12 -
known, in order to manage the expectations of all involved, including clients and
beneficiaries.
Implementors must be diligent in enforcing appropriate policy measures. Without
such, the sustainability ofphysical improvements is undermined  While the
design of PRU was fairly forward looking in terms of the emphasis on policy
reform, especially cost recovery, implementation should have been more
aggressive in ensuring that more of the agreed upon reforms were made. In some
cases - for example, the measures related to development of local government
structures, the decision to defer implementation to a follow on operation
specifically focused on local governments, was appropriate in view of limited
government capacity. On the other hand, the Bank should have pressed more
strongly for cost recovery mechanisms: The sustainability of improvements in
water supply, sanitation, housing and solid waste have all been put into question
by uneconomic tariffs and charges.
The experience of the project underscores Bank experience to date with project
implementation units: while PIUs may successfully implement the specified
project activities, they rarely make a lasting improvement in the implementation
capacity of the involved government. The PRU PIU appears to have had little
impact on capacity building within the Ministry. Because consultants to the unit
did most, if not all, the work related to project supervision, procurement and
disbursements, the PIU had little impact on developing capacity within
MCA/MOPH to manage projects. Following from the above lesson concerning
project design and capacity, if the project design requires the specialized services
of an implementation unit, the design team would do well to revisit the
complexity of the operation.
More emphasis needs to be put on creating strong information systems and
insisting on regular and timely progress reporting, throughout the life of the
project. In the case of a ministry or similar government implementing agency,
such systems should be applicable to general operations as well as to the project.
One of the most useful outputs that a project may leave behind is a reliable
information system, and more generally, an appreciation on the part of the
implementing agency of the importance of timely and accurate information.
Clearly, without such a system, evaluation of outcomes will be difficult, if not
impossible. While an attempt was made to put such systems into place for PRU,
the systems and procedures were not maintained and getting accurate information
on project outcomes was difficult.



PART II: STATISTICAL TABLES



Table 1: Summary of Assessment
A. Achievement of Objectives     Substantial        Partial        Negligible     Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies           0                0                O               N
Sector Policies                  0                0                                 0
Financial Objectives             0                0                                 0
Institutional Development        0                0                                 0
Physical Objectives              N0                                0                0
Poverty Reduction                0                0                                 0 O
Gender Concerns                  0                0                0               N
Other Social Objectives          0                0                                 0 O
Environmental Objectives         0                0                0               N
Public Sector Management         0                0                                 0 O
Private Sector Development       0                0                                 0 O
Other (specify)                  0                0                0               N
B. Project Sustainability          Likely                  Unlikely                 Uncertain
0                       0                          j
1ighlv
C. Bank Performance              Satisracfory            Satisfactory                Deficient
Identification                   0                                                  0
Preparation Assistance           0                                                  0
Appraisal                        0                                                  0
Supervision                      0                                                  0
D. Borrower Performance          Satisfacfory            Satisfactory                Deficient
Preparation                      0                                                  0
Implementation                   0                        O
Covenant Compliance              0                        0 
Operation (if applicable)        0                        0                         0
E. Assessment of Outcome         Satisfact/ory    Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory    Unsatisfactory
0               0                                 0 0



Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title          Purpose          Year of Approval            Status
Preceding operations
1. None
Following operations
1. Roads and Coastal     Development of local        FY 92                 on-going
Shipping (Cr. 2374)      transport network
2. Local Government      Development of local        FY 93                 on-going
Reform and Engineering   goverments and
(Cr. 2530)               related services
3. Roads and Coastal     Development of local        FY 94                 on-going
Shipping II (Cr. 2599)   transport network
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in project Cycle                         Date Planned      Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)                       October 1987
Preparation/Preapprisal                                          January - February 1988
Appraisal                                                        April 1988
Negotiations                                                     June 20-24, 1988
Board Presentation                                               August 2, 1988
Signing                                                          October 19, 1988
Effectiveness                                                    February 14, 1989
Midterm Review (if applicable)                                   March 1992
Project Completion                             December 1994    September 1996
Credit Closing                               December 31, 1995   October 31, 1996
l As provided, for example, in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR).



Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual
(US$ thousands)
FY 89    FY 90    FY 91    FY 92    FY 93    FY 94    FY 95    FY 96  ]FY 97
Appraisal estimate       1.00     8.00     22.00    38.00    52.00    58.00    60.00    60.00    60.00
Actual                  7.81      9.05      18.30    30.05    43.09    48.08    50.95      52.08     53.6
Actual as %ofestimate    781%     113%     83%       79%       83%      88%       86.8%    89.1%    89.3%
Date of fnal disbursement  1/9/97
Table 5: Key Indicators for Project Implementation
Not Applicable
Table 6: Key Indicators for Project Operations
Not Applicable
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
Study           Purpose as Defined at         Status             Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
Action plan based on   To develop local       Work delayed by almost  Negligible
study to strengthen local  government capacity,    one year; findings not
government institutions   especially fnance   applied
and finances           mobilization
National housing       To develop via the     Completed by using      Negligible
strategy               housing strategy       UNDP funds
Water and sanitation   To promote fnancial    Maputo study completed  Could be significant,
tariffs study          viability of water     just before closing date;  Maputo study opened up
companies in Maputo    Beira not done         discussion of regional
and Beira                                     tariff levels



Table 8A: Estimated Project Costs
Item             Appraisal Estimate (USSM)            Actual (US$M)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs                Costs     Costs
Infrastructure Rehabilitation  7     24.3       31.3                23.211
Housing Rehabilitation      4.2       19        23.2                15.433
Solid Waste Management      0.8       3.3       4.1                  0.95
Equipment, vehicles, etc.']                                         3.328
Lines of Credit:             0        4.9       4.9                   1.5
SME                                              0
Building Materials                               0
Institutional Development   0.1       3.3       3.4                  2.149
Project Administration      0.4       2.7       3.1                  1.924
CON, TRG, Survey']                                                   6.23
Base Cost                  12.5     57.5       70        10.943    54.725     65.668
Physical Contingencies      1.2        5        6.2
Price Contingencies         1.4       6.2       7.6
Total Cost                15.1      68.7       83.8      10.943    54.725     65.668
1. Not able to allocate by components
Table 8B: Project Financing
Source            Appraisal Estimate (USSM)             Actual (USSM)
Local   Foreign    Total       Local    Foreign     Total
Costs     Costs                Costs     Costs
IDA                          6         54        60                  53.678
Cofmancing:                 3.1       14.7      17.8
Finnida                     2.32     11.12      13.44
Spain                       0.76      3.59      4.35
Denmark                                                               0.5
Netherlands                                                          0.547
Government                   6         0         6        10.943
Total Financing            15.1      68.7      83.8      10.943    54.725     65.668
Table 9: Economic Costs and Benefits
Information inadequate



Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Agreement   Section    Covenant  Present  Original            Revised           Description of Covenant                        Comments
Type      Status   Fulfillment Date  Fulfillment Date
DCA         2.03        13                12/31/95         8/31/96           Closing date                                    Extended 10
Months
DCA         3.03       11,12      CP    3/31/89                              GOM will (a) prepare and furnish to IDA:       (i) surveys done;
(i) the results of socio-economic sample surveys to    (ii) action plan
assess impact of price increases on affordability of  unsatisfactory
project components; and (ii) the action plan based on
the 1988 study to strengthen local government
institutions and finances.
DCA       3.03 (b)                CP    6/30/89                              (b) exchange views with IDA on the
recommendations from the surveys and action plan;
and
DCA       3.03 (c)                NC                                         (c) implement such recommendations, including  No cost recovery
cost-recovery mechanisms.
DCA         3.04        12        CP    June 30, 1989      (a) Done, date    GOM will, review with IDA, the progress in: (a)  Housing plan
unclear           designing and adopting a national housing strategy;    designed, but not
(b) Not done      and (b) implementing an action plan to strengthen  implemented
local government agencies
DCA         3.05        11        CP      12/31/89         See comments      GOM will:                                      Maputo done in
(i) carry out a water and sanitation tariffs' study.  late 1995; Beira
not done. Study
on 13 cities
added, and
finalized in April
1996.
DCA         3.05       2,11       NC    June 30, 1990                        (i) review with IDA the recommendations of the
study, and (ii) agree on an action plan to implement
the recommendations, including targets for the water
and sanitation agencies in Maputo and Beira, to
achieve their financial viability by FY 1993, and (iii)
promptly thereafter, carry out the action plan
according to a timetable agreed with IDA.
DCA         3.06        5         CP                                         GOM will conduct annual Project implementation
reviews.
DCA         3.07        7                                                    GOM will implement the resettlement plan for
persons to be relocated under the housing
rehabilitation component.
DCA         3.08        5         CP                                         GOM will maintain PIU and HABITAR with such    Habitar disbanded
responsibilities, powers, services, facilities, and staff.  in 1994.
PIU staff to include director, project coordinators,



Agreement    Section        Covenant   Present  Original                  Revised               Description of Covenant                                  Comments
Type        Status   Fulfillment Date   Fulfillment Date
financial controller, procurement advisor; Habitar
staff to include director, project coordinator, financial
controller, and field implementation teams in Maputo
and Beira.
DCA           4.01          1             CP                                                    GOM will maintain or cause to be maintained records   A de M accounts
and accounts adequate to reflect the operations,        inadequate for
resources, and expenditures, in respect of the Project,   much of project;
of the departments or agencies of GOM responsible       A da B accounts
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,       unavailable.
including those related to all operations carried out by
A de M and A da B in the water and sanitation sector.
DCA           4.02 (i)      2             NC         Starting with FY                           (i) A de M and A da B will produce, for each fiscal      Not accomplished
93 (December                              years, funds from intemal sources equivalent to not      by either A de M
31)                                       less than 25% of the annual average of capital           or A da B.
expenditures incurred or expected to be incurred, as
calculated from capital expenditures for that year, the
previous fiscal year and expected for and the three
following fiscal years.
DCA           4.02 (ii)     2             NC         By September 30,                           (ii) GOM will, on the basis of forecasts prepared by    Not done
of each year                              A de M and A da B and satisfactory to IDA, review
whether they meet the above requirement.
DCA           4.02 (iii)    2             NC                                                    (iii) GOM will promptly take all necessary measures   Not done
(including, adjustments of the structure or levels of its
water and sanitation tariffs).
Covenant types:                                                                                   Present status:
I   =  Accounts/audits                    8   =  Indigenous people                                C = covenant complied with
2   =  Financial performance/revenue      9   =  Monitoring, review, and reporting                CD = complied with after delay
3   =  Flow and utilization of project funds  10  =  Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9    CP = complied with partially
4   =  Counterpart funding                11  =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource  NC = not complied with
allocation
5   =  Management aspects of the project or    12  =  Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/regulatory/institutional
executing agency                          action
6   =  Environmental covenants            13  =  Other
7   =  Involuntary resettlement



Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement Number and Title            Describe and Comment on Lack of Compliance
|I1     None
3.
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned        f        Revised                  Actual
Stage of Project cycle    Weeks      US$        Weeks        US$        Weeks        US$
Through appraisal                                                        71.4        165.9
Appraisal-Board                                                           9.0        21.4
Board-effectiveness                                                      14.0        25.5
Supervision                                                              109.3       270.3
Completion                                                                13         30.3
TOTAL
Sources: COSR20



Sheet1
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Stage of the            |Number of                   Specialized staff
project cycle Monthlyear |persons     Days in field   skills represented                      Performance Ratings                         Types of problems
I                                              Overall Status or Development Impact
Implementation    or Development              Project   Avail.
Through____ app______sal____                                                Status          Objectives        Legal    Mgmt   Funds
Through *ppraIsal:                                     _______                                               iiiZZ IiZZ
Identification    Oct47             5             12 a. d. g                                      not applicable
Preappralsal      Jan48             6             t5 a, d, e, f. g                                not applicable
Appraisal to      Apr-88                          16 a, d, e, 1. g, h, I                          not applicable
Board
Board to
Effectveness              _                                                                                          I
Sep-88            5              5 d, h, m, 1, g                               not applicable
Jan-89                            d                                            not applicabe                          instutional
Supervision                                                                                                                       =
May-89            2             1 la, e                             11
Ju-9             1              2t                                               no 590
Sep89             6              2 a, j                                           no 590
Oct-89           5              12 d, e, g, i                      17                   1        1         1|       2 instiutional
Jan-90           2              14 d, z                                           no 590
Mar-90            1             11 9                                              no 590
May-90            4             18 d, e, g, k                       ' |                 '         1           1      1 procurement
Sep-9_            2              2 a. e                                           no 590
Oct-90           4              12 d, h. 1i e                      12                            1      1           1 procurement
Feb-91            2              2 a, e                                           no 590
Feb-91           3              30 d, e                             1                   21       1|        21       1 coastal component
Sep 91            2              4 a, z                                           no 590                        _
________  Nov-91         3              11 d,e.n                           21                  2         1        2         1
Mar-92           3              13 d,e.n                           21                   1        1         1        2 weak ocal capacty
Oct-92           2              6 d6  e                                           no 590                              weak local capacity. sustainabilky
Apr-93           1               2 o                                              no 590
Jun-93           2               6 d, e                                           no 590                              capacity, finance
Sep-93            1              3 o                                              no 590
Jan-94           1               7 o                                              no 590
Jan-94           2              11 d. a                            2 1                 2         1   1         1    2 solid waste, sustainabilit
Jun-9,4          2               3 d,z                                            no 590
Oct-94           2              2 d, e                                            no 590
Feb-95                            3 d                S               IS                          2 2 1     21       2
9_ _  95         1                3d                                              no 590
Jul-95           2                                                 ia, d                        21        2T       2
Nov-95            2     _     _   d.a                                I
I   Feb-96             2              3 d, a              U                U                           31       3         2 management
Legend for skills:       c - transport pi f - housing  I - sanitation  I r procurement                               o = operations
a = rmancial anaiyst     d - urban plan g  institutonal d j - water    m = Bank manager                              z = not specified
b  transport economist    * - engheer  h - legal     k geographer    n = GIS
Page I






NIOZAMBIQUE
URBA,N REHABILITATIO, PROJECT (CR. 1949)
AIDE-ME MOIRE
I      Catherine Seibert, financial analyst, visited Mozambique during the period February 18 through Mlarch
8. 1996, during which time she supervised the Urban Rehabilitation Project (PRU). Bernard Becq. task
manager for the project, joined Ms Seibert for fLnal discussions. The mission met with members of the Project
Implementation Unit, DNA, DNEP, City Council of Mlaputo, and GPE, and wishes to thank all involved for
their assistance. As the project is scheduled to close April 30, 1996, this mission reviewed pending marters and
preparations for the Implementation Completion Report (ICR).
Extension of the Closing Date
2.     Since the last mission, Government and the Bank agreed to extend the closing date from December 31,
1995 to April 30, 1996, in view of the number of activities that had not been completed. The following tables
summarizes those activities; the second and third columns indicate the pending disbursements and expected
dates of completion, as listed in Minister White's communication to Ms Katherine Marshall, dated in December
1995, and the last two columns indicate revised dates:
Activity       Remaining       Expected Date  Expected Date  Revised Date of  Revised Date
Disbursements  of Completion  of Last        Completion      of Last
Disbursement                   Disbursement
Maputo Water   USSO.9 M        Jan. 31, 1996   April 30, 1996  March 31. 1996  April 30. 1997
Supply         USS0.9 M        lan. 316         r316            r3 96           i0_
Beira          USSO. I M       completed      Feb. 28, 1996
Sew erage__       _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _
Maputo Roads   USS 0.2 M
Maintenance
Brigade
Beira Roads    USS 0.4 M
Maintenance
Brigade
3.     Progress in implementation and achieving disbursements since the last mission and subsequent
extension of the closing date has been negligible. It was agreed during the mission that PIU would update the
above table, including revised datafor completion and disbursements, andfax to the World Bank by March
15. While the above activities are discussed in more detail in the following paragaphs, the mission emphasi
to the Ministry and the Project Implementation Unit (PIU) that with the exception of the fincial controller and
the project coordinator, no disbursements wll be made on activies that are competed after tke fevfsed
closing date of April 30, 1996. In view of difficulties in completing the essential activities of the project, the
mission agreed that any additional activities to those listed above (including the thdee tasks added by the Bank -
beneficiary assessment, familiarization visits in regard to AGETIP and UN resettlement report) would not be
carried out.
Rehabilitation and Extenslon of Water Works - Maputo
4.     The most serious problems in implementation relate to the rehabilitation and extensioa of the Maputo
water network being carried out by CETA and supervised by Mott McDonald: timely completion, payment of
final payment, resolution of payments to Mott McDonald. DNA furnished the mission with a stas report on
the component.



5.     Timely Completion.. At the time of the extension of the closing date, substantial completion was
expected by January 31, 1996 with completion of disbursements by April 30, 1996. Because of further delavs
on the part of the contractor, DNA has revised estimates for completion and "hopes it will be the end of Mtarch
1996". In addition to delays in completion, disbursements appear to have slowed as CETA has been very slow
in submitting invoices, and as of March 1. 1996. had not yet submitted invoices for October 1995. The
mission emphasized to DN/A and directly to CETA that all activities, must be completed by .4pril 30, 1996;
any activities not completed by that date would not befinanced under the CrediL
6.     Disbursements of Final Payments. Because of unexpected delays in completion of the water network
activities, the retention payment to CETA. and any related payments to Mort McDonald for issuance of the
completion certificate, are scheduled to take place in March/April 1997, one year after completion of works.
After consultation with the Bank's disbursement and legal officers, the mission confirmed to PIU that Cr. 1949
would not be able tofinance these expenditures, as they take place after the closing date. Accordingly, these
expenditures, estimated to cost about USS 100,000 to USS 110,000, will have to be borne by Government.
7.     Pending Issues with Supervising Engineer. Several other matters were discussed in relation to this
component. The mission received a revised Addendum 48 of Mott McDonald contract. While some of Mr.
Becq's earlier comments have been taken into account, others have not; in particular, the Bank cannot finance
any expenditures incurred after April 1996, so Section B of the expenditures should be dropped. Attached to
this Aide-Memoire is a marked up copy of the revised Addendum, for the use of DNA and PIU. DNIA will
revise the Addendum and resubmit to IDA for the no objection.
Refund of Advance Payment to Indkco
8.     PIU appears to have made little progress since the last mission in resolving the issue of the repayment
of the advance payment to Indico. In brief, Indico Construcoes, SARL, undertook to the completion of the
building 33 Andares, for which it received advance and direct payments totaling USS 1,303,450.93 and Mt
1,275,913,956.53. However, Indico only accounted for part of that amount, leaving USS528,843.89 and
Mt348,680,084.88 to be refunded to the project. Because of Indico's financial problems (it was subsequently
privatized), the then-Ministry of Construction and Water approached the Bank of Mozarnbique in January
1992 to request that BdM pay the guarantees provided on Indico's perfornance. Follow up correspondence
from the Ministry to BdM was sent in May 1992, March 1993, and April 1994 apparently without response or
action from BdM.
9.     Clearly, the Bank of Mozambique has been remiss in not acting on the guarantees, and the mission
urged the Ministry to pursue this issue vigilantly with BdM. However, as IDA funds were involved in what has
turned out to be an inappropriate disbursement, and as the disbursement period is drawing to a close, the World
Bank is obligated to get a refund on these amounts. To effect this, the mission instructed the Loan Department
at the Bank to deduct the amount involved in the guarantee from future disbursement on the project (for
example, legitimate invoices submitted for Maputo water supply, would not be paid or reimbursed, but
"applied" to the USSS28,843.89 outstanding on 33 Andares). The Bank's actions notwithstanding, bowev, it
would be in the bests interemsts of the Ministry if PIU more dllgendy fo/Jew op wvtI WE on &e guarantee.
Beira Sewerage
10.    One of the activities on which disbursements are still expected is the rehabilitation and extension of the
Beira sewerage network. The mission noted that in regard to consultancy fees, the amount paid up to the
maintenance certificate was about USS 100,000 more than the original contract value of USS 174,000. The
mission would appreciate receiving the date of the Bank's no objection for this increae.
Disbursement Issues
it.    The mission discussed several disbursement issues with the PHU. First, PIU noted that the special
account was being recovered at a time when a significant volume of disbursements is still pending, and
requested a replenishment or partial replenishment of dhe special account The mission pointed out that there



were clear procedures related to special accounts and their recoverv. and that any future disbursements should
be effected by direct payment. Second. the mission pointed out that the PIU needs to account for about
USS370.000 which has already been disbursed from the special account. but for which no supporting
documentation has been submitted to the Bank. Finally, the mission agreed to discuss with management the
possible granting of a four-month grace period, in which to complete disbursements.
Audit of Project Accounts
12.    The mission agreed to PIU's suggestion that activities over the four months from January to April
1996 be covered in the 1995 audit, rather than as a separate audit. PIU should send a revised contract or
addendum to the Bank on the extension. There appears to be some difficulty in establishing a register of the
assets acquired under the project; the mission emphasized the importance of such a register, as there appear to
have been many smaller items purchased under the project, which must be accountedfor.
Preparation of the Implementation Completion Report (ICR)
13.    PIU and the mission discussed the schedule for the preparation of the ICR, as suggested by the Bank
mission:
Closing date:                          April 30, 1996
Draft of Bank's report to Government   June 15. 1996
Government's report to Bank            July 15, 1996
Emerging Themes of the Bank's ICR
14.    Attached to this Aide-Memoire is the draft table of contents for the Bank's evaluation (note that the
Government's evaluation in included in the document which goes to the Board). Although the report is still in
the process of being formnulated, some themes are emerging conceming project design and implementation.
Conceming project design, the project appears to have been well-designed, in line with objectives that were
carefully crafted for the country. The design of some components showed creativity. However, like many
other projects of its age, insufficient attention was paid to policy measures during implementation, which places
in doubt sustainability.
15.    Project implementation overall was marginally satisfactory, with broad variation between components.
TIhe road maintenance component was well executed from the borrower's point of view. Less successful was
the housing rehabilitation component, which had a riskier design, and least successful were the lines of credit
for businesses and for construction materials. The DNA supervised components, particularly in regard to
Maputo water, are not yet completed; however, it is clear that implementation has been very problematic.
From both the view of the Bank and the Government, the earlier years of the project were marked by more
assiduous and enthusiastic implementation. Frequent changes of key staff, on both the part of the implementing
agencies and of the Bank, probably adversely imnpacted aspects of implementation. In addition, as is frequendy
the case, the implementation of PRU become of lesser interest and perhaps received fewer resoures as both the
attention of the Bank and the Government shifted to the development of the next project, PROL. which was to
take up and develop the policy issues.
16.    As a result of both design and implementation factors, the sustainbtility of many of the activities
supported by the project is questionable. This possible lack of sustainability is put into question by a number of
factors:
inadequate attention to policy measures in project design and implementation, especially the needfor
cost recovery: As with many projects of its age, the design of the PRU was somewhat loose on policy
measures, although it did discuss the need for changes related to water tariffs, housing policy, and
local government development. However. implementation could have been more aggressive in
ensuring that the agreed reforms were mad. rho sustauiability of improvements in water supply,
sanitation, housing and solid waste are aJI pw am question by uneconomic tariffs and charges.



the implementation capacity of involved entities: The project put large demands on the implementing
agencies, all Government, in terms of the breadth of project scope. the numbers of agencies involved,
and the deliverables (tariff studies. civil works, etc.). The GQvernment had and continues to have
limited human resources, which do appear to have been overtaxed by carrying out the project activities
(along with numerous other donor activities). The efforts made through the project to address
inadequate human resources at Government, including the establishment of a project implementation
unit and the topping up of some Government salaries, responded to the problem only temporarily, and
may have in fact worsened the problem. In addition to the lack of human resources, the lack of
financial resources in terms of counterpart financing adversely affected several components, including
the housing component.
March 1996






IMAGING
Report No.:         16747
Type:     ICR



