Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 1949 MOZ
                  (Urban Rehabilitation Project)
                              between
                  PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                      Dated October 19, 1988
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
     AGREEMENT, dated October 19,  1988, between PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC
OF  MOZAMBIQUE  (the   Borrower)   and  INTERNATIONAL  DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (the Association).
     WHEREAS (A) the Borrower,  having  satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has  requested  the  Association  to assist in the
financing of the Project;
     (B)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Finland Development Agency (FINNIDA)  a  grant (the FINNIDA Grant)
in an amount of Fmk 28,800,000  to assist in financing Parts A (b)
(iv) and B (d) and (e) of  the Project on the terms and conditions
set forth in  an  agreement  (the  FINNIDA  Grant Agreement) to be
entered into between the Borrower and FINNIDA; and
     (C)  the Borrower intends to  contract from the Government of
Spain a grant (the Spanish Grant) in an amount of Ptas 478,500,000
to assist in financing Parts C (a) (i), (b) and (c) of the Project
on the terms and conditions set forth in an agreement (the Spanish
Grant  Agreement)  to  be  entered  into  by  the Borrower and the
Page  2
Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Spain;
     WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend  the  Credit  to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                  General Conditions; Definitions
     Section 1.O1. The "General  Conditions Applicable to Develop-
ment Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated January 1, 1985,
with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the General Condi-
tions), constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
     Section 1.O2.  Unless  the  context  otherwise  requires, the
several terms defined in  the  General  Conditions and in the Pre-
amble to this Agreement have  the respective meanings therein set
forth  and  the  following  additional  terms  have  the following
meanings:
     (a)  "MCA"  means  Ministerio  da  Construcao  e  Aguas,  the
Ministry of Construction and Water of the Borrower;
     (b)  "DEC" means Direccao  de  Economia  e de Construcao, the
Economy and Construction Directorate of MCA;
     (c)  "DNEP" means Direccao Nacional de Estradas e Pontes, the
National Roads and Bridges Directorate of MCA;
     (d)  "DNA" means  Direccao  Nacional  de  Aguas, the National
Water Directorate of MCA;
     (e)  "MT" means Ministerio do Trabalho, the Ministry of Labor
of the Borrower;
     (f)  "GPE" means Gabinete de Promocao de Emprego, the Employ-
ment Generation Cabinet, an agency established within MT by Decree
of the Council  of  Ministers  of  the  Borrower  No. 23/87, dated
October 30, 1987, and  operating  pursuant to statutes approved by
Ministerial Order of  the  Borrower  No.  6/88,  dated January 13,
1988;
     (g)  "MAE" means  Ministerio  da  Administracao  Estatal, the
State Administration Ministry  of  the  Borrower, established pur-
suant to Presidential  Decree  of  the  Borrower  No. 66/86, dated
October 11, 1986;
     (h)  "BPD" means Banco  Popular  de Desenvolvimento, the Peo-
ple's  Development Bank  of  the  Borrower established pursuant to
Law No. 6/77 of the Borrower, dated December 31, 1977;
     (i)  "CECM" means Conselho Executivo de Cidade de Maputo, the
Executive Council of the City of Maputo;
     (j)  "CECB" means Conselho Executivo  da Cidade da Beira, the
Executive Council of the City of Beira;
     (k)  "DCU" means Direccao de Construcao e Urbanizacao, any of
the Directorates of Construction  and Urbanization within CECM and
CECB;
     (l)  "DSU" means Direccao  de  Servicos  Urbanos,  any of the
Directorates of Urban Services within CECM or CECB;
     (m)  "APIE" means  Administracao  do  Parque  Immobiliario do
Estado, the State Housing Agency of the Borrower;
     (n)  "PROHABITA" means  Gabinete  de  Programas de Habitacao,
the Housing Planning Department of DEC;
Page  3
     (o)  "PIU"  means  the  Project  Implementation  Unit created
within MCA by Ministerial Order, dated June 20, 1988, and referred
to in Schedule 5 to this Agreement;
     (p)  "HABITAR" means the  Housing  Management and Supervision
Unit established within  PROHABITA  pursuant  to Ministerial Order
dated June  21,  1988,  and  referred  to  in  Schedule  5 to this
Agreement;
     (q)  "SME" means: (i) any  of the small enterprises operating
in the territory of  the  Borrower,  employing about fifty or less
employees and restricted  to  the  building materials industry; or
(ii) any of the  micro-enterprises  operating  in the territory of
the Borrower, in any  economic  sector other than agriculture, and
employing about  ten  or  less  employees, through labor-intensive
methods;
     (r)  "A de M" means  Agua  de  Maputo, a public enterprise of
the Borrower  established  and  operating  in  Maputo  pursuant to
Ministerial Order of the Borrower No. 32/82, dated June 23, 1982;
     (s)  "A  da  B"  means  Companhia  das  Aguas  da  Beira,  an
enterprise of  the  Borrower  established  and  operating in Beira
pursuant to its statutes, dated October 15, 1949;
     (t)  "Financing  Agreements"  means   the  agreements  to  be
entered into by: (i) MCA and  BPD;  and (ii) MT (GPE) and BPD pur-
suant to Section 3.01  (c)  of  this  Agreement  for Part D of the
Project;
     (u)  "Maputo Implementation  Agreement"  means the agreement,
dated June 13, 1988, entered into between MCA and CECM pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement;
     (v)  "Beira Implementation  Agreement"  means  the agreement,
dated June 13, 1988, entered into between MCA and CECB pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement;
     (w)  "Maputo  Water  Agreement"  means  the  agreement, dated
June 15, 1988, entered into  between  DNA  and  A de M pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) (iii) of this Agreement;
     (x)  "Beira  Water  Agreement"  means  the  agreement,  dated
June 15, 1988, entered into  between  DNA  and  A da B pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) (iv) of this Agreement;
     (y)  "Loan Agreement" means the  agreement to be entered into
by BPD and a Beneficiary  (as hereinafter defined) under which BPD
agrees   to    provide    financial    assistance,   pursuant   to
Section 3.01 (c) of this Agreement:  (i) to SMEs, through GPE; and
(ii) for building materials loans, through DCU;
     (z)  "Beneficiary" means: (i) any SME; or (ii) individuals or
groups of families entering into a Loan Agreement with BPD;
     (aa) "Special Account" means the  special account referred to
in Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
     (bb) "Project Preparation Advance" means the project prepara-
tion advances granted by the  Association to the Borrower pursuant
to  an  exchange  of   letters,   dated  November  21,  1987,  and
December 4, 1987; and June 6,  1988 and June 13, 1988, between the
Borrower and the Association;
     (cc) "fiscal Year" or "FY"  means  the Borrower's fiscal year
which runs from January 1 to December 31; and
     (dd) "Metical" and the plural "Meticais" mean the currency of
the Borrower.
                            ARTICLE II
Page  4
                            The Credit
     Section 2.O1. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms  and  conditions  set  forth  or  referred to in this
Agreement, an amount  in  various  currencies equivalent to forty-
four million Special Drawing Rights (SDR 44,000,000).
     Section 2.O2. (a) The amount  of  the Credit may be withdrawn
from the  Credit  Account  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this  Agreement  for  expenditures  made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be  made) in respect of the reason-
able cost of goods and services required for the Project described
in Schedule 2 to  this  Agreement  and  to  be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit.
     (b)  The Borrower shall, for the purposes of all Parts of the
Project, open and  maintain  in  dollars  one special account (the
Special Account) in  a  commercial  bank  on  terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.  Deposits  into, and payments out
of, the Special Account shall be  made in accordance with the pro-
visions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
     (c)  Promptly  after  the  Effective  Date,  the  Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to  itself  the  amount  required  to  repay the principal
amount of the Project  Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstand-
ing as of such date  and  to  pay  all unpaid charges thereon. The
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Prepa-
ration Advance shall thereupon be cancelled.
     Section 2.O3. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1995, or
such later date  as  the  Association  shall  establish. The Asso-
ciation shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
     Section 2.04. (a)  The  Borrower shall pay to the Association
a commitment charge  on  the  principal  amount  of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
     (b)  The commitment  charge  shall  accrue:  (i)  from a date
sixty days after the date of  this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on  which  amounts  shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit  Account  or  cancelled; (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be  set  from time to time thereafter pur-
suant to paragraph (a) above.  The  rate set as of June 30 in each
year shall be applied as  of  the  next  payment date in that year
specified in Section 2.06 of  this Agreement, except that the rate
set as of June 30, 1988, shall be applied as of July 1, 1988.
     (c)  The commitment charge shall be  paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restric-
tions of any kind imposed  by,  or  in  the territory of, the Bor-
rower; and (iii) in the  currency  specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of  the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as  may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
     Section 2.O5. The  Borrower  shall  pay  to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal  amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
     Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
     Section 2.07. (a) Subject  to  paragraphs  (b) and (c) below,
the Borrower shall repay  the  principal  amount  of the Credit in
semiannual installments  payable  on  each  May  1  and November 1
commencing November 1, 1998, and ending May 1, 2028. Each install-
Page  5
ment to and  including  the  installment  payable  on May 1, 2008,
shall be one  percent  (1%)  of  such  principal  amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
     (b)  Whenever: (i) the Borrower's  gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985-dollars for five  consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider  the  Borrower  creditworthy for Bank lending,
the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof
by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due consi-
deration by them  of  the  development  of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment  of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to  repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet  due  until  the  principal amount of the
Credit shall have been  repaid.  If  so requested by the Borrower,
the Association may revise  such  modification to include, in lieu
of some or all of  the  increase  in  the amounts of such install-
ments, the payment of interest  at  an annual rate agreed with the
Association on the principal  amount  of  the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time,  provided  that, in the judgment of
the Association, such revision shall  not change the grant element
obtained under the above-mentioned repayment modification.
     (c)  If, at any time  after  a modification of terms pursuant
to  paragraph  (b)  above,  the  Association  determines  that the
Borrower's economic condition  has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so  requested  by the Borrower, further modify
the terms of repayment to  conform to the schedule of installments
as provided in paragraph (a) above.
     Section 2.O8. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes  of  Section 4.O2 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
     Section 3.O1. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the  Project  as  set  forth  in  Schedule 2 to this
Agreement, and, to this end, shall  carry out the Project with due
diligence and efficiency, and in conformity with appropriate urban
rehabilitational,   organizational,   managerial,   architectural,
engineering  and  environmental   practices,  and  shall  provide,
promptly as  needed,  the  funds,  facilities,  services and other
resources required for the Project.
     (b)  Without limitation upon the  provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and,  except  as  the Borrower and the Association
shall otherwise agree, the  Borrower  shall  carry out the Project
in accordance with the  Implementation  Program set forth in Sche-
dule 5 to  this  Agreement  and,  to  that  effect, shall take all
necessary  measures  to  enforce:  (i)  the  Maputo Implementation
Agreement, for the purposes of carrying out Parts B (a), (b), (c),
(f) (i), (f) (ii) and (f)  (iii);  C  (a)  (i), (b) and (c); and F
(a) (ii) of the Project;  (ii) the Beira Implementation Agreement,
for the purposes of carrying out  Parts B (a), (b), (c), (d), (e),
(f) (ii) and (v); C  (a)  (ii)  and  (b) of the Project; (iii) the
Maputo Water Agreement, for the  purposes  of carrying out Parts A
(b) (i) and (b)  (ii)  of  the  Project;  and (iv) the Beira Water
Agreement, for the purposes of  carrying  out Parts A (b) (iv) and
(b) (v) of the Project.
     (c)  The  Borrower  shall   extend  financial  assistance  to
Beneficiaries on loan  terms,  conditions and eligibility criteria
set forth in the Financing  Agreements to be entered into between:
(i) MT (GPE) and  BPD,  for  the  purposes  of  Part  D (a) of the
Project; and (ii) MCA and BPD,  for  the purposes of Part D (b) of
the Project. The Financing  Agreements  shall include, inter alia,
the following provisions:
Page  6
    (i)   Currency
          All loans made  under  Part  D  of  the Project shall be
denominated in Meticais. The aggregate amount to be made available
by BPD to  a  Beneficiary  shall  be  the  equivalent  of: (a) the
Meticais countervalue of  imported  goods  purchased through GPE's
foreign currency  account  with  Banco  de  Mocambique;  and (b) a
Meticais loan for the purpose of domestically available resources.
   (ii)   Interest Rates
          Interest on Loans to: (a) Beneficiaries under Part D (a)
of the Project shall  be  charged  on the principal amount thereof
outstanding from time to time at the existing interest rate of 18%
to 24% per annum; and  (b)  Beneficiaries  under Part D (b) of the
Project shall be charged on the principal amount thereof outstand-
ing from time to time at a minimum interest rate of 9% per annum.
  (iii)   Maturities
     (a)  Loans under Part D (a) of the Project shall have maturi-
ties of up to five  years,  including  grace  periods of up to one
year.
     (b)  Loans under Part D (b) of the Project shall have maturi-
ties of up to twenty-five years.
     (d)  The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Financ-
ing Agreements;  the  Maputo  Implementation  Agreement; the Beira
Implementation Agreement;  the  Maputo  Water  Agreement;  and the
Beira Water Agreement to protect the interests of the Borrower and
the Association, and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and,
except as  the  Association  shall  otherwise  agree, the Borrower
shall not assign, amend, abrogate  or waive the said Agreements or
any provisions thereof.
     Section  3.O2.  Except  as  the  Association  shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the  goods,  works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit shall be governed  by  the  provisions of Schedule 3 to
this Agreement.
     Section 3.03. The Borrower  shall:  (a)  not later than March
31, 1989, prepare and furnish  to the Association: (i) the results
of the surveys referred to in Part G (b) of the Project; and
(ii) the action plan based on  the recommendations of the study to
strengthen local government institutions  and finances carried out
by the Borrower and referred to in Part E (e) of the Project;
     (b)  not later than June  30,  1989,  exchange views with the
Association on the recommendations  based  on  the results of said
surveys and action plan; and
     (c)  implement such recommendations,  jointly agreed with the
Association,   including   cost-recovery   mechanisms,   within  a
timetable agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.04. The  Borrower  shall,  not  later than June 30,
1989, and, not later than June  30 of each year thereafter, review
jointly with the Association, the progress achieved in:
     (a)  designing  and  adopting  a  National  Housing Strategy,
including  policies  for  rehabilitation  and  maintenance  of the
existing public sector housing  stock  and the achievement of full
cost recovery; and
     (b)  implementing  an   action   plan   to  strengthen  local
government agencies agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.05. The Borrower shall:
Page  7
     (a)  not later than  December  31,  1989,  carry out and com-
plete, under terms of  reference  satisfactory to the Association,
the  water  and   sanitation   tariffs'   study   referred  to  in
Part G (a)(i) of the Project;
     (b)  not later than June 30,  1990: (i) review with the Asso-
ciation the recommendations of said study; and (ii) agree with the
Association on an action  plan  to implement said recommendations,
including targets for the water  and sanitation agencies in Maputo
and Beira, to achieve their financial viability by FY 1993; and
     (c)  promptly thereafter, carry out  said action plan accord-
ing to a timetable agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.06. The Borrower shall,  not  later than June 30 of
each year, conduct with the Association annual Project implementa-
tion reviews to:
     (a)  discuss annual Project evaluations carried out by PIU;
     (b)  monitor progress made  in  achieving Project objectives;
and
     (c)  exchange information among staff responsible for Project
implementation and propose solutions to any current problems.
     Section  3.07.  The  Borrower  shall,  for  the  purposes  of
Part B (f) of the  Project,  take all necessary measures to imple-
ment the resettlement plan for  persons  to be relocated under the
Project on the terms and conditions agreed with the Association.
     Section 3.08. The  Borrower  shall  maintain  PIU and HABITAR
during the execution  of  the  Project with such responsibilities,
powers,  services,  facilities  and  staff,  whose  experience and
qualifications are satisfactory to  the Association, as are speci-
fied in Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
     Section 3.09. In order to  facilitate the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall assign qualified staff to work closely
with the consultants, to be  employed under Section II of Schedule
3  to  this  Agreement,   and   to   receive  training  from  said
consultants.
     Section 3.10. The Borrower  shall,  for  the purposes of Part
F (c) of  the  Project,  take  all  necessary measures to provide,
during the execution of the  Project, housing to lodge the consul-
tants to be employed under the Project.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
     Section 4.O1. (a) The Borrower  shall maintain or cause to be
maintained records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance
with sound  accounting  practices,  the  operations, resources and
expenditures, in respect  of  the  Project,  of the departments or
agencies of the Borrower responsible  for carrying out the Project
or any part  thereof,  including  those  related to all operations
carried out by A de  M  and  A  da  B  in the water and sanitation
sector.
     (b)  The Borrower shall:
          (i)  have the records and  accounts referred to in para-
               graph (a) of this  Section, including those for the
               Special Account for  each  fiscal year, audited, in
               accordance  with  appropriate  auditing principles,
               consistently   applied   by   independent  auditors
               acceptable to the Association;
         (ii)  furnish to the  Association,  as soon as available,
Page  8
               but in any case not later than six months after the
               end of each  such  year,  a  certified  copy of the
               report of  such  audit  by  said  auditors, of such
               scope and in such  detail  as the Association shall
               have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)  furnish to the  Association  such other information
               concerning said  records,  accounts  and  the audit
               thereof as the Association  shall from time to time
               reasonably request.
     (c)  For all expenditures  with  respect to which withdrawals
from the Credit Account were  made  on  the basis of statements of
expenditure, the Borrower shall:
          (i)  maintain or cause  to  be maintained, in accordance
               with paragraph  (a)  of  this  Section, records and
               accounts reflecting such expenditures;
         (ii)  retain, until at least  one year after the Associa-
               tion has received the audit  for the fiscal year in
               which the last  withdrawal  from the Credit Account
               was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices,
               bills,  receipts  and  other  documents) evidencing
               such expenditures;
        (iii)  enable the Association's representatives to examine
               such records; and
         (iv)  ensure that such records  and accounts are included
               in the annual audit referred to in paragraph (b) of
               this Section  and  that  the  report  of such audit
               contains a separate opinion  by said auditors as to
               whether  the  statements  of  expenditure submitted
               during such fiscal  year,  together with the proce-
               dures and internal controls  involved in their pre-
               paration, can be relied upon to support the related
               withdrawals.
     Section 4.02. (a) Subject  to  the provisions of Section 3.05
of this Agreement, the Borrower  shall take all necessary measures
to cause A de M and  A  da  B  to  produce, for each of its fiscal
years after its fiscal  year  ending  on  December 31, 1992, funds
from internal sources  equivalent  to  not  less  than  25% of the
annual average of capital expenditures  incurred or expected to be
incurred by A de M  and  A  da  B,  respectively, in the water and
sanitation sector for that year,  the previous fiscal year and the
three next following fiscal years.
     (b)  Before September 30, in  each  of  its fiscal years, the
Borrower shall, on the basis of  forecasts  prepared by A de M and
A da B and  satisfactory  to  the Association, review whether they
would meet the requirements set  forth in paragraph (a) in respect
of such year and the next  following fiscal year and shall furnish
to the Association a copy of such review upon its completion.
     (c)  If any such review shows that  A  de  M and A da B would
not meet the  requirements  set  forth  in  paragraph  (a) for the
Borrower's fiscal years covered by such review, the Borrower shall
promptly take all  necessary  measures (including, without limita-
tion, adjustments of  the  structure  or  levels  of its water and
sanitation tariffs) in order to meet such requirements.
     (d)  For the purposes of this Section:
          (i)  The term "funds  from  internal  sources" means the
               difference between:
               (A)  the sum of  revenues  from all sources related
                    to A de  M  and  A  da  B operations, consumer
                    deposits and consumer  contributions in aid of
                    construction, net non-operating income and any
Page  9
                    reduction in working  capital other than cash;
                    and
               (B)  the sum of all expenses  related to A de M and
                    A da  B  operations, including administration,
                    adequate maintenance  and  taxes, and payments
                    in  lieu  of  taxes  (excluding  provision for
                    depreciation  and   other  non-cash  operating
                    charges), debt service  requirements, all cash
                    dividends  and  other  cash  distributions  of
                    surplus,  increase  in  working  capital other
                    than cash and  other  cash outflows other than
                    capital expenditures.
         (ii)  The  term  "net  non-operating  income"  means  the
               difference between:
               (A)  revenues from  all  sources  other  than those
                    related to A de M and A da B operations; and
               (B)  expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
                    of taxes, incurred in  the generation of reve-
                    nues in (A) above.
        (iii)  The term "working  capital  other  than cash" means
               the  difference  between  current  assets excluding
               cash and current  liabilities  at  the  end of each
               fiscal year.
         (iv)  The term "current assets  excluding cash" means all
               assets other than cash which could, in the ordinary
               course of business,  be  converted into cash within
               twelve  months,   including   accounts  receivable,
               marketable  securities,   inventories  and  prepaid
               expenses properly chargeable  to operating expenses
               within the next fiscal year.
          (v)  The term "current  liabilities"  means all liabili-
               ties which will  become  due  and payable or could,
               under circumstances  then  existing,  be called for
               payment within twelve months by  A  de M and A da B
               including accounts payable, customer advances, debt
               service requirements, taxes and payments in lieu of
               taxes, and dividends.
         (vi)  The  term  "debt  service  requirements"  means the
               aggregate amount  of  repayments (including sinking
               fund payments, if any)  of,  and interest and other
               charges on, debt.
        (vii)  The term "capital  expenditures" means all expendi-
               tures incurred on account  of fixed assets, includ-
               ing interest  charged  to  construction  related to
               A de M and A da B operations.
       (viii)  Whenever, for  the  purposes  of  this  Section, it
               shall  be  necessary  to  value  debt,  payable  in
               another currency, such  valuation  shall be made on
               the basis of the prevailing lawful rate of exchange
               at which such  other  currency  is,  at the time of
               such  valuation,  obtainable  for  the  purposes of
               servicing such debt,  or,  in  the  absence of such
               rate, on the basis of a rate of exchange acceptable
               to the Association.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
     Section 5.01. Pursuant  to  Section  6.O2  (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
Page  10
     (a)  MCA, CECM or CECB  shall  have  failed to perform any of
their  respective  obligations  under  the  Maputo  Implementation
Agreement or the Beira Implementation Agreement;
     (b)  DNA, A de M or A  da  B shall have failed to perform any
of their respective obligations  under  the Maputo Water Agreement
or the Beira Water Agreement;
     (c)  BPD, MCA or MT (GPE) shall have failed to perform any of
their respective obligations under the Financing Agreements;
     (d)  as a result of events which have occurred after the date
of the Development  Credit  Agreement,  an extraordinary situation
shall have arisen which shall  make it improbable that CECM, CECB,
A de M or A da  B,  as  the  case  may be, will be able to perform
their  respective  obligations  under  the  Maputo  Implementation
Agreement, the Beira  Implementation  Agreement,  the Maputo Water
Agreement or the Beira Water Agreement;
     (e)  Decree of  the  Council  of  Ministers  No. 23/87, dated
October 30, 1987; Presidential Decree No. 66/86, dated October 11,
1986; Law No. 6/77 of December 31, 1977; and Ministerial Order No.
32/82, dated  June  23,  1982,  of  the  Borrower  shall have been
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or  waived so as to affect
materially and adversely the ability  of  the Borrower, A de M and
A da B to perform  any  of their respective obligations under this
Agreement; and
     (f)  The Borrower or any  other authority having jurisdiction
shall have  taken  any  action  concerning  the Borrower's housing
policies;  water  and   sanitation   tariffs;  local  government's
organization and  financial  autonomy  that  would  materially and
adversely affect the objectives of the Project.
     Section 5.O2. Pursuant  to  Section  7.O1  (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
     (a)  any of the events  specified  in  paragraphs (a), (b) or
(c) of  Section  5.O1  of  this  Agreement  shall  occur and shall
continue for a period of  60  days after notice thereof shall have
been given by the Association to the Borrower; and
     (b)  any of the events  specified  in  paragraphs (d), (e) or
(f) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
     Section 6.O1. The  following  events  are  specified as addi-
tional conditions to the  effectiveness  of the Development Credit
Agreement within the meaning of  Section  12.01 (b) of the General
Conditions:
     (a)  the Financing Agreements have been executed on behalf of
BPD and MCA; and BPD and MT (GPE); and
     (b)  the following key staff for PIU have been employed:
          (i)   Director;
         (ii)   Project Coordinator;
        (iii)   Financial Controller; and
         (iv)   Procurement Advisor.
     Section  6.O2.  The  following  are  specified  as additional
matters, within the meaning  of  Section  12.O2 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in  the  opinion to be furnished to the
Association:
Page  11
     (a)  that the Maputo  Implementation  Agreement and the Beira
Implementation Agreement  have  been  duly  authorized  by and are
legally binding upon MCA and CECM; and MCA and CECB, respectively;
     (b)  that the  Maputo  Water  Agreement  and  the Beira Water
Agreement have been  duly  authorized  by  and are legally binding
upon DNA and A de M; and DNA and A da B, respectively;
     (c)  that the Financing Agreements  have been duly authorized
or ratified by and are legally binding upon MCA, MT (GPE) and BPD;
and
     (d)  that  this  Agreement  has  been  duly  ratified  by the
Borrower's Council of Ministers  and  is  legally binding upon the
Borrower in accordance with its terms.
     Section 6.O3. The  date  one  hundred  and  twenty (120) days
after the date of this Agreement  is hereby specified for the pur-
poses of Section 12.O4 of the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
             Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
     Section 7.01. The Governor  of  Banco de Mocambique is desig-
nated as  representative  of  the  Borrower  for  the  purposes of
Section 11.O3 of the General Conditions.
     Section 7.O2. The following  addresses  are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.O1 of the General Conditions:
     For the Borrower:
          Banco de Mocambique
          Departamento de Relac›es Internacionais
          Avenida 25 de Setembro 1695
          P.O. Box 423
          Maputo
          People's Republic of Mozambique
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                MOBANCO                         6355/7 BMMO
                Maputo
     For the Association:
          International Development Association
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 2O433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                      Telex:
                INDEVAS                          44OO98 (ITT)
                Washington, D.C.                 248423 (RCA) or
                                                  64145 (WUI)
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the  parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have  caused this Agreement to be
signed in their  respective  names  in  the  District of Columbia,
United States of  America,  as  of  the  day  and year first above
written.
                          PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF MOZAMBIQUE
                          By /s/ Valeriano Ferrao
Page  12
                                         Authorized Representative
                          INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                          By /s/ Edward V. K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below  sets  forth  the  Categories  of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of  the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the  Credit  to  each  Category  and  the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(1)  Civil works:
     (a)  under Part A          16,050,000       100% of foreign
          of the Project                         and 70% of local
                                                 expenditures
     (b)  under Part B          11,140,000
          of the Project
(2)  Lines of Credit:
     (a)  under Part D (a)       1,900,000       100% of foreign
          of the Project                         expenditures
     (b)  under Part D (b)       1,320,000       100% of foreign
          of the Project                         and 70% of local
                                                 expenditures
(3)  Vehicles, equip-            2,050,000       100% of foreign
     ment, office                                and 70% of local
     equipment, sup-                             expenditures
     plies and spare
     parts
                            Amount of the
                          Credit Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in         Expenditures
     Category              SDR Equivalent)       to be Financed
(4)  Consultants'                4,500,000       100%
     services,
     training, studies
     and surveys
(5)  Operating                   1,540,000       100% of local
     costs of PIU,                               expenditures
     HABITAR, DNEP,
     GPE and MAE (DFP)
(6)  Refunding of                1,100,000      Amount due pur-
     Project Prepara-                           suant to Section
     tion Advance                               2.02 (c) of this
Page  13
                                                Agreement
(7)  Unallocated                 4,400,000
                               ___________
     TOTAL
                                44,000,000
2.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the term  "foreign  expenditures"  means expenditures in
the currency of any country  other  than  that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
     (b)  the term "local expenditures"  means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower  or  for  goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
     (c)  the term  "training"  means  costs  of fellowships, con-
ferences, courses, study tours and travel to be undertaken as part
of training and other related  training costs to be financed under
the Project; and
     (d)  the term "operating costs"  means:  (i) costs of mainte-
nance of equipment, vehicles  and  buildings used in the execution
of the Project;  (ii)  Project  administration costs; (iii) salary
supplements for PIU, HABITAR, DNEP,  GPE  and MAE (DFP) staff res-
ponsible for the  implementation  of  the  Project; and (iv) other
operating  expenditures  related  to  the  implementation  of  the
Project, as  determined  in  agreement  by  the  Borrower with the
Association.
3.   Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no with-
drawals shall be made in respect of:
     (a)  payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this
Agreement; and
     (b)  expenditures under Category  (2), unless the Association
has approved the Model Loan  Agreement  to  be entered into by BPD
and eligible  Beneficiaries,  in  accordance  with the eligibility
criteria referred to in the Financing Agreements.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
     The objectives of the Project are to:
     (a)  rehabilitate key  elements  of  urban infrastructure and
shelter (in Maputo and Beira);
     (b)  provide employment  through labor-intensive construction
methods and stimulation of small and micro-enterprises;
     (c)  strengthen the local institutions responsible for provi-
sion and maintenance of urban infrastructure and services; and
     (d)  support  the  Borrower's  efforts  towards  making  said
institutions financially  independent  through  the development of
cost  recovery  measures  and  a  long-term  resource mobilization
strategy at the local level.
     The Project consists of the  following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof  as  the  Borrower  and  the Association may
agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Rehabilitation of Infrastructure:
     Rehabilitation  and   limited   extension  of  infrastructure
Page  14
systems:
     (a)  Roads:
         (i)   resurfacing, reconstruction and  maintenance of key
               primary roads in Maputo and Beira;
         (ii)  reconstruction  of  the  Costa  do  Sol  bridge  in
               Maputo; and
        (iii)  upgrading of  the  access  road  to  the  sites and
               services area in Maputo.
     (b)  Water, Sewerage and Storm Drainage:
          (i)  leak  detection  and   emergency   repairs  of  the
               secondary water distribution system in Maputo;
         (ii)  extension of a water main  to Mahotas and the sites
               and services area, including the associated distri-
               bution network in Maputo;
        (iii)  construction  of  storm  drainage  for  the traffic
               circle of Praca 16 Junho in Maputo;
         (iv)  rehabilitation of the water distribution network in
               Beira; and
          (v)  rehabilitation of the main sewage collector and the
               secondary sewage system in Beira.
      (c) Coastal Protection:
          (i)  priority repairs to erosion control groynes and sea
               walls; and
         (ii)  construction of groynes and sea walls in Maputo and
               Beira.
Part B:   Housing Rehabilitation:
     (a)  completion of  three  unfinished  highrise  buildings in
Maputo and one in Beira  including  about 249 apartments and about
26,000 m2 of office space;
     (b)  rehabilitation of  about  seven  apartment  complexes in
Maputo (about  775  apartments)  and  eleven  in  Beira (about 220
apartments);
     (c)  preparation of new sites  and  services areas and infra-
structure upgrading for  about  2,285  plots  in  Maputo and about
1,500 plots in Beira;
     (d)  preparation  of  about  1,150   serviced  plots  on  the
Inhamizua I site in Beira;
     (e)  extension of  infrastructure  in  the existing Macurungo
housing project; and
     (f)  relocation,  resettlement  and  integration  of existing
occupants from:
          (i)  about 300 households in  Maputo  to be relocated to
               Polana Canico and  Bairro  Ferroviario infill plots
               provided with core houses;
         (ii)  about 80 households  in  Beira  to  be relocated to
               Macurungo infill plots provided with core houses;
        (iii)  about 25 households to  be displaced by the rehabi-
               litation of the traffic circle of Praca 16 de Junho
               in Maputo, to  be  resettled  on sites and services
Page  15
               plots developed under the Project;
         (iv)  about 90  existing  dwellings  on  two  of the town
               sites in Maputo; and
          (v)  about 300 existing households on the Beira site.
Part C:   Solid Waste Management:
     Upgrading of the  solid  waste  management services of Maputo
and Beira (DSU):
     (a)  acquisition of vehicles, equipment and spare parts:
          (i)  for Maputo; and
         (ii)  for Beira;
     (b)  strengthening DSU's garbage collection capabilities; and
     (c)  training for DSU staff on garbage collection systems and
municipal vehicle and equipment maintenance workshops.
Part D:   Lines of Credit:
     Making loans to:
     (a)  eligible  small   and   micro   enterprises  (SMEs)  for
financing   equipment,   spare   parts,   operating   capital  and
consultants' services; and
     (b)  eligible individuals or groups of families for financing
the acquisition of  building  materials  for the rehabilitation of
dwellings and construction of core units and/or pit latrines.
Part E:   Institutional Development:
     Development of:
     (a)  MCA's  capabilities   to   develop  investment  planning
capacity and for Project execution;
     (b)  MAE's capabilities to train local government officials;
     (c)  GPE's capabilities to  design  and implement employment-
generation initiatives;
     (d)  CECM  and   CECB's   institutional   and  organizationalcapabilities, 
including: (i)  land  registration techniques (DCU);
and (ii) self-help construction  and housing management techniques
(PROHABITA); and
     (e)  an   action   plan   to   strengthen   local  government
institutions and finances.
Part F:   Project Administration:
     (a)  establishment, furnishing, equipping and operation of:
          (i)  PIU; and
         (ii)  HABITAR; and
     (b)  training of PIU and HABITAR's staff; and
     (c)  provision of  housing  to  lodge  the  consultants to be
employed under the Project.
Part G:   Studies and Surveys:
     (a)  carrying out studies on:
Page  16
          (i)  water and sanitation tariffs;
         (ii)  expansion of water sources for Maputo; and
        (iii)  design and preparation  of  future projects for the
               infrastructure sector; and
     (b)  carrying out socio-economic sample surveys to assess the
impact  of  price  increases   on  the  affordability  of  Project
components.
                        *     *     *     *
     The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1994.
                            SCHEDULE 3
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:  International Competitive Bidding
     Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under  contracts  awarded  in  accordance with procedures
consistent with those  set  forth  in  Sections  I  and  II of the
"Guidelines for  Procurement  under  IBRD  Loans  and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
     In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  goods manufactured in Mozambique may
be granted a margin of  preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
     In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A  hereof,  the  Borrower  may grant a margin of
preference to domestic contractors in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs  2.55  and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Local Competitive Bidding:
     Civil works and materials under Part  B of the Project may be
procured under contracts awarded on  the basis of competitive bid-
ding, advertised  locally,  in  accordance  with procedures satis-
factory to the Association.
2.   International or Local Shopping:
     Works and items or  groups  of  items  estimated to cost less
than the equivalent of  $50,000  per  contract, up to an aggregate
amount not to  exceed  the  equivalent  of  $1,500,000, except for
Part D of the Project,  which  shall  not exceed the equivalent of
$5,000,000, may be procured  under  contracts awarded on the basis
of comparison of  price  quotations  solicited  from  a list of at
least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance
with procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
Page  17
     (a)  With respect to each contract  for works and goods esti-
mated to cost the equivalent  of  $750,000 or more, the procedures
set forth in paragraphs 2  and  4  of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines
shall apply. Where payments for such  contracts are to be made out
of the  Special  Account,  such  procedures  shall  be modified to
ensure that the two conformed  copies  of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association  pursuant  to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the  Association  prior to the making of the
first payment  out  of  the  Special  Account  in  respect of such
contracts.
     (b)  With respect to each  contract  not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set  forth  in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to  the  Guidelines  shall apply. Where payments for
such contracts are to  be  made  out  of the Special Account, such
procedures shall be  modified  to  ensure  that  the two conformed
copies  of  the  contract,  together  with  the  other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said para-
graph 3, shall be  furnished  to  the  Association  as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to  paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to
this Agreement.
     (c)  The provisions of  the  preceding  subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts  on account of which the Associa-
tion has authorized  withdrawals  from  the  Credit Account on the
basis  of  statements  of  expenditure.  Such  contracts  shall be
retained  in  accordance  with  Section  4.01  (c)  (ii)  of  this
Agreement.
3.   The figure of 15% is  hereby  specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II.   Employment of Consultants
     In order to assist the  Borrower in carrying out the Project,
the Borrower shall employ consultants and local counterparts whose
qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment
shall be satisfactory to  the  Association. Such consultants shall
be selected in  accordance  with  principles and procedures satis-
factory to the Association on the basis of the "Guidelines for the
Use of Consultants by World  Bank  Borrowers and by The World Bank
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 4
                          Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
     (a)  the  term  "eligible  Categories"  means  Categories (1)
through (5) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
     (b)  the term "eligible  expenditures"  means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost  of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed  out  of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time  to  the eligible Categories in accor-
dance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
     (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equiva-
lent to $7,000,000 to  be  withdrawn  from  the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account  pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.   Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures  in  accordance  with  the provisions of
this Schedule.
3.   After the Association  has  received evidence satisfactory to
it that the Special Account  has  been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and  subsequent withdrawals to replenish
Page  18
the Special Account may be made as follows:
     (a)  For  withdrawals  of   the  Authorized  Allocation,  the
Borrower shall furnish to  the  Association  a request or requests
for a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate of the
Authorized Allocation. On the  basis  of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on  behalf  of  the Borrower, withdraw from
the Credit  Account  and  deposit  into  the  Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
     (b)  (i)  For  replenishment  of  the  Special  Account,  the
               Borrower shall furnish  to the Association requests
               for  deposits  into  the  Special  Account  at such
               intervals as the Association shall specify.
         (ii)  Prior to or at the  time  of each such request, the
               Borrower  shall  furnish  to  the  Association  the
               documents and other  evidence  required pursuant to
               paragraph 4 of  this  Schedule  for  the payment or
               payments  in  respect  of  which  replenishment  is
               requested. On the basis  of  each such request, the
               Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, with-
               draw from the Credit  Account  and deposit into the
               Special Account such  amount  as the Borrower shall
               have requested and as shall have been shown by said
               documents and other evidence  to have been made out
               of the Special  Account  for eligible expenditures.
               All such deposits shall  be  withdrawn by the Asso-
               ciation from the  Credit  Account under the respec-
               tive eligible  Categories,  and  in  the respective
               equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by
               said documents and other evidence.
4.   For each payment  made  by  the  Borrower  out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to  the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such  payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.   Notwithstanding the provisions of  paragraph  3 of this Sche-
dule, the  Association  shall  not  be  required  to  make further
deposits into the Special Account:
     (a)  if, at any time,  the  Association shall have determined
that all  further  withdrawals  should  be  made  by  the Borrower
directly from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions
of Article  V  of  the  General  Conditions  and  paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
     (b)  once the total  unwithdrawn  amount  of the Credit allo-
cated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstand-
ing special commitment entered into by the Association pursuant to
Section  5.02  of  the  General  Conditions  with  respect  to the
Project, shall equal the  equivalent  of  twice  the amount of the
Authorized  Allocation.  Thereafter,  withdrawal  from  the Credit
Account  of  the  remaining   unwithdrawn  amount  of  the  Credit
allocated to the eligible  Categories shall follow such procedures
as the Association shall specify  by  notice to the Borrower. Such
further withdrawals shall be  made  only  after  and to the extent
that the  Association  shall  have  been  satisfied  that all such
amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date
of such notice will  be  utilized  in making payments for eligible
expenditures.
6.   (a)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any payment out of the  Special  Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount  not  eligible pursuant to paragraph 2
of this Schedule; or (ii)  was  not justified by the evidence fur-
nished to  the  Association,  the  Borrower  shall,  promptly upon
notice from the Association:  (A) provide such additional evidence
as the Association may  request;  or  (B) deposit into the Special
Account (or, if the  Association  shall  so request, refund to the
Page  19
Association) an amount equal to the  amount of such payment or the
portion thereof not so eligible  or justified. Unless the Associa-
tion shall otherwise agree, no  further deposit by the Association
into the Special  Account  shall  be  made  until the Borrower has
provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case
may be.
     (b)  If the Association  shall  have  determined  at any time
that any amount outstanding in the  Special Account will be not be
required to cover further  payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon  notice from the Association, refund
to the Association such outstanding amount.
     (c)  The Borrower may,  upon  notice  to  the Association and
with the Association's consent,  refund  to the Association all or
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
     (d)  Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraphs 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this  Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for cancellation or  subsequent withdrawal as the Associa-
tion may determine.
                            SCHEDULE 5
                      Implementation Program
1.   Project Implementation Unit (PIU):
     (a)  The PIU, established  within  MCA,  shall be responsible
for  the   overall   coordination   and   supervision  of  Project
implementation.
     (b)  The PIU shall  be  headed  by  a full-time director with
qualifications and managerial  experience  acceptable to the Asso-
ciation. The PIU's Director shall  report directly to the Minister
of Construction and  Water,  under  the  advice  of MCA's Steering
Committee, which is made  up  of the respective National Directors
of DEC (Chairman), DNEP and DNA.
     (c)  The PIU's Director shall be responsible, inter alia, for
the following:
          (i)  coordination of all  Project activities within MCA,
               including with DEC, DNA, DNEP, and with CECM, CECB,
               MAE,  MT,  Banco  de  Mocambique,  the  Ministry of
               Finance,   other   government   agencies,  official
               entities and the Association;
         (ii)  ensuring appropriate compilation and maintenance of
               Project documentation or files;
        (iii)  overall supervision of the PIU and its staff;
         (iv)  preparation  of  Project  evaluation  and  progress
               reports, and phasing  of  major Project components;
               and
          (v)  meeting  regularly   with   operating  agencies  to
               oversee Project implementation activities.
     (d)  the PIU shall include, in  addition to its Director, the
following key staff:
          (i)  Project Coordinator, who  shall assist the Director
               in discharging his  responsibilities,  and shall be
               responsible, inter alia, for: supervising the over-
               all implementation of  the  Project; preparing sys-
               tems of cost  control  and critical path monitoring
               of the physical progress  of  each component of the
               Project; establishing  an appropriate communication
Page  20
               network with the field supervision staff for Maputo
               and  Beira;  participating  in  the  selection  and
               appointment of engineering,  planning and architec-
               tural consultants; and reviewing technical studies.
         (ii)  Financial  Controller,  who  shall  be responsible,
               inter alia, for: keeping financial accounts for all
               Project  components,  preparing  withdrawal  credit
               applications  for   signature   of  the  authorized
               representative   of   Banco   de   Mocambique   and
               reconciling  Special  Account  bank  statements  in
               accordance   with   the   Association  disbursement
               instructions; liaising with the appropriate Depart-
               ment in the Ministry  of Finance; approving payment
               on  bills  with  field  supervision certifications;
               preparing expenditure  accounts, quarterly reports,
               annual financial plans  and  submission of accounts
               for audit.  He  shall also, provide other necessary
               financial assistance.
        (iii)  Procurement  Advisor,  who  shall  be  responsible,
               inter alia, for: reviewing procurement arrangements
               for Project  implementation;  packaging procurement
               lots for:  civil  works,  equipment and furnishing;
               reviewing   bids   for   international   and  local
               competitive  bidding,  and  international  or local
               shopping;  reviewing   certification   of  contract
               awards;  maintaining  quarterly  updating  of  unit
               costs of  materials  and  equipment;  liaising with
               field supervision in  Maputo  and  Beira; and main-
               taining weekly procurement schedules.
2.   HABITAR (Housing Management Supervision Unit):
     (a)  HABITAR, to be established  under  DEC, shall be respon-
sible for:
          (i)  coordinating  the  implementation  of  all  housing
               related Project components; and
         (ii)  the overall  management  of  the  resettlement plan
               under Part B (f) of the Project.
     (b)  HABITAR shall be staffed as follows:
          (i)  Full-time   Director    with   qualifications   and
               experience acceptable to  the  Association, and who
               shall report directly  to PROHABITA's Director. The
               Director shall  be  responsible,  inter  alia, for:
               coordination of the resettlement plan and all other
               housing related Project  activities, overall super-
               vision  of  HABITAR,  preparation  of  all  Project
               evaluation  and  progress   reports,  and  ensuring
               appropriate compilation and  maintenance of Project
               files;
         (ii)  Project Coordinator (Engineer)  who shall report to
               the Director and  be  responsible, inter alia, for:
               supervising (including  contracting supervision of)
               the  construction  and  technical  aspects  of  the
               housing   related   Project   components   and  the
               resettlement  plan;  preparing   cost  control  and
               critical   path   systems;   reviewing  procurement
               arrangements; calling  for  international and local
               competitive   bidding;   international   or   local
               shopping and certifying of contract awards;
        (iii)  Financial Controller  (Economist)  who shall report
               to the  Director  and  be  responsible, inter alia,
               for: keeping financial accounts for all the housing
               related  Project  components  and  the resettlement
               plan,  preparing  expenditure  accounts,  quarterly
Page  21
               reports, annual financial  plans  and submission of
               accounts for audit, submitting  for approval to PIU
               and processing  all  payments  on  bills with field
               supervision certifications.  He  shall  also review
               socio-economic and affordability aspects of housing
               related  Project  components  and  the resettlement
               plan; and
         (iv)  Field Implementation Teams (one for Beira, consist-
               ing of a civil  engineer  and an architect, and one
               for Maputo,  consisting  of  a  civil engineer) who
               shall be responsible,  inter  alia, for: monitoring
               physical  progress  of   all  the  housing  related
               Project  components  and   the  resettlement  plan,
               coordinating the activities of  APIE and DCU of the
               CECB  and  CECM,  reviewing  the  field supervision
               reports,   maintaining   weekly   progress  charts,
               coordinating the  civil  works  with  those  of the
               road,  water  and   storm  drainage  rehabilitation
               Project components, as necessary.
3.   Part A of the Project
     (a)  DNEP shall be responsible  for the implementation of the
road rehabilitation component referred to in Parts A (a) (i), (ii)
and (iii) of the Project, in  accordance with the Maputo and Beira
Implementation Agreements;
     (b) DNA shall be responsible for:
          (i)  the implementation  of  the drainage rehabilitation
               component referred to in  Part  A  (b) (iii) of the
               Project;
         (ii)  causing A de M to carry out the water supply compo-
               nent in Maputo referred to  in  Parts A (b) (i) and
               (ii) of the Project; and
        (iii)  causing A da B to  carry out the water and sewerage
               rehabilitation components in  Beira  referred to in
               Parts A (b) (iv) and (v) of the Project; and
     (c)  DNEP shall be responsible for the implementation of Part
A (c) of the  Project,  in  accordance  with  the Maputo and Beira
Implementation Agreements.
4.   Part B of the Project
     DEC shall be responsible for  the implementation of Part B of
the Project.
5.   Part C of the Project
     DSU shall be responsible for  the implementation of Part C of
the Project.
6.   Part D of the Project
     (a)  GPE  shall  be  responsible  for  the  implementation of
Part D (a) of the Project.
     (b)  DEC  shall  be  responsible  for  the  implementation of
Part D (b) of the Project.
7.   Part E of the Project
     (a)  MCA  shall  be  responsible  for  the  implementation of
Parts E (a) and (d) of the Project;
     (b)  MAE  shall  be  responsible  for  the  implementation of
Parts E (b) and (e) of the Project; and
Page  22
     (c)  MT (GPE) shall be  responsible for the implementation of
Part E (c) of the Project.
8.   Part F of the Project
     MCA shall be responsible for  the implementation of Part F of
the Project.
9.   Part G of the Project
     MCA shall be responsible for  the implementation of Part G of
the Project.
