Report No. PIC3141
Project Title                Yemen-Seeds and Agricultural Services Project (@
Region                       Middle East and North Africa
Sector                       Agriculture & Food Security
Project ID                   YEPA39171
Borrower                     Government of Yemen
Implementing Agency          Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources (MAWR)
Zira'a Street, Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Telephone: (967-1) 282-44
Fax: (967-1) 289-509
Date of this PID             March 12, 1997
Appraisal Date               November 1996
Projected Board Date         August 21, 1997
1.      Background. Yemen has a population of about 13.7 million,
over half of which depends on agriculture as the main source of
income. Some 1.4 million hectares are cultivated and approximately
300,000 hectares are under irrigation. Agricultural growth has
lagged behind population growth since the 1980s (averaging 2 and
3.3 percent respectively) which has led to increasing food imports.
During the past three decades, crop production has grown mostly
through area expansion. Crop yields are generally low and, with few
exceptions, have stagnated or declined in recent decades. Further
area expansion is unlikely as rainfed agriculture has reached its
maximum limits, and indiscriminate water use in irrigation is
leading to rapidly-falling groundwater levels. The main challenge
now is to achieve accelerated growth through a more intensified
agriculture and increased crop productivity while improving the use
and management of water and other natural resources. The proposed
project would help improve agricultural productivity by increasing
the availability of superior seed and production inputs.
2.      Objectives. The objectives of the project would be to help:
(a) create enabling policy and legal environments for greater
private sector participation in the seed and fertilizer subsectors;
(b) improve the availability of quality seeds of superior land
races and varieties as well as the management of the three existing
seed centers; and (c) promote competition in the supply of
fertilizers and spare parts in order to reduce shortages
3.      Description. To achieve its development objectives, the
project would carry out the following activities:
private sector promotion and seed/fertilizers quality control by
helping enact and implement enabling seed and fertilizer laws,
conducting private sector promotional media campaigns and
establishing a quality control system. The project would finance
laboratory analysis contracts, staff training, technical



assistance, office equipment and vehicles;
seed development, through the financing of contractual services
for varietal sourcing, testing and release of superior
varieties, as well as the selection of land races of local
rainfed crops. The project would also help managerial technical
assistance to enable the existing three seed centers to operate
as autonomous, commercial enterprises. The project would finance
seed development and office equipment, TA, training, vehicles as
well as agricultural machinery;
expansion of input supply marketing channels by assisting the
Agricultural Services Corporation (ASC) and a planned
Agricultural Services Cooperative (ASCOO) to become involved in
the import and distribution of fertilizers. In addition to the
procurement of about 18,000 tons of fertilizers, heavy
transportation equipment, spare parts, technical assistance,
training and vehicles;
the establishment, for the duration of the project, of a Project
Support Unit (PSU), which would be responsible for procurement,
disbursement, project accounting and monitoring and evaluation.
The project would finance technical assistance, staff
allowances, vehicles and operating costs.
4.      Cost and Financing. Present estimates put the project cost at
about US$14.3 million. It is anticipated that financing by the
Government of Yemen would be about US$1.6 million and the
Agricultural Services Cooperatives (ASCO) about US$0.2 million; IDA
would contribute about US$12.5 million.
5.      Implementation. The project has been conceived and developed
on a participatory basis. The Ministry of Agriculture and Water
Resources would be the implementing agency. Local implementation
would be carried out by the existing seed centers (Potato Seed
Center - PSC, Seed Multiplication Center - SMC, Onion/Vegetable
Seed Center - ONVC) which would become self-managed and self-
sustained enterprises, as well as the Agricultural Services
Corporation (ASC) and the Agricultural Services Cooperative
(ASCOO). In addition, a National Seed Board (NSB) would be created
through the restructuring of the existing Seed Steering Committee.
It would have an advisory role on sector policy issues.
6.      Sustainability. The creation of an enabling environment,
which would include the formulation of a clear national seed policy
and the enactment of legal and institutional frameworks, would
enable private enterprises to enter the seed and input supply
subsectors. The Ministry of Agriculture (GDPP) would play a pivotal
role in supporting the private sector and promoting its increased
participation . By creating the institutional structure and
environment to make the PSC and the OVSC into commercial
enterprises, the availability of quality seed of superior land
races and varieties would be sustained without the need for
Government budgetary support.
-2-



7.      Poverty Category. Through its direct impact on raising
agricultural productivity and farm income in the rural areas, where
84t of the poor live, the project would contribute to the
alleviation of poverty, particularly in areas where farmers are
engaged in rainfed agriculture.
8.      Environmental Aspects. By developing pest and disease-
resistant varieties, the project would help reduce the need for
pesticides and insecticides use and hence, would have a positive
impact on the environment. The selection of land races of major
food crops would help conserve local genetic biodiversity. No
negative effects are expected from the project on the environment
nor will the project cause the resettlement of people.
9.      Program Objective Categories. The project is designed with
the double objective of promoting environmentally sustainable
agricultural development as well as private sector participation in
the seed and input supply sectors.
Contact Point:           Mohamed N. Ben Ali, Task Manager
The World Bank
1818 H Street N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone No.: (202) 473-7357
Fax No.: (202) 477-1374
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain
components may not necessarily be included in the final project.
Processed by the Public Information Center week ending August 29, 1997.
- 3 -



