                                              Document of
                                           The World Bank

                                       FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY




                                                                                  Report No: 29813-YEM

                             IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
                                         (IF-N0340 PPFI-Q0400)

                                                  ON A

                                                 CREDIT

                               IN THE AMOUNT OF US$ 14.3 MILLION

                                                 TO THE

                                         REPUBLIC OF YEMEN

                                                 FOR A

                         SEEDS AND AGRICULTURAL SERVICES PROJECT




                                           December 29, 2004




Water, Environment, Social and Rural Development Department
Middle East and North Africa Region

This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.

                                 CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS

                                    (Exchange Rate Effective )

                                   Currency Unit = Yemeni Rials (YR)
                               Yemeni Rials 1.00 = US$ 184
                                        US$ 1.00 = Yemeni Rials 0.005

                                         FISCAL YEAR
                                   January 1 -    December 31

                            ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS

AREA        Agricultural Research and Extension Authority
AOAD        Arab Organization for Agricultural Development
ASC         Agricultural Services Corporation
GAC         General Agricultural Cooperative
GDPM        General Directorate of Planning and Monitoring (of MAWR)
GDPP        General Directorate of Plant Production (of MAWR)
GOY         Government of Yemen
GSMC        General Seed Multiplication Corporation
MAI         Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation
MAWR        Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources
MOF         Ministry of Finance
MOPICMinistry of Planning and International Cooperation
NGO         Non-Governmental Organization
NSB         National Seed Board
OVSC        Onion/Vegetable Seed Center
PAD         Project Appraisal Document
PSR         Project Status Report
PSU         Project Support Unit
PSCo        Potato Seed Center/Company
SASP        Seeds and Agricultural Services Project
SCP         Supreme Committee for Privatization
SMC         Seed Multiplication Center/Corporation
UAC         Union of Agricultural Cooperatives
VSCo        Vegetable Seed Company

                                  Vice President:     Christiaan J. Poortman
                               Country Director       Emmanuel Mbi
                                 Sector Director      Letitia A. Obeng
              Task Team Leader/Task Manager:          Naji Abu-Hatim

                                  YEMEN, REPUBLIC OF
                           Yemen - Seeds and Agricultural Services


                                         CONTENTS




                                                                              Page No.
1. Project Data                                                                    1
2. Principal Performance Ratings                                                   1
3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry         2
4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs                                            4
5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome                              9
6. Sustainability                                                                10
7. Bank and Borrower Performance                                                 10
8. Lessons Learned                                                               12
9. Partner Comments                                                              13
10. Additional Information                                                       14
Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix                             15
Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing                                             16
Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits                                             18
Annex 4. Bank Inputs                                                             19
Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components             21
Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance                                22
Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents                                            23
Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report                                            24

Project ID: P039171                                                  Project Name: Yemen - Seeds and Agricultural Services
Team Leader: Naji Abu-Hatim                                          TL Unit: MNSRE
ICR Type: Core ICR                                                   Report Date: December 29, 2004


1. Project Data
                   Name: Yemen - Seeds and Agricultural Services                  L/C/TF Number: IF-N0340; PPFI-Q0400
   Country/Department: REPUBLIC OF YEMEN                                                  Region: Middle East and North
                                                                                                     Africa Region

        Sector/subsector: Agricultural marketing and trade (57%); Agricultural extension and
                            research (37%); Central government administration (6%)
                  Theme: Rural services and infrastructure (P); Rural markets (P); Small and
                            medium enterprise support (P); Infrastructure services for private
                            sector development (S); Rural policies and institutions (S)


  KEY DATES                                                                  Original               Revised/Actual
           PCD: 10/20/1995                                     Effective:                           02/09/1998
     Appraisal: 07/18/1997                                         MTR:                             12/06/2000
      Approval: 08/21/1997                                      Closing: 06/30/2003                 06/30/2004



    Borrower/Implementing Agency:          GOVERNMENT OF YEMEN/PROJECT SUPPORT UNIT; GOVERNMENT OF
                                           YEMEN/MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND IRRIGATION
                      Other Partners:

STAFF                           Current                                        At Appraisal
Vice President:                 Christiaan J. Poortman                         Kemal Dervis
Country Manager:                Emmanuel Mbi                                   Inder Sud
Sector Manager:                 Luis F. Constantino                            M. Salah Darghouth
Team Leader at ICR:             Naji Abu-Hatim                                 Mohamed N. Benali
ICR Primary Author:             Naji Abu-Hatim; Sati Achath;
                                Madhu Nair


2. Principal Performance Ratings

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)

                           Outcome:        S
                      Sustainability:      L
   Institutional Development Impact:       SU
                 Bank Performance:         S
            Borrower Performance:          S


                                                      QAG (if available)             ICR
                                  Quality at Entry:                                  S
                     Project at Risk at Any Time: No

3. Assessment of Development Objective and Design, and of Quality at Entry

3.1 Original Objective:

The original objective of the Seeds and Agricultural Services Project (SASP) was to improve agricultural
productivity of rainfed and irrigated crops on about 14 percent of the total agricultural area of Yemen
(about 190,000 ha at full development - year 10). The strategy for achieving this objective under the project
was to develop a sustainable system for the supply and use of seeds of adapted varieties, fertilizers and
other inputs. Progress toward this objective was to be monitored and evaluated on the basis of increases in
major crop yields of farmers using quality seeds of superior varieties and adequate amounts of fertilizers.

The objective was clearly stated, important to the country's social and economic development, and realistic
in scale and scope. It was also timely and appropriate to the needs of the Borrower. Based on the results
of extensive social assessment conducted by the Bank in 1996 as part of the preparation of this project,
most of the rural farmers and field technicians were not satisfied with the quality of seeds. Farmers were
relying heavily on the inefficient government entities and unreliable agricultural inputs traders to secure
seeds and other farm inputs. They were also suffering from an unreliable supply of farm inputs and
services. This project focused on private sector development by dismantling the existing monopoly in the
supply of agricultural inputs and services.

The project was consistent with the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for Yemen (Report
No.15286-YEM), discussed by the Board on January 19, 1996. The project supported a key objective of
the CAS, i.e. promoting sustainable natural and human resources development. The sustainability and
development of natural resources was primarily to be brought about through management of the
agricultural diversities, maintenance of the diversities and increased use of inputs. The project supported
this objective by developing adapted cultivars and improving the efficiency of land and water resource use.
Priority for the project was established in both the CAS and the Public Expenditure Review. The project
was a key instrument for achieving the government's objective for improving agricultural productivity and
food security in the rural areas where 70 percent of the population and 84 percent of the poor lived.

The project envisioned the following benefits: (a) Increased agricultural production: the most tangible
benefit was increased production and yields of major rainfed and irrigated crops; (b) Stabilization of rural
incomes: seeds of superior quality and better adapted varieties would stabilize crop yields and reduce the
risks of crop failure for rainfed farmers; (c) Better management of natural resources: higher and more
secure rainfed agricultural production and farm incomes would reduce the need for farmers to move
towards more irrigated agriculture or expand cropping into marginal lands leading to the conservation and
more efficient use of natural resources; (d) Reduced pressure on the government budget: the efficient and
commercial operation of the three seed centers would reduce transfers from the government budget to these
institutions; and (e) Greater efficiency and increased private sector participation in the seeds and inputs
sectors: policy measures, legal reforms and capacity building would result in competitive prices for farm
inputs.

3.2 Revised Objective:

The objectives were not revised.

3.3 Original Components:

The project consisted of the following four components, all related to achieving the project's objective:



                                                     - 2 -

Component I: Private Sector Promotion and Seed/Fertilizer Quality Control: (US$0.3 million: 2% of
the total project cost). This component consisted of three major activities implemented by the General
Directorate of Plant Production (GDPP): (a) Enactment and implementation of a new policy, as well as
legal and institution frameworks, for the purpose of increasing growth in the seeds and fertilizer sectors and
promoting their greater participation of the private sector; (b) Provision of information and encouraging
the private sector to invest and take advantage of the financial assistance provided in the National
Investment Law and the new Seed Law. Under this component, funding was provided for promoting the
participation of private enterprises in the seed and fertilizer sectors as well as the use of superior-quality
seed by farmers; and (c) Establishment of a seed and fertilizers quality control system allowing the
Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation (MAI) to inspect, monitor and verify that labels on seed and fertilizer
containers were true to content.

Component II: Seed Development Support: (US$5.3 million: 37% of the total project cost)
The project financed: (a) Severance payments, through government financing, to staff not needed by the
Potato Seed Company (PSC0); the Onion/Vegetable Seed Center/Company (OVSC) and the (General Seed
Multiplication Corporation (GSMC); (b) Activities aimed at testing, selecting and developing superior land
races and adapted varieties of cereals, potato, onion and vegetable crops through service contracts with
public and/or private operators; and (c) Efforts to improve the efficiency and commercialize the operation
of two of the three existing seed centers (PSCo and OVSC) and prepare the PSCo and OVSC for
privatization.

Component III: Expansion of Input Supply Marketing Channels: (US$8.0 million: 56% of the total
project cost). This component promoted and financed the entry in the input import/supply sectors of: (i) a
financially self- supporting public institution, the Agricultural Services Corporation (ASC); and (ii)
creation of the General Agricultural Cooperative (GAC) established by the Union of Agricultural
Cooperatives (UAC) ­ a Non-governmental Organization (NGO) representing farmers throughout Yemen.
It also allowed GAC and ASC to operate in the input supply sectors, particularly, it financed the
procurement of transport equipment, vehicles, storage facilities, training, and technical assistance as well as
16,000 tons of fertilizers.

Component IV: Project Implementation -Establishment of Project Support Unit (PSU): (US$0.7
million: 5% of the total project cost). The project was implemented by respective project executing agencies
with    the    support    of    PSU     for   procuring    goods,    works,     services   and    monitoring.

3.4 Revised Components:

The components were not revised.

3.5 Quality at Entry:

Satisfactory. There was no official assessment of the quality at entry by the Quality Assurance Group
(QAG). The ICR deems the quality at entry to be satisfactory and the project as well conceived.

As previously mentioned, the project objective was consistent with the CAS and government priorities and
met the critical needs of the agriculture sector. With the help of PSU, the quality of project design was
generally adequate to meet the project's overriding objective. During preparation of the project, major risk
factors and lessons learned from earlier projects in the sector were incorporated into the project design. In
addition, alternative project designs were considered. Extensive stakeholder consultations and participatory



                                                     - 3 -

process in project preparation substantially contributed to the quality and readiness at entry. Rapid Rural
Appraisal, and Farmers Needs Assessment were also undertaken during preparation. These surveys were
designed to understand the agricultural inputs and the private sector situation in regard to agricultural
marketing. Hence the project was designed in the outcome of the two surveys and to be in line with the
socio-cultural context.

The project entities were physically isolated (Sana'a, Dhamar, Seiyun). Also, some of the entities were
NGOs (GAC) and other were highly government regulated systems (GSMC, PSCo, Vegetable Seed
Company (VSCo), GDPP. Under this situation, the idea of hybridization between these systems to be
brought under one umbrella was useful for MAI and the donors. Hence, PSU was created.

No negative effects on the environment were expected from the project, nor was it expected to cause
resettlement or affect indigenous peoples. The evaluation, selection and conservation of land races of major
cereal crops native to Yemen was expected to contribute to the conservation of local genetic biodiversity.
By developing pest- and disease-resistant cultivars, the project aimed to reduce the need to use chemical
pesticides and insecticides, which would have a positive impact on the environment

4. Achievement of Objective and Outputs

4.1 Outcome/achievement of objective:

Overall, the outcome of the project objective was satisfactory. The project substantially accomplished all
its immediate development objectives. As shown in the Table below, all the performance indicators set out
in the Project Appraisal Document (PAD) were substantially met and often exceeded.

Key Performance Indicators for SASP Yield Components

      Indicator                      Projected in PAD                       Actual
     VSCo-Quantity of                             27.0                        48.2
     Seeds Sold (tons)
     VSCo-Average onion bulb                       84.0                     408.0
     yield (tons/ha)
     PSCo-Production of tubers                     14.2                       29.4
     (tons/ha)
     PSCo-Quality seed                          1800.0                     3465.0
     production (tons)
     GSMC-No. of varieties                          8.0                       13.0
     released
     GSMC-Quantity of seeds                     1500.0                     1540.0
     produces (tons)
     GAC-No. of member                             30.0                       51.0
     cooperatives established
     Source: Extracted from final reports of VSCo, PSCo, GSMC and GAC

A survey was carried out during March/April 2004 (based on two baseline surveys conducted in 2001 and
         1/


2002) on 238 farmers in 10 governorates representing three agro-ecological regions on the production of
wheat, sorghum, millet, maize, barley, potato, onion, etc., under three agricultural systems (irrigated,
rainfed and supplementary). The survey indicated that, in general, the farmers, were satisfied with the



                                                    - 4 -

quality and productivity of GSMC, PSCo and VSCo products. About 35% of the farmers included in the
survey were using improved seeds and 61% were using chemical fertilizers and/or organic manure. The
same survey indicated that the average increase of productivity of sorghum, wheat, potatoes and onion,
when using improved seeds and fertilizers/manure, in the year 2003 was 100%, 100%, 99% and 91%,
respectively, under irrigation. For sorghum and wheat, it was 93% and 92% under supplementary irrigation
and 61% and 60% under rainfed respectively. The net profit rate from improved irrigated wheat, potatoes
and onion was 53%, 38% and 79%, respectively. The trend on use of improved seeds is increasing
especially in the governorates where irrigation resources are available.

The project has substantially contributed to timely availability of agricultural inputs and stabilization of
input prices. It supplied seed from GSMC, PSCo and VSCo as well as fertilizer on a timely basis. For
example, the project supplied 14,000 tons of Ammonium Sulphate and 1,000 tons of Potassium Sulphate.
The effect of these interventions with importation by the private sector stabilized fertilizer prices on
national level, at par with international prices of these commodities.

Government Support: The project also led to reduced budget transfer for VSCo and PSCo.

 Amount of Support
 (YR M)                      1998         1999         2000           2001      2002    2003
VSCo                          2.0          2.9           4             0         0       0
PSCo                          4.4          8.2           2.3           0         0       0
Source: VSCo and PSCo Final Reports (2004)

Before the project, farmers could not get sufficient agricultural inputs, especially fertilizers, when they
needed them. Even if they could get them, they had to pay two or three times the actual price. Through
ASC, which has 11 branches and many dealers, and GAC with its 50 member primary cooperatives
scattered all-over the country, the project has facilitated to make available agricultural inputs all year
around. This is in addition to private dealers who still compete with these two entities. This wide
competition has benefited farmers in terms of availability of inputs with reasonable prices. The project was
also instrumental for breaking the prevailing monopoly of a limited number of groups on seeds and
services, and organizing grass root-level organizations to play an important role in providing and
distributing agricultural inputs. The project also brought team spirit and harmony among the institutions
contracting with each other to reach common understanding and common goals.

Another benefit was the elimination of budget transfer to PSCo, VSCo and ASC because of their financial
self reliance, and the reduction of government budget to GSMC due to reduction in production costs.
Further, the project helped in converting seed entities into public companies/corporations allowing them to
reform their administrative and financial systems and to reduce its staff. In addition, the project helped in
the creation of GAC. As a result, these entities have become more responsive to farmers' needs. Through
contracts with the Agricultural Research and Extension Authority (AREA) and Aden University, the
project helped to improve their seed maintenance, variety testing and selection and outreach programs.
During the project's life, AREA released a number of varieties of wheat (Bohouth 13, 14, and 15,
Hadramout and Seiyun) and Aden University participated in the release of Sorghum varities (Ziir, Saif,
Bukr and Baini). The project also helped these entities to restore their reputation.

1/ The methodology for the survey was based on a sample of four regions in each governorate, assessing and
recording yields under the three agricultural systems. Physical measurements on yield were not done but yield
attained were compared with national statistics data available for each governorate.




                                                       - 5 -

Enforcement of the truth-in-labeling provision of the Seed Law made farmers more confident in the quality
of seeds they were purchasing. This in turn reduced their cost of production and increased their profit.
Significant increase in the availability of high quality seeds of the Ba-fateem onion varieties allowed more
farmers to grow this onion variety and hence take advantage of high consumer demand and high prices
fetched by this variety.

Working with farmers gave an added dimension to all the seed companies and research institutions to learn
from experiences that existed for generations. New ideas coupled with traditional practices of agriculture
proved to be beneficial not only to the farmers but also to the implementing agencies.

The SASP has called attention to reviewing the strategy for rainfed agriculture which is a necessity for the
well being of the country. It conducted an outreach program for promoting traditional systems in seeds
production, but was limited to five districts, since there was no adequate time to cover all rainfed areas.
The project also contributed directly to poverty alleviation by helping women in rural areas in general and
in rainfed systems in particular, where women are the main players in these systems as men immigrate to
cities in Yemen or to neighboring countries.

4.2 Outputs by components:

(i) Private Sector Promotion and Seed/Fertilizer Quality Control:

(a) GDPP was active in ensuring progress of this component. The legislation and institutional arrangements
envisaged under the project were carried out and included the issuance of the Seed Law and its by-laws and
implementation decrees which became operational. It also played an active role in the preparation and
formulation of the Seeds Board with strong representation from private, cooperative and other related
agencies. GDPP's private sector promotion strategy was to design TV and radio shows (and broadcasting
materials) for creation of awareness. These were regularly flashed to farmers on TV and broadcast over
the radio. GDPP, through its quality control department, supervised the quality of imported products and
made sure that they met specifications. This created an enabling environment for people/entities active in
the sector to buy and sell seeds and fertilizers and other agricultural inputs with no constraints.

Production of improved seeds and importation of required fertilizers have contributed to increased
production and quality of agricultural produce. Farmers feel that improved seeds and the introduction of
fertilizers have contributed to increased productivity by 8-15 percent of all cereals and vegetables. There
was no regular testing of samples for imported fertilizers and seeds since GDPP only established its
laboratory towards the end of the project. The 30 samples were representative of imported lots of
fertilizers and seeds.

(b) Privatization of PSCo and VSCo was approved by the Supreme Committee for Privatization (SCP) in
August 2004 and progress for the ASC is proceeding well after undertaking important steps to become a
corporation.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory




                                                      - 6 -

(ii) Seed Development:

This component was implemented satisfactorily as an enabling environment for the development of the seed
sector. This was demonstrated by: (a) the issuance and ratification of the Seeds and Fertilizer Law and its
bylaws and implementation decrees; (b) establishment of the National Seed Board (NSB) to advise MAI on
seeds and fertilizers aspects; (c) creation of autonomous seed entities (GSMC, PSCo, VSCo); (d)
enhancement and commercialization of trade regarding farm inputs through ASC and GAC; and (e)
revitalization of the Variety Release Committee and deployment of an external quality control system.

To ensure the sustainable supply of basic seeds, GSMC has its own seeds maintenance and variety testing
and evaluation program. While the Seeds Maintenance Contract with AREA has resulted in the supply of
3,420 kg of improved seeds in the past four years, GSMC has, in addition, produced 8,615 kg during the
same period. During the lifetime of the project, 13 seed varieties were developed by AREA and GSMC.
Data compiled from final reports of GSMC, PSCo and VSCo showed that, GSMC's seed production, since
the start of the project in 1998, had exceeded the PAD target in the year 2004 by 14% at 6,519 tons,
adequate to cover an estimated area of about 25,000 ha, which is close to the PAD target for year 10
(2007) of 28,000 ha.

Improvement of potato seeds was carried out primarily by PSCo. It has become 100% financially self
supporting. It passed all the necessary steps to become a private company and was given the approval by
the SCP to privatize in August 2004. The company is engaged in the multiplication and distribution of
about 3,500 to 4,000 tons of improved seeds annually and satisfies 10% of the national needs. To improve
production and productivity, the company imports limited quantities of basic potato seeds. It has developed
and implemented its own marketing strategy and sells its produce directly from its stores or through its
agents all over the country. PSCo is working closely with AREA in the field of variety testing and
evaluation and is currently dealing with four potato varieties, viz: Baraka, Fabula, Pecasso and Fifaldy
after they have been tested for suitability and high yields. It has also entered into a partnership with a
private entrepreneur for construction of a poultry slaughterhouse. During the first quarter of year 2004, the
company achieved a profit of about YR 28 million.

VSCo has played a major role in improving and expanding the production of improved local variety onion
seeds developed by AREA. Sales were on the increase, reaching to15 tons in 2004 (adequate to plant about
4,500 ha.) and having a maximum production capacity of about 40 tons per year. In addition to the three
varieties (Ba-fateem I, Ba-Fateem II and Ba-Fateem Yellow), the company is engaged in the development
and expansion of one okra and one carrot seed variety and carries out a sound seed maintenance program
for the varieties it handles.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory

(iii) Expansion of input supply marketing channels:

The project made very positive contributions through ASC and GAC by the provision of agricultural inputs
and spare parts resulting in price stabilization, in addition to the introduction and expansion in the use of
new types of fertilizers. Both these institutions have been very active in making agricultural inputs and
spare parts available in all agricultural production centers through their branches and the agricultural
primary cooperatives. The total amount of fertilizers imported since the start of the project is about 25,675
tons which compares favorably with the 16,000 tons envisaged under the project.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory


                                                     - 7 -

(iv) PSU:

PSU satisfactorily executed its outlined responsibilities as per the Project Implementation Plan (PIP). The
project team of eight staff followed the Bank's guidelines and coordinated its activities within MAI's rules
and regulations. The successful implementation of the project is in large part due to the effective
functioning of the PSU. It provided technical support to all implementing agencies in all aspects of the
project cycle,    including processing issues through MAI, the Ministry of Planning and International
Cooperation (MOPIC), the Ministry of Finance (MOF) and coordination, processing and reporting for the
Bank.

Achievement of this component is satisfactory

4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:

Based on the data available, an attempt was made to re-estimate project benefits relative to those estimated
at appraisal. Revenues for potato seed, onion seed and general seed multiplication centers for 1998-2000
were as much as 43%, 33% and 89% of the values estimated at appraisal, though this gap is projected to
narrow in subsequent years. PSCo and VSCo generate adequate revenue to the extent that they cover all
their costs including staff salaries and make a profit each year. Subsidy from the Government of Yemen
(GOY) to GSMC has been reduced to about 50% per ton to cover its cost.

Data on incremental benefits to farmers from the fertilizer and seed components based on new projections
for 2004-2010 show a Net Present Value of economic benefits of US$32 million and US$8 million
respectively (corresponding financial values were estimated to be US$34 and US$8.5 million), using a
discount rate of 12 percent as was done at appraisal. These values compare favorably with the projected
Net Present Values of financial benefits of US$25.7 and US$9.7 million respectively (corresponding
financial estimates being US$22.9 and US$9.9 million respectively) estimated at appraisal for the
overlapping period 1997-2006. In the absence of reliable year-wise estimates of costs of production,
revised Economic Rate of Return (ERR) and Internal Rate of Return (IRR) were not calculated.

4.4 Financial rate of return:

See Section 4.3

4.5 Institutional development impact:

The Seeds and Agricultural Fertilizers Law. The enactment of the Seed and Fertilizer Law in July 1998
contributed to the success of this project. This Law was aimed at improving and increasing production in
the agricultural sector and enabling farmers to have access to agricultural inputs and utilization. Its
implementation and enforcement was instrumental to the continued growth and development of agriculture
in Yemen.




                                                    - 8 -

GSMC. The successful creation of GSMC into a corporation has not only improved its management but
also made it effective. The working environment and its technical capability have vastly improved.
Combined activities with AREA have further strengthened the operations of GSMC and led to the
availability of improved cereal seeds and maintenance (which constitutes about 80% of the agricultural
outputs for Yemen to the farming community at large. Their impact is likely to continue long beyond the
life of this project, especially with continued funding from the MAI/MOF.

PSCo and VSCo. The commercialization and subsequent privatization of PSCo and VSCo have led to the
efficient delivery of vegetable seeds to the various regions of the country without the need to import these
two commodities. In the future, these companies will make available large quantities of adaptable superior
varieties for various commodities of vegetable seeds at competitive prices.

ASC and GAC. The enhancement and commercialization of trade regarding availability and
stability of market prices of agricultural inputs such as fertilizers, machinery and spare parts have
led to greater competition in the agricultural sector. Agriculture employs about 75% of the
population in rural areas. The institutional impact of this project has a tremendous value on the
beneficiaries and stakeholders for the country as a whole. A recent survey by GSMC (March
2004) confirmed that organic fertilizers have greatly improved productivity of local varieties of
wheat and sorghum, thereby benefiting a considerable number of poor rural households.

5. Major Factors Affecting Implementation and Outcome

5.1 Factors outside the control of government or implementing agency:

(a) The price of fertilizers was affected by the fluctuating oil prices during the implementation period. This
in turn affected the procurement process set in place for the project. (b) In 2002 and 2003, severe droughts
in Yemen had affected the outcome of some of the contracted programs, such as variety sourcing and the
traditional seeds systems, affecting the availability of cultivars for the 80% rainfed sector. (c) The Bank's
procurement procedures were not understood clearly, especially for the international tenders like
procurement of fertilizers which were tied to international stock exchange prices. Sudden changes in prices
brought about confusion and further delays in procurement. (d) Occasional civil disturbances in the
countryside affected the normal delivery of inputs to the beneficiaries. Frequent transfer of implementation
staff throughout various regions also caused unnecessary delays.

5.2 Factors generally subject to government control:

Some large contracts that were subject to MAI review experienced substantial delays due to its weak
capacity in procurement aspects and lack of familiarity with the Bank's procurement guidelines. This was
coupled with frequent antagonism and tension between the staff of MAI and PSU and negatively affected
the pace of implementation.

5.3 Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:

The implementing agencies had difficulties in coordinating activities which involved multitude signatories
required for procurement. Moreover, movement of documents among agencies was slow and as a result,
submission of reports to the Bank was delayed.

5.4 Costs and financing:




                                                      - 9 -

The total cost of the project was US$14.3 million, as estimated at appraisal. The Bank financed US$12.1
million (84.6%), and GOY contributed US$2.2 million equivalent in local costs (15.4%).

6. Sustainability

6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:

Likely. Considering that GOY is still committed to continue its support to the sector, both financially and
important policy reforms, sustainability is likely. The project has fostered a trusting relationship between
the seed companies and their clients. The more emphasis the companies place on producing quality seeds,
the more responsive their clients will be.

In order to ensure sustainability of the supply of improved seeds after the project, necessary funds will need
to be provided from GOY resources to enable corporations to resume implementation of the three programs
directly and through contract with eligible agencies such as AREA and universities. MAI has indicated a
strong commitment to sustain GSMC with necessary financial resources beyond this project. Furthermore,
MAI has approved funding for GSMC in the 2005 budget which sustains its ability to continue forward,
which places GSMC in a more enviable position to compete in the marketplace in seed production.

Sufficient funding and an adequately trained staff will be the prescription to GDPP's success. MAI should
follow up in making GDPP a viable institution with continued funding. Execution of the Seed Law and its
enforcement will need to be followed.

GOY's policy is to have the seed sector as self-financing. PSCo and VSCo have already been privatized.
GSMC, which produces seeds of basic food crops, is still receiving subsidies from GOY although this was
reduced by 50% during the project life. As demonstrated by improved financial returns ( see section 4.3)
government support will be steadily reduced so as not to distort the market and GSMC is expected to be
privatized in five years.

6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:

See Section 6.1

7. Bank and Borrower Performance

Bank
7.1 Lending:

Satisfactory. The Bank's performance in the identification, preparation, and appraisal of the SASP was
satisfactory. The project's consistency with GOY's development priorities and the Bank's CAS was
assured. In addition, the Bank covered in-depth sociological aspects and local issues while designing the
project. With a harmonious team of a good skill mix, it brought state-of-the-art expertise into project
design, providing for flexibility and responsiveness to local needs.

During preparation and appraisal, the Bank took into account the adequacy of project design and all major
relevant aspects such as technical, financial, economic, and institutional, including procurement and
financial management. In addition, the Bank assessed the project's risks and benefits and consistently
enjoyed good working relationships with the Borrower during preparation and appraisal.              Extensive
stakeholder consultations at community, metropolitan, state and national levels were highly productive and
initiated a process of ownership that proved invaluable at implementation.



                                                    - 10 -

7.2 Supervision:

Satisfactory.    The Bank's performance during the implementation of the project was satisfactory.
Sufficient budget and staff resources were allocated, and the project was adequately supervised and closely
monitored. Over the six years of project implementation, there were 12 supervision missions with an
average of two missions per year.          In addition, the Bank team undertook joint reviews with the
implementing agencies. The Bank's client relationship was very cordial and productive. Review teams
included specialists in agriculture, privatization, financial management, procurement, economics, sociology
and civil engineering.     External consultants were used for specific aspects of project components.
Participation of MAI, state and agency representatives in the review missions enhanced Bank-Borrower
bonding, and better understanding and expeditious resolution of implementation bottlenecks. This also
fostered mutual cooperation on institutional and field issues, and supportive learning on the part of the
implementing agencies in technical matters and Bank procedures.

Memoranda of Understanding were regularly prepared and transmitted, flagging outstanding issues and
underscoring benchmarks for actions. These alerted GOY and the implementing agencies to problems with
project execution and facilitated remedies in a timely manner. Project Status Reports (PSRs) realistically
rated the performance of the project both in terms of achievement of development objectives and project
implementation. Whenever delays in implementation occurred, the Bank's task team was able to define
concrete steps and timetable for corrective actions. The Bank paid sufficient attention to the project's
likely development impact. The quality of advice, and the follow-up on agreed actions was adequate.
Credit covenants and remedies were enforced effectively.

With the decentralization of Bank functions to the Resident Mission in Yemen, the Bank provided quick
response and follow-up.        Bank staff showed flexibility in suggesting needed modifications in
implementation. They worked closely with GOY and the implementing agencies, and provided them with
extensive assistance including technical advice. In the early stages of implementation, the Bank also
conducted workshops on specific subjects, such as procurement and disbursement; at the end of the
project, a stakeholder workshop was conducted to share the experience of the project.

7.3 Overall Bank performance:

Satisfactory. Overall, the Bank performance was satisfactory during project preparation, appraisal and
implementation.

Borrower
7.4 Preparation:

Satisfactory. The Borrower's performance in the preparation of the project was satisfactory. The
Borrower displayed the required level of commitment to the objectives of the project and covered the
adequacy of design and all major aspects, such as, technical, financial, economic, institutional,
environmental and sociological factors, including stakeholder commitment. GOY officials and staff of the
implementing agencies worked closely with the Bank's project team on a continual basis, with full
cooperation and enthusiasm.

7.5 Government implementation performance:

Satisfactory. GOY implementation performance was satisfactory.               It consistently maintained its



                                                      - 11 -

commitment throughout implementation. MAI, which was responsible for the overall implementation of the
project, consisted of senior policy makers and experienced managers. They were very responsive in taking
corrective implementation measures, and were effective in dealing with outstanding operational issues.
Appropriate levels of review and approval were usually in place, financial accountability and follow-up
were observed and expenditures were duly authorized before they were incurred, and documentation was
maintained properly for periodic review.         The project did not suffer from any counterpart funding
problems, as GOY took timely corrective measures and made appropriate budget provisions. Regular
participation of MAI and state level officials in the Bank's supervision missions reinforced confidence
among the implementing agencies and helped expeditious resolution of many issues, some instantaneously
at the field level itself. Audit reports from participating entities were generally available on or just after the
due date and had no major accountability issues.

7.6 Implementing Agency:

Satisfactory. The performance of PSU, which coordinated the project, was satisfactory. It provided
proactive follow-up to mitigate implementation bottlenecks. PSU was very well organized and effective in
dealing with procurement, disbursement, progress reports, and in maintaining proper records of the project.
They were receptive to the Bank's advice, and highly collaborative with respect to meeting demanding
benchmarks and deadlines. However, as mentioned in Section 5.3, PSU had coordination difficulties with
other agencies for procurement activities.

7.7 Overall Borrower performance:

Satisfactory. The overall performance of the Borrower was satisfactory.

8. Lessons Learned


Sector-related lessons:

(a) The pattern and distribution of rainfall as well as temperature in Yemen varies from one region to the
    other. This unique microclimatic situation should be taken into account during the implementation
    stage in future projects for variety development and testing activities.

(b) Considering that about 60% of agriculture in Yemen is under rainfed conditions, follow-on projects
    should place more emphasis on rainfed agriculture.

(c) The use of farmers' cooperatives in the production and dissemination of local varieties proved to be
    fruitful under this project. Farmers' communities were effective in sharing their experiences with
    GSMC staff and developing the supply of local land races of Sorghum, Millet and Maize. Training of
    the local communities affiliated with some cooperatives in aspects of seed production helped in the
    diffusion process of local material availability and sales.

(d) The use of farmers' cooperatives in project implementation and the training of extension staff have
    made positive changes for poor rural households and beneficiaries. This concept should be broadened
    and replicated in other sectors and also at the national level. There are good and excellent agricultural
    primary cooperatives which are managed by elected persons serving their members . However, there
    are cooperatives which are one-man shows or politically oriented, e.g., the Agricultural Cooperative
    Union is not well established and is strongly politically oriented.



                                                      - 12 -

(e) Further success of VSCo can be enhanced by developing an aggressive market-oriented program. The
    services of the international marketing specialist hired to assist the company to overcome its marketing
    problems and expand its local and international channels should be made used on a regular basis.

Implementation-related lessons.

(a) Simple and straight forward design, and focused approach on a limited number of activities contributed
    to the success of the project. The project also recognized the importance of empowering farmers at the
    grass-root level.

(b) The Bank should explain upfront to the Borrower the relevance and significance of its procurement and
    disbursement procedures in order to avoid implementation delays.

(c) Setting the legal framework for the seed/fertilizer law before the implementation of the project saved
    time in years as well providing a legal foundation for the participants in the seed industry.

(d) In this project, the institutional setup was too complex. There were five implementing partners under
    the umbrella of PSU. The headquarters of these implementing units were located in Dhamar and
    Seiyun. For PSU to coordinate and manage its activities with the Bank and MAI, it took a painstaking
    job especially in the earlier stages of the project until all partners came to a common and smooth
    understanding of the project's inputs and outputs. Simpler institutional set up need to be put in place in
    this type of operation.

(e) Alignment of project and GOY policy, and continuity in reform objectives are critical for the success of
    the project.

(f) For an innovative project such as this, it is important to have close monitoring on the quality control
    and on the implementation of the mandates of the cooperatives.

9. Partner Comments

(a) Borrower/implementing agency:

See Annex 8

(b) Cofinanciers:

N/A

(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector):

N/A

10. Additional Information


A. The Bank's ICR Team consisted of the following members:

Naji Abu Hatim (Task Team Leader)
Dr. Ahmed Abdel-Aziz Ahmed (Seed Production Management Expert)



                                                    - 13 -

Madhu Nair (Consultant)
Sati Achath (Consultant)

B. List of Task Team Leaders of the project in chronological order:

(a) Mr. Mohamed N Ben Ali
(b) Mr. Naji Abu Hatim

C. Persons interviewed for the preparation of the ICR:

Mr. Naji Abu Hatim (Task Team Leader)
Mr. Mohamed N. Ben Ali (Previous Task Team leader)
Mr. Arbi Ben Achour (Social Scientist)

Mr. Abdul Mowmen Hazza (PSU Director)
Dr. Ahmed Abdel-Aziz Ahmed (Seed Production Management Expert)
Mr. Adbul Aziz Alyousifi (PSU Finance Director)
Mr. Salim Elhaj (PSU Procurement Manager)
Mr. Abdo Mohammed Al-Saggaf (Director General, GSMC)
Mr. Abdul Bassit Al-Aghbari (Deputy Director, GSMC)
Mr. Abdullah M Ba-Asher (General Manager, ASC)
Mr. Amin Belfast (General Director), VSCo
Mr. Dia Eldeen El-Saggaf (Financial & Marketing Manager, VSCo)
Mr. Mohamed Aid Al-Nuseiri (Chairman, GAC)
Dr. Abdul Wahed O. Mukred (Vice-Chairman, AREA)
Dr. Mohamed Noaman Sallam(Director, AREA)
Mr. Essam Moh. Al-Kohlani (General Manager, PSCo)
Mr. Ali El-Rawdi (Deputy Manager, PSCo)
Mr. Abdul Hafid Karhash (General Director, DGPP)
Mr. Abelel Rahman ElAnsi (Manager, QCD)
Mr. Abdulla H. Al-Shatter (Deputy Minister, Ministry of Planning & International Cooperation)
Mr. Hashem Awnallah (Asst. Deputy Minister, Ministry of Planning & International Cooperation)




                                                  - 14 -

Annex 1. Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix

Outcome / Impact Indicators:
                                                                    1
            Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
VSCo-Quantity of Seeds Sold (tons)                  27.0                    48.2
VSCo-Average onion bulb yield (tons/ha)             84                     408
VSCo-Government Support (million/Riyals)            0                        0
PSCo-Production of tubers Oct 2003                14.2                      29.4
(tons/ha)
PSCo-Quality seed production Oct 2003           1800                     3465
(tons)
PSCo-Government support (million/Riyals)            0                        0
GSMC-No. of varieties released                      8                       13
GSMC-Quantity of seeds produces (tons)          1500                     1540
GSMC-Average yield in rainfed areas (tons)          1                        1
                                                   2.2                      2.3
GSMC-Average yield in irrigated areas (tons)

ASC-Quantity of fertilizer sold (tons)          4000                     4000
GAC-Quantity of fertilizers sold 2003           4000                     4000
GAC-No. of member cooperatives                    30                       51
established
GDPP-Private sector promotion tv/radio            4                         2
GDPP-Analysis of seed/fertilizer samples         30                       30
2003


Output Indicators:
                                                                    1
            Indicator/Matrix                    Projected in last PSR    Actual/Latest Estimate
                                                  N/A




1End of project




                                                      - 15 -

Annex 2. Project Costs and Financing

Project Cost by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                           Appraisal      Actual/Latest   Percentage of
                                                           Estimate         Estimate       Appraisal
                       Component                          US$ million      US$ million
A. Seed & Input Quality Control & Assurance (GDPP)            0.30               0.20             67
B. Seed Development Support
Potato Seed Center                                            1.20               0.80             67
Onion/Vegetable Seed Center                                   1.60               1.10             69
Cereal Seed Multiplication Center                             2.50               2.10             84

C. Expansion of Input Supply Marketing Channels
Input Supplies - ASC                                          5.30               5.30            100
Input Supplies - GAC                                          2.60               2.10             81

D. Project Support Unit (PSU)                                 0.70               0.60             86
Total Baseline Cost

Total Baseline Cost                                          14.20             12.20
 Physical Contingencies                                       0.00               0.00              0
 Price Contingencies                                          0.10               2.10          2100
                         Total Project Costs                 14.30             14.30
                   Total Financing Required                  14.30             14.30




Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (In US$ million equivalent)*


  Expenditure               Procurement Method                      Procurement Method
  Categories
                            Appraisal Estimate                      Actual/Latest Estimate
                  ICB     NCB      Other    NBF      Total ICB     NCB      Other   NBF   Total
1 Works         -       0.7      0.1      0.1        0.9            0.7                    0.7
2 Goods         7.8     -        1.4                 9.2   6.4      0.7     2.0            9.1
4 Services                       2.9      0.3        3.2                    2.5            2.5
5 Misc.                                   1.0        1.0   2.0                             2.0
Total           7.8     0.7      4.4      1.4        14.3  8.4      1.4     4.5            14.3




  * Note: NBF = Not Bank Financed (includes elements provided under parallel cofinancing
  procedures, consultants under trust funds, any reserved procurement and any other
  miscellaneous items). The procurement arrangements for items listed under "Other" and details
  of the items listed as NBF need to be explained in footnotes to the table.



                                                - 16 -

Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
                                                                                     Percentage of Appraisal
       Component              Appraisal Estimate           Actual/Latest Estimate
                           Bank     Govt.       CoF.    Bank       Govt.       CoF.   Bank   Govt.   CoF.
a) Private Sector          0.20     0.06        0.00     0.20       0.07      100.00 100.0   116.7    0.0
Promotion and
Seed/Fertilizer Quality
Control
b) Seed Development        4.20     0.50        0.00     4.00       1.00       0.00   95.2   200.0    0.0
Support
c) Expansion of Input      7.20     0.03        0.70     7.30       1.05             101.4   3500.0   0.0
Supply Marketing
Channels
d) Project Implementation  0.70     0.60        0.00     0.60       0.08       0.00   85.7    13.3    0.0




                                                 - 17 -

Annex 3. Economic Costs and Benefits


                             Present Value of Flows
                       Economic Analysis                   Financial Analysis
                  Appraisal     Latest Estimates     Appraisal       Latest Estimates

                                                  See Section 4.3

Benefits
Costs

Net Benefits
IRR/NPV




                                        - 18 -

Annex 4. Bank Inputs

(a) Missions:
Stage of Project Cycle                No. of Persons and Specialty            Performance Rating
                                     (e.g. 2 Economists, 1 FMS, etc.)    Implementation Development
                   Month/Year  Count           Specialty                   Progress       Objective

 Identification/Preparation
              09/12/1995                4    PRINCIPAL AGRICULTURIST/
                                             SEEDS SYSTEM SPECIALIST
                                             (1); ECONOMIST (2);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              11/16/1995                3    AGRICULTURIST (1); NEEDS
                                             ASSESSMENT SPECIALIST
                                             (1); SEED SYSTEMS
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              05/04/1996                5    AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST/FINANCIAL
                                             ANALYST (1); SEED
                                             SYSTEMS SPECIALIST (1);
                                             MARKETING SPECIALIST (1);
                                             AGRICULTURIST (1)
              08/09/1996                1    ECONOMIST (1)

 Appraisal/Negotiation
              11/10/1996                4    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             ECONOMIST (1); SEED
                                             LEGISLATION/
                                             PRODUCTION
                                             SPECIALIST (1); LEGAL &
                                             INSTITUTIONAL
                                             SPECIALIST (1)
              03/31/1997                3    SR. AGRICULTURIST (1);
                                             SENIOR LEGAL COUNSEL
                                             (1); SENIOR DISBURSEMENT
                                             OFFICER (1)


 Supervision

              12/10/1997                3    PROJECT OFFICER (1);             S               S
                                             SR.AGRICULTURIST (1); PR.
                                             OPERATIONS OFFICER (1)
              06/11/1998                2    PR.OPERATIONS OFFICER            S               S
                                             (1); SR. AGRICULTURIST (1)
              12/05/1998                2    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             SEEDS SPECIALIST (1)
              05/06/1999                2    SEEDS SPECIALIST (1); TASK       S               S
                                             TEAM LEADER (1)
              11/16/1999                2    TECHNICAL SPECIALIST (1);        S               S
                                             SEEDS SPECIALIST (1)
              06/07/2001                3    TASK TEAM LEADER (1);            S               S
                                             LEAD AGRONOMIST (1);
                                             PROC. SPECIALIST (1)



                                              - 19 -

               12/15/2001              1   TASK TEAM LEADER (1)               S    S
               06/20/2002              5   TASK TEAM LEADER (1);              S    S
                                           LEAD AGRONOMIST (1);
                                           LEAD AGRI. ECONOMIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1);
                                           SOCIAL SCIENTIST (1)
               05/13/2003              3   SR. OPERATIONS OFFICER             S    S
                                           (1); PROCUREMENT
                                           SPECIALIST (1);
                                           PROCUREMENT OFFICER (1)
               12/22/2003              3   TTL (1); CONSULTANT (1);           S    S
                                           AGRONOMIST (1)
               06/14/2004              5   MISSION LEADER (1);                S    S
                                           PROCUREMENT SPECIALIST
                                           (1); SOCIOLIGIST (1); FM
                                           SPECIALIST, CONSULT (1);
                                           ENGINEER, CONSULTANT (1)


 ICR
               7/04                   3     MISSION LEADER (1);
                                            CONSULTANTS (2)



(b) Staff:

       Stage of Project Cycle                Actual/Latest Estimate
                                 No. Staff weeks                 US$ ('000)
  Identification/Preparation           15.94                           57.4
  Appraisal/Negotiation                40.67                         146.4
  Supervision                        112.12                          330.0
  ICR                                   2.46                           23.5
  Total                              171.19                          557.4




                                            - 20 -

Annex 5. Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components

(H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible, NA=Not Applicable)
                                            Rating
   Macro policies                          H      SU     M       N     NA
   Sector Policies                         H      SU     M       N     NA
   Physical                                H      SU     M       N     NA
   Financial                               H      SU     M       N     NA
   Institutional Development               H      SU     M       N     NA
   Environmental                           H      SU     M       N     NA

Social
            Poverty Reduction              H      SU     M       N     NA
            Gender                         H      SU     M       N     NA
            Other (Please specify)         H      SU     M       N     NA
   Private sector development              H      SU     M       N     NA
   Public sector management                H      SU     M       N     NA
   Other (Please specify)                  H      SU     M       N     NA
AREA was greatly revived in its activities owing to the award of new contracts as well as teaming up with GSMC
in research activities




                                                       - 21 -

Annex 6. Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance

(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HU=Highly Unsatisfactory)


6.1 Bank performance                           Rating

   Lending                                       HS     S     U       HU
   Supervision                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU


6.2 Borrower performance                       Rating

   Preparation                                   HS     S     U       HU
   Government implementation performance         HS     S     U       HU
   Implementation agency performance             HS     S     U       HU
   Overall                                       HS     S     U       HU




                                                    - 22 -

Annex 7. List of Supporting Documents


1. Aide-Memoires, Back-to-Office Reports and Project Status Reports.

2. Project Progress Reports.

3. Consultant Study Reports financed under the project.

4. Staff Appraisal Report/Project Appraisal Document for Yemen: Seeds And Agricultural Services
   Project dated July 18, 1997 (Report No. 16268 YEM).

5. Annex 8: Borrower's Evaluation Report dated August 2004.




                                               - 23 -

Additional Annex 8. Borrower's Evaluation Report

Preparation:

The Government of the Republic of Yemen collaborated activity with the IDA mission during early stages
of project identification, preparation and appraisal. The various project entities facilitated the work on
project design. The sense of ownership of the project was clear as it was addressing the borrowers strategy
which was set for restructuring, in over coming the apparent weaknesses and motivation of the seed sector
and supporting services. The existing document indicates that the government was clear on the project
objectives of qualitative and quantitative expansion.        The simplicity and transparency of the project
contributed to the government's willingness to accommodate any IDA restructure reform programs.

Achievements of Development Objectives and Outputs:

In general the development objectives has been successfully achieved. Both quantitative and qualitative
targets set as indicators were reached and exceeded in most cases. Most of the project entities were
strengthened. The institutional capacities were able to sustain and achieve the required outputs. There was
strong participation and influence from the beneficiaries (farmers/cooperatives/communities) for many of
the project activities through production or utilization of the project outputs.

The objectives were consistent with the government priorities and they were within the reach of the
implementing units capacity as well as the IDA's country assistance strategy. All the project activities
were targeted towards achieving a common development goal.

The project has created an enhanced a sustainable system for making seed and inputs available to farmers.

a. Private sector Promotion:
MAI was able to create and furnish the seed environment by enacting Seed Laws, by laws and formation of
a National Quality Control department which enabled both government and private sectors to be motivated
and encouraged to enter into seed business and related inputs, as well as National Seed Council.
Seed campaigns were addressed through promotion and dissemination of information utilizing multi-media
approach. There were some delays which affected negatively this issue as the parliament procedures for
passing the Seed Law consumed a lot of lobby and negotiations. Also equipment for the national seed
laboratory has to pass through a lengthy process of scrutiny.

b. Seed Development Support"
Under this component, the project restructured three seed centers            by a presidential decree.    The
government budgetary support for two of these entities was brought down to the latter two entities were
restructured to companies, and in the process for privatization. The Supreme Committee for Privatization
(SCP) has approved for tendering of these companies as on 31st July 2004. GSMC has also gone under
rigorous reform program before being able to meet its objectives. The three seed supporting units reduced
their staff by more than 50% and are now operating on commercially driven basis.

c. Explanation of Input Supply:
The project enhanced the two commercial entities General Agricultural Cooperative and Agricultural seed
Corporation to shoulder the private sectors effort in the availability and stability of prices of major inputs
such as fertilizer, machinery. ASC have gone through all the stages of privatization process and awaiting
for the finalization of the privatization process.



                                                      - 24 -

Government Implementation Performance:

The government enabled all the entities with their requests to secure financing. Many project targets were
legally and physically attained. Counterpart funding, though met the targets, yet they were subject to delay
because of quarterly disbursements procedures. The project received strong institutional and political
support from the government. The PMU kept up to date records and the project accounts were audited by
reputed private auditors. Some delays were experienced in the beginning to bring an audited accounts by
some entities like GSMC to be rectified and brought to normality.

As mentioned earlier the government implementation pace was delayed in the enactment of Seed Laws and
fulfillment of the privatization procedure due to the lengthy and pain staking procedures required as
prerequisite for privatization.

Factors which Affected Project Achievements:

-   The government and IDA has shown very flexible and responsive attitude towards changing the
    circumstances during project implementation. The bank appreciated some difficulties encountered in
    timely finalizing some of the assigned activities especially when they were related to seasonal variation
    linked to agricultural outputs.

-   Successful collaboration and team work between IDA supervision teams and government staff working
    at various project entities.      Regular missions supported efforts and alleviated constraints and
    difficulties.

-   The pro active supervision and close monitoring of the project task team leader. During all stages of
    project implementation ensured continuous support and surmounted several obstacles, thus supporting
    and steering the project on to a satisfactory completion.

Project Impact:

From the government point of view, the project had significant impact on the beneficiaries and towards
achieving its objective and goals through:-

-   Emphasis on community group formation and its strong participation in the rural development
    economy and well fare.

-    The use of farmers institutions has set up a net work for developing a consensus and forum which was
    both helpful for the formal and informal seed sectors.

-   The seed sector has been transformed completely in its vision and activities. The privatization of two
    sectors and the market oriented approach of other entities has tremendously contributed in being
    self-supposed entities.

-   SASP has also contributed in stabilization of prices of inputs and especially fertilizer during the sharp
    periods of increased of price. The concerted effort of the private and public sector were witnessed in
    farmers appreciation during impact survey which were conducted regularly.

-   SASP has furnished an adequate environment for sustain of the seed business by enactment of Seed


                                                    - 25 -

    Laws, bylaws, creation of seed policy institutions and privatization of variety release committee.

Government Implementing Agency:

PMU has shown good performance in record keeping and also regular follow-up in terms of preparing
adequate work plan and implementation the procurement activities and disbursements satisfactorily. The
loss of time, which was apparent in the beginning was irretrievable as the institutions involved were
numerous and bringing them to a common goal was difficult. The PMU was composed of 5 core staff and
4 support staff supporting who accomplished their tasks satisfactorily.




                                                   - 26 -

- 27 -

