Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N034-YEM
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement
(Seeds and Agricultural Services Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim trust 
fund established with funds contributed by certain members of International 
Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board of 
Governors of International Development Association
Dated September 12, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N034-YEM 
INTERIM FUND DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between REPUBLIC OF YEMEN (the Borrower) 
and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the 
Administrator) of the interim trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds 
contributed by certain members of the Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
(the Interim Fund Resolution) of the Board of Governors of  the Association, adopted 
on June 26, 1996. 
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Resolution the Interim Fund has been 
established, constituted of the funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association and administered by the Association acting as Administrator of the Interim 
Fund, in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;  
(B)
the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the 
Administrator to assist in the financing of the Project through the provision of 
resources from the Interim Fund, and the Administrator has determined that such 
assistance would be in accordance with the provisions of the Interim Fund Resolution;
(C)
Part C (2) of the Project will be carried out by the General Agricultural 
Cooperative (GAC) with the Borrower’s assistance and, as part of such assistance, the 
Borrower will make available to GAC a portion of the proceeds of the Interim Fund 
Credit as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Administrator has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the 
foregoing, to extend the Interim Fund Credit to the Borrower upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the Project Agreement of even date 
herewith between the Administrator and GAC;
Page  2
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set 
forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement: 
(a)
The term “Association”, wherever used in the General Conditions means the 
International Development Association acting as Administrator of the Interim Fund 
referred to in the Preamble to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement. 
(b)
The terms “Development Credit Agreement”, “Credit” and “Credit Account”, 
wherever used in the General Conditions, are amended to read “Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement”, "Interim Fund Credit” and “Interim Fund Credit Account”, 
respectively.
(c)
A new paragraph, numbered 15, is added to Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: 
“15.
“Participating Country” means any country that meets the 
requirements set 
forth in Section 5(e) of Resolution No. IDA 184 of the Board 
of Governors of the 
Association, adopted on June 26, 1996, as 
determined by the Administrator as of the date on 
which the Interim Fund Credit was 
approved pursuant to Section 5(c) of said Resolution; and 
“Participating Countries” 
means, collectively, all such countries.” 
(d)
The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
(e)
The second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read:
“Except as the Administrator and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no 
withdrawals 
shall be made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any 
country which is not 
a Participating Country or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such 
territories; or (b) for the purpose of 
any payment to persons or entities, or for any import 
of goods, if such payment 
or import, to the knowledge of the Administrator, is prohibited by 
a decision of 
the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter VII of the Charter of 
the 
United Nations.” 
(f)
In Sections 6.02 and 7.01 of the General Conditions, the term 
“Association” shall also mean the International Development Association acting in its 
own capacity.
(g)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows:
“Section 6.03.  Cancellation by the Administrator.  If (a) the right of 
the Borrower  to make withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account shall have been 
suspended with 
respect to any amount of the Interim Fund Credit for a 
continuous period of thirty days, or 
(b) at any time, the Administrator determines, 
after consultation with the Borrower, that an  amount of the Interim Fund Credit will 
not be required to finance the Project's costs to be  financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit, or (c) at any time the 
Administrator 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the 
Interim Fund Credit, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by 
representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of the Interim Fund Credit 
during the 
procurement or the execution of such contract, without the Borrower 
having taken timely and 
appropriate action satisfactory to the Administrator to 
remedy the situation, and 
establishes the amount of expenditures in 
respect of such contract which would otherwise 
have been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or (d) at 
any time, the 
Administrator determines that the procurement of any contract to be financed 
out of 
the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit is inconsistent with the procedures set forth 
or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement and establishes the 
Page  3
amount 
of expenditures in respect of such contract which would otherwise have 
been eligible for 
financing out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, or 
(e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall remain 
unwithdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account, the Administrator may, 
by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make 
withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the giving of such notice, 
such 
amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall be canceled.”
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings: 
(a)
“MAWR” means the Borrower’s Ministry of Agriculture and Water Resources; 
(b)
"GAC Legislation" means the Borrower’s Law No. 18 of 1994 according to 
which GAC has been established and is operating as a non-governmental organization; 
(c)
"ASC”, means the Agricultural Services Corporation, a semi-autonomous 
public entity established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 35, issued on 
April 15, 1991, or any successor thereto; 
(d)
“PSC” means the Potato Seed Company, a semi-autonomous public entity 
established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 35 issued on April 15, 1991, or 
any successor thereto; 
(e)
“OVSC” means the Onion and Vegetable Seed Company, a semi-autonomous 
public entity established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 35 issued on 
April 15, 1991, or any successor thereto;
(f)
“Project Support Unit” means the Unit responsible for the management of 
procurement, disbursement, accounting and auditing aspects of the Project and referred 
to in paragraph 1 of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; 
(g)
“Project Preparation Advance” means the project preparation advance 
granted by the Association to the Borrower pursuant to an exchange of letters dated 
May 15, 1997 and June 6, 1997 between the Borrower and the Association; 
(h)
“SMC” means the Seed Multiplication Corporation, a semi-autonomous public 
entity established and operating under the Borrower’s Law No. 35, issued on April 15, 
1991, or any successor thereto; 
(i)
 “Subsidiary Loan Agreement” means the agreement to be entered into 
between the Borrower and GAC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement, as the 
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules to the 
Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and 
(j)
 "Special Account" means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement.
ARTICLE II 
The Interim Fund Credit
Section 2.01. The Administrator agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, 
an amount in various currencies equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand 
Special Drawing Rights (SDR 9,200,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Interim Fund Credit may be withdrawn from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Administrator shall so agree, to be 
made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Interim Fund Credit. 
(b)
The Borrower may, for the purposes of  the Project, open and maintain in 
Page  4
Dollars a separate account in its Central Bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to 
the Administrator.  Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be 
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
Promptly after the Effective Date, the Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and pay to the Association 
the amount required to repay the principal amount of the Project Preparation Advance 
withdrawn and outstanding as of such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The 
unwithdrawn balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance shall 
thereupon be canceled. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2003 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall establish. The Administrator shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit not withdrawn from time to time at 
a rate to be set by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the 
rate of one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
(b)
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty (60) days 
after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which 
amounts shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Interim Fund Credit Account or 
canceled; and (ii) at the rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual 
date and at such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to 
paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the 
next date in that year specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
(c)
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed 
by, or in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this 
Agreement for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other 
eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected 
pursuant to the provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of 
the Interim Fund Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on April 15 and October 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower 
shall repay the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit in semiannual installments 
payable on each April 15 and October 15 commencing October 15, 2007 and ending April 
15, 2037.  Each installment to and including the installment payable on April 15, 2017 
shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter 
shall be two percent (2%) of such principal amount.
(b)
Whenever:  (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years  the 
level established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access 
the Association's resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower 
creditworthy for Bank lending, the Administrator may, subsequent to the review and 
approval thereof by the Executive Directors of the Association and after due 
consideration by the Administrator of the development of the Borrower's economy, 
modify the repayment of installments under paragraph (a) above by: (A) requiring the 
Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such installment not yet due until the 
principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit shall have been repaid; and (B) requiring 
the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in paragraph (a) above falling six 
months or more after the date on which the Administrator notifies the Borrower that 
the events set out in this paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there 
shall be a grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal.
(c)
If so requested by the Borrower, the Administrator may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of 
Page  5
the increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual 
rate agreed with the Administrator on the principal amount of the Interim Fund Credit 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the 
Administrator, such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the 
above-mentioned repayment modification. 
(d)
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Administrator may, if so requested by the Borrower, 
further modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as 
provided in paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of The United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III 
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and, to this end, without any 
limitation or restriction upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement, 
shall: (i) carry out Part A of the Project through MAWR; (ii) carry out Part B of the 
Project through the PSC, OVSC and SMC; (iii) carry out Part C (1) of the Project 
through ASC; and (iv) with respect to Part C (2) of the Project, cause GAC to perform 
in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement all the obligations of GAC 
therein set forth, all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with 
appropriate administrative, environmental, and agricultural practices, and shall take 
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, 
services and other resources required for the Project and necessary or appropriate to 
enable GAC to perform such obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any 
action which would prevent or interfere with such performance. 
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Borrower and the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower 
shall carry out the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
(c)
The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit 
allocated from time to time to Category (2) (b) of the table set forth in Paragraph 1 
of Schedule 1 to this Agreement to GAC under a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered 
into between the Borrower and GAC, under terms and conditions which shall have been 
approved by the Administrator and which shall include the following terms and 
conditions: (i) the Borrower shall relend said proceeds in Yemeni Rials, converted at 
the market rate of exchange in effect on the date of disbursements under the 
Subsidiary Loan, (ii) repayments of principal under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement 
shall be made in twenty-six equal semi-annual installments, commencing on April 15, 
1999, and ending on October 15, 2012; and (iii) interest charges shall be paid on the 
principal amount of the Subsidiary Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at 
a market rate of interest equal to the rate of the longest term of Treasury Securities 
issued by the Government of Yemen plus a premium of 0.25 percent and on the same dates 
stipulated under Section 2.06 of  this  Agreement. 
(d) 
The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the 
Administrator and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit, and except as the 
Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or 
waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works, and consultants' services required for the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Borrower shall: 
Page  6
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or 
such later date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Administrator, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and 
(b)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with 
the Borrower on said plan. 
Section 3.04. The Borrower and the Administrator hereby agree that the 
obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General 
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, 
records and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of 
Part C (2) of the Project shall be carried out by GAC pursuant to Section 2.03 of the 
Project Agreement. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records 
and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or 
agencies of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof, 
including the operations and financial condition of PSC, OVSC, SMC and ASC.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section and 
PSC’s, OVSC’s, SMC’s and ASC’s financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) and the records and 
accounts pertaining to the Special 
Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, the report 
of such audit by 
said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as 
the Administrator shall 
have reasonably requested, and certified 
copies of the financial statements of 
PSC, OVSC, SMC and ASC for such 
year as so audited; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records 
and accounts and the audit thereof as the Administrator 
shall from time to 
time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Interim 
Fund Credit Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower 
shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph 
(a) of this 
Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Administrator has 
received the audit 
report for the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account was made, all records 
(contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Administrator’s representatives to examine such 
records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the 
report of such audit 
contains a separate opinion by said auditors 
as to whether the statements of 
expenditure submitted during such fiscal 
year, together with the procedures 
and internal controls involved in 
Page  7
their preparation, can be relied upon to 
support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Other Covenants
Section 5.01.  The Borrower shall cause PSC, OVSC, SMC and ASC:
(a)
to take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or to make other 
provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks and in 
such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice;
(b)
to carry on their respective operations and conduct their respective 
affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial, engineering and 
environmental practices under the supervision of qualified and experienced management 
assisted by competent staff in adequate numbers; and
(c)
at all times to operate and to maintain their respective plants, 
machinery, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, to 
make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound 
engineering and financial practices.
ARTICLE VI
Remedies of the Association and the Administrator
Section 6.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
that GAC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(b)
As a result of events which have occurred after the date of the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen which 
shall make it improbable that GAC will be able to perform its obligations under the 
Project Agreement.
(c)
GAC Legislation shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed 
or waived so as to affect materially and adversely the ability of GAC to perform any 
of its obligations under the Project Agreement.
(d)
the Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction shall have taken 
any action for the dissolution or disestablishment of GAC or for the suspension of its 
operations.
Section 6.02.  Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
the event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 6.01 shall occur and 
shall continue for a period of sixty (60) days after notice thereof shall have been 
given by the Administrator to the Borrower and GAC.
(b)
any events specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of Section 6.01 of this 
Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VII 
Effective Date; Termination 
Designation of Administrator 
Section 7.01. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Administrator, namely that the Project Agreement 
has been duly authorized or ratified by GAC, and is legally binding upon GAC in 
accordance with its terms.
Page  8
Section 7.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is 
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
Section 7.03.  In the event that the Executive Directors of the Association 
decide to terminate the functions of the Association as administrator of the Interim 
Fund pursuant to Section 7 of the Interim Fund Resolution, all of the rights and 
obligations of the Administrator under this Agreement shall be assumed by the 
Association in accordance with the Interim Fund Resolution and such decision of said 
Executive Directors, as of a date to be notified by the Administrator to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VIII 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses 
Section 8.01. The Minister of Planning and Development of the Borrower is 
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the 
General Conditions.
Section 8.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministry of Planning and Development
P.O. Box 175
Sana'a
Republic of Yemen
Cable address: 
Telex:
CENPLAN
2266
Sana’a
CENPLAN YE
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
REPUBLIC OF YEMEN
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
as Administrator of the interim trust fund established with
funds contributed by certain members of
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution
No. IDA 184 of the Board of  Governors of International
Development Association
Page  9
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Interim Fund 
Credit to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed 
in each Category:
Amount of the
   Interim Fund Credit
   Allocated
   % of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
      SDR Equivalent)
to be Financed
(1)
Civil Works under Parts
    600,000
90%
B(2) and C(1)
(2)
(a) Equipment, Vehicles
  4,600,000
100% of foreign
and Inputs under Parts
expenditures; 100%
A(3), B and C(1)
of local 
expenditures
(ex-factory cost);
(b) Equipment, Vehicles
  1,400,000
and 90% of local
and Inputs under Part C
expenditures for 
(2)
other items pro-
cured locally
(3)
Operating Costs of the
    200,000
90%
Project Support Unit
(4)
Consultants' Services
  1,300,000
100%
and Training
(5)
Refunding of Project
    200,000
Amount due 
pursuant
Preparation Advance
to Section 2.02 (c)
of this Agreement
(6)
Unallocated
    900,000
TOTAL
  9,200,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; 
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;  and
(c)
the term "Operating Costs" means the expenses of the Project Support Unit 
incurred on account of support to project implementation, management and monitoring, 
including staff allowances, office equipment and supplies.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of: (a) payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this 
Agreement; (b)  expenditures under Category 2(b) until the Association has received 
satisfactory evidence that the Subsidiary Loan Agreement to be entered into between 
the Borrower and GAC pursuant to Section 3.01(c) of this Agreement has been executed 
Page  10
on behalf of, and is legally binding upon, the Borrower and GAC.
4.
The Administrator may require withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account 
to be made on the basis of statements of expenditure: (a) for expenditures under 
contracts for works costing less than $75,000 equivalent; (b) for expenditures under 
contracts for goods costing less than $75,000 equivalent; (c) for expenditures for 
services under contracts for the employment of consulting firms costing less than 
$100,000 equivalent; (d) for expenditures for services under contracts for the 
employment of individuals costing less than $50,000 equivalent; (e) for expenditures 
for Operating Costs; and (f) for expenditures for training, under such terms and 
conditions as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project 
The objective of the Project is to improve agricultural productivity of rainfed 
and irrigated crops through the development of a sustainable system for supply and use 
of seed of adapted varieties, fertilizers and other inputs.
The Project consists of the following Parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Administrator may agree upon from time to time to 
achieve such objectives:
Part A:
Private Sector Promotion and Quality Control 
1.
Creation of a National Seed Board as a consultative body to advise the Minister 
of Agriculture and Water Resources on seed policy issues and varietal registration. 
2.
Provision of grant funding to assist private operators in undertaking investment 
feasibility studies for the investment in seeds and fertilizers. 
3.
Development of the capacity of the MAWR’s General Directorate of Plant 
Production to establish a seed and fertilizer quality control system and to carry out 
a media campaign for promoting the use of quality seeds.  
Part B:
Seed Development Support 
1.
Collection, evaluation, selection, development and production of breeder and 
foundation seed for superior land races and varieties in rainfed and irrigated crops.
2.
Improving the management and performance of the PSC, the OVSC, and the SMC 
through restructuring and rehabilitation of existing seed treatment facilities, 
upgrading of seed testing and production equipment, and assistance in enterprise 
management.
Part C:
Input Supply Expansion 
1.
Strengthening the ASC in the supply and distribution of fertilizer and other 
agricultural inputs through provision of fertilizer and other agricultural inputs, 
transport equipment, storage facilities, training and assistance in enterprise 
management. 
2.
Support for the initial operation of GAC in order to foster competition in the 
agricultural inputs sector through provision of fertilizer, spare parts and other 
agricultural inputs, transport equipment, storage facilities, training, and  
assistance in enterprise management. 
*   *   *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2002.
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement  
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Page  11
Part A:
General 
Subject to the eligibility restrictions set forth in Section III of this 
Schedule, goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
Section I of the “Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” 
published by the Bank in January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of this Section.
Part B:
International Competitive Bidding 
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto. 
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B. 
(a)
Grouping of Contracts 
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages 
estimated to cost $100,000 equivalent or more each. 
(b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured 
Goods and Domestic 
Contractors 
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 
thereto shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower and works 
to be carried out by domestic contractors.
(c)
Notification and Advertising
The invitation to prequalify or bid for each contract estimated to cost 
$10,000,000 equivalent or more shall be advertised in accordance with the procedures 
applicable to large contracts under paragraph 2.8 of the Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures 
1.
National Competitive Bidding
Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 5 of this Part C, works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 
and 3.4 of the Guidelines.
2.
International Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed  $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of international shopping procedures in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
3.
National Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,300,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
awarded on the basis of national shopping procedures in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
4.
Direct Contracting
Goods which must be purchased from the original supplier to be compatible with 
existing equipment or are of a proprietary nature and costing $1,200,000 equivalent or 
less in the aggregate, may, with the Administrator's prior agreement, be procured in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 3.7 of the Guidelines.
5.
Procurement of Small Works
Page  12
Works estimated to cost less than $50,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $100,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, 
fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) 
qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation 
shall include a detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the 
required completion date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Administrator, 
and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be made to the contractor who 
offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the experience 
and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for 
contracts, the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and works shall 
be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been approved by 
the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review 
With respect to each contract for goods and works estimated to cost the 
equivalent of $75,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of 
Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
Part A:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of 
Consultants by World Bank Borrowers” published by the Association in January 1997 (the 
Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B:
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services 
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section 
II of the Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 
thereto, and the provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to 
quality- and cost-based selection of consultants.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to consultants’ services to be procured 
under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph.  
The short list of consultants for services for auditing, variety testing and 
accounting services, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may 
comprise entirely national consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 
2.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part C:
Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1. Individual 
Consultants
Services for accounting, marketing, computer operation, finance, legal, quality 
control and testing, privatization, monitoring and evaluation, and training shall be 
procured under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
Part D:
Review by the Administrator of the Selection of Consultants
Page  13
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed 
plan for the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the 
Administrator for its review and approval, in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ 
services shall be undertaken in accordance with such selection plan as shall have been 
approved by the Administrator, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$100,000 or more, but less than the equivalent of $150,000, the procedures set forth 
in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the second subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract estimated to cost the equivalent of 
$150,000 or more and each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in 
paragraphs 1, 2 (other than the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of 
Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the 
procedures set forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
Section III.
Eligibility Restrictions
1.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.6 of the Guidelines, the proceeds 
of the Interim Fund Credit may only be withdrawn on account of expenditures for goods 
and works provided by nationals of, and produced in or supplied from, Participating 
Countries; consequently, nationals of countries that are not Participating Countries 
and bidders offering goods and works from such countries shall be disqualified from 
bidding for such contracts, and the bidding documents shall so specify.
2.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1.02 of the Consultant Guidelines, 
only consultants from Participating Countries shall be eligible to provide services 
financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit.
SCHEDULE 4
Implementation Program
1.
For the purpose of ensuring the proper supervision and execution of the Project, 
the Borrower shall maintain the Project Support Unit throughout Project implementation 
with organization, staffing, budget and terms of reference satisfactory to the 
Administrator.   The Project Support Unit shall be headed by a Director who shall be 
assisted by a team comprising procurement officers and accountants.  In particular, 
the Project Support Unit shall be vested responsibility for: (i) all procurement 
aspects of works, goods and services contracts for the agencies of the Borrower 
responsible for carrying out the Project; (ii) the management of disbursements, 
including the Special Account and the preparation of all required documentation for 
payments from the Special Account; (iii) the maintenance of Project accounts and their 
accounting and auditing; and (iv) the consolidation, for submission to IDA, of all 
Project reports. 
2.
For the purpose of providing policy advice to the Minister of MAWR on the seed 
sector, the Borrower shall establish by December 31, 1998, and thereafter maintain the 
National Seed Board, with representation from  non-governmental organizations, traders 
and farmers.
3.
The Borrower shall ensure that the proceeds of the sale of fertilizers, spare 
parts and other inputs, together with the Yemeni Rial equivalent of the cost of 
vehicles financed under Part C(1) of the Project, are provided by December 31, 1999 as 
an equity contribution to ASC’s capital.
Page  14
4.
By December 31, 2001, the Borrower shall offer part or all, as shall be agreed 
with the Administrator, of ASC, PSC and OVSC for sale through a public announcement.
5.
The Borrower shall ensure that PSC, OVSC and SMC determine, pursuant to a 
program agreed with the Administrator, and thereafter provide severance payments to 
redundant workers in a manner satisfactory to the Administrator.  The Borrower shall 
obtain commitments from the PSC, OVSC and SMC that: (i) they will not permit their 
respective permanent staff to exceed such maximum levels acceptable to the 
Administrator as are required for the cost-effective operation of such enterprises; 
and (ii) they will not rehire workers who have received severance packages.
6.
The Borrower shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives 
thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about April 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 2000, or such later date as 
the Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this 
Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient 
completion of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the 
conclusions and recommendations of the said report and the Administrator’s views on 
the matter.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1), (2), (3), and (4) 
set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000 
to be withdrawn from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless 
the Administrator shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to 
an amount equivalent to $500,000 until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the 
Interim Fund Credit Account plus the total amount of all outstanding special 
commitments entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $1,500,000.
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible 
expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Administrator has received evidence satisfactory to it that the 
Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Borrower shall furnish 
to the Administrator a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an 
amount or amounts which do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized 
Page  15
Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests, the Administrator shall, on 
behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund Credit Account and deposit into 
the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall 
furnish to the 
Administrator requests for deposits into the Special 
Account at such intervals 
as the Administrator shall specify. 
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall 
furnish to 
the Administrator the documents and other evidence required 
pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or 
payments in respect of which 
replenishment is requested. On the basis 
of each such request, the 
Administrator shall, on behalf of 
the Borrower, withdraw from the Interim Fund 
Credit Account and deposit 
into the  Special Account such amount as the 
Borrower shall have 
requested and as shall have been shown by said documents 
and other 
evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for eligible 
expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Administrator from 
the Interim Fund Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and 
in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by 
said 
documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the Borrower 
shall, at such time as the Administrator shall reasonably request, furnish to the 
Administrator such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made 
exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the 
Administrator shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have determined that all further 
withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly from the Interim Fund Credit 
Account in accordance with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and 
paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Administrator, within 
the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the 
audit reports required to be furnished to the Administrator pursuant to said Section 
in respect of the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Administrator shall have notified the Borrower of 
its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to make 
withdrawals from the Interim Fund Credit Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to 
the eligible Categories, minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments 
entered into by the Administrator pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions 
with respect to the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Interim Fund Credit Account of the remaining 
unwithdrawn amount of the Interim Fund Credit allocated to the eligible Categories 
shall follow such procedures as the Administrator shall specify by notice to the 
Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the 
Administrator shall have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in 
the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in making payments 
for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any payment 
out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not 
eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Administrator, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from 
the Administrator: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Administrator may 
request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Administrator shall so 
request, refund to the Administrator) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or 
the portion thereof not so eligible or justified. Unless the Administrator shall 
Page  16
otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Administrator into Special Account shall be 
made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Administrator shall have determined at any time that any amount 
outstanding in the Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for 
eligible expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the 
Administrator, refund to the Administrator such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Administrator, refund to the 
Administrator all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Administrator made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and 
(c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Interim Fund Credit Account for 
subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions 
of this Agreement, including the General Conditions.
