Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N034-YEM
Project Agreement
(Seeds and Agricultural Services Project)
between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members of 
International Development Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 
of the Board of Governors of International Development 
Association and GENERAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE
Dated September 12, 1997
INTERIM FUND CREDIT NUMBER N034-YEM 
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated September 12, 1997, between INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT 
ASSOCIATION (the Association) as administrator (the Administrator) of the interim 
trust fund (Interim Fund) established with funds contributed by certain members of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 (the Interim Fund Resolution) of the 
Board of Governors of the Association, adopted on June 26, 1996 and GENERAL 
AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE (GAC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement of even date 
herewith between The Republic of Yemen (the Borrower) and the Administrator, the 
Administrator has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in various 
currencies equivalent to nine million two hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR9,200,000) on the terms and conditions set forth in the Interim Fund Development 
Credit Agreement, but only on conditions that GAC agree to undertake such obligations 
toward the Administrator as are set forth in this Agreement;
(B)
by a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower 
and GAC, a portion of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit provided for under the 
Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement will be made available to GAC on the terms 
and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Loan Agreement; and
WHEREAS GAC, in consideration of the Administrator’s entering into the Interim 
Fund Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the 
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, the Preamble to this Agreement and 
in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein set 
forth.
Page  2
ARTICLE II
Execution of Part C (2) of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) GAC declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project 
as set forth in Schedule 2 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement, and, to 
this end, shall carry out Part C (2) of the Project with due diligence and efficiency 
and in conformity with appropriate administrative, financial, and agricultural 
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds, 
facilities, services and other resources required for Part C (2) of the Project.
(b)
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section 
and except as the Administrator and GAC shall otherwise agree, GAC shall carry out 
Part C (2) of the Project in accordance with the Implementation Program set forth in 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, procurement of 
the goods, works and consultants' services required for Part C (2) of the Project and 
to be financed out of the proceeds of the Interim Fund Credit shall be governed by the 
provisions of Schedule 3 to the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.03. (a) GAC shall carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 
9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to 
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports, 
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement 
and Part C (2) of the Project.
(b)
For the purposes of Section 9.07 of the General Conditions and without
limitation thereto, GAC shall:
(i)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the 
Administrator and 
furnish to the Administrator not later than 
six (6) months after the Closing 
Date or such later date as may be agreed 
for this purpose between the 
Administrator and GAC, a plan for 
the future operation of Part C (2) of the 
Project; and
(ii)
afford the Administrator a reasonable opportunity to exchange 
views with GAC 
on said plan.
Section 2.04. GAC shall duly perform all its obligations under the Subsidiary 
Loan Agreement.  Except as the Administrator shall otherwise agree, GAC shall not take 
or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning 
or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) GAC shall, at the request of the Administrator, exchange views 
with the Administrator with regard to the progress of Part C (2) of the Project, the 
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan 
Agreement, and other matters relating to the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit.
(b)
GAC shall promptly inform the Administrator of any condition which 
interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of Part C (2) of the Project, 
the accomplishment of the purposes of the Interim Fund Credit, or the performance by 
GAC of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of GAC
Section 3.01. GAC shall carry on its operations and conduct its affairs in 
accordance with sound administrative, financial and agricultural practices under the 
supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted by competent staff in 
adequate numbers.
Section 3.02. GAC shall at all times operate and maintain its plant, machinery, 
equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all 
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering, 
Page  3
financial and agricultural practices.
Section 3.03. GAC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers, or make 
other provision satisfactory to the Administrator for, insurance against such risks 
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) GAC shall maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in 
accordance with sound accounting practices its operations and financial condition.
(b)
GAC shall:
(i)
have its records, accounts and financial statements (balance 
sheets, 
statements of income and expenses and related 
statements) for each fiscal year 
audited, in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently 
applied, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Administrator;
(ii)
furnish to the Administrator as soon as available, but in any case 
not later 
than six months after the end of each such year, (A) 
certified copies of its 
financial statements for such year as so 
audited and (B) the report of such 
audit by said auditors of such 
scope and in such detail as the Administrator 
shall have reasonably 
requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Administrator such other information concerning 
said records, 
accounts and financial statements as well as the 
audit thereof, as the 
Administrator shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination; 
Cancellation and Suspension 
Designation of Administrator
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date upon 
which the Interim Fund Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Administrator and of GAC 
thereunder shall terminate on the date on which the Interim Fund Development Credit 
Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its terms.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force 
and effect notwithstanding any cancellation or suspension under the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or made 
under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated by this 
Agreement shall be in writing.  Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been 
duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable, 
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted to be given or 
made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such 
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making such 
request.  The addresses so specified are:
For the Association and the Administrator:
International Development Association 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Page  4
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America
Cable address: 
Telex:
INDEVAS
248423 (MCI) or
Washington, D.C.
 64145 (MCI)
For GAC:
Tripoli Street
Sherazon Circle
P.O. Box 20433
Sana’a
Republic of Yemen
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any document 
required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf of GAC may be 
taken or executed by the President of its Board of Directors or such other person or 
persons as GAC shall designate in writing, and GAC shall furnish to the Administrator 
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of each 
such person.
Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of 
which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year first above 
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION as Administrator of the 
interim 
trust fund established with funds contributed by certain members 
of the 
Association pursuant to Resolution No. IDA 184 of the 
Board of Governors 
of the Association
By /s/ Inder K. Sud 
Acting Regional Vice President 
Middle East and North Africa
GENERAL AGRICULTURAL COOPERATIVE
By /s/ Abdulwahab Al-Hajjri 
Authorized Representative
SCHEDULE I
Implementation Program
1.
(a)
GAC shall procure fertilizer, spare parts, and other agricultural inputs 
for the purpose of resale to agricultural cooperatives and private traders, under the 
arrangement, described in this paragraph;
(b)
GAC shall take all necessary measures to ensure that: (i) such 
agricultural inputs are sold to the farmers at market prices by the agricultural 
Page  5
cooperatives and the private traders; (ii)  prices of agricultural inputs distributed 
to the public at large shall not exceed two percent of the prices of such inputs that 
are charged to its cooperative members; and (iii) the net proceeds of the sales of 
such agricultural inputs are remitted to GAC by the respective agricultural 
cooperatives and private traders.
(c)
GAC shall: (i) deposit such proceeds into an account to be established at 
a commercial bank satisfactory to the Administrator; and (ii) use such proceeds for 
the regular importation and distribution of agricultural inputs, including a minimum 
of 4,000 tons of fertilizers annually.
2.
GAC shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with indicators satisfactory to the 
Administrator, the carrying out of Part C (2) of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof,
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Administrator, and 
furnish to the Administrator, on or about April 30, 2000, a report integrating the 
results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph 
(a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in the carrying out of the Project 
during the period preceding the date of said report and setting out the measures 
recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and
(c)
review with the Administrator, by June 30, 2000 or such later date as the 
Administrator shall request, the report referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, 
and, thereafter, take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and 
recommendations of the said report and the Administrator's views on the matter.
