Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.: 17868
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
May 12, 1998
Environmentally and Socially Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
Brazil Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean Region
|This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the|
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENC-Y EQUIVALENTS
Local Currency Unit:      Cruzado (Cz$)'
Rate at Appraisal:        US$1.00 -  Cz$16.5
Cz$1.00 =  US$0.0606
Cz$l million = US$60,606
Rate at Completion:       US$1.00 = R$0.970
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
BCR             Borrower Completion Report
CONASAN         National Commission for Animal Health
EEC             European Economic Community
FAO/CP          Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
FEPS            Final Executive Project Summary
FMD             Foot and Mouth Disease
GOB             Government of Brazil
IDB             Inter-American Development Bank
IERR            Internal Economic Rate of return
IICA            International Institute for Cooperation in Agriculture
LANARA          Department of Animal Disease Laboratories (MAG)
MAG             Ministry of Agriculture
NGO             Non-Governmental Organization
SDSA            Department of Animal Health Protection (MAG)
IJNDP           United Nations Development Program
The Cruzado (Cz$) was introduced in 1986, followed by another new currency, the Real (R$) in 1994.
Vice President        Shahid Javed Burki
Sector Director       Maritta Koch-Weser
Country Director      Gobind T. Nankani
Staff Member          Raimundo Caminha



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page No.
PREFACE .......................................................i
EVALUATION  SUMMARY  ........................................................... iii
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT ............................................................1
A. Background ...........................................................1l
B. Project Objectives, Components and Design .............................................................2
C. Achievement of Project Objectives ............................................................6
D. The Implementation Record ............................................................                                 11
E. Use of Consultants ...........................................................                                         15
F. Project Sustainability and Future Operations ...........................................................               15
G. Bank Performance ...........................................................                                           15
H. Borrower Performance ...........................................................                                       16
I. Assessment of Outcome ...........................................................                                      18
J. Findings, Lessons and Future Actions ...........................................................                       19
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION ...........................................................                                       21
Table 1. Summary of Assessments ...........................................................                              21
Table 2. Related Bank Loans ...........................................................                                  23
Table 3. Project Timetable ...........................................................                                   23
Table 4. Loan Disbursements: Cumulative Estimated and Actual .............................................. 24
Table 5. Key Indicators for Project Implementation ............................................................            25
Table 6. Studies Included in Project ............................................................                        28
Table 7. Project Costs and Financing ...........................................................                         29
Table 8. Status of Legal Covenants ...........................................................                           30
Table 9. Project Costs and Benefits ...........................................................                          33
Table 10. Bank Resources: Staff Inputs ...........................................................                        33
Table 11. Bank Resources: Missions ...........................................................                           34
Table 12. Brazil: Cattle Herd - Numbers by Participating State, 1987-1996                                   . .    35
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



TABLE OF CONTENTS
(Continued)
Page No.
Table 13. Brazil: Cattle Herd - Slaughter Rates, 1987-1996 ........................................................ 36
Table 14. Brazil: Beef Production - Participating Regions/States, 1987-1996 ............................. 37
Table 15. Brazil: Estimated Beef Yields, Participating Regions/States, 1987-1996   ................. 38
Table 16. Brazil: Imports and Exports of Beef, 1987-1995 .......................................................... 39
Table 17. Brazil: Milk Production by Region/State, 1990-1996 .................................................. 40
Table 18. Brazil: Production, Trade and Consumption of Pork, 1988-1997 ................................ 41
Table 19. Brazil: Swine Numbers, Production, Trade and Consumption, 1986-1995 ................. 42
Table 20. Brazil: Swine Herd by State, 1987-1996 ...............................................................      43
Table 21. Brazil: Poultry Production, Trade and Consumption, 1986-1995 ................................ 44
Table 22. Brazil: Comparative Exports - Beef, Chicken and Pork, 1987-1996 ............................ 45
Table 23. Brazil: Production, Exports and Consumption of Poultry meat, 1988-1997 ................ 46
Table 24. Brazil: Vaccination Coverage against FMD, 1987-1996 .............................................. 47
Table 25. Brazil: Herds Affected and Registered Morbidity Rate, FMD, 1986-1996 .................. 47
Table 26. Herds Affected and Morbidity Rates (FMD) by Livestock Circuit, 1994-1996 ........... 48
Annex A: The Livestock Disease Economic Relationship ........................................................... 49
Annex B:  Bovine Herd and FMD  Vaccinations, 1987-1997 ....................................................... 50
APPENDIX I:  Aide Memoire, ICR Mission
APPENDIX II: Borrower Contribution to ICR
APPENDIX  III:  Brazil: Agricultural Regions
MAP:                   IBRD No. 20399



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Livestock Disease
Control Project, for which Loan 2864-BR in the amount of US$5 1.0 million was
approved by the Board on June 30, 1987, and became effective on October 27, 1987.
2.    The Closing Date was extended by a total of 36 months and the Loan closed on
March 31, 1997. Total disbursements were US$41.0 million and final disbursement took
place on December 27, 1997.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Anna Roumani of the Latin America and Caribbean
Socially and Environmentally Sustainable Development Sector Management Unit
(LCSES) of the Latin America and Caribbean Region (LCR) in collaboration with
Raimundo Caminha of the Bank's Recife Office (LCSRE). The ICR was reviewed by
Luis Coirolo, Team Leader (LCSES); Michael Carroll (LCSES) and Edward Bresnyan
(LCSES).
4.    The ICR is based on material in the Project file, discussions with Bank staff and
consultants who worked on the Project, and a Borrower Completion Report (BCR) by the
Ministry of Agriculture. The BCR is on file and available in the LAC Information
Services Center.






- iii -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Introduction
1.    The Livestock Disease Control Project (Ln. 2864-BR) was the first Bank-
supported, free-standing animal health project in Brazil and the first to use the Ministry of
Agriculture (MAG) for direct implementation. The project was initiated in 1983 on the
basis of a proposal from the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning (SEPLAN) which
outlined a strategy for eliminating Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) as a factor influencing
cattle production, productivity and exports. During the protracted preparation phase,
project scope was broadened to include other livestock subsectors (swine and poultry), its
focus shifted from the veterinary to institution-building, and its geographic concentration
settled on the major livestock producing states chiefly in the South and Center-West. In
the decade up to initiation in 1983, the export value of livestock products had risen from
US$100 million to US$800 million; annual losses from disease (death and reduced
output) were estimated at roughly US$368.0 million. With government prioritizing
foreign exchange earnings -- which required that Brazilian animal products have disease-
free certification for access -- and increased domestic consumption of livestock products,
the importance of this project was clear.
Project Objectives
2.    As stated in the Memorandum of the President (MOP), the Project was an
institutional development operation to improve essential federal and state animal health
services for cattle, swine and poultry, the objective being to increase productivity by
decreasing production losses due to disease. The Project would assist MAG to transform
existing federal and state veterinary departments into modern, cost-effective services
capable of efficient disease surveillance and control.
3.    Project objectives were supported by four components: (i) strengthening MAG's
Department of Animal Health Protection (SDSA), by recruiting and training staff,
management training, consultants and purchase of equipment (21% of project costs); (ii)
strengthening 15 state veterinary services through training of staff and management and
purchase of equipment (29% of project costs); (iii) increasing and improving the quality
of staff at nine federal laboratories of the Department of Animal Disease Laboratories



- iv -
(LANARA) through limited recruitment, training and consultants (37% of project costs);
and (iv) building up physical facilities (plant and equipment) at nine federal laboratories,
one state laboratory, the Pan-American Center for Foot and Mouth Disease and four
quarantine stations (13% of project costs). Total project cost was estimated at US$108.4
million including contingencies, with a Bank loan of US$5 1.0 million.
4.    The SAR correctly listed inexperienced project management and scarce domestic
funding as potential risks, making liberal provision for technical assistance and training to
combat the former; and securing official assurances that funding would be provided in the
case of the latter.
Implementation Experience and Results
5.    Project execution up to 1994 was delayed and disrupted by economic and fiscal
crises which caused chronic and damaging shortages of counterpart funds. Adding to the
project's difficulties, a series of administrative reforms which ensued from the
introduction of a new Federal Constitution in 1988, dismantled or overhauled many
federal agencies, creating confusion and insecurity in the public sector. The project was
designed and approved prior to 1988, and its overly centralized and bureaucratic
management structure, procurement procedures and funding machinery ran counter to the
new constitutionally-mandated decentralization which transferred revenues and key
responsibilities to states and municipalities. This period of political, economic and social
change in Brazil largely overshadowed the concerns of individual projects.
6.    These events had a direct negative impact on the project. Procurement of
equipment and civil works was badly delayed and costs escalated. Field staff lacked
vehicles, equipment and per diems. Training programs could not proceed. Planned
recruitment was foiled by a public sector hiring freeze, while better-qualified
professionals defected to the private sector. The project was constantly preoccupied with
shortages of trained people. Project monitoring, evaluation and reporting obligations
were not fulfilled. Operation and maintenance stalled, requiring the destruction of most
of the experimental herds in certain key centers, losses requiring years to rebuild.
Laboratory activities ceased for lack of repairs and spare parts. Institutional factors also
played a part. Bureaucratic delays resulted from centralized, duplicative and inefficient
administrative and financial procedures, exacerbated by internal rivalries for control of
the project, within MAG. Labor unrest and strikes beset MAG, creating an unsettling
context for an institution-strengthening project and preventing even basic, essential
activities. Despite tremendous efforts by the states to maintain pace, the animal health
services system weakened.
7.    A Mid-Term Review in 1990 developed a strategy to revitalize the project, which
had disbursed only US$7.0 million, 29% of the Loan. Project objectives were
reconfirmed, management was re-structured, scope was reduced somewhat through a
concentration of project activities and the roles of the public and private sectors were
clarified. Private sector participation was encouraged and information systems stressed.



v -
Although performance improved, accumulated delays could not be recouped, funding
again stagnated and the operation was listed as a "problem project" in the Bank due to
unresolved funding issues.
8.    This prompted the Ministry of Agriculture to propose and the Bank to
immediately support, a radical reformulation of the project. Prospects for success,
including funding availability, had sharply improved and the Bank saw the reformulation
as part of a general overhaul of the non-performing Brazil portfolio. Project objectives
remained the same but fundamental changes were made in project organization through
the decentralization of animal health services to the states, municipalities and the private
sector. Further, project activities were tightly focused on a short list of critically
important diseases in cattle, swine and poultry; specific targets and strategies including
geographical focus were established for each disease. Salaries and civil works were no
longer funded. Animal disease protection responsibilities were clearly divided between
the Federal Government and the states.
9.    The factors which finally galvanized the project and resulted in its satisfactory
outcome were: reformulation; Closing Date extensions totaling 36 months; the financial
contribution of participating states; macro-economic stability; and Federal Government
commitment to regular counterpart funding. While disease eradication and control is
only one of many inputs affecting livestock productivity, available data suggest
improvement occurred in all major cattle states participating in the project, and that swine
and poultry production benefited in important ways, although the latter made less
progress than anticipated and merits special attention.
10.   Disease control achievements included: (i) vaccination coverage for FMD
nationwide reached 88.5% by end-1996; (ii) notified outbreaks decreased from 1,699 to
215 nationwide, with mortality dropping from 0.71/100,000 to 0.06/100,000; (iii) states
of Santa Catarina, Rio Grande do Sul and Parana are officially FMD-free; (iv) the
Southern region was certified free of Classic Swine Fever; and (v) Brazil now has a
nationwide epidemiological vigilance system incorporating 1800 local animal health
offices; (vi) qualitative gains included new analytical methodologies for disease diagnosis
and production of vaccines. Even more important was the dramatic impact on export
access for Brazilian livestock products provided by project-supported disease control and
eradication actions, including opening the US market to Brazilian beef, and admission of
the State of Mato Grosso to the EEC beef market..
Sustainability and Future Operations
11.   Sustainability of the processes launched in the final two years depends on two
lines of action: (i) institutional reforms in the Ministry of Agriculture initiated in the
second half of 1997 and still ongoing. The reform would transfer many of MAG's
activities to states and municipalities, incorporate the private sector and grant
administrative and financial autonomy to a reformed MAG; and (ii) develop and execute
a follow-up project whose scope and objectives would expand, deepen and complete



- vi -
initiatives launched under the first operation. The Federal Government has requested a
new project for animal and plant disease control, characterised by continued
decentralization of programs/actions and greater private sector participation, and focusing
closely on important animal and plant export products.
Project Costs, Financing and Timetables
12.   Total project cost was US$86.9 million compared to the US$108.4 million
estimated at appraisal. Bank loan funds represented US$41.0 million and the national
counterpart contribution (federal and state governments) was US$45.9 million. The sum
of US$10.0 million was canceled from the Loan in 1994 to coincide with effectiveness of
the reformulated project. The project exceeded its original implementation schedule by
36 months, the Closing Date having been extended from March 31, 1994 to March 31,
1997.
Loan Covenants
13.   The more important Loan covenants were: (i) Borrower's obligation to provide
the funds, facilities and services for the project (Section 3.01); (ii) Borrower's obligation
to purchase or assign vehicles to the project (Section 3.09); (iii) agreements between the
Borrower (through MAG) and participating states for inter alia, transfer of funds to state
veterinary services; (iv) Mid-Term Review (Section 3.06 (b) and (c)); and (v) to institute
a fee system covering the full operational cost of quarantine facilities and full cost of
product registration. Compliance was seriously deficient on (i), (ii) and (iii) up to 1994
when performance improved sharply. The Mid-Term Review was carried out ahead of
schedule and adjustments were made to the project to improve performance. In the case
of (v) a revised service fee system was introduced but subsequently revoked by Congress.
Operational costs were subsequently covered by farmer associations and the states.
Performance of the Bank and the Borrower
14.   Bank Performance. The Bank's preparation and appraisal of the project were
satisfactory. Sweeping changes and economic crises which disrupted the project could
not have been foreseen. The Bank was aware of the counterpart funding risks and
attempted to secure the flow of funds but measures taken were inadequate to counter the
tide of events. The centralized nature of the project was not a negotiable design feature in
Brazil prior to 1988 and the economic and political conditions were incompatible with the
kind of sweeping reformulation needed to ensure project success, until 1993/94. The
decision to reformulate and the nature of the changes were fully justified by the outcome,
but much remains to be done. Situations arose which might have been handled
differently and/or resolved earlier, by the Bank.
15.   Project supervision was regular and high quality, attempting to improve project
performance whenever possible. The nature and regularity of supervision shifted after



- vii -
1992 as task management changed hands several times and a dialogue started with the
Borrower on reformulation. Once reformulation was launched, supervision resumed a
norrnal schedule.
16.   Borrower Performance. Borrower commitment to the project pre-
reformulation was eroded by fiscal, economic and political factors over which individual
public agencies had little control. Moreover, MAG had pre-existing institutional
problems which were magnified by the difficult environment, and lacked experience.
MAG's administrative and financial procedures were rigid and outdated; internal
struggles for control of the project strained relations between key project departnents.
Even after reformulation, MAG's commitment to the new, decentralized project
organizational structure was weak. The Institutional Development Unit for regular
project management was itself a new structure, its functions and responsibilities were not
well understood, and its control of the project was eroded by the administrative reforms
affecting the public sector after 1988. Fundamental and successful changes instituted in
1993 saw management transferred to the Department of Animal Protection, simplified
processes introduced for release of funds, standardized reporting, and greater integration
of field work with basic operations. This lightened the management burden and
permitted a smaller, more agile unit and smoother, improved performance.
Project Outcome
17.   The project Staff Appraisal Report did not include an Internal Economic Rate of
Return (IERR). There is therefore no rate of return recalculated for this ICR. The project
is assessed as having reached its development objectives, and is rated Satisfactory.
Summary of Findings, Lessons and Future Actions
18.   Main Findings. Several key findings emerge from this assessment: (i) the
project acquired real momentum from the moment it narrowed down and concentrated its
activities on those diseases with greater significance for exports and domestic
consumption; (ii) reformulation can significantly change the course of a project if its
timing, design and implementation strategy fit the political and economic environment in
the borrowing country; (iii) flexible, less bureaucratic procedures for the release of
resources to the participating states, as well as permitting their funding contributions to
be counted as national counterpart, were crucial for speeding up the project and
disbursements; (iv) bringing in the private sector as a matter of strategy and through
specific mechanisms has great potential, and increased the dynamism and transparency of
the project, while convincing MAG that many animal health activities could be carried
out directly by private agents and were not the exclusive domain of government; and (v)
the epidemiological monitoring and information system, even with its limitations,
pennitted judgments about project impact, garnered political attention and commitment to
project objectives, and provided data by which major areas could be classified "disease
free" for export purposes, by international authorities.



- viii -
19.   Lessons. The main lessons are:
(a)   Livestock and plant disease control programs should be linked to a
government strategy which specifies the policy position for the
agricultural sector including the livestock and plant subsectors, and its
links to export growth, and shows concrete evidence of being carried out;
(b)   The importance of government commitment to project objectives cannot
be overstated. The public goods nature of agricultural disease protection
warrants significant continued involvement of both federal and state
governments. Regardless of the degree of decentralization, govemment's
role is to provide leadership, policy guidance and direction; define
standards and norms; promote participation of stakeholders and manage
resources efficiently. Roles/responsibilities of the public/private sector
must be clearly-defined;
(c)   State level producer associations and municipalities have tremendous
potential to participate with government in animal and plant disease
control/eradication programs but this needs simpler, more practical
mechanisms which avoid legal and operational difficulties;
(d)   Project organizational structure and lines of responsibility must be simple,
clear and rational, heeding political realities and the incentives system
affecting the performance of public and other agencies. Project
coordinating units should stress decentralized operations, simplified
processes and lean staffing;
(e)   Project monitoring and evaluation is vital for determining project impact
for strategy and planning purposes. Demands on project
agencies/technical units should be balanced against their capacity and
willingness to carry them out. Project design and supervision should build
commitment to the rationale and methodologies for good M&E throughout
the project cycle, and follow its execution closely to maintain timeliness
and quality; and
(f)    A Project Operating Manual, with comprehensive rules and norms for
project operation, and flexible enough to permit project modification, can
be an important factor in spreading the idea and initiating the practice of
decentralization.
20.   Future Actions. The experience of this project suggests a strategy for future
investment which combines institutional reform decentralizing MAG's animal and plant
health protection service function to the states and municipalities, and seeks substantial
private sector involvement including tllrough partnerships with public entities. This
strategy would concentrate activities in programs likely to have greatest impact on
productivity and export competitiveness within the GATT and MERCOSUR framework;



- ix -
on maintaining agriculture's share of GDP; and on facing the challenge of non-tariff
barriers (international sanitary and phyto-sanitary regulations) which limit Brazil's
participation in global markets.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
A. BACKGROUND
1.    The Livestock Disease Control Project (Ln. 2864-BR) initiated in 1983, was the
first Bank-supported, free-standing animal health project in Brazil and the first to use the
Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) for direct implementation. Based initially on a proposal
from the Ministries of Agriculture and Planning (SEPLAN) outlining a strategy for
eliminating Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) as a factor influencing livestock production,
productivity and exports, project scope was subsequently broadened to include the swine
and poultry subsectors. The focus shifted from the veterinary to institution-building for
economic ends, and geographic concentration settled on the major livestock producing
states chiefly in the South and Center-West. The project encountered an exceptionally
difficult implementing environment and was reformulated in 1994, as outlined further on
in this report.
2.    By 1983, Brazil's livestock industry was contributing about 30% of agricultural
GDP and livestock products accounted for 7% of agricultural exports. In the decade up to
1983, the export value of livestock products had risen from US$100 million to US$800
million, of which two-thirds was beef and the rest poultry. Pork exports were small. The
project teani estimated annual losses from disease to be about US$368.0 million.3
Government policy put a high priority on increased agricultural output and productivity,
stressing expanded cost-effective investment in agricultural intensification -- through
irrigation, marketing and storage, agricultural research and animal disease control --as
opposed to expansion of the agricultural frontier. The Project was consistent with
Government's National Development Plan (1986-1989) in seeking to enhance economic
development, domestic food consumption and foreign exchange generation; and with the
Bank's agricultural lending strategy for Brazil.
3.    Bank Involvement in the Agricultural Sector. At the time of Project appraisal,
the Bank's extensive involvement in agricultural and rural development comprised 41
2  The Ministry of Agriculture was renamed several times in the project period. To avoid confusion the
ministry is generically termed MAG throughout.
The actual "costs" of disease go well beyond their direct impact in terms of deaths and reduced
output, including resource use in control and prevention.



-2-
loans totaling about US$3.3 billion. These included: an agricultural credit and export
loan (US$303.0 million; one credit and marketing reform loan of US$500 million and a
supplemental financing loan (US$30.5 million) under the Special Action Program; three
agro-industrial loans (totaling US$519.2 million); two livestock development loans
(US$60.5 million); a grain storage operation (US$18.2 million); two agricultural
research loans (US$100.0 million); two agricultural extension loans (US$255.0 million);
the Land Tenure Improvement Project (US$ 100.0 million); and 27 loans totaling
US$1,382.2 million for various settlement, irrigation and rural development projects,
located mainly in the Northeast.
4.    OED audit analysis of the First and Interim Second Livestock Development
Projects (516-BR and 868-BR), designed to increase beef and wool production through
provision of long-term credit and technical assistance, showed that the Bank and
Borrower differed significantly on interest rate indexation and other issues, which led to
the cancellation and pre-payment of both loans by 1978.4
B. PROJECT OBJECTIVES, COMPONENTS AND DESIGN
5.    The Project was an institutional development operation to improve essential
federal and state animal health services for cattle, swine and poultry, the objective being
to increase productivity by decreasing production losses due to disease.5 The Project
would assist the Ministry of Agriculture (MAG) in transforming existing federal and state
veterinary departments into modem, cost-effective service providers, enhancing their
capacity in disease surveillance and control.
6.    To achieve these objectives, the Project would: (i) strengthen MAG's Department
for Animal Health Protection (SDSA), through recruitment and training of staff,
management training, employment of consultants and purchase of field equipment
(US$22.8 million, 21% of project costs); (ii) strengthen 15 state veterinary services
through training (staff and management) and purchase of equipment (US$31.7 million,
29% of project costs); (iii) increase and improve the quality of staff at nine federal
laboratories belonging to the Department of Animal Disease Laboratories (LANARA),
through limited recruitment, training and the use of consultants (US$40.0 million, 37% of
project costs); and (iv) build up the physical facilities (plant and equipment) at the nine
federal laboratories, one state laboratory in the State of Rio Grande do Sul, the Pan-
American Center for Foot and Mouth Disease and four quarantine stations. This would
reduce the chance of virus escape, improve quality control of vaccines, improve
diagnostic facilities and reduce the chances of introducing diseases from other countries
In addition, a first-phase FMD control project (1974-77) partially funded by the IDB, had faltered due
to poor execution which saw the loan fully-committed in the first two years, skewed towards capital
investments and burdened with problems of quality control of commercially-produced vaccines. This
project did nevertheless, achieve and sustain measurable impact on animal disease incidence.
Memorandum of the President (MOP).



-3 -
(US$13.9 million, 13% of project costs). Total project cost was estimated at US$108.4
million (including contingencies), with the Bank financing 47% (US$5 1.0 million).
7.     Strategy and Approach. The project strategy was to expand the geographic
coverage of existing FMD programs with the longer-term goal of complete eradication.6
Many countries had 100% vaccination coverage, while Brazil's was stated to be about
80%, (later revised to 50% by FAO/CP). A differentiated approach was used based on
ecological zones, FMD infection levels and regional characteristics influencing
control/eradication. This selective area approach was supported by the Bank as both
logical and widely-proven to control disease. The Southern and Center-West zones had
better prospects for successfully implementing controls and generated about 70% of
Brazilian livestock production. The project focused on the following states: Rio Grande
do Sul, Santa Catarina and Parana (South); Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and
Espirito Santo (Southeast); Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias and the Federal
District (Center-West); and Pemambuco, Ceara, Bahia and Sergipe (Northeast). The
actual list of diseases (and types of animals) covered was extensive.7 The Project
stressed: preventive veterinary services; improving quality controls on animal vaccines
and drugs; more effectively curbing the spread of disease outbreaks; improving the
diagnostic capacity of laboratories; and evaluating the costs/benefits of alternative disease
control strategies. These functions would complement a strong private sector made up of
veterinary practices and private commercial laboratories manufacturing animal vaccines
and drugs.
8.     The project was expected to have quick impact on herd growth and reproduction,
and generate a high financial rate of return, estimated during preparation at between 15-
25%. Constructing this number proved to be difficult and its importance was later
eclipsed in favor of institution-building, educating the sectoral bureaucracy and livestock
producers, and domestic/international marketing issues. The Project was not founded
upon a national livestock strategy, which essentially did not exist. It was believed that
project objectives were valid and pressing in their own right.8 The critical point was that
improved disease status -- the "disease free" certification -- would reduce import barriers
for Brazilian livestock products.
9.     Project Risk Assessment. The SAR correctly listed inexperienced project
management and scarce domestic funding as potential risks. Managerial risks were
expected to be minimized through the creation of an institutional developmnent unit, with
6   The concept of total eradication was viewed skeptically by the scientific community, but the endemic
nature of the disease was so low at the time that the prospect of complete eradication in expanded
areas seemed reasonable, while other areas previously unattended would be brought in for the first
time.
7   It included: FMD, brucellosis, rabies, Swine Fever, Newcastle Disease, infectious bronchitis, Marek's
Disease, Aujesky's Disease, CRD, mycoplasmosis and salmonellosis.
8   The Borrower was required to prepare a medium-term sectoral strategy for bank review by May 1988.



-4 -
training and consultant services to build capacity. The resource risk would be reduced
through adequate start-up funding and official assurances of continuous counterpart
support.
10.   In terms of quality at entry, several aspects of project design subsequently
affected project execution. In some cases, design was flawed; in others, the
implementation environment simply overwhelmed what otherwise might have been
reasonable requirements.
11.   Project organization and management were highly centralized, consistent with
Government's dominant control of the development agenda and arena in that period.
Lines of communication within the Ministry of Agriculture and to state laboratories and
veterinary services, were cumbersome. The project broke new ground by giving direct
implementation responsibility to a major government ministry. To achieve project
objectives, the national system of animal disease laboratories (LANARA) was
subordinated to MAG's Department of Animal Health Protection (SDSA), which was to
manage the project. This contradicted a project tenet that implementation take place
through existing structures, which would be strengthened, avoiding the creation of short-
term, project-specific bodies. Moreover, this unit could not insulate the project from
generalized deficiencies in the ministerial bureaucracy, political struggles for control of
the project (including between SDSA and LANARA), or the overall context. In any case,
it was unreasonable to expect a unit or a ministry to launch and sustain good project
execution if it simultaneously required significant training to achieve this.
12.   Concerns about counterpart funding (CPF) capacity were expressed throughout
the loan processing cycle, reflecting the funding history of many Bank-supported projects
in Brazil, the vulnerability of an institution-building project dependent on timely,
adequate funding for salaries, training, acquisitions and fieldwork to achieve its
objectives, and existing economic conditions.9 Loan Committee comments on the project
Board package called for the initial payment of government's share into a special
revolving account, as a condition of Loan effectiveness.'0 However, Government had
consistently resisted such arrangements on grounds of their incompatibility with Brazilian
budgetary procedures. Government agreed at negotiations to submit evidence, as a
condition of effectiveness, that it had adequate budgetary resources for the project for the
remainder of 1987 and all of 1998. The fragility of these arrangements under economic
and fiscal pressures was apparent soon after effectiveness.
13.   The Borrower's Completion Report (BCR) cites states' contributions to project
financing not being counted against counterpart funding (CPF) obligations, as a design
issue which affected the project adversely. Only the federal budgetary allocation was
9   Project Brief July 1 1, 1984. FAO/CP appraisal team suggested scaling the project down to
accommodate funding constraints by either eliminating some programs or restricting geographical
coverage.
Loan Committee comments, January 8, 1987.



-5 -
considered as CPF whereas counting state, municipal and private funds as national
counterpart provided they were incremental over the without-project situation, would
have been sensible. Moreover, fiscal reforms in 1988 put the states in better condition to
contribute and not removing this constraint early on seemed a missed opportunity to
speed up disbursements. The problem was resolved in 1994 by having participating
states provide CPF for all non-federal activities under the project, through
Decentralization Agreements with the Federal Government. Government retained its
obligation to provide all CPF but it was limited in practice to only those expenditures
made for its own activities.
14.   The planned strengthening of federal and state field services entailed increasing
the mobility of staff and their time spent in the field, improving the availability of
equipment for field work, and expanding outreach, education programs and training.
However, Government import restrictions at appraisal precluded Loan financing for
needed vehicles and computer equipment and they were not factored into project cost
(para. 52). Nevertheless, the Loan Agreement (Section 3.09 and Schedule 6) required the
Borrower to purchase or assign some 989 vehicles for the project. Strict curbs on public
spending prevented their purchase. Vehicle reassignment became the only option but
performance was poor. Lack of vehicles, and computers, seriously hindered the project
and even when import curbs were lifted in 1992 and the Loan Agreement was amended
to permit their purchase, budgetary and other obstacles continued to delay their
acquisition.
15.   Institutional analysis showed the need to hire technical professionals for animal
disease/veterinary services which were understaffed, potentially affecting project success.
Incremental staffing represented 28% of total project costs, and was to be financed on a
declining percentage scale (60-60-30-30-10) over five years, with Government gradually
assuming recurrent funding in order to ensure sustainability once the project closed. The
declining scale tended to make such funding more palatable in the Bank at the time of
project appraisal but it could not guarantee that government would commit to hiring or
funding these staff either during or after the project.
16.   Project design called for elaborate monitoring and evaluation arrangements -- an
integral part of the institutional goals of the project -- which pre-supposed considerable
technical sophistication, computer equipment and systems, staffing and funding. The
SAR cites developing and improving the capacity to collect data to support more reliable
monitoring of progress against disease occurrences, detection of epidemiological trends,
estimates of productivity impacts, and cost-effective allocations of disease control
resources, as a "main objective of the project" (SAR Annex 4). Even more
comprehensive data was to be collected for impact evaluation purposes. This vision of
M&E greatly exceeded the institutional capacity to carry it out, especially in the
disruptive environment.



-6 -
C. ACHIEVEMENT OF PROJECT OBJECTIVES
17.   The Project had two distinct implementation periods, having been reformulated in
1994 due to the many implementation problems resulting from inadequate and erratic
counterpart funding -- the result of macroeconomic and fiscal crises -- and the Project's
centralized, bureaucratic structure. Project objectivesper se, did not change at
reformulation but the strategy for their achievement, did. Project activities were re-
focused on control or eradication of those diseases with greatest impact on domestic
consumption and exports, reducing the role of the federal government, increasing the
states' responsibilities and instituting cost-sharing and private sector involvement in
disease control and eradication. The additional implementing time provided by
extensions totaling 36 months, increased the reformulated project's chances of achieving
its objectives. While implementation in the post-reformulation period was undeniably
more dynamic and successful, significant achievements were also registered in the period
prior to 1993, despite the difficult environrnent.
18.   Due to the mix of data available in terms of periods covered, not all project
achievements fall neatly into a pre-and post-reformulation format. Key aspects of
successful disease control sprang from earlier programs upon which the project built
through a more focused, strengthened series of activities and thus the full project period is
used to show evidence of productivity gains.
19.   Achievements Pre-Reformulation (1987-1993). Weak M&E, inadequate
reporting systems and lack of vehicles and computers prior to 1994 combined to limit
data availability, but the following was achieved. In the States of Parana, Santa Catarina
and Rio Grande do Sul, where systematic eradication campaigns were carried out, the
number of FMD outbreaks in cattle fell to almost zero from 1990 to 1993. For Classic
Swine Fever, the Southern Region became a disease-free zone, with no outbreaks beyond
1990, and a fund was established to compensate producers forced to destroy animals
diagnosed with this disease. Mato Grosso do Sul was admitted to the EEC beef market
following a 1991 field inspection. The American market opened to Brazilian beef for the
first time in 13 years because of strict residue control measures. Qualitative gains
included the instilling of new analytical methodologies for controlling the quality of
inputs and livestock products, for disease diagnosis, and the production of basic reagents.
20.   Achievements of the Project Overall. Animal disease eradication and control
are only two of many factors influencing livestock productivity. Available data suggest
productivity has improved in all major cattle states participating in the project, and that
swine and poultry production benefited in important ways, although the latter had less
success than expected and merits further attention. The SAR did not analytically establish
a clear connection between disease and productivity, and in fact such efforts have been
scant even among the economics fraternity. For purposes of this report, a range of
available productivity indicators are presented and in Annex A, pertinent aspects of a
recent paper which attempts to launch discussion on this subject, are summarized.



-7 -
21.   Cattle/Beef. Beef production has steadily increased in the period 1987 to 1996
(Table 12). There has been a modest annual growth in the carcass weight of slaughtered
animals, reflecting inter alia, increased productivity and the use of heavier breeds of
cattle. Numbers of animals slaughtered has also increased. Yields of Brazilian cattle
have also increased since 1987 (Table 15) indicating technological advances which
include disease control and eradication. There has also been a reduction in the rate of
growth of the national herd from 1995 to 1996 (0.46%) compared to 1.09% from 1994 to
1995 (Table 12). This slowdown suggests that through increases in productivity it is
possible to increase overall production while simultaneously reducing the size of the
herd. This has in turn, reduced pressure to expand the agricultural frontier and the herd
size, which requires high levels of investment. Further, the rate of slaughter (defined as
the number of head slaughtered divided by the total cattle herd), has been increasing
steadily since 1987 (Table 13). This might represent productivity gains (reduced average
age of slaughter) and/or a tendency for the herd to stabilize through reduced retention of
females. Finally, milk production, typically suppressed in diseased cows, has increased
steadily since 1990, with large increases in states of the Center-West and South attributed
by industry personnel to sharply decreased incidence of FMD (Table 17).
22.   Swine/Pork. Slaughter yields (carcass weight equivalent/CWE) have risen
modestly in the period 1986 to 1995. Consumption per capita has almost doubled since
1986. Exports of swine products have multiplied sixfold in the same period. From the
balance sheet on swine production (Table 19), the rate of increase in the herd can be
compared with yields, imports and exports, and per capita consumption. The greater
growtlh in the latter compared to very modest herd increases is a significant indicator of
better productivity. Interesting results are also evident from a comparison of selected
indicators for 1996 relative to the same indicators in the SAR: (i) time taken to reach
90kg liveweight under intensive production went from 5.5 months at appraisal, to 4.8
months at end-1996; (ii) average carcass weight yield per head rose from 65kg to 105 kg;
and (iii) pigs weaned per sow/year increased from 7 to 20. Reduced incidence of disease
stemming from the project played a modest though important role in these improvements
for swine, being one input among many. The more dramatic effect was achieving
international recognition for areas officially free of Swine Fever, which permitted access
to important markets. To be competitive, producers were obliged to adopt modern,
technically sophisticated methods. Traditional producers were unable to export.
23.   Poultry. While consumption of poultry products has almost quadrupled since
1986, the project had only limited success in imposing systematic controls on the diseases
targeted. Nevertheless, Brazil has moved in the past decade to become one of the top
three exporters of chicken worldwide. This resulted specifically from strides in the
eradication of salmonella, which does not affect productivity but does impact seriously on
public health, as the United States has recently experienced. Production of chicken has
almost doubled in the period 1986-1995. Among the more significant indicators of better
productivity: (i) the feed conversion ratio (feed intake/weight gain) rose from 1.85 at
appraisal, to 2.25 in 1996; (ii) age at slaughter (1.60 kg) was reduced to 45 days,
compared to 54 days; (iii) death losses over 8 weeks growth period ranged from 1.8% to



- 8 -
3.0% and in 1996, over six weeks, ranged from 0.5% to 0.8%, an important indicator; and
(iv) the carcass condemnation rate (all causes) declined sharply from 1.6% to 0.5% by
1996 Tables 21-23).
24.   Control/Eradication of Disease. Under the reformulation strategy, the program
to eradicate FMD in cattle involved establishing a network of public and private entities
comprising producer committees and associations, private veterinarians, rural unions,
cooperatives and municipal governments. All were to share responsibility for the
planning, execution, evaluation and financing of animal health services. Promotion of
FMD eradication in partnership with the public sector was the task of a new entity, the
National Commission for Animal Health (CONASAN). In practice, the participation of
producers and agro-industry resulted in a strengthening of animal health organizations,
with a direct impact on vaccination indices and coverage, timely notification of
outbreaks, and significant reductions in FMD incidence.
25.   Notable achievements, especially in states of Santa Catarina and Mato Grosso
included: (i) setting up funds for livestock loss indemnification; (ii) establishing posts for
control and inspection of animals in transit; (iii) leveraging financial resources for
vaccination efforts; (iv) broadening of health surveillance at the municipal level; (v)
increase in the speed of disease outbreak notifications; and (vi) greater agility in
information dissemination concerning health measures. Vaccination coverage for FMD
nationwide reached 88.5% by end of 1996, of a cattle herd of about 115 million head,
compared to 64% of a 55 million head herd in 1987.'1 1Similarly, in 1986 some 1,699
herds were notified as having outbreaks, showing a rate of infection of 4.22 diseased
animals per 10,000 and a mortality rate of 0.71 per 100,000; in 1996, some 215 herds
were notified with FMD outbreaks, with 0.36 animals affected per herd, and mortality of
0.06 per 100,000 (Table 24).
26.   To fulfill the longer-term goal of total eradication nationwide, a methodology
developed by the Pan-American FMD Center was applied to defining the livestock
12
production circuit by region , and a timetable for FMD eradication: (i) South: absence
of clinical cases by December 1994 and eradication by December 1997; (ii) Center-West
and East: elimination of clinical cases by December 1997 and eradication by December
2000; and (iii) North and Northeast: absence of clinical cases by December 2000 and
eradication by December 2005. The end product to date is that the states of Rio Grande
do Sul and Santa Catarina are officially FMD-free.
Source: Borrower Completion Report, 1997.
12  Methodology developed by the Pan-American Center for FMD, based on describing the
characteristics of livestock organization/husbandry and comparing these with the movement of cattle.
This permits the definition of livestock by region, identifying so-called "circuits" which are relatively
independent from each other with respect to the various stages of the production process (and can cut
across state boundaries), and using these circuits as the basis for FMD eradication programs.



9-
27.   In terms of FMD epidemiological vigilance capability, Brazil now has a
nationwide system incorporating some 1800 local animal health offices and 27 based in
state capitals. Information is gathered from private veterinary personnel, abattoir
inspection staff and public animal health personnel and sent monthly to state and federal
centers. With regard to biosecurity targets, the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
Catarina and Parana have, since early 1995, in keeping with their disease-free status and
to prevent virus escape, been prohibited from handling FMD virus in laboratories and all
stocks maintained have been pulled.
28.   Program for Eradicating Classic Swine Fever. Participatory state councils for
swine health were established in eight states13, comprising swine producer associations,
associated agro-industries, exporter groups, research bodies and academia, to provide
technical support to the eradication effort, including publicity and training. Funds of
exclusively private origin had already been established in several states as early as 1992
to indemnify herds against outbreaks. To maintain the fund, abattoirs, producers and
industries contributed the cash equivalent of 1 50g of meat per live animal, divided 50/50
between producers and abattoirs/industry.
29.   Swine vaccination activities were essentially the second, control stage of a long-
standing program which resulted in 1984, in Brazil being declared free of African Swine
Fever. Certification of vaccination was required for the transport and slaughter of swine,
which resulted in an impressive reduction in outbreaks and levels of health compatible
with disease control. The reformulated project altered this strategy somewhat, by
suspending vaccination in 380 municipalities in the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa
Catarina and Parana, and introducing a three-part strategy which gradually incorporated
new municipalities and was based on: areas without vaccination; areas with obligatory
vaccination; and areas with voluntary vaccination. In the states of Rio Grande do Sul,
Parana, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul and Mato Grosso, measurable economic
benefits resulted from this strategy, reflected in reduced production costs from the
suspension of the vaccination requirement, while laboratories producing vaccines
increased their production for newly-incorporated areas, and for external markets.
30.   Incidence of Classic Swine Fever. From 1994 onwards (largely as a result of
efforts in the period pre-reformulation), the following states were certified free of this
disease: Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Parana, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul
and Mato Grosso. This situation provided Government with the justification for
legislating specific health measures for epidemiological surveillance, and to declare the
Southern Region of the country free of Swine Fever. The program also made significant
gains against Swine Fever nationwide.
31.   Newcastle Disease, Mycoplasmosis and Salmonellosis in Poultry. This
program was only partly successful in controlling the most important diseases affecting
13 Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Mato Grosso do Sul, Mato Grosso,
Goias and the Federal District.



- 10-
the poultry trade and human health and renewed effort is needed. Achievements included
the following: significant legislation dealing with diagnostic quality; accreditation and
supervision of diagnostic laboratories for Salmonellosis and Mycoplasmosis; and
technical standards for control or eradication of Newcastle disease and Mycoplasmosis.
Other actions included: establishing a pilot information system for diagnostic laboratories
in Campinas (State of Sao Paulo), Recife (State of Pernambuco) and elsewhere; and
approval by MERCOSUL of a resolution addressing standards for hygiene and health
controls for poultry breeding establishments involved in trade within MERCOSUL
countries. Newcastle disease in Brazil is restricted to certain regions which are not part
of the principal producing states and its incidence is usually confined to small subsistence
farrns. States of Rio Grande do Sul and Santa Catarina have not registered outbreaks for
at least 10 years.
32.   Institution-building and decentralization (the latter after 1994) were the bases
upon which the project was to achieve its objectives. Among the more important
institution-building achievements of the project were: (i) introduction of procedures for
decentralization affecting planning, the flow of resources, and linkages to the states, some
municipalities and the private sector; (ii) introduction of a system of epidemiological
monitoring which became important for furnishing data to international institutions
responsible for determining the disease status of key livestock regions/areas. The project
was never able to achieve significant impact on the contracting and retention of
permanent staff, due to legal limitations on their hiring. However, valuable experiences
were transferred to the project through contracted specialist consultants including the
Pan-American Center for FMD, FAO, IICA and UNDP, and Brazilian universities.
33.   The planned decentralization of resources and responsibilities for animal health
systems to associations and municipalities as contemplated by the reformulation, made
only modest headway. The objective remains valid and should be a core component of a
new disease control operation. At the state level, decentralization was limited to
participating states which worked actively to form the state Animal Health Councils
required for eligibility. Few producer/industry associations (mainly in Sao Paulo and
Mato Grosso do Sul) achieved the status intended. Time was too short to adequately
mobilize for participation. The eligibility requirements presented certain legal and
bureaucratic difficulties not rapidly resolved. Municipalities had to form Municipal
Animal Health Councils, while associations and municipalities needed to sign
Decentralization Agreements with the state govermments to access funding for their
"Animal Health Project"'4, which in turn needed prior approval of the relevant state
animal health agency.
34.   Nevertheless, municipal councils, even when not receiving project funds, assumed
a decisive role in establishing goals/targets and in providing training, supervision and
mobilization of vaccination and other campaigns. They were also instrumental in
garnering private funds to cover the costs of compensating producers for the destruction
14 Typically, a vaccination campaign.



of diseased and/or suspected infected animals. The project fostered promising alliances
among public and private entities to share resources and effort. These need renewed
support to realize their potential.
D. THE IMPLEMENTATION RECORD
35.   Project execution up to 1994 was delayed and disrupted by macroeconomic and
fiscal crises which caused chronic and damaging shortages of counterpart funds. Adding
to the project's difficulties, a series of administrative reforms which followed the
introduction of a new Federal Constitution in 1988, dismantled or overhauled many
federal agencies, creating confusion and insecurity in the public sector. Further, the
project was designed and approved before the new Constitution, and its overly
centralized and bureaucratic management structure, procurement procedures and funding
machinery ran counter to the new, Constitutionally-mandated decentralization which
transferred revenues and key responsibilities to states and municipalities. This period of
significant political, economic and social change in Brazil largely overshadowed the
concerns of individual projects.
36.   These events had a direct, negative impact on all project activities. Procurement
of equipment and civil works were profoundly delayed and escalated in cost far beyond
appraisal estimates even in dollar terms. Field staff lacked vehicles, equipment and per
diems. Training programs could not proceed, severely affecting the project's institutional
goals. Planned recruitment was foiled by a public sector hiring freeze, while better-
qualified technical and other personnel defected to the private sector. Project monitoring,
evaluation and reporting obligations were not fulfilled. Operation and maintenance was
completely stalled requiring the destruction of most of the experimental herds based in
Porto Alegre and Campinas, losses requiring years to rebuild. Laboratory activities
ceased for lack of spare parts and repairs. Under these circumstances, the project was
harnpered by not counting states' contributions to project financing as part of CPF.
Following fiscal reforms in 1988, the states were in a much better position to contribute,
which would have boosted CPF and hence disbursement of the Loan.
37.   Institutional factors also played a part in retarding the project. Bureaucratic
delays resulted from duplicative, complex and inefficient administrative and financial
procedures. Within MAG, centralized project administration, chronic staffing problems
and internal rivalries resulted in poor implementation performance. MAG was beset by
labor unrest and strikes (especially of administrative and support staff) which created an
unsettling context for an institutional strengthening project and prevented basic activities
(reporting, auditing, annual operating plans, data collection and management). Fiscal
austerity and a hiring freeze (already in place at project effectiveness) hampered efforts to
hire staff and the personal intervention of the Brazilian President was needed. Even so,
technicians hired by the project were not given civil service status, and in the uncertain
institutional environment combined with poor salaries and incentives, many returned to
the private sector soon after completing their training. This kept the project constantly
preoccupied with shortages of trained people. Private sector livestock producers and



- 12-
their associations, meat processors and exporters had far less involvement than envisaged
at appraisal. Despite tremendous efforts at the state level to maintain some impetus.
Progress was negligible and the animal health services system steadily weakened.
38.   Mid-Term Review. A Mid-Term Review was initiated in 1990 to develop a
strategy for revitalizing the project. Disbursements were only US$7.0 million instead of
the projected US$24.0 million. Complete reformulation was not contemplated during
this review. Rather, project objectives were reconfirned with agreement to interpret
them flexibly. Project management was re-structured in line with ongoing institutional
changes in MAG. Scope was somewhat reduced through a concentration of project
activities. Respective roles of the public and private sectors were better defined and
private sector participation was increased. Information/data systems were emphasized for
strategic planning, regulation and standards. The federal veterinary laboratory system
(LANARA) was reduced from 16 to five laboratories with activities classified into three
lines of action: essential; strategic and supplementary. No further recruitment of
personnel was contemplated.
39.   Revisions to the project and improved counterpart funding upgraded the project
to a rating of Satisfactory by 1991 but accumulated delays could not be recouped, funding
again stagnated due to a newly-imposed budget freeze and inability of project
management to secure the signing of termos aditivos with participating states -- the key
mechanism for transferring funds to the animal health field services. The operation was
listed as a "problem project" in the Bank due to unresolved funding issues.
40.   The original project components (pre-reformulation) essentially comprised
training, recruitment, consultant services, and purchase of equipment/plant. Data
available is not broken down by component but is an aggregate listing of targets reached.
In the period 1987-1993: (i) 128 high level and support professionals were hired, with
special approval of the Brazilian President; (ii) about 200 professionals were trained in
specialist activities relating to planning and coordination for animal health laboratories;
(iii) support was enlisted of some 800 veterinarians and 10,000 field support personnel,
mid-level technicians, vaccination technicians and administrators, in participating states;
(iv) 20 man-years of consultant services were provided in bio-security, epidemiology and
data processing; (v) some 8,700 seminars (palestras?) in animal health education and
communications for about 250,000 livestock producers; (vi) civil works added 6,000 sq.
m. of space to laboratories and quarantine facilities, about 70% of target; and (vii) part of
the required laboratory equipment and 346 vehicles for field work were acquired.'
41.   Project Reformulation. The project was reformulated in 1994 as part of a
general overhaul of the non-performing portion of the Bank's Brazil portfolio and
because conditions for success had improved: Governmient commitment, a strong and
15  The Loan Agreement was amended in 1992 to permit acquisition of vehicles and computer
equipment. About one-third of needed vehicles were acquired and computers were still in bidding
procedures at project closing.



- 13 -
dynamnic team in MAG, the continued relevance of project objectives, and the availability
of counterpart funding. The importance of livestock production and exports to the
Brazilian economy was acknowledged, with a then-recent EEC ban on meat exports from
the State of Goias still fresh in mind. The reformulation adopted a new concept of project
implementation and the structure of animal health services in general. By March 31, 1994
(original Closing Date) the project had disbursed only US$17. 4 million (34% of the
Loan).
42.   Project objectives remained the same but fundamental changes were made in
project organization through the decentralization of animal health services from the
federal level to the states, and from states to municipalities, while project activities were
concentrated tightly on: (i) the eradication of FMD in cattle and Hog Cholera (Classical
Swine Fever) in swine; and (ii) control of Newcastle Disease, Mycoplasmosis and
Salmonellosis in poultry. Specific targets and strategies, including geographical focus,
were established for each disease.16 The States of Roraima and Tocantins were added,
while the States of CearA, Pemambuco and Sergipe no longer actively participated. The
project would no longer fund salaries or civil works. 17 The Closing Date was extended to
March 31, 1996 and effectiveness of the reformulation (October 1994) was accompanied
by the cancellation of US$10.0 million from the Loan.
43.   Decentralization of animal disease protection responsibilities resulted in the
following division of responsibilities among federal and state governments: (i) Federal
Government: central monitoring of epidemics and endemic diseases; provision of
reference laboratory services for diagnosis and production of reference biological
materials; licensing of veterinary products and laboratories; drafting legislation and
issuance of norms for animal health, and their enforcement; control of animal imports for
potential diseases; and information campaigns and strategic planning for disease control.
MAG retained responsibility for project supervision and providing Loan funds to states,
but would not any more itself carry out campaigns. Federal level coordination of the
project rested with the National Department for Animal Health in MAG; and (ii) States:
local epidemiological vigilance; prevention and eradication of exotic diseases and animal
health emergencies (vaccination campaigns); routine laboratory diagnostics; routine
quality control of veterinary, livestock and animal feed products, and routine research of
biological residues; and coordination of production and trade in inputs and services for
livestock production.
44.   The states would provide the counterpart funds necessary for all non-federal
activities under the project. The obligation of the federal government to provide all
counterpart funds would be retained, but limited in practice to only expenditures made for
its own activities. This was intended to remove a major obstacle regarding state
contributions to counterpart funding not being counted in total counterpart, and more
16  Reformulation and amendment memorandum, April 8, 1994.
7  Except conclusion of virus proofing Pedro Leopoldo Laboratory.



- 14 -
adequately reflect the constitutionally-mandated fiscal decentralization to state and local
governments. Vaccination campaigns would be contracted out by state veterinary
agencies to private producer associations and municipalities. Relatively complex
eligibility requirements were established to govern the participation of municipalities and
producer/industry associations. Municipalities had to allocate budget for campaigns.
Vaccines were to be provided free to small producers to avoid their jeopardizing disease
control efforts through non-participation.
45.   The national information system on animal diseases would be modernized and
computerized; performance indicators for activities, results and impact were included;
and an Operating Manual established, with criteria and procedures for state
implementation of the project. Along with the original livestock strategy study, the
reformulation included several other studies with implications for future efforts to
develop animal disease control/eradication capacity nation-wide.
46.   The reformulated project encountered initial obstacles stemming from a changed
Federal Governnment; slow release of funds (despite some US$25.0 having been allocated
in the federal budget) due to bureaucratic procedures imposed by the National Treasury
(STN) and the administration of MAG; and resistance in MAG to decentralization of the
project. The Project Coordinating Unit (PCU) was reluctant to promote the concept and
enforce the carrying out of planned activities by farmer associations and municipalities.
Once these constraints were resolved, the project gained momentum -- implementation
benchmarks were achieved, disbursements almost tripled by the end of December 1996,
and production losses from disease in cattle and swine populations were sharply reduced.
47.   Studies. Achievements with regard to studies were as follows: (i) Pre-
reformulation: The original project called only for a study to develop a medium-term
strategy for the livestock sector. The first phase report was received by the Bank in
October 1988; the second phase was not prepared. In June 1990 the Bank issued a Green
Cover sector report "Key Policy Issues in the Livestock Sector" which was discussed
with Government; (ii) Post-reformulation: The diagnosis of animal health in the
Northeast was completed in 1994. It demonstrated that dispersion of herds associated
with lack of producer organizations, worked against direct action targeted at the control
or eradication of important diseases. Recommended actions included the reduction of
voluntary vaccination and prohibition of exports to other areas; (iii) The study to define
operational alternatives for the national laboratories was concluded in 1995, and
recommended the transfer of 4 of the 10 laboratories to the states; another three would be
converted to national reference laboratories and three could be privatized or closed.
These recommendations have not been carried out and are awaiting conclusion of the
reform of MAG (June 1998); (iv) Other studies during implementation resulted in:
definition of livestock cycles (circuito) for the purposes of disease control strategies;
gradual establishment of strategic zones for the eradication and control of principal
diseases; setting up of sanitary barriers to control the traffic/flow of animals;
epidemiological survey of the regions with largest herds; and definition of areas of
livestock production influenced by MERCOSUL.



- 15 -
E. USE OF CONSULTANTS
48.   Specialized consultant services were to be hired for strengthening SDSA and
LANARA. Reductions in personnel due to downsizing, freezes on hiring, and retirement,
meant consultants were a crucial resource for continuing the project and carrying out
specific activities. Using FAO, IICA, UNDP and other sources, contracting external
consultants services was able to cope with Brazilian legal restrictions and in this way,
ended the friction which had developed between the bureaucracy of MAG and the Bank
over hiring essential staff to execute the project. In practice, these institutions served to
bypass the immense Brazilian bureaucracy while maintaining effective service delivery to
the project.
49.   The BCR lists a large and varied program of basic training and study events
carried out with technical assistance contracted from universities and institutions both in
Brazil and externally. In a second stage, the focus was on advanced methodologies in
diagnosis of disease and controls on food products, and on courses in statistics, computers
and foreign languages. The third and final phase consultancies focused on priority areas
established by the reformulation, and on the quality of analysis and laboratory bio-
security. Performance was generally very satisfactory.
F. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY AND FUTURE OPERATIONS
50.   Sustainability of the processes set in motion in the final two years of the project
depends on two lines of action: (i) institutional reforms in the Ministry of Agriculture,
initiated in the second half of 1997 and still ongoing. The reform would transfer many of
the ministry's activities to states and municipalities, incorporate the participation of
producers, and make Government procedures more flexible through a reformed federal
agriculture agency with administrative and financial autonomy; and (ii) once the reform is
completed, developing and executing a follow-on project whose scope and objectives
would expand, deepen and complete initiatives launched under the first operation. The
Federal Government has requested Bank financing for a new animal and plant disease
control project characterised by expansion of decentralized programs/actions already
started and greater private sector participation, and focusing on important export
products.
G. BANK PERFORMANCE
51.   The Bank's preparation and appraisal of this project were generally satisfactory.
Sweeping changes and economic crises which disrupted the project could not have been
foreseen. The centralized nature of the project was not negotiable prior to 1988.
Economic and political conditions did not permit the kind of sweeping reformulation
needed to promote project success, prior to 1993/94. The decision to reformulate and the
nature of the changes were justified by the final outcome and the promising avenues for
decentralized services opened up by the project.



-16-
52.   Certain situations which arose might have been handled differently and/or
resolved earlier, by the Bank. The issue of not counting state contributions to project
financing as counterpart could have been resolved several years earlier. Greater efforts
should have been made to resolve the issue of vehicles and computers, even at the project
appraisal stage. Inability of the Loan to finance items essential to the project, and
indications of fiscal tightness and potential counterpart funding problems signaled the
need for contingency plans. The Bank could also have been more forceful in requiring
MAG to delegate to the states, the contracting of civil works procurement for federal
facilities on their territory, since there was no legal impediment to it. This issue was
moot after the reformulation, which eliminated funding for civil works.
53.   Project supervision was generally regular, i.e. within Bank standards, high quality
and with detailed reports indicating persistent efforts to improve project performance at
all stages. The nature and regularity of supervision shifted after 1992 as task
management changed hands several times in the Bank and a dialogue started with the
Borrower over reformulation. Through 1993, 1994 and into 1995, aspects of
reformulation -- its design, legal and other documentation, and launching -- dominated
contacts with the Borrower (Table 11). Supervision subsequently resumed a normal
schedule.
H. BORROWER PERFORMANCE
54.   Borrower commitment to this project was eroded by fiscal, economic and political
factors over which individual public agencies had little control. Moreover, MAG had
pre-existing institutional problems which were magnified by the difficult implementing
context. MAG's administrative procedures proved to be outdated and rigid. Basic
processes -- filing/record-keeping systems, financial systems, management of field
personnel and progress reporting/M&E -- were rudimentary and underfunded.
Supervision missions noted the unstable project management arrangements in MAG and
the need for experience to build rapidly. Political considerations affected technical
decisions. MAG provided financial support, but internal struggles for control of the
project strained project management.
55.   Design of project organizational aspects may have created problems. Internal
dissension resulted from giving the Head of the Animal Health Department (SDSA),
accounting for less than 25% of project costs, power to decide issues involving the
Department for Animal Health Laboratories (LANARA), a department hierarchically
equal to SDSA and accounting for 50% of project costs. Federal representatives of MAG
at the state level (DFAs) were essentially political administrators and imposed a major
bureaucratic burden as intermediaries in the decision-making process and the flow of
funds to the field services. MAG's commitment to the decentralized project
organizational structure set up by the reformulation, was not strong.
56.   The Institutional Development Unit for project management was itself a new,
special structure, its functions and responsibilities were not well understood and its leader



- 17-
was seen as the Project Coordinator, which further strained relations with the heads of
SDSA and LANARA. Shortly after project effectiveness the then-Minister of Agriculture
appointed a Project Supervisor within his Cabinet, which caused further duplication and
confusion. The Unit's managerial control of the project suffered badly as a result of the
administrative reforms starting in 1990. Fundamental and successful changes were made
in 1993 whereby project management was handed to the Department of Animal
Protection (DDA) which already had adequate staff and only needed some training. With
the introduction of simplified processes for release of funds, standardized reporting
formats/requirements, and targets to be defined and executed in the field, the project
management burden lightened and could be executed by a team of just five people: two
technicians including the Director, and three financial specialists. Operations were
relatively smooth, benefiting from the Operational Manual introduced at reformulation,
and managed to avoid the MAG bureaucracy.
57.   Procurement. Procurement for civil works and acquisition of equipment and
vehicles was seriously delayed by funding shortages, effects of various administrative
reform programs, and Brazilian legal and bureaucratic requirements. According to the
BCR, participating states were not permitted to handle procurement for civil works at
federal facilities (laboratories). Evidence suggests that MAG's resistance to
decentralizing the project was probably a key factor in this situation -- even pre-
reformulation MAG could have delegated this task to the states -- complicated further by
the states' reluctance to assume responsibility for executing civil works which were not
their priority. As these works were in dispersed areas and contracting for them
represented onerous processes they wished to avoid, performance on civil works fell well
short of targets.
58.   Lack of vehicles and computers impeded project implementation. Prior to the
opening of the Brazilian market in 1990, all Bank loans had restrictions on the purchase
of computers and vehicles. Brazilian import protection laws were exceedingly strong
which translated into considerable pressure on Bank projects not to finance these items.
Even after the trade liberalization of 1990, restrictions on foreign acquisition of
computers continued until 1992/1993. In order to surmount this problem, the Bank
recommended that the purchase be made under NCB, without the need for Bank
clearance. Even when the Bank formally permitted purchase of vehicles and computers
(1992), MAG lacked the budget and further delays occurred.
59.   Their ultimate acquisition was handled through ICB without any notable
problems. An important catalyst was support from the federal agricultural research
agency EMBRAPA, which had extensive experience in international acquisitions through
Bank loans, and was recruited under collaborative arrangements to assist with the
purchase. The composition of the bidding committee was predominantly EMBRAPA
technical people, which worked well.
18  This situation also affected the Agricultural Extension Project (Ln. 2679-BR). See ICR No. 16687 of
June 13, 1997.



- 18-
60.   Audit. The quality of project audit performance was deficient until well into the
1990s. Audit reports were often late and qualified. Financial management suffered from
insufficient controls over project finances due to the separation of the technical, financial,
administrative and managerial aspects of the project. 9 Delays by project unit staff in
preparing withdrawal applications cost the project money on exchange rate fluctuations.
New accounting procedures were introduced in 1989 and training was provided for
accounting staff at the state level, but the impact was lost when trained people left. The
1990 audit reported deficiencies in the way project accounts were being kept at both
central and state levels. Funds were administered by MAG's central accounting office
(SIAFI) and its state representatives (DFAs), compromising project management's ability
to adequately monitor project accounts. This issue took on greater urgency as the
momentum of decentralization picked up and funds were increasingly transferred to the
states. Consonant with overall improvement in project management, audit performance
and financial management improved after project reformulation. Audits of the Project
Accounts, SOE statements and Special Account covering 1994, 1995 and 1996 were of
far better quality and audit opinions were unqualified.
61.   Covenant Compliance. The more important Loan covenants were: (i)
Borrower's obligation to provide the funds, facilities and services for the project (Section
3.01); (ii) Borrower's obligation to purchase or assign vehicles to the project (Section
3.09); (iii) agreements between Borrower (through MAG) and participating states for
inter alia, transfer of funds to state veterinary services; (iv) carrying out of a Mid-Term
Review (Section 3.06 (b) and (c)); and (v) to put into effect a service fee system to cover
full operational cost of quarantine facilities and full cost of product registration.
Compliance was seriously deficient on (i), (ii) and (iii) up to 1994. The Mid-Term
review was carried out ahead of schedule and adjustments were made to the project. In
the case of (v) a revised service fee system was introduced but subsequently revoked by
Congress. Operational costs were thereafter covered by farmer associations and the
states.
I. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
62.   The project Staff Appraisal Report did not include an Intemal Economic Rate of
Return (IERR) and there is therefore no rate of return recalculated for this ICR.20 The
project is assessed as having achieved its development objectives, and is rated
Satisfactory.
The onset of more decentralized project implementation after 1992, was a further complication.
20 The FEPS (Final Executive Project Summary) had estimated a Financial Rate of Return of 15% but
this was removed at the request of the Loan Committee which felt that such an estimate had no
meaning for a project ofthis kind and should not be used to justify the operation. Memorandum,
January 8, 1987.



- 19
J. FINDINGS, LESSONS AND FUTURE ACTIONS
63.   Findings. Several findings emerge from this assessment. The project acquired
real momentum from the moment it narrowed and concentrated its activities on those
diseases with greatest significance for exports and for domestic consumption.21 Under the
original design, the project sought to combat a wide range of animal diseases (even
though its focus was mainly on the dominant ones), in all major livestock types, within a
broad geographic area.
64.   Reformulation can significantly alter the course of a project, if its timing, design
and implementation strategy fit the political and economic context. The conditions for
successful amendment of the project did not gel until quite late (1993/94). Further, the
adoption of flexible, less bureaucratic procedures for the release of resources to the
participating states as well as permitting state funds to be counted as CPF, were crucial
for speeding up the project and disbursements. Critical factors in the ultimate success of
this project were the monetary stability introduced by the Piano Real and the
commitment of the Federal Government to regular counterpart funding.
65.   Bringing in the private sector through state councils, while less successful than
expected, has potential and provided increased dynamism and transparency to the project.
In addition, it convinced MAG to acknowledge the role which the private sector was
already performing, with its own resources, to combat animal disease. MAG found that
producers had strong organizations with their own resources, and that many activities
which MAG believed were the exclusive domain of government, were already being
carried out or could be carried out, directly by the private sector, e.g., administering field
laboratories, training veterinary support personnel, promoting vaccination campaigns and
control of health/sanitary barriers.
66.   The epidemiological monitoring system set up post-reformulation, while still
evolving, permitted the collection of information about project impact, which in turn
attracted political recognition of the project's importance from producers, political
figures, and technical specialists, who have sought to have it continued and consolidated.
Without solid data, the Government could not have achieved the "area officially free"
classification for FMD and Swine Fever, given by international regulatory organizations.
67.   Lessons. The lessons of the project are:
(a)    Livestock and plant disease control programs should be linked to a
Government strategy which specifies the policy position for the
agricultural sector including the livestock and plant subsectors, and its
links to export growth, and which shows concrete evidence of being
carried out.
21  Ironically, this more selective approach typified the original project concept at initiation in 1993.



- 20 -
(b)   The importance of government commitment to project objectives cannot
be overstated. The public goods nature of agricultural disease protection
warrants significant continued involvement of both federal and state
governments. Regardless of the degree of decentralization, Government's
role is to provide leadership, policy guidance and direction; define
standards and norms; promote participation of stakeholders, beneficiaries
and NGOs; and manage resources efficiently. Roles/responsibilities of the
public and private sector must be clearly-defined;
(c)   State level producer associations and municipalities have tremendous
potential to participate in animal (and plant) disease control/eradication
programs but this needs simpler, more practical mechanisms which avoid
legal, administrative and operational difficulties;
(d)   Project organizational structure and lines of communication must be
simple, clear and rational, heeding political realities and the incentive
system affecting the performance of public and other agencies. Project
coordinating units should stress decentralized operations, simplified
processes and lean staffing;
(e)   Project monitoring and evaluation is vital inter alia, for determnining
project impact for planning and strategy formulation purposes. Demands
on project agencies/technical units should be balanced against their
capacity and willingness to carry them out. Project design and supervision
should build commitment to the rationale and methodologies for good
M&E throughout the project cycle, and follow its execution closely to
maintain timeliness and quality;
(f)   Introducing a Project Operating Manual at project reformulation, with
comprehensive rules and norms for project operation, and flexible enough
to permit project modification, was an important factor in spreading the
idea and initiating the practice of decentralization.
68.   Future Actions. The findings and lessons suggest a strategy for future
investment which combines institutional reform decentralizing MAG's animal and plant
health protection service function to the states and municipalities, and seeks substantial
private sector involvement including through partnerships with public entities. This
strategy would concentrate activities in programs likely to have the greatest impact on
productivity and export competitiveness within the GATT and MERCOSUR framework;
on maintaining agriculture's share of GDP; and on facing the challenge of non-tariff
barriers (international sanitary and phyto-sanitary regulations) which limit Brazil's
participation in global markets.



-21 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
PART II: STATISTICAL INFORMATION
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
Pre-Reformulation                               Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessment 1
A.  Achievement of Objectives                                                            Not                                                            Not
Substantial    Partial     Negligible   applicable            Substantial    Partial      Negligible   applicable
(/)   (/)       (/)           (/)                   (/)           (/)     ()                 (1/)
Macro Policies                                              ]         [ I          []                    [I            [I             O
Sector Policies                              IL7i                                                        LI            L            LI            [Z
Financial Objectives                                    L                                                I]            Li [C3                     [ ED
Institutional Development                  [I[                                     LI                        ]         []            (               ]
Physical Objectives                        [             W            [            [                     [                 ]         [                ]
Poverty Reduction                                                        ]F]                                 ]             ]         [1           [Z
Gender Issues                              LI           LI              I          [                       0           LI               ]         E[
Other Social Objectives                    L            [             [            [                     [                ]           0            W
Environmental Objectives                     Z]           I                           ]                      ]         [             [                ]
Public Sector Management                      I             ]          z             0                    F13          L             [  
Private Sector Development                              L                            77                                L             L            Li]
I Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments.



- 22 -
TABLE 1. SUMMARY OF ASSESSMENTS
(Continued)
Pre-Reformulation                            Post-Reformulation and Summary Assessments'
B.  Project Sustainability                 Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain                    Likely          Unlikely       Uncertain
C.  Bank Performance                       Highly                                                      Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory      Deficient                Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
Appraisal                                              [               [                          [C]
Supervision                              I                 ]                                                       L                Zi
Implementation (NA)                   [                  m             L                          [ ]               Z              l
D.  Borrower Performance                   Highly                                                     Highly
Satisfactory    Satisfactory     Deficient                 Satisfactory     Satisfactory      Deficient
(/)            (V)              (V)                        ()               (1)             (v')
Preparation                           [                C3               0                                          LiC 
Implementation                        L                L               L                          L                    I             l
Covenant Compliance                        J            1                  I                      [               [                [
E.  Assessment of Outcome       Highly                                      Highly             Highly                                       Highly
Satisfactory   Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory    Satisfactory    Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory  Unsatisfactory
IPs-eouainrigeqaeosmaysesetoteeni  pr ojec1t
I Post-reformulation ratings equate to summary assessments of the entire project.



- 23 -
TABLE 2. RELATED BANK LOANS
Project Title/                Purpose             Year         Status
Loan No.                                      Approved
Livestock Development Project  To increase beef and wool  1967    Loan canceled
(Ln. 516 -BR)               production in South and               and pre-paid
Center-West through                  by 1978.
provision of long-term
credit and technical
assistance.
Second Livestock Development To increase beef and wool   1972     Loan canceled
Project (Ln. 868 -BR)       production in South and               and pre-paid
Center-West through                  by 1978.
provision of long-term
credit and technical
assistance.
TABLE 3. PROJECT TIMETABLE
Date Actual/
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned        Latest Estimate
Identification (Executive Project Summary)      --           October 1983
Preparation                                     --           1984- 1986
Appraisal                                       --           January 1987
Negotiations                                    --           May 29, 1987
Board Presentation                              --           June 30, 1987
Loan Signing                                    --           July 27, 1987
Loan Effectiveness                       September 30, 1987   October 27, 1987
Loan Closing                              March 31, 1994     March 31, 1997
Project Completion                       September 30, 1993   March 31, 1997



-24 -
TABLE 4. LOAN DISBURSEMENTS: CUMULATIVE ESTIMATED AND ACTUAL
(US$ Million)
Fiscal Year 1/      Appraisal Estimate          Actual          Actual as % of
Estimate
1988                   6.00                   3.81               63.5
1989                  18.00                   4.93               27.4
1990                  28.00                   7.29               26.0
1991                  36.00                   9.07               25.2
1992                  43.00                  11.30               26.3
1993                  48.0                   13.17               27.4
1994                  51.0                   17.36               34.0
1995                   --                    21.60               42.0
1996                   --                    36.70               72.0
1997                   --                   41.002/              80.4
Final Disbursement:   December 27, 1997
'July I - June 30
2 US$ 10.0 million canceled, October 1994.



-25 -
TABLE 5. KEY INDICATORS FOR PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
While detailed indicators were established at appraisal (SAR, Annex 4, Table 1), their
monitoring was deficient due to the unstable implementing conditions, lack of vehicles and computers,
and bureaucratic weaknesses.
At reformulation (1994) a set of benchmarks was established and monitored, as shown below:
Performance Indicators               Operational Criteria               Actual Achievement
a) Training on the Operating  By May 31, 1994, the Operating Manual has  Done
Manual                  been distributed and training courses on its
utilization have been executed for the 17
Participant States.
b) Project Publicity        By June 30, 1994, the plan for Project publicity  Done
is being implemented in the Project Area.
c) State Participation      By July 31, 1994, at least 14 Participant States   Decentralization agreements
have entered into the agreement referred to in   formalized with 16 states
Section 3.04 (c) of the Loan Agreement.
d) Municipalities/Producers   By August 31, 1994, each Participant State has   Achievements were below
Associations Participation  entered into Decentralization Agreement with at targets.
least 10 Municipalities and 2 Producers
Associations, and by August 31, 1995, with at
least 20 Municipalities and 5 Producer
Associations.
e) State and Municipal     State and municipal Project councils, as    Achievements were below
Councils                provided in the Operating Manual, are      expectations. State Councils
established by the Participant States and  were established in 6
Municipalities, by August 31, 1994, and are  participating states.
operating.
f) Administration          By May 31, 1994, the unit referred to in Section  Staffing levels were
3.03 of the Loan Agreement is adequately   achieved. Acquisition of
staffed witlh a minimum of 10 high-level staff   vehicles was delayed. In
directly involved in Project coordination; by  most of the states, except in
July 31, 1994, at least 90% of Participant States' Mato Grosso, Santa
veterinary services are equipped with sufficient  Catarina, and Minas Gerais.
vehicles and staffed with a minimum rate of 1
professional staff per 30 participating
Municipalities or Producers Associations both
at State and Federal level.



- 26 -
Performance Indicators              Operational Criteria               Actual Achievement
g) Association Funds       By October 31, 1994, evidence has been     Achieved
provided and verified by the Participant State
coordinating units, that at least 90% of
Producers Associations in the Participant State
are maintaining an adequate fund, with their
own resources, to implement the respective
activities under the Project, with membership
contributions that are sufficient to provide
agreed counterpart funds and to support future
vaccination campaigns.
h) Veterinarians and       By December 31, 1994, evidence is available at  Achieved
Auxiliary Staff in Field    Participant States' coordinating units that the
respective Participant State, Municipalities and
Producers Associations have the following
minimum number of staff allocated to field
activities: I veterinarian and 4 auxiliaries for
200,000 heads of cattle; 1 veterinarian and 3
auxiliaries for 100,000 heads of pigs; and I
veterinarian for every 100 chicken farms.
i) Immunization Coverage   At least 80% of the annually targeted herds  Achieved
have been immunized within the period of
execution of each annual operating plan referred
to in Section 3.05 (b) of the Loan Agreement.
j) Municipal/Associative    100% of Municipalities and Producers      Achievements less than
Counterpart Funding     Associations are contributing with at least 20%   expected.
of costs of the activities executed by them.
k) Implementation of       Evidence that at least 80% of planned targets, as Significant progress but less
Decentralized Animal    established in approved animal health projects  than target.
Health Projects         under Part D of the Project have been achieved
in all Participant States
I) Disease Surveillance and   By December 31, 1995, the unit referred to in    Achieved with delays.
Animal Movement         Section 3.03 of the Loan Agreement and at least Computerized systems not
Control                 90% of the Participant States' veterinary  installed until 1996. They
services have installed and are operating their   were installed by June 1997.
respective computerized systems.



- 27 -
Impact Indicators                       Criteria                     Actual Achievement
a) Project Sustainability   By December 31, 1995, 90% of Producers     Significant achievement but
Associations and Municipalities have       below target. However,
established their own capability to continue with  Animal Health Municipal
immobilization campaigns without federal or    Councils were created in
state financial assistance.                most of the participating
states.
b) Rate of Vaccine Coverage  By December 1996, the rate of vaccine     Achieved for cattle and
coverage has been maintained close to 100% of  swine and for Newcastle
the herds in the Project Area.             Disease in poultry.
c) Rate of Affected Farms    By December 1997, the average number of   Achieved for cattle and
farms affected by Project-controlled diseases    swine
has been reduced to nearly zero.
d) Exports                  By December 1996, evidence that the livestock   Achieved in part of Project
in the Project Area satisfy the disease-related    area, i.e., Santa. Catarina,
criteria applied by major meat importing   Parana.
countries.



-28 -
TABLE 6. STUDIES INCLUDED IN PROJECT
Study           Purpose as Defined at           Status                   Impact of Study
Appraisal/Redefined
1. Study of the        To develop a medium-   First-phase report        Unknown.
Iivestock sector    term strategy for the   delivered to Bank,
sector.                 October 1988. Second
phase not done.
2. Diagnosis of        To define strategy for    Completed in 1994.      Demonstrated that herd dispersion
animal health in   future                                            worked against direct action to
Northeast 2/       control/eradication                               control or eradicate important
programs in the region.                          animal diseases.
3. Study of national   To define operational    Completed in 1995.       Recommended transfer of 4 of 10
laboratories 2/    alternatives                                      laboratories to the states; 3 to be
converted to reference labs; and 3
should privatize or close.
Implementation of
recommendations awaiting reform
of MAG.
4. Other studies 3/   NA                        NA                       See below(3/)
I/     Pre-reformulation
2/     Post-reformulation
3/     Results: (i) definition of livestock cycles for purposes of disease control strategies; (ii) gradual establishment of
strategic zones (circuits) for eradication and control of main diseases; (iii) setting up of sanitary barriers to control
traffic/flow of animals; (iv) epidemiological survey of the regions with largest herds; and (v) definitions of the
areas of livestock production influenced by MERCOSUL.



- 29 -
TABLE 7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Project Costs
(US$ million)
Source                     Appraisal Estimate                       Actual/Latest Estimate
Local        Foreign        Total         Local        Foreign         Total
Costs         Costs                       Costs         Costs
1. Project Cost             86.2           22.2        108.4           --            --            86.9
2. Loan Amount                                          51.0            --            --           51.0
3. - Disbursed                                          51.0            --           --            41.0
4. - Canceled                                            --            --             --           10.0
B. Project Financing
(US$ million)
Source               Appraisal Estimate                     Actual/Latest Estimate
Local      Foreign Costs        Local       Foreign Costs       Total
Costs                           Costs
IBRD                        28.8           22.2               --             --              41.0"
Federal Government          57.4           --                 --             --              46.0
States                                               --                                      --
Producers/Private Sector     --            --                 ----
Total                       86.2           22.2              NA             NA               87.0
1/ US$10.0 million canceled, October 1994.



- 30 -
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS
Original       Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment               .          of
Agreement   Section                Type      Status       Date           Date                       Covenant                               Comments
Loan          3.01                   ?         CD                                   Borrower's obligation to provide funds,     Counterpart funding shortages
facilities and services for the project.   affected every aspect of the Project.
Economic crisis and administrative
reform programs disrupted the flow
of funds.
3.03                  5          C                                    To maintain an Institutional Development   Done.
Unit with functions, etc., satisfactory to the
Bank.
3.04 (b)              5          C                                    Defines respective rights and obligations of   Done.
LANARA and EMBRAPA regarding the
use of LANARA's Pedro Leopoldo
Laboratory for diagnostic and research
purposes.
3.04 (c)              5          C                                    Satisfactory agreements between the        Agreements with participating
Borrower and participating states.         states were signed and published.
3.05 (b)              5          C                                    To furnish the Bank with the consolidated  Consolidated POAs were submitted
POA.                                       and generally on time.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; II
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                            NC       - not complied with
CD       = complied with after delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP        = complied with partially                          SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



-31 -
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original      Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                        of
Agreement   Section               Type      Status       Date          Date                      Covenant                              Comments
Loan          3.06 (a)             9          C         3/31/94                   To submit to the Bank semi-annual progress  Semi-annual progress reports were
(Continued)                                                                       reports                                   submitted in a more timely manner
following project reformulation in
1994.
3.06 (b) and (c)     9          C        12/31/91                   The Borrower would carry out a project    Complied with as of May 1990.
implementation review not later than
December 31, 1991 and on the basis of such
review, make provisions required to put
agreed recommendations into effect.
3.07                 12         C                                   To revise and put into effect a service fee  A revised service fee system was
system that would cover the full operational  published as Portaria
cost of quarantine facilities and full cost of   Interministerial No. 683 of 7/16/91.
product registration.                    However, this resolution was
revoked by a Congressional law.
Operati-nal costs are now covered
by farmers' associations and the
states.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; II
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         C        = covenant complied with                           NC      = not complied with
CD       = complied with after delay                        NYD    = not yet due
CP       = complied with partially                          SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 32 -
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
TABLE 8. STATUS OF LEGAL COVENANTS (CONTINUED)
Original       Revised                    Description
Covenant  Present   Fulfillment   Fulfillment                          of
Agreement    Section               Type      Status        Date          Date                       Covenant                               Comments
3.08                  10         C                                    To elaborate a medium-terfn livestock      Complied. A first phase document
sector development strategy.              was produced in Oct. 1988 by the
Govemment; meanwhile, on June
25, 1990, the Bank issued a green
cover sector report, "Key Policy
Issues in the Livestock Sector"
which was discussed with the
Government.
3.09                  3         CD                                    Vehicles required by the project would be  Lack of vehicles until 1992 severely
provided on a timely basis.                hampered project implementation.
4.01 (b) (ii)         I          C                                    Furnish the Bank with an audit report by   Done. Audit reports for 1994, 1995
independent auditors.                     and 1996 were unqualified.
Schedule 2,           5          C                                    To recruit additional professional and     Mid-Term review proposals did not
Parts A(l), B(l)                                                      auxiliary staff.                           foresee new recruitment. A special
and B(2)                                                                                                         request by the Minister of
Agriculture to reconfirm the 118
staff hired under the project was
granted by Special Presidential
Decree of September 1990.
Covenant Type: I Accounts/audit; 2 Financial performance/generate revenue from beneficiaries; 3 Flow and utilization of Project funds; 4 Counterpart funding; 5 Management aspects of the
Project or of its executing agency; 6 Environmental covenants; 7 Involuntary resettlement; 8 Indigenous people; 9 Monitoring, review and reporting; 10 Implementation; I I
Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or other resource allocation; 12 Sectoral or cross-sectoral regulatory/institutional action; 13 Other
Status:         C         = covenant complied with                            NC       = not complied with
CD       = complied with after delay                         NYD    = not yet due
CP       = complied with partially                           SOON   = compliance expected in reasonably short time



- 33 -
TABLE 9. PROJECT COSTS AND BENEFITS
No Internal Economic Rate of Return calculated at Project appraisal, nor recalculated at Project
Closing.
TABLE 10. BANK RESOURCES: STAFF INPUTS
Stage of             Planned                Revised                Actual
Project Cycle       Staff      US$        Staff      USS         Staff      USS
Weeks                 Weeks                 Weeks
Through appraisal        --        --          --         --         65.4       n/a
Appraisal - Board       --         --          --         --         30.4       n/a
Board - Effectiveness   --         --          --         --         n/a        n/a
Supervision             --         --         --          --        117.3       n/a
Completion              --         --          --         --          5.1       n/a
Total                        -          -          -         218.2       n/a



- 34 -
TABLE 11. BANK RESOURCES: MISSIONS
Days   Specialized     Performance Rating
Stage of       Month/  No. of   in       staff skills   Impl.    Develop.      Types of
Project Cycle   Year   persons  field   represented     Status    Objectives    problems
Through         10/83     3       18    Vet, AgEcon,     n/a         n/a          n/a
Appraisal                                   Ag
2/84      1      17       AgEcon         n/a        n/a          n/a
7/86      2      n/a      AgEcon         n/a        n/a          n/a
9/86      1       4         Inst         n/a        n/a          n/a
Appraisal       1/87      3      n/a   Inst, AgEcon,     n/a         n/a          n/a
through                                     Ag
Effectiveness
Supervision     11/87     1       l l     AgEcon          2          1         Funds (3)
4/88      1      11       AgEcon          3          3         Funds (3)
10/88     1       19        Ag            2          2         Funds (3)
11/89     1       9         Ag            3          3       Funds (3), Inst
5/90      2      17       Ag, Vet         3          2      Funds (3), Inst
12/90     1       4         Ag            2          2       Funds (2), Inst
7/91      1      11         Ag           n/a        n/a          n/a
11/91     1       5         Ag            2          2           Man
4/92a'     1      8          Ag           2           2           Man
8/92       2      12         Ag           n/a        n/a          n/a
6/93 -
7/94      1       5         Ag           2           2           Man
10/94 '    2      n/a    Ag, AgEcon       n/a        n/a          n/a
2/95 "'    2      n/a    Ag, AgEcon       n/a        n/a          n/a
5/96      1      n/a        Ag           n/a        n/a          n/a
9/96      1      n/a        Ag           n/a        n/a          n/a
5/97      1       2         Ag           S           S           n/a
a/ Consultant - report not available.
b/ Handover mission - no report.
c/ Initiation of dialogue on reformulation.
d/ Handover to new project Task Manager.
e/ Mission to discuss disbursement, project coordination, training and agreements between states.



-35 -
TABLE 12. BRAZIL: CATTLE HERD - NUMBERS BY PARTICIPATING STATE, 1987-1996
(No. of heads)
Region/State              1987        1988        1989       1990        1991       1992        1993        1994       1995        1996
BRAZIL ('000 heads)       134,638     136,839     140,088    141,655     144,479    146,015     148,326     150,787     152,444    153,151
1. North
Rond6nia              1,990,446   2,055,504   2,130,059   2,190,034   2,255,788   2,312,918   2,382,184   2,440,458   2,478,146   2,501,618
Acre                    332,845    345,901     358,293     366,630    377,244     383,871    392,104     398,084     401,665     403,351
Amazonas                500,734    508,595     519,081     526,296    536,397     544,267    556,888     571,346     581,363     589,969
Roraima                 320,055    325,480     332,983    337,543     344,571     349,944    358,680    .369,193     378,286     386,368
Para                  5,465,076   5,604,350   5,780,817   5,902,721    6,073,502   6,190,155   6,369,622   6,531,083    6,628,307   6,668,267
Amapa                    58,644     59,702      61,196      62,152     63,621      64,844     66,607      68,875      70,842      72,613
Tocantins                                    4,037,854   4,141,543   4,262,946   4,365,120   4,504,863   4,694,700   4,852,488   4,969,106
2. Northeast
Maranhao              3,372,911   3,438,137   3,535,418   3,598,218   3,686,751   3,710,539   3,714,937   3,794,150   3,866,433   3,909,901
Piaui                 1,740,826   1,750,619   1,773,820   1,782,213   1,802,475   1,794,801    1,772,505    1,785,324    1,808,260    1,821,074
Ceara                 2,225,630   2,263,193   2,325,295   2,362,011   2,417,873   2,422,004   2,386,275   2,420,744   2,454,193   2,472,901
Rio Grande do Norte     759,977    780,618     808,077    830,048     855,738     861,177    862,338     884,808     902,181     907,031
Paraiba               1,112,988   1,131,412   1,158,685   1,184,508   1,214,955   1,226,097   1,213,996   1,228,731    1,243,755    1,248,304
Pemambuco             1,659,551    1,691,435   1,740,937   1,768,861    1,809,969   1,811,744   1,790,873    1,822,696   1,866,221    1,894,764
Alagoas                 811,657    828,441     853,191     867,863    888,954     899,461    891,678     909,520     927,720     939,782
Sergipe                 890,467    905,834     931,860     945,861    971,942     978,179    970,281     985,658    1,005,637   1,018,777
Bahia                10,188,182  10,395,819  10,737,051   10,513,819  10,604,121   10,615,016  10,510,800  10,612,349   10,765,545   10,850,732
3. Southeast
Minas Gerais'         19,372,721   19,635,414  20,048,460  20,262,408  20,606,276  20,770,264  21,114,074  21,266,614  21,296,131   21,282,843
Espirito Santo         1,508,055   1,552,918   1,615,857   1,659,660   1,717,649   1,759,883   1,820,692   1,866,421    1,905,126    1,932,080
Rio de Janeiro         1,726,701    1,746,205   1,786,548   1,804,311   1,840,647   1,857,395   1,898,681    1,936,427   1,950,715    1,952,602
Sao Paulo            11,120,478  11,165,904  11,273,456  11,289,302  11,400,490  11,395,247   11,540,320  11,602,559  11,565,262   11,453,748
4. South
Parana                7,939,371   7,909,381   7,978,087   7,976,599   8,049,610   8,049,294   8,139,646   8,279,926   8,282,493    8,188,472
Santa Catarina        2,964,857   2,958,041   2,978,080   2,969,650   2,993,322   2,988,998   3,016,752   3,046,205   3,054,444   3,038,272
Rio Grande do Sul    13,019,913  13,062,243  13,187,414  13,227,022  13,342,263  13,397,029  13,535,851   13,651,478   13,757,986   13,764,012
5. Center-West
Mato Grosso do Sul    17,592,116  18,004,920  18,539,034  18,898,055  19,400,360  19,733,791  20,210,490  20,781,806  21,129,651   21,243,820
Mato Grosso           7,764,457   8,108,049   8,513,090   8,822,326   9,214,434   9,524,743   9,944,804   10,159,258   10,374,770   10,541,685
Goias                20,120,091  20,526,081   16,993,188  17,269,991   17,644,816  17,900,123  18,244,817  18,563,346   18,777,189   18,973,772
Distrito Federal         79,445     84,405      90,359     95,696     102,139     107,846     114,864    115,365     119,635     124,936
Source: FNP (Estimate)



- 36 -
TABLE 13. BRAZIL: CATTLE HERD - SLAUGHTER RATES, 1987-1996
(Percentage) "
Region/State                1987         1988        1989        1990         1991        1992         1993        1994         1995        1996
BRAZIL                       14.0         14.7        15.1        14.9         15.8        15.5         16.3        16.1         16.2        16.7
1. North
Rondbnia                  14.3         14.4        14.3         15.1        15.1        15.6         15.5        16.1         16.6        16.9
Acre                       13.6        14.2        14.8         15.2        16.3        15.8         16.6        16.3         16.5        16.9
Amazonas                   13.1        13.6        14.1        13.9         14.7        14.5         15.1        14.9         14.5        15.3
Roraima                    13.4        13.9        14.5         14.2        15.1        14.7         15.3        15.1         14.9        15.2
Para                       13.5        14.1        14.6         14.4        15.3        14.9         14.8        15.2         15.6        16.2
Amapa                      13.4        13.9        14.6         14.2        15.1        14.7         15.2        15.1         14.7        15.1
Tocantins                                          12.8         13.0        13.3        13.6         13.9        13.8         13.2        14.0
2. Northeast
Maranhao                   13.7        14.2        14.9         14.5        15.3        14.8         16.0        16.9         14.8        15.6
Piaui                      13.1        13.7        14.3        14.2         15.0        14.4         15.2        16.0         14.4        14.8
Ceara                     13.3         13.9        14.5        14.2         15.1        14.5         15.6        16.4         15.1        16.1
RioGrandedoNorte           13.1        13.7        14.0        14.1         14.5        14.4         15.7        15.4         14.6        15.5
Paraiba                    12.9        13.7        14.1        13.9         14.5        14.1         14.8        15.9         14.8        15.7
Pernambuco                 13.7        14.2        14.9        14.5         15.7        14.9         15.9        16.7         14.9        15.7
Alagoas                    12.9        13.5        14.0        13.5         14.5        14.3         14.6        15.9         14.7        15.4
Sergipe                    13.2        13.7        14.4        13.8         15.0        14.0         15.0        15.8        15.0         15.4
Bahia                     13.6         14.2        14.8        13.8         16.5        15.1         15.9        16.2        15.1         15.8
3. Southeast
MinasGerais                13.2-       13.7        14.2         13.9        14.8        14.5         15.5        15.1         15.6        15.9
EspiritoSanto              13.3        13.9        14.5        14.1         15.1        14.8         15.8        15.4        15.9         16.1
RiodeJaneiro               15.9        16.8        17.5        16.9         18.1        17.7         18.6        18.1        18.1         18.8
Sao Paulo                  19.9       21.0         21.8        21.3         22.8        22.1        23.5         22.5        22.9         23.3
4. South
Parana                     16.5        17.2        17.9        17.3         18.3        18.0        18.8         18.8        18.9         18.8
SantaCatarina             15.5         16.2        16.8        16.4         17.4        17.0        17.8         17.6        17.9         18.2
RioGrandedoSul            14.1         14.7        15.3        14.9         15.7        15.4        16.1         15.8        16.1         16.3
5. Center-West
Mato Grosso do Sul        14.2         14.8        15.3        15.1         15.7        15.6        16.4         16.3        16.8         17.1
Mato Grosso                13.1        13.6        14.1        13.6         14.7        14.4        15.2         14.3        15.3         15.7
Goi;s                     13.1         13.7        14.2.       14.2         14.8        14.7        15.4         15.3        15.5         15.9
Distrito Federal          13.1         13.8        14.2        14.2        15.1         14.9        15.9         14.8        18.3         16.6
l/ Percentage of slaughtered heads over theoretical total of existing heads in entire herd on December 31 of each year.
Source: FNP (Estimate)



- 37 -
TABLE 14. BRAZIL: BEEF PRODUCTION - PARTICIPATING REGIONS/STATES, 1987-1996
(Tons/Carcass Weight Equivalent)
Region/State               1987        1988         1989        1990        1991        1992        1993        1994        1995        1996
1. South
Parand                    266,199     279,660     291,953     286,345     303,557     300,854     316,312      315,923     326,770     325,956
Santa Catarina             87,274      92,562      96,546      95,117     100,365      99,344     104,229      104,164     107,410     109,081
Rio Grande do Sul         363,112     384,310     403,620     399,308     422,046     418,624     439,009      436,065     447,367     456,683
2. Southeast
MinasGerais               462,051     493,042     520,098     517,701     559,153     559,129     601,679      585,714     615,488     630,044
Espirito Santo             36,310      39,564      42,601      43,064      47,512      48,193      52,740       52,227      56,175      58,096
Rio de Janeiro             50,720      54,705      57,877      57,467      62,397      62,171      66,260       64,997      66,936      69,983
Sao Paulo                 449,712     483,422     506,135     503,201     540,287     528,247     566,302      533,335     559,210     567,778
3. Center-West
Mato Grosso do Sul        465,829     502,487     534,460     544,180     578,216     591,350     631,326      639,727     678,794     705,125
Mato Grosso               181,387     197,966     214,922     218,617     244,786     250,518     275,377      270,194     292,877     308,577
Goias                     467,763     500,229     438,378     447,135     474,440     480,803     511,525      510,993     530,148     554,440
Distrito Federal            1,834       2,058       2,267       2,435       2,736       2,893       3,254        3,241       3,817       3,772
4. Other
Bahia (Northeast)         249,183     268,423     287,542     280,104     317,327     300,144     313,443      310,570     298,529     318,912
Ceara(Northeast)           52,375      56,146      59,599      60,152      65,355      64,265      67,515       70,492      67,244      72,700
Pernambuco (Northeast)     41,369      44,315      47,435      47,793      52,589      51,253      53,795       54,958      51,335      55,617
Sergipe (Northeast)        20,846      22,035      23,641      23,387      25,887      24,932      26,499       27,450      27,069      28,488
Tocantins (North)                                  94,155      98,508     103,686     108,767      114,252     116,224     115,957     126,583
Roraima (North)             7,149       7,532       8,034       8,080       8,725       8,692       9,247        9,340       9,532       9,984
Source:



- 38 -
TABLE 15. BRAZIL: ESTIMATED BEEF YIELDS, PARTICIPATING REGIONS/STATES, 1987-1996
(Percentage)
Region/State                 1987        1988         1989        1990         1991        1992         1993         1994        1995         1996
BRAZIL                        18.6        19.2         19.7        19.5         20.5        20.3         21.2         20.9        21.1         21.7
1. South
Parana                      22.1        22.9         23.8        22.8         24.2         23.7        24.8         24.4         25.0        24.7
Santa Catarina              19.8        20.8         21.6        20.9         22.0        21.6         22.6         22.3         22.7        23.0
Rio Grande do Sul           18.3        19.2         19.9         19.3        20.3         19.9        20.8         20.3         20.7        20.9
2. Southeast
MinasGerais                 17.0        19.1         18.4         17.8        19.0         18.6        19.9         19.0         20.1        20.2
Espirito Santo              17.3        19.4         18.9         18.2        19.5         19.0        20.3         19.4         20.7        20.6
Rio de Janeiro              20.6        23.2         22.6        21.8         23.4        22.8         24.0         22.9         23.5        24.0
Sao Paulo                   26.5        27.9         28.8        28.0         29.9        28.8         30.9         28.6         30.7        30.4
3. Center-West
Mato Grosso do Sul          19.1        19.9         20.5        20.1         20.9         20.8        21.8         21.5         22.4        22.7
Mato Grosso                 17.0         18.9        18.2         17.5        19.0         18.5        19.7         18.4         19.6        20.1
GoiAs                       17.3        18.1         18.7         18.5        19.3         19.1        20.0         19.5         20.3        20.6
Distrito Federal            17.5        18.3         18.9        18.8         19.9         19.6        20.9         19.5         23.1        21.7
4. North
Tocantins                                            16.9         16.9        17.4         17.7        18.1         17.7         17.1         18.0
5. Northeast
Ceara                       17.1         17.9        18.7         18.2        18.7         18.5        19.7         19.9         18.8        19.8
Pernambuco                  18.1         18.8        19.6        19.1         20.6         19.5        20.5         21.5         19.8        20.7
Sergipe                     17.0        17.6         18.5         17.7        19.3         18.0        19.0         20.3         19.4        19.8
Bahia                       17.8         18.6        19.5         18.2        21.1         19.6        20.4         20.8         19.9        20.6
1/ Yield is defined by Brazilian industry as total tons CWE produced, divided by estimated total tons CWE in the total herd.
Source: FNP (Estimate)



-39 -
TABLE 16. BRAZIL: IMPORTS AND EXPORTS OF BEEF, 1987-1995
EXPORTS                                                         IMPORTS
Processed                            Unprocessed                         Total
Year       Quantityl/   Price2/    Value3/    Quantityl/    Price2/         Value3/    Quantityl/    Value3/    Quantityl/   Value3/
1987          182        1,308      238,000          139         1,388      193,000          321        431,000         164       147,900
1988         279         1,054      294,000         300          1,133      340,000          579        634,000          27        18,790
1989         257          887       228,000          88          8,091       96,000          345        321,000         186       135,120
1990         149          946       141,000         100            930       93,000          249        234,000         255       176,200
1991         214         1,027      219,778         121          1,759      212,839          335        432,617         112       117,600
1992         319          881       281,039         124          2,467      305,908          443        586,947          55        71,500
1993         324          936       303,264         129          2,103      271,287          453        574,551          20        24,000
1994         276         1,068      294,768          102         2,620      267,240          378        562,008         152       176,905
1995         239         1,227      293,253          49          3,705      181,545          288        474,798         114       147,488
1/      1000 tons, Carcass Weight Equivalent (CWE)
2/      US$/ton CWE
3/      US$s000
Source: DTIC/ABIEC/USDA



- 40 -
TABLE 17. BRAZIL: MILK PRODUCTION BY REGION/STATE, 1990-1996
('000 liters)
Region/State               1990       1991        1992       1993        1994        1995       1996
BRAZIL                  14,484,412  15,079,185  15,784,011  15,590,881  15,783,558  16,474,267  19,027,243
1. North
Rond6nia                158,474     251,988    261,973     259,625    169,031     202,189    241,851
Acre                     21,431      22,295     20,660      30,125     30,299      29,696     29,105
Amazonas                 36,617      38,653     38,205      41,337     45,140      48,977     53,140
Roraima                       0      13,327     13,625          0      11,675      11,210      10,764
Pari                    231,497     244,569    273,767     293,014    297,451     308,184    319,304
Amapa                     1,685       1,981      1,686       2,210      2,545       2,710      2,886
Tocantins               105,511     111,541    115,582      88,821     95,840     103,731     112,272
Total                   555,215     684,354    725,498     715,132    651,981     706,697    769,322
2. Northeast
Maranhao                126,934     134,399    131,075     133,554    140,462     145,109    149,910
Piaui                    57,916      58,732     55,484     46,469      51,746      55,588     59,715
Ceara                   293,562     299,232    304,458     243,088    267,555     292,346    319,434
Rio Grande doNorte      106,967     108,939    121,520      74,275     92,407     105,608    120,695
Paraiba                 155,151     155,555    157,873      97,790    124,420     140,018    157,571
Pernambuco              312,522     316,554    314,633     186,355    209,686     212,709    215,776
Alagoas                 148,580     208,375    217,109     182,872    189,662     201,077    213,179
Sergipe                  99,862      97,586     98,923      78,812     66,897      66,013     65,141
Bahia                   743,774     795,127    865,851     639,696    629,982     668,147    708,624
Total                 2,045,268   2,174,499   2,266,926   1,682,911   1,772,817   1,886,615   2,010,045
3. Southeast
Minas Gerais           4,290,800   4,319,219   4,502,655   4,526,961   4,577,620   4,762,543   5,537,089
Espirito Santo          281,416     300,345    310,381     374,396    365,182     362,696    377,204
Rio de Janeiro          390,304     391,307    380,534     395,523    403,898     432,381    510,931
Sao Paulo              1,960,781    1,979,767   2,022,923   2,047,236   2,005,189   1,981,744   2,168,612
Total                  6,923,301   6,990,638   7,216,493   7,344,116   7,351,889   7,539,364   8,593,836
4. South
Parana                 1,160,048    1,240,178   1,277,282   1,363,237   1,424,283   1,576,541    1,813,022
SantaCatarina           650,409     661,036    707,888     735,867    780,122     815,379    896,917
Rio Grande do Sul      1,451,797   1,488,140   1,600,469   1,586,462   1,626,215   1,710,677   2,057,162
Total                 3,262,254   3,389,354   3,585,639   3,685,566   3,830,620   4,102,597   4,767,101
5. Center-West
Mato Grosso do Sul      398,728     420,693    446,166     467,902    454,674     454,743    495,670
Mato Grosso             213,644     239,127    250,704     268,850    286,431     307,426    328,946
Goias                  1,071,966   1,166,181   1,276,464   1,405,778   1,409,351   1,450,158   2,032,989
Distrito Federal         14,036      14,339     16,121      20,626     25,795      26,667     29,334
Total                  1,698,374   1,840,340   1,989,455   2,163,156   2,176,251   2,238,994   2,886,939
Source: 1991-1995, IBGE; 1996, National Agricultural Conference (Estimate)



- 41 -
TABLE 18. BRAZIL: PRODUCTION, TRADE AND CONSUMPTION OF PORK, 1988-1997
Year         Production          Imports           Exports           Estimated Consumption
(6000 tons)      ('000 tons)       ('000 tons)       ('000 tons)    Per capita (kg)
1988            1,100               22                26             1,096                 7.8
1989            1,100               58                 5             1,053                 7.4
1990            1,050               25                12             1,122                 7.6
1991            1,120               17                15             1,122                 7.6
1992            1,188               13                40             1,161                 7.8
1993            1,250               1 1               44             1,217                 8.0
1995            1,300               16                34             1,282                 8.3
1994            1,430               18                32             1,416                 9.1
1996            1,590               1 5               65             1,540                 9.7
1997            1,540               20                80             1,480                 9.3
Source: CONAB/ABEF/ABIPOS/CEPA-SC



- 42 -
TABLE 19. BRAZIL: SWINE NUMBERS, PRODUCTION, TRADE AND CONSUMPTION, 1986-1995
1986       1987        1988       1989        1990        1991        1992       1993        1994        1995
Herd ('000 heads)                32,539      32,480     32,121      33,015      33,687     34,290      34,532      34,213      34,905      35,898
Production/Slaughter
-(million heads)                   17.1       20.3        19.9        18.3       19.2        19.9        19.7        19.8       19.2        20.5
-('000 tons CWE) /                800       1,200      1,100        950        1,050       1,130      1,190       1,260       1,330       1,540
- yield (%)                        52.6%      62.5%       62.0%       55.4%      57.0%       58.0%       57.0%       57.9%      55.0%       57.1%
Consumption
-total('OOOtonsCWE)               865       1,190      1,083         996       1,033       1,115      1,147       1,226       1,301       1,520
- per capita (kg/person)            5.94       8.74        7.87        6.68       7.26        7.68        7.96        8.31       8.46        9.76
- %of production                  108.1%      99.2%       98.5%      104.8%      98.4%       98.7%       96.4%       97.3%      97.8%       98.7%
Exports
- total ('000 tons CWE)             5          10         17          14          19         17          44          35         33          29
Imports
- total ('000 tons CWE)            70          0           0          60          2           2           1           1           1          9
Producer Price (Sao Paulo)
- (USS/I)                          17.89       12.48      13.75       24.78      21.99       17.39       15.43       19.01      20.50       20.53
Brazilian Population (millions)     134.7      137.3       139.8       142.3      144.7       147.1       149.4       151.6      153.7       155.8
1/     CWE - Carcass Weight Equivalent
Source: FNP (EstimatcyDTIC/ABECS



- 43 -
TABLE 20. BRAZIL: SWINE HERD BY STATE, 1987-1996
(No. of heads)
Region/State              1987        1988        1989       1990        1991       1992        1993        1994       1995        1996
BRAZIL ('000 heads)        32,480      32,121      33,015     33,687      34,290     34,532      34,213      34,905      35,898     35,988
1. South
Parana                4,140,580   3,695,934   3,587,854   3,561,765   3,698,205   3,738,365   3,700,981   3,812,011   3,888,251    3,927,134
Santa Catarina        3,190,616   3,099,838   3,262,507   3,330,516   3,275,024   3,417,586   3,349,234   3,516,696   3,727,698   3,802,252
Rio Grande do Sul     4,037,060   3,451,122   3,566,089   3,744,687  .3,854,184   3,929,082   3,909,437   4,026,720   4,147,521    4,126,784
2. Center-West
Mato Grosso do Sul      455,503    470,403     494,856    513,419     532,265     539,412    566,383     594,702     618,490     624,675
Mato Grosso             793,456    869,379     934,783   1,034,107   1,039,732    872,351    854,904     889,100     906,882     879,676
Goias                 2,143,448   2,255,700   1,824,405   1,876,735   1,933,455   1,887,139    1,830,525   1,812,220   1,866,586   1,829,254
Distrito Federal         51,807     49,820      51,200     35,007      38,279      41,749     43,001      43,861      44,739      44,962
3. Southeast
Minas Gerais          3,235,687   3,182,604   3,207,835   3,295,930   3,290,065   3,363,757   3,330,129   3,496,636   3,601,535   3,619,543
Espirito Santo          431,308    430,244     425,651    436,317     421,854     430,401    417,489     419,994     428,394     419,826
Rio de Janeiro          327,424    300,668     315,676    325,888     341,392     308,599    305,513     307,041     311,646     305,413
Sao Paulo             2,040,915   2,024,386   2,034,326   2,027,007   2,081,405   2,035,986   2,025,806   2,066,322   2,107,649   2,044,419
4. North
Rondonia                712,463    780,612     894,954    853,012   1,006,190   1,139,701    1,173,892   1,232,587    1,269,564   1,282,260
Acre                    156,128     178,304    181,429     176,207    171,753     172,222     170,500    173,910     177,388     175,614
Amazonas                188,612    216,243     219,875    214,594     217,182     204,187    206,229     210,353     214,561     215,633
Roraima                  51,868     55,389      67,687     63,561      59,138      59,650     57,861      59,018      59,608      58,416
Para                  1,615,847   1,790,218   1,867,957   1,942,171    1,989,976   2,023,143   2,043,374   2,104,676   2,115,199   2,094,047
Amapa                    42,350     41,807      43,765     32,642      27,805      22,679     22,792      23,020      23,481      22,776
Tocantins                                      500,520    531,440     553,360     594,560    618,342     643,076     662,368     668,992
5. Northeast
Maranhao              2,733,962   2,863,339   2,958,666   3,012,982   2,876,138   2,795,683   2,739,769   2,684,974   2,765,523   2,793,178
Piaui                 1,553,407   1,595,132   1,636,370   1,677,871    1,717,910   1,671,993    1,621,833   1,573,178   1,620,374   1,636,577
Ceara                 1,281,518   1,335,238   1,356,277   1,373,179   1,403,137   1,424,620   1,417,497   1,431,672   1,474,662    1,504,114
RioGrandedoNorte        157,490    171,511     184,520     172,730    179,882     175,910     172,392    170,668     174,081     181,044
Paraiba                 284,288    298,000     325,319    300,726     308,470     312,419    309,295     312,388     321,759     324,977
Pernambuco              568,918    590,089     600,100    596,327     603,433     619,304    622,401     616,177     628,500    634,785
Alagoas                  96,138     97,165     105,401     110,354    118,057     125,442     126,696    128,597     133,741     136,416
Sergipe                  93,079     86,590      93,997     96,447     105,053     106,703     107,770    111,003     114,333     116,620
Bahia                 2,095,809   2,191,160   2,273,119   2,351,126   2,446,931   2,519,515   2,469,125   2,444,433   2,493,322   2,518,255
Source: IBGE and FNP (Estimates)



-44 -
TABLE 21. BRAZIL: POULTRY PRODUCTION, TRADE AND CONSUMPTION, 1986-1995
1986       1987       1988       1989        1990       1991        1992       1993        1994       1995
Chicken
Production
- total ('000 tons CWE) 1/     1,640      1,981       1,946      2,082       2,356      2,627      2,872       3,143      3,412       4,060
Exports
- total ('000 tons CWE)          225        215        236         244     -  291        307         362        464         481        424
Domestic Consumption
- total ('000 tons CWE)        1,415      1,766       1,710      1,838       2,065      2,320      2,510       2,679      2,931       3,636-
-per capita (kg/person)           10.5       12.9       12.2        12.9       14.3        15.8       16.8       17.7        19.1       23.3
- % of production                 86.3%      89.1%      87.9%       88.3%      87.6%      88.3%       87.4%      85.2%       85.90/o    89.6%
Producer Price (Sao Paulo)
- liveweight (US$/kg)              0.73       0.61       0.65        0.85       0.85       0.63        0.55       0.58        0.69       0.64
Eggs
Production
- total (million dozens)       1,118      1,177       1,239      1,015       1,121      1,138      1,182       1,056      1,122       1,339
Domestic Consumption
- total (million dozens)       1,110       1,170      1,230      1,007       1,112      1,125      1,160       1,040       1,118      1,326
- per capita (dz/person)           8.24       8.52       8.79        7.08       7.68       7.65        7.76       6.86        7.27        8.51
- % of production                 99.3%      99.4%      99.3%       99.2%      99.2%      98.9%       98.1%      98.5%       99.6%      99.0%
Producer Price (SAo Paulo)
- liveweight (US$/kg)
Brazilian Population (millions)   _ 134.7       137.3      139.8       142.3      144.7      147.1       149.4      151.6       153.7      155.8
1/     CWE - Carcass Weight Equivalent
Source: FNP/APA/ABEF/DTIC/UBA



-45 -
TABLE 22. BRAZIL: COMPARATIVE EXPORTS - BEEF, CHICKEN AND PORK, 1987-1996
(US$'000)
Item                        1987         1988        1989        1990         1991        1992         1993        1994         1995         1996
Beef                         28,500      374,313     323,858     233,680      398,001     634,689      595,777     651,934      462,650      427,722
Chicken                      21,600      235,026     261,674     232,960      386,944     455,593      563,553     609,359      636,735      840,008
Pork                         n/a          27,464      19,422       22,133      28,336      72,314       82,542      66,235       n/a         n/a
Total Exports             26,324,000   33,789,365   34,391,758   31,390,429   31,636,359   36,207,776   38,788,679   43,558,317   46,506,282   47,746,728
Source: Brazilian Foreign Trade Association



-46 -
TABLE 23. BRAZIL: PRODUCTION, EXPORTS AND CONSUMPTION OF POULTRY MEAT, 1988-1997
Year         Production         Exports            Estimated Consumption
Total (tons)    Per capita (kg)
1988             1,947             241             1,706              12.2
1989            2,082              243              1,839             12.9
1990            2,356              299             2,057              14.2
1991            2,627              321             2,306              15.7
1992            2,872              372             2,500              16.7
1993            3,144              417             2,727             18.0
1995            3,491              591             2,900             18.9
1994            4,050              404             3,646             23.4
1996            4,058              569             3,489             22.1
1997 1/          4,400               700            3,700             23.2
1/ Estimate
Source: UBA/ABEF/APINCO/ANAB



- 47 -
TABLE 24. BRAZIL: VACCINATION COVERAGE AGAINST FMD, 1987-1996
Year       Population of   Population      Coverage %
Project Area    Vaccinated
(m. heads)
1987             85.1           54.8            64.39
1988             89.5           58.6            65.47
1989             94.4           88.2            93.43
1990            117.3           75.5            64.36
1991            109.4           76.7            70.10
1992            121.1           87.4            72.17
1993            123.8           97.4            78.67
1994            129.5          101.2            78.14
1995            128.4          107.2            83.48
1996            129.6          114.7            88.50
TABLE 25. BRAZIL: HERDs AFFECTED AND REGISTERED MORBIDITY RATE, FMD, 1986-1996
Year              Herds Affected          Morbidity Rate
Number           Rate          per Head
1986          1,699             0.87           4.22
1987          1,319             0.75           4.05
1988          1,314             0.65           2.75
1989          1,376             0.68           2.46
1990            989             0.49           2.26
1991            757             0.38           1.21
1992          1,232             0.60           2.94
1993          1,432             0.69           3.90
1994          2,093             0.94           5.01
1995            589             0.26           1.34
1996            215             0.09           0.36



- 48 -
TABLE 26. HERDS AFFECTED AND MORBIDITY RATES (FMD) BY LIVESTOCK CIRCUIT, 1994-1996
Livestock                                           Year
Circuit                1994                        1995                        1996
Herds       Morbidity       Herds       Morbidity      Herds       Morbidity
Affected       Rate         Affected       Rate        Affected        Rate
Center-West          683           2.62           176           0.67           14         0.04
East                 206           2.40           165           3.56           17         0.22
Northeast             979         25.99           176         112.00          130          1.34
North                 175          9.09           22            3.29           16          1.66



-49 -
ANNEX A: THE LIVESTOCK DISEASE ECONOMIC RELATIONSHIP
1.    The central objective of this project was to increase productivity by decreasing
production losses due to disease. The SAR discusses the costs of those production losses
without factoring in the costs of control and prevention; nor does the SAR set out the
economic implications of disease in their broader sense. More generally, little work has
been done to establish a conceptual framework for analyzing disease as an economic
phenomenon and animal health has commonly been seen as a veterinary issue. A recent
paper in the Journal of Agricultural Economics by Prof. J. Mclnerney seeks to define
these issues and suggest areas for further analysis. Selected aspects of this paper are
summarized below.
2.    The incidence of disease lowers the productivity of animals and the inputs applied
to them, reducing in the process, the benefits society gains through the food chain.
Controlling disease uses resources and raises questions about how efficiently they are
used and what their optimal allocation should be. The negative effects of disease can
most clearly be seen by producers, on-farm, because (i) basic resources are wiped out
(breeding and productive animals); (ii) rates of growth and feed conversion are reduced;
(iii) physical output of production or its unit value is reduced (lower beef/milk yields or
quality). Viewed more broadly vis a vis the food system, animal disease also: (iv)
reduces the suitability of livestock products for processing and generates additional costs
in the chain (drug residues, meat inspection); and (v) directly affects human health
(salmonellosis). Other effects include (vi) reduced total value a society gains from its
livestock including constraints on trade and reduced consumption benefits derived from
consumer perceptions of product safety.
3.    The economic importance of disease is not only a question of computing the costs
of its direct impact (deaths and reduced output) which in itself is quite complex,
involving disagregation of the effects of mortality versus morbidity and other elements.
Generally missing is a calculation of the significant costs of resources for its control and
prevention, which implicitly entails the definition of a control strategy or a range of
alternative control options. The relationship between disease and livestock production
can be shown graphically as follows:



- 50 -
Livestock output                                   -      Prod. Fn. "healthy"Q
Qo   ......Prod. Fn. "diseased"
QD    ....
R0                            RD               Resource input
Source: J. Mclnerney, "Old Economics for New Problems -- Livestock Disease: Presidential
Address", Journal of Agricultural Economics, 47 (3) (1996).
4.    This is stated as: Q=f(RJN,K) where Q is the flow of output (milk, liveweight
gain) derived from the application of variable resources R (food, labor) to an animal
herd/population N and its associated land and other fixed resources K, the fumction f
showing the diminishing marginal returns characteristic of short-run production. When
the animals are "healthy", the incidence of "disease" will affect the parameters of this
relationship so as to reduce Q for any level of input. This is true whether disease lowers
the physical productivity of R inputs or causes the death of animals (reduces N).
Depending where the starting point, the vertical depression of the production relationship
is either the loss due to the occurrence of disease, or the benefit derived from its
eradication if it is already endemic. Thus, "loss" due to any particular disease is unlikely
to be a straightforward, measurable characteristic and the loss concept must be seen as a
relationship, not a number, being smaller under low input-low output production methods
(AB) than under more intensive systems (CD). The potential economic importance of
disease is therefore not uniform across farms, regions or countries, and control measures
justified in one context, may not be worthwhile in another.



2661           9661           661            M66           661           Z661           1661           0661           6961           9261          L96t
OWo0oo.oZ
I                                                                                                                                                                            aoo'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  0010*ogo
.5  44  4   1                       *~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~***;4*~~~~~~~~~~"v~~~~~.."                                                  000'000091~~~~~~~~~~.......
L661 L961 '0uoqvUp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~u~~~ ~~~~Nd  PUU P'~~~~~~~~~~~~H  ~~~~~UVAofl.....:
X~~~~~~~~~~HHV ~ ~~ M                                                                           :ti                                          DDO 0



(piaq I'WI pO %) Pal-UIIPA A
1661                                        9661                                         5661                                        'K61                                        G661                                        Z661                                         1661                                       0661                                        6861                                        9961                                       Z961
I1                                          I                                            I                                           I                                           I                  'I<                     1     '       . ',                           I       ,',     ,            'I,                      , '                               I                     ,                    I       :, 
.7%O1
%0i
v                                                                                                                                                                                                                    .                      .                                                                                 -.. .
'          '                    .    . .....
. /-$s |. . i:i ! =''-..   ...........i. .......... ....... ..                                                                                              wa 
S                                                                                                                     ::sts    *!::!~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~ ~~~~~.! .. ..........   ........sP+ @@6*   .i  i.....................       ........                                              ..:......... ::           i    . .';''...........'.j:                              
.......l;;i.5.              .  ..5  *   bi:s!:E- ij    P                   i'i'!i'-!;                                                                             .-.-::    g,                                                            ........ ii....i.....<'.'aii  :
''6 86  '(p i                                      5a              <sj -u'Ao  j? i) 'O   ) 'UI'iU'i'-                                                                    A '' i
.         * q      5, x    i Esi igssEgitysiisii   i31i                  ji    ijS    i i,5; ::i5'j:yEiii    iiiiiiiii-'i!'!"'-'i''!'!ii........   .............i..!. ........,                                                                                      ....
.                                                                                                                 .   ,  ,   >.      -; . ...   . ...    ,;; iiiS lisijiii iiiigii ii jiji ijiEiii :!!!iii iii iiiidii!iiii ! !'i ijg:ii:iii,iFii;:i : igfiiiJ; iii:i i: ..............................................................:j;: .i.i.i.
.,....    ::s2...s:Y    s  .   s  .'..'i'e.a.e.  .1.5       4.   ;S   <            >.sew                 s^..i             uis;'''s          :,.:'t.'                   .........        .......:.:..............                                                                                                                                                                                                ...... ..:.
,<5    ,!,4;5   35,   {i*,,!;g    i!gi3gS!i!ii.!i5iiiiiii!!P.sii   jjigtjti,5   54iiZ;3i53i33i33iii    33iii55i3j3Sig33iti    3E3   i3jji3;3;   S  i3i3Sj3jii3iii  i ji  jj.ii.3.................i                                                                         .
:                                                                                                                                                    .  i S     S  : :3   5  ;   .  ,  ,    ; , ,i,      iS     i :i3i3iiiii3ii:5i ffg g:iS iiii, i iii4ig4.5 3 3i  3i;3;::5:3i 4 :ii:iiiiiS!:iiS: iiix! :.ii...................................................S.S::i::!:il j::S.i.iiiiii.iiiiiii:.::ii  ii!!i  ...!j3i
ig33i;4 i fE3  33   3j3;t3 il3 i3ig333!333333ii3i3j3?3,3i3j:  ij3333.,2:,3i g33i3i                    ... ......                                                    ............ 33 Z3;   :i......35.....3i33i3 3i3.Z!3i......;i3.Z33i3!!3.3Z3!!!3i.........ii
;ijis~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~i s.i=t333C3: imis<33i                                                                                                                                                                                                                  .; .:3g33  .s33 i0*:: i34i  33S iS1    .......... . s33aX   3   gii3533iii33Z   33g33S
0~~ ~~~~~~~~~...... ................  .P al ........ I..o    Jo.    % )                                                                                                                                                                                   I.eua e  ... ..a...........                                                                                                                                                        0
.........  .......                                          .............                                         ...........i,                                                                                                                            ..      ..   .......                                                                                                                             .....



+lDB55-81-2711554    IJN(V UL IHL Ktztl I r- zC-4 'JC4  co Ulf 40 , 
PROJETO DE CONIOLU DAS DOEN(AS DOS ANAILS
ENPBSTfl~IO 2864-DR
xssAO DE SVPEn VIw si           APPENDIX I
AJDA MEM6R
IntrodugA.
1.    mis  do Bocea Mwdi,.fornad& por Rainumdo Nonato Camirha,
reuadw  supavisl to Pwjdo 4sComro du Do.nq  dos Animim. nos di"
29 a 30 de maio de 17. A wpMso lov como objevo iLvalAr o
dmmwpnho do Projeo e cooU devWus   de rmuniaes cam t6cWcos di
Unidads de Coordm;M sob a rcponabiidade do Depmcrto de Dofes
A l -DDA, do Miualino d A ulus  Abt o, an Brua - DF.
A pmmas AJd Mer6ria rc*at as plpsis obsa0es da superviIo.
D9o penho do ProJto.
2     o ptoJooto  umn etul encrudeang 31 demnuw;ode L997 tendo
sido utilizaa a totuLdad dos reuos do Empidstimo, no mntam  de
USS34.0 MzilhOs O doshuho grl do Proieto 4 couaidwdo uztiadz6no,
tmno on v,t pdncpamhn.z as mhriua ocoondu em su  implsmnta, a
par* do final do 1994. Come*bito, duans o periodo 1917-1994, a Projeto
o um dosemboomiddlo    J 4* USS2.S milhcs, mnquuo no p,dodo de
1995 a maW  de 1"97 o dsombolo m6dio anual foi de USS 10.4 milhGu. 294
programo fI devido pincipalssente ac proco  de agilizalo das Mbapla  do&
r*cunsot pum as 6rgaos acimores e A ustabUidado da mooda o:r.id a pair
do PIAno caL
3.    En ternos islo  o Proeo4Iou gsands parts   mdusu
proramadas. As  tads  htm  desemolvidas no ca*xo do qwo linhu
do a*io: (a) Progam  Naiosal de Santoad AvicoS; (b) Propw4 Nacianl
doe rTadiacao da Febs Moss; (c) Progrs do Contmk o Erndiclo da
Pos Suia Clsica; o (4) Coordsualo do Laborat6ros Anlm=.
4.    Na nibitad Prourams do SLOWadeAvcoI oProjet apoiou a
rsaiIzzo de dlivrus ati,dadaa tas coma, implatio do mm Prosama Pioto
do   a    e spl 6gla  sabre domnps das aves (DIAG);
aoompazmmnto e prepuahl doe  at6rics t6dcrcos sobre a situalo snithia
do ottor avicola c  10 lnos;  ublmesito du 'Nrms de Higiene e
Seprans Snt-Majl, pam habMwo de estabslocmuntos produtoros de avas,
no cotoxo do MEPCOSUL;  oramento tcrnico juto a divuros estedos,
aGm de diveos aimposuom, tvtalet t6c*u e reunilo do Couiti Conazitivo do
Progruas Hadonal do SaidadsAvcola,.Adon" esio s=do eai2zados, am
canter pomanste, coroles d produpo de vacui  contm as 11 praincpi s
doonqs du aves do Bu.l, bem coma levmntamento &Wezkico du
oconrincia das doensas das aves an todo o tzrt6rio naclonal.



i0C:b-Ul-d'{llHN4  U l'IUNLJHL KtWIt-                W-Dr riga   jull CO  vr irio;e
5.                          0s        ~               O Pt*to        MrAnnex  1
apoloiuAvidades 4. r Sima. do voaednkios. aconimpuwhAnto de 06 * de Page 2 of 3
vcsinOaGes o* qouro1s obrs a p*odwjl pdvWd do v"anas . Nests aspeto,
form viwdas eat mo crce de 114 milh8u do bovwos, representando 90%
da totahdsde dos r.baibas da krd derojPto. No pmiodo do jaeiro.a dezembro
d 1996, forum notd5ado 215 Ao de take aftoa, obsorvando-se urns
rsdulo de SO%, am rlalo.o mum  p edodo d 1995, quando foram
aosiados 444 fcos. NoWdma  pewiuko x 4  ia etima   rntra da donqa foi
muabi .1994 uEtaodo um.
6.     1   _m ubrode de 1  o, * Au..e a hiitagio do Esao de Mato
Crouo pars etpoauIo demobovina f*vac4 parz Unic Europdi& Outro
bw reldvam tat a realiWo" do inqudut  o  odeadol6gco pam febre aftosa
as Isdo dld   o  rnds do Sul a SaMA Caari  cmprindo asaim o 6ltim
requWto iwdo polo  Z(O lcs rt.wuWo:W de Epiooths), pa o
r..ouheclmcsto dos dwi osta4wsca, "Zos 1 Mwe de fabre Aosa, ande se
pka io svaiaQo.". Cogreps at ooptoule de produo de vcunas,
rOLiQU4. a produl ds 164.8 miIhOcs do0, du quas. 162.4 mithOs
(9W.) fom ccrWda&# aprouds. p_i contilh okial.
7. 
EP) aso      se awalm  os os dos 4o Zio Grand* do Su, Somea Catarna,
Pamn, LSlo Pio, dnu ra,         o Cramo do Sul a Mato rouso, and. se
ooucmzn 8 do pdalEo de &*ws do LrasiL Nam  st:ados, i exce0o de
,S  Pa,  valo wcoa. poe  *ai oisscaji a" supna, tendo es
ViIstsa nba    aa di's _d de 1994. Neuts. ima O Prajeo ten se
-cowcmtndo.n apolo is ^dadid   do Pducao  Saniis,a de Vigiincis
Spiduraiol6glc: Eats 41thsm, aonulAtdo am aMvddes .clata do Iorfa gma*s,
lcwstasgae *Wollcas u    oiqufdto spidenloftim par d.tecOo de qualquer
.umnsfidad. atis quo por orrorer neak   0 Eado de So Paulo esti
.u_maaos va cinsO obrgat6rla desd. o hicio de 1996, tondo em vista a
!ocorriac de icos naspincipai zonu de produ  ,; 5 wai. Os demnals
audo& al iculYdos nae ond* a vsdug6es estso Wspmnsas, realizam a
vaclnabo volhntria beun como   controls de 100% dos focos da doens.
o aode 1996, hfi ndM,Aa a aspeita dlinica de oggrT4fcia do daoega
nos au-do, 4Pauiba. lahia e So Palo. pazmndo um totl dJ 9 facos e 31
,a"*. Ifts dimals awdbs, aft.howe od*caq  da s&ruigdade.
5,     m teoms deo dupq  SMftks6, fwunm reazedas 75 palen& com
1,1l0 partpantos; di& buido 1.934 materias oducatvos * 6,490 produtores
Abans owienwea. Cam repito i VWitAa Epidoi6gicm, fornm
7re ced  29 anja, o        bsaintaus pag eames laboratouias cm 52
proprindadee S2.ftofioos.e emitWdas 13.010 guiade .t4nsito.
9.    N  co do do PCESC a pwcipalo de entidadas pivadas e
uclaae dod produtori ts ido exprusiva  Uravds de eriaio de Comi4s
E2atadlis * *temao de *iio par a utUIqo prinpamente na indeainzo 
de ctdor polo afcRio do amaisia Em outubto de 1996 foram ofcialmente
ciados as Coitd Cozultivo Estalual do Saridade Suina. nos esadas de Santa
2



Annex 2
Page 3 of 3
CUatui Parsa  Rio Gruad do Su, Minas Geas o SAo Pauo. Estes coahiis
do consstldos de ro d odes. 6rgios otcWs onvoividos com sauidade
&Wmiul, alIm de reprssAtesda inciativa privaca, dos produtores c
uiversdades.
10.               i                            foram real,ddsa
atividades de supoe &i aewo doa prgrOuaacen=trais dt widado aWmal,
,cAma rnwAA*ados, acUja  rs alhso de dan6sticos de amostu dos
bcos; conuoft de vea crAu            o monltranwto do labolra6rios;
ign6stico rferealW di DGM;a de N.wcwle, Salmonelose e Micoplamosu
&vhua a o desenvolvmhto de Ul  do denduos bioI6siros em cafns.
Auditoris
11.   7.p ftuda euditods; am  ons do Putjoto a as Coet Eap"ial,
rfuuto a moi  ---:da do   w  s durno o'exericio fical de 1996. 0
Xila6do. de uitw            por audiors di Socretsdar Federal de Controls
mnsso esicwtn Omm    is.  n440dpi fia.
Recorneu4za0
12,    A miuslo dlscuti  coa  ticaicos do DA os principais t6picos a
worm Incluldos na prepara4f do tda6rio FIn  do Projeto a sw osviado so
Banco ai IS de junho de 1997. FoE rcm dd m. domais, a contraualo do umn
cnuhr madpoo pt a pspaldo refoid o    reat6rio.
Br. lis ,30 diw ao do 1997.
Raimuw              B1D         Aluso Bsr SatWer - MAA
3



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
(Loan 2864-BR)
BORROWER CONTRIBUTION



Unofficial Translation                           APPENDIX II
FEDERAL PUBLIC SERVICE
MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE AND SUPPLY
SECRETARIAT FOR AGRO-LIVESTOCK PROTECTION
SECRETARY'S COUNCIL
OFICIO GAB/SDA no. 209/98                 Brasilia, April 2, 1998
Ref.: Loan 2864-BR - Implementation Completion Report
Dr. Luis Coirolo
World Bank
Washington, D.C. -- USA
Dear Sir:
We wish to acknowledge receipt of the draft Final "Implementation Completion
Report" for the Animal Disease Control Project, prepared by World Bank technical staff.
We advise that we have analysed the referred document and have the pleasure of
expressing our general agreement with its content and in particular, with several of the
main issues, as stated below.
We are in agreement that the execution of the Project in the period from 1987 to
1993 was greatly affected by the fiscal crisis and macro-economic instability which
caused delayed and inadequate provision of counterpart funding. In addition, various
administrative reforms occurring at the beginning of 1990 had a negative impact on
Project management. Also, it is important to indicate that the Project, having been
conceived in the period 1985-1987, contained centralized rules and procedures which
became incompatible with the mandate under the new Brazilian Constitution approved in
1988, which called for a major decentraliztion of federal power and greater participation
of civil society in government decision-making.
However, it is important to highlight the immediate support of the Bank for the
proposal by the Ministry of Agriculture to radically reformulate the Project. Approved in
early 1994, this reformulation included innovative mechanisms for decentralization and
private sector participation which showed themselves to be crucial for rapidly
recuperating the pace of project implementation and final achievement of its goals and
objectives, as presented in the Implementation Completion Report. Further, the financial
contribution of the participating States, macro-economic stability achieved by the Real
Plan and the firm commitment of the Federal Government to regular provision of
required counterpart funding, also contributed to the success of the Project..



Thanks to the very successful experiences achieved under this Project, the
Government of Brazil has taken the initiative of requesting World Bank support for the
financing of a new project. The main characteristics of this project are the continuity and
expansion of decentralized actions, and the project foresees the growing participation of
the private sector in animal and plant health control with the emphasis on those products
with major export importance.
Finally, we wish to congratulate the World Bank team for the quality, coherence
and depth of the information presented in the final report.
Sincerely
(signed)
ENIO ANTONIO MARQUES PEREIRA
Secretery for Agro-Livestock Protection
A.Roumani
M:\lal er\br\2864govt.doc
April 13, 1998



APPENDIX III
Brazil: Agricultural Regions
X AMUZNAS       NO    H                                        00 RNORMTU E
f                     /~~~~~~~~~~~P PAR          RA                   PAFtACR4 BA
\ Rt>NDCNIA t      |        ]                 7 N      /~AMIA 
n ~~GROSSO                                        FEFA UOISCO
CENTE *T    
the ~    ~      ~       T Cetr-et Souteast  &n
{  GROSso -g9DUTHEAS;  /SAD
>    >--r   UAN~~~~~~ESIRIO
7  PAR ~AUL ^                  DE
Carter-South is an aggreat of                 ,_ v
the Center-West, SDutheast. and             _SANTA
South rGIo,ns.
JONPR WEANDE DO
JOINT AGRICULTURAL WEATHER FACLllY (NOAAVUSDA



MAP SECTION



703           )                                      _00'                l                                         0'                                                      40'                                                       30
VENEZUELA                     .,RENCH
J               '-                          ?   . SURINAME FGUIANA/
COLOMBIA                        W,%                     U.  Boo V,STo (GUYAN                               SGUIA V                CATTLR 4, 000 BCRATZI L
7                                                                        .,to/-+    \CATTLE M'.0.'i'      LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
}                          \ ~~~~~~~~~~PIGS:4,00^.,
C         r                                        t POUL~~~~~~~~~~WT-Y 223,0300                          'Mcp 
N)                                        ) POJTTRY% 223,000                                        M ocopo-                                                          ATLANTIC                      OCEAN
SEo Lo,s                      CATTLE, 2,425,00
jl !                                         (3~~~~~               ~~                                 ~         ~~Monous    C                Ss  IT                      PIGIS: 827,040,06
POULTRY, 14,882,000CATTLE, 803,000
POULTRY 1,912,000
CATT'LE 3.0   0                                                                          '.     D   DO  NORTE
A   -    C"                                            P1035 1,310,000    90)(  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ATTE:3,05000
CATTuE. 391,000                                                                                                        PIGS 3 0005000
PIGS, 266,000                                                                                                          P POULTRY. 03143300  PCULTL  1  240004,                       ,
PaLLORS 2416000                                                                                                                      ,,7 G"oro  C                                             j~''''0'  Possoo / PGS    I 27   }P   ue3
[0 CATTLE 4I70AiO                                                                                                                                                                                                     0,01 Rio             CATTLE,l,320,i :0 h.ll00{ >Lt  OASisP   8CT B
PGIh' CA                                                                                  O                                                                                   PIGS. 201,000         1
3i                                                                       "CATTLEY.  1608030 ,oo                                                    POULTRY POULTRY. 12,955.000    :    PIGS  528712000
PEU':RY U 1,6,00                                                                                                                            91,390                                                                                  LM  2    TC'  ) t\t  \H.AA /(OLB    ,B80,000
0,,                   CATTLE. IPorTo000                  .272000 ,, ,                                                                                          (CATTLE1  1,82000G 7,  C  C E 0
'         '              ("n                                       3                                                               fOULTRY. 3,20 3C CTTLE70,P                                                                             . U 160699,000
30101   '"'~~"..,  .   .4  Onlho                                        ..         .   -            A                         .                                                           oceiC         POULTRY  132885000
.  X  bRii9LIAti2i; BwA.IL                                                                                      ATLiA NTI{C
Ri  Bronco >/OABOLIVIA                                                                            G o . so                           CATL
10'                                                                                   ,                               } CATTLEi 437,300         B40jOOO 1.  J',780G3
POO-TRO, I 463000        PIGS 367300                                                                                                     POULTRY. PIGS I               |000           *  PRO   CATTL        E A2 N
/    |                                         }: ~~~~~~MATO GROSSO  "                  .                    .g;          
POULTRO 3 641.000                                                                 POULTRO, 123300    , ,                                                      IREdroLeopolSL  1,8PS,005
PERU                            J                    oV.>                3i>Campo Grsnde  ,.                                                                                            TPOOLTRY, 1,800,0Be  H06--3  'OULTRY 60754,0
CATTLE  30.000 000                                                          . CATTL  0 330,i00
P G3 1379030                                                                 PIS  ,0300                   0000
POULTRY.  3,2,000           CATTLr0. S300                                     Po-dT 100o                                  n     g    y                           20
4   \    PARAGUAY  +                 9        --                  *GCamP^^ .4||i @                                           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Arer-s f En,demic Foof-d-Mauth
7100. 34 000        GC.Di-
PA    C   .   CHILE   j   >  a   . ffi   !  p,  ,  i, 560 Paulo~~~~~~~0LCATTLE. 803 020 Rehobiliht6dR  undert  d  Ihe Prc. jed
Co                            POULTRY, 1.883000      o u                T POULTRY lb 8lC   0            *        E.mtimg FId-oI Animol He42h Lb-t-ie
OC L ' '   2                                              /                   %               Curitibss"}                  }PIGS 2 0130320                    *~~~~~~~~~~cu,,i,  P...-eiLI, C.,w6 f., FCoot-cd-M.W1, Dis,-s.
C ~ ~ ~ ~        ~       ~       ~       ~ ~ ~ ~~oo ~.,                                                                                       POULTR61 C3 ;6.0 ARCETIN                                                N   : i'      OLBY 23600:-RY
GojAnjo     /              CACA TTLE  10 030,030
Compo   ~~~~~~      ,,. ,-,              ~~IGS                           I PGS,43300
_a.  _ -i         t     B    Porno                       A          8 POULTRY: 6,23,000 IntstioI C.pie
C L        OOO           /l                                                              Viro117Pl C E  O     t  (
50Ch r. onobs                             I                   s           /                                                                                      200        4TnO       600 KILOMETERS~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~  2  I0  M    ILMEER
3                                                                        3 3          J                                                                                 0               2o 0  4o0 MILES
)     4                                       PARAGUAY                        E            >,,                 *C         0                          .Aes  fEdmcFo0n,ot
t ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~     ~    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~SoPoo                                                  Ri do Jonir                U           O Foderol AnooplHoldos:  B  YoeoortSoniesl or Bnz   3
70'~~~                                         ~             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 60  ,:  5004                                                                                      3
APRIL I 987



