Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
2n  r tts 18 - gt
Report No. 6724-BR
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
June 11, 1987
Projects Department
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Tlhis document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its ontents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Curreacy Unit                  Cruzado (Cz$)
US$1.00              a         Cz$16.5 1/
Cz$1.00                        US$0.0606
Cz$1 million                   US$60,606
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
FISCA$v YEAR
Government of Brazil      W   January 1 to December 31
Ministry of Agriculture  -    January 1 to December 31
Project                        January 1 to December 31
1/ Exchange rate at the time of appraisal (Ja'uary 1987)



FOR OMCIAL USE ONLY
GLOSSARY OF ACRONYMS
ADO        -  Assessoria de Desenvolvimento Operacional
(Institutional Development Unit)
DIAF       -  Divisao de Administracao e Financas
(Administration and Finance Division)
EMATER     -  Empresa de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(State Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
EMBRAPA    -  Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa Agropecuaria
(Brazilian Agricultural Research Company)
EMBRATER   -  Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica e Extensao Rural
(Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company)
IDB        -  Banco Interamericano de Desenvolvimento
(Inter-American Development Bank)
LANARA     -  Sistema Nacional de Laboratorios de Referencia Animal
(Department of Animal Disease Laboratories)
PANAFTOSA  -  Centro Panamericano de Fiebre Aftosa
(Panamerican Center for Foot-and-Mouth Disease)
SDSA       -  Secretaria de Defesa Sanitaria Animal
(Department of Animal Health Protection)
SEAGRI     -  Secretaria de Agricultura Estadual
(State Secretariat for Agriculture)
SERSA      - Servicio de Defesa Sanitaria Animal
(Department of Animal Health Protection at the State Level)
SNAD       -  Secretaria Nacional de Defesa Agropecuaria
(National Secretariat for Plant and Animal Health Protection)
This document has a restricted distribution and may be usel by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No
I.    LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY .....................,......          1
II.    THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR *.......                               3
Agriculture in the National Economy ...... .....               3
Current Agricultural Development Policy ....*.*...*..         3
Experience with Bank Lending                                  4
The Livestock Subsector ...................... o e.           4
Livestock Disease in Brazil                                    7
Institutional Framework for Animal Health o*.*0....           8
III,    THE PROJECT                     ,                              9
Project Background and Rationale                              9
Project Objectives and Description                           10
Detailed Project Description .......................*        11
Project Implementation                                       12
Project Costs                                                14
Financing Plan ......................e.*ee**o                15
Procurement                                                  15
Disbursements                                                16
Special Accounts  ...............**..e..                     16
Project Account and Audit                                    17
Monitoring and Evaluatiou ........................           17
Cost Recovery and Sustatiability                             18
Project Justification                                        is e*ee****e***   .0.0......  18
Projects Risks                                               19
IV.    SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS TO BE REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION        20
This report is based on the findinls of an appraisal mission which visited
Brazil during January - February 1987. The mission comprised Messrs.
M. Fairless (Mission Leader), A. Tobelem (Bank) and H. McCauley
(Consultant)



Table of Contents (Continued)
Page No.
Annex 1 -   TABLES ON BRAZILIAN LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION
Table 1. Distribution and Density of Brazil's
Cattle Herd                            .**      22
Table 2.  Beef Production Coefficients ..............        23
Table 3.  Apparent Internal Consumption - All Meats
(1970-1986) ..........24
Table 4.  Foreign Trade in Brazilian Livestock
Products (1975-1985)                            25
Table 5. Milk Production Coefficients ..............0        26
Table 6.  Pig Production Coefficients ...............        27
Table 7.  Beef, Pork and Poultry Production Data..,..        28
Table 8.  Poultry Production Coefficients                    29
Arnex 2 -  LIVESTOCK DISEASE IN BRAZIL**************         30
Annex 3  - PROJECT COST TABLES
Table 1.  Project Components by Year                         37
Table 2.  Summary Account by Project Component               38
Table 3.  Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements e9        39
Table 4.  Allocation of Loan Proceeds ...............        40
Annex 4  - MONITORING AND EVALUATION 0..............         41
Table 1. Key Indicators: Project Impact on Animal
Disease                                         46
Annex 5 -  OUTLINE OF INTERINSTITUTIONAL AGREEMENTS
SOUGHT UNDER THE PROJECT .............          48
Annex 6  -  DOCUMENTS AVAILABLE IN THE PROJECT FILE..        50
CHART    -  General Organization and Operational
Structure                                     51
MA  IBRD No. 20399



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
I. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Federative Republic of Brazil
Executing         The Department of Animal Health Protection and the
Agencies:         Department of Animal Disease Laboratories, both within
the Ministry of Agriculture, and state-run veterinary
services.
Amount:           US$51.0 million equivalent
Terms:            Repayment in 15 years on a fixed amortization schedule,
including 3 years of grace, at the Bank's standard
variable interest rate.
Beneficiaries:    About 2 million livestock farmers are expected to benefit
from the project.
Project           The objective of the proposed project is to increase
ObJective:        livestock productivity by decreasing production losses
resulting from disease. In order to achieve this
objective, the project would assist the Ministry of
Agriculture in transforming the existing federal and
state veterinary departments into modern, cost-effective
services.
Project           The proposed project would be the first Bank-financed
Description:      project in Brazil to be directly implemented by the
Ministry of Agriculture and would: (a) strengthen the
Federal Government's Department of Animal Health
Protection through recruitment and training of staff,
management training, employment of consultant services
and purchase of field equipment; (b) strengthen 15 state
veterinary services through training (staff and
management) and the purchase of equipment; (c) increase
and improve the quality of staff at nine federal
laboratories belonging to the Department of Animrl
Disease Laboratories through staff recruitment, training
and the use of consultant services; and (d) improve the
physical facilities (plant and equipment) at the nine
federal laboratories, one state laboratory in Rio Grande
do Sul, the Panamerican Center for Foot-and-Mouth Disease
outside Rio and four quarantine stations. The project
would concentrate on cattle, pig and poultry production
in the South, Southeast and Center-West regions and in
four Northeastern States.
Project Risks:    The main risk is that project implementation may suffer
because of inexperienced project management. This risk
has been minimized through the establishment of an
institutional development unit to be staffed and managed



-2-
umder arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. Management
training and consultant services would also be provided
as support.   The potential financial risk linked to the
scarcity of domestic funding has been alleviated through
appropriate provision of start-up funding and adequate
assurances of cc,unterpart funding.
Estimated Costs:                                Local      Foreign     Total
~-------US$ Million
Animal Health Protection, Federal Level          7.7         1.4        9.1
Animal Health Protection, State Level           10.3         1.0       11.3
Animal Health Field Programs                    24.4         7.1       31.5
Laboratory Central Services                      5.3         3.4        8.7
Laboratories                                    32.6         7.7       40.3
Base Cost                                    80.3       20.6       100.9
Physical Contingencies                           1.2         0.6        1.8
Price Contingencies                              4.7         1.0        5.7
Total Project Cost                           86.2       22.2       108.4 1/
Financing Plan:                                 Local     Foreign      Total
-------US$ Million
Federal Government                              57.4           -       57.4
IBRD                                            28.8       22.2        51.0
Total                                           86.2        22.2      108.4
Estimated Disbursements:
Bank FY                1988    1989    1990    1991    1992    1993    1994
-Ö------US$ Million---
Annual                  6.0    12.0    10.0       8.0      7.0     5.0      3.0
Cummulative             6.0    18.0    28.0    36.0    43.0    48.0    51.0
Rate of Return:: not applicable
Map No. IBRD 20399
17 Including about US$5.9 million of taxes.



-3-
IIo THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
Agriculture in the National Economy
2.01      Agriculture in Brazil has traditionally been a major source of
exports and employment, though a relatively small contributor to GDP. In
1970, agriculture accounted for 12% of GDP, 44% of the economically active
population and 67% of total exports. In 1985, these figures were 13%, 30%
and 31%, respectively.
2.02      During the 1970s, sectoral GDP grew at an average annual rate of
5%. The most dynamic expansion was with products that rely on heavy
capital investment or high levels of inputs, sua as soybeans, citrus,
tobacco, cocoa and sugarcane on large commercial farms in central and
southern Brazil. Much slower growth rates, and in some cases declines,
were recorded for such staple food crops as rice, maize, wheat, beans,
manioc and potatoes. In the early 1980s, the sector entered a period of
decline and, in spite of a modest recovery in 1984 and 1985, the output of
many basic commodities 'maize, cassava, soybeans, potatoes, beans, red
meat, milk) was no higher in 1986 than it was in 1980. The slowdown in the
growth of agricultural output since 1980 has resulted in a leveling off of
agricultural exports (at around US$8 billion), a decline in per capita food
production and an increase in food imports.
2.03      These trends are illustrated by the following figures.  The total
planted area in Brazil rose 3.3% per year from 1970 to 1980 but only 1.7%
per year from 1980 to 1986. Agricultural exports rose from US$4 billion in
1975 to US$8 billion in 1980 and stayed at that level through 1986. In
1970 the output of the six major food crops (wheat, maize, potatoes, rice,
cassava, beans) was 57 million tons; in 1986, 63 million tons were
produced, an increase of only 11% in 16 years. During that period the
population rose by 45%. Average yields of major crops (though showing some
improvement since 1980) remain low by international standards. The supply
of credit to agriculture declined from US$14 billion equivalent in 1975 to
US$8.5 billion in 1985. The share of investment credit in total rural
credit fell from 31% to 13% over the same period.
Current Agricultural Development Policy
2.04      The present Government has nlaced a high priority on growth in
output and productivity in the agricultural sector. To this end, it is now
seeking an expansion of cost-effective investment to intensify agriculture
in preference to the traditional expans4on of-the agricultural frontier.
This is exemplified by Government's growing intere3t in financing projects
for irrigation, soil conservation, marketing and storage, agricultural
research and extension and the control of livestock disease.
2.05      In its dialogue with the Government on agricultural policy, the
Bank has emphasized the need for increased efficiency in resource
allocation to ensure cost-effectiveness in private investment decisions.
In particular, the dialogue has focused on the liberalization of
agricultural credit and commodity markets. With support from Loan 2348-BR,
the Bank's first policy loan for Brazilian agpiculture, signed in 1983,



- 4 -
negative real interest rates were eliminated for most rural credit in
Brazil. Following a temporary reversion to negative rates in 1986
resulting from the Plan Cruzado, positive rates of 6% have now been
established. At the same time, with support from Loan 2727-BR, approved in
June 1986, significant changes in commercial policy are under discussion,
with the aim of reducing Government intervention in agricultural trade and
in the marketing of domestic crops.
Experience with Bank Lending
2.06      The Bank has made 41 loans totalling US$3,268.6 million for
agricultural and rural development ia Brazil. These include one
agricultural credit and export loan for US$303.0 million; one credit and
marketing reform loan for US$500 million; supplemental financing for
US$30.5 million under the Special Action Program; three loans for US$519.2
million for agroindustries; two for US$60.5 million for livestock; one for
US$18.2 million for grain storage; two for US$100.0 million for
agricultural research; two for US$255.0 million for agricultural extension;
one for US$100.0 million for land tenure improvement; and 27, totalling
US$1,382.2 million for various settlement, irrigation, and rural
development projects.
2.07      The main objective of the Bank's two previous livestock projects
in Brazil was to increase beef and wool production in the South and
Center-West mainly by providing long-term credit and technical assistance.
However, the Project Performance Audit Report (No. 2402) for both projects
shows that ttiere were substantial differences between the Bank and the
Brazilian Government on interest rates which led to cancellation and
prepayment of both loans by 1978. There were also less serious issues such
as the controversy generated over the use of foreign consultants, overseas
training and the lack of research, monitoring and evaluation. Under the
experience provided by &ater projects, such as the two agricultural
research projects, these controversies no longer exist. The Bank has never
been involved in a free-standing *nimal health project in Brazil.
The Livestock Subsector
2.08      Brazil's livestock industry contributes about 30% to the
agricultural GDP and livestock products account for 7% of agricultural
exports. Over the last ten years, beef slaughter has remained stable, pork
production bas increased slightly, while broiler productien has increased
by 300%. In the same period, the export value of livestock products has
increased from US$100 million to almost US$800 million. Beef and poultry
exports account for two-thirds and one-third of export value,
respectively. Pork exports are negligible. The increase in beef exports
has been possible as a result of declining domestic consumption. Due to a
steady decline in poultry prices relative to beef prices, Brazilians now
eat one-third less beef and five times as much chicken as they did in
1970. Milk production has been declining steadily for years (para. 2.12)
and Brazil depends heavily on imported powdered milk.
2.09      Beef.  The beef cattle industry contributes about 13% to the
gross agricultural product. Brazil's 118 million cattle herd is the
world's fourth largest. The herd is predominantly located in the Center-



- 5 -
West, mainly for breeding, and in the South and Southeast, mainly for
fattening (Annex 1, Table 1). However, many farmers throughout Brazil
(perhaps a quarter of all cattle farmers) breed and fatten their own
stock. Eighty percent of the herd consists of Zebu species (Bos Indicus),
from which excellent pedigree breeds have been developed and exported. The
remainder are European breeds (Bos Taurus) or crossbreds. National beef
productivity coefficients (Annex 1, Table 2) remain low (about half those
of Argentine's production coefficients) because of the extensive nature of
production. Cattle are predominantly raised on native pastures, and the
marked seasonality of pasture growth is rarely offset with supplementary
feeding in the low pasture growth season.
2.10      Although beef is still the preferred meat in Brazil, domestic
consumption (Annex 1, Table 3) dropped steadily from 20 kg/person/year
(1977) to 12 kg/person/year (1985), being replaced by poultry meat as
Brazil has developed a modern poultry industry that has been able to
produce poultry products inexpensively (para. 2.17). This has allowed beef
surpluses of about 400,000 tons/year, worth over US$500 million, to be
exported during the 1980s (Annex 1, Table 4). Half the exports are of
chilled or frozen beef to countries that are willing to buy meat cheaply
from countries where Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) is endemic. The other
half is sold as cooked and canned meat mostly to the US and UK. Brazil
typically imports small amounts of beef (less than 50,000 tons/year) from
Uruguay and Paraguay, mainly for canning and reexporting.
2.11      Brazil needs to increase its beef output if it is to maintain its
share of the export market while meeting a potential rise in interral
demand for beef, which could be expected with rising incomes and population
growth. To meet this objective, there is a need for a coherent strategy
for livestock development (para. 2.20). The traditional extensive nature
of cattle production in Brazil has been the logical result of the
availability of cheap land and money and of special fiscal incentives.
Recently, the cattle industry has started to modify its traditional
production systems, as land has become scarcer and credit more expensive.
The main thrust has been to lower the age of slaughter, given the heavy
financial costs of keeping steers at a low nutritional level, Prices for
cattle that are ready for slaughter vary throughout the year in accordance
to their availability. In recent years about 600,000 head of cattle have
been put in short-term feed lots to fatten for peak winter prices. The
Government itself has focused its attention on the need to increase
productivity on the existing land resource. Given this shift in emphasis
by both the private and public sectors, an increased focus on animal health
is particularly timely. A reduction in losses from animal disease would be
s cost-effective way to raise productivity.
2.12      Dair.  Brazil's dairy industry is declining.  Most milk
production is concentrated on small farms in the South and Southeast using
mainly Zebu crossed, dual-purpose cows. Of Brazil's 14 million dairy cows
(Annex 1, Table 5) only 60% are actually in milk at any one time;
production per lactating cow is equally low and is estimated to be only
1,200 kg/year (about half that of Argentine). Cows are typically grass
fed; only 2,% receive supplementary feed. Milk is either marketed crude or
pasteurized through producer cooperatives. Although there is a milk
classification system, the premium for top quality milk is not sufficient



to encourage farmers to invest in on-farm sanitation measures. The
consumption of milk products is low at 72 liters/person/year and is heavily
dependent on imports, which reached 130,000 tons of powdered milk in 1986.
2.13      The pricing of milk (which is strictly controlled) is the pivotal
issue in the development of the dairy sector, Brazil's present policy to
take advantage of the international dumping prices for powdered milk has
decidedly favored consumers by keeping domestic farm prices low. The
consequence of this policy has been a continuous decline in domestic milk
production as dairy farmers have little incentive to invest in farm
improvements. This issue is being analyzed more closely by Government and
will be discussed with the Bank in its future dialogue on livestock sector
development (para. 2.20).
2.14      One area, in which Government resources should be marshalled to
assist dairy producers is animal health. An immediate increase in the
number of cows in milk could be brought about if disease, such as
brucellosis, were better controlled. Disease control (and an improved
nutritional level) for dairy herds would also improve the reproductive
parameters (for example, by reducing calving periods), as well as the
production parameters (by inducing each cow to give more milk). A
relatively small investment in veterinary monitoring and control would
yield substantial benefits in the form of higher productivity and lower
production costs. This in itself would bring about some significant change
in investment incentives for dairy producers.
2.15      Pork.  Pork contributes 4% to the gross agricultural product.
About half of Brazil's 34 million pigs are raised on scavenged feed and
crop residues; the other half is raised in confinement in integrated pig
production units, mostly in t:he South. These integrated units frequently
cover all stages of production, from producing breeding sows to the
processing and marketing of pork meat. The integrated units are now
achieving productivity coefficients (Annex 1, Table 6) that are comparable
to those in the US. Productivity coefficients for pigs raised loose on
scavenged feed are less than half as good. Pork consumption has been
constant at about 7 kg/person/year. Most is consumed as processed meat,
only loins and hams are sold as fresh meat. An estimated 25% of the pigs
slaughtered are still not inspected by veterinarians and can transmit pork
diseases to the human population. Exports and imports are virtually nil.
2.16      The future growth and prosperity of the pork industry in Brazil
is closely tied to animal health issues. There does not appear to be room
for a large increase in per capita consumption of processed pork meat and
the demand for fresh pork is dampened by a lack of consumer confidence in
both disease control and in how pigs are kept and slaughtered. As the
modern, integrated companies take over the market from traditional
(scavenger) producers, this may change and consumer confidence in fresh
pork may grow. A key element in this will be the perception that disease
problems are being successfully overcome. Furthermore, the confidence of
importing :ountries needs to be consolidated after the outbreak of African
swine feve. in 1978 (para. 2.22).
2.17      Poultry.  Poultry production contributes 5% to agricultural GDP.
The rapid growth of the broiler industry, to become the second largest in



- 7 -
the world (Annex 1, Table 7), has occurred in large integrated production
and processing companies located in the South and Southeast. The poultry
companies often control the whole process from the production of day-old
chicks to the marketing of broiler meat.  Poultry production coefficients
(Annex 1, Table 8) are nearly as high as those in the US. The consumption
of poultry meat (10 kg/person/year) has increased considerably as prices
(relative to beef) have fallen, and this will almost certainly continue.
Brazil has also captured 25% of the world's poultry trade and exports
almost US$250 million worth of poultry products, with the major increases
being made since 1980.
2.18      Much of the success of the poultry industry can be ascribed to
the highly competitive marketing environment within which the companies
have operated, both domestically and internationally. Technology transfer
has been rapid, costs have fallen sharply. This has been accomplished
without any special subsidies on inputs such as feed. Improvements in
broiler productivity coefficients are strongly related to the disease
control measures taken by the industry, such as restricted access to the
poultry houses, continual vaccination programs and the use of medicated
feed. Vaccine quality is still a problem, however, and this is a
Government task, beyond the control of even integrated companies.
Improvement in the control of other diseases requires efficient diagnostic
laboratories to quickly detect the different poultry diseases. This, too,
is a public sector function. In short, it is in the area of animal health
that the public sector has its greatest contribution to make to the
maintenance of cost-effective growth in the industry.
2.19      Livestock Sector Development   If Brazil is to maintain the
export level of livestock products of the early 1980s and still meet the
increasing demands resulting from a growing population and higher incomes,
it will require substantial growth in livestock output over the next
decade. One of the most cost-effective ways of increasing livestock output
would be to increase productivity by reducing present losses which occur as
a result of disease.
2.20      There is a need for a more comprehensive livestock development
strategy covering the range of Government services, pricing policies and
the appropriate roles of the private and public sectors. This need was
brought home forcefully to the Government In 1986, when a sharp increase in
demand gave rise to large imports of beef and a sharp r 'duction of poultry
exports. In order to develop such a strategy, the Government (with active
participation from the private sector) has set up four commissions to
conduct preliminary studies on beef, pork, poultry and milk. On the basis
of the commission's findings further in-depth studies would be required.
It is anticipated that finance for these further studies would originate
from the technical assistance component of the Credit and Marketing Reform
Project (Loan 2727-BR). The Government is expected to discuss with the
Bank a medium-term strategy for livestock sector development by May 31,
1988 (para. 3.02).
Livestock Disease in Brazil
2.21      As indicated above, animal diseases reduce productivity in all



- 8 -
major livestock subsectors (a short survey of animal disease problems in
Brazil is given in Annex 2). In the cattle subsector, significant advances
against Foot-and Mouth Digesse (FMD) in recent years must be protected and
carried further. With the present low FMD incidence, especially in the
South of Brazil, both farmers and the Government have shown a common
tendency to relax disease surveillance and control measures. In fact,
precisely the opposite is required: directed veterinary campaigns have to
be strengthened to avoid a return to the outbreak levels of the 1975-1980
era.
2.22      The pig subsector is only now recovering from a serious outbreak
of African swine fever which occurred in 1978. Tttis outbreak was
eradicated in 1981, at a cost of US$28 million, but careful vigilance must
be maintained as another flare-up of the disease would continue to hamper
Brazilian efforts to develop a pork export market, The continued presence
of hog cholera, a disease already eradicated in other countries, seriously
complicates the vigilance against African swine fever because of the
diseases' identical clinical features. Hence, there is a need for reliable
vaccines, expanded control measures against hog cholera and improved
diagnostic laboratory services.
2.23      In the ponltry subsector, the recent increases in output have
been made in spite of deficiencies in the services needed to control the
quality of vaccines (especially those for Newcastle disease and Marek's
disease). Poultry producers also complain, with good reason, about the
inability of the Government animal health services to provide diagnostic
laboratory services needed to identify diseases such as mycoplasmosis and
salmonellosis, for which there is no vaccine. These can only be controlled
by national surveillance. Strong support for government testing of poultry
vaccines also comes from the private vaccine producers themselves, who
would like public sector quality control of all vaccines to be as thorough
as is the control of the FMD vaccines, because it leads to more consumer
confidence in their products.
Institutional Framework for Animal Health
2.24      The structure of animal health services in Brazil is similar in
concept to that of other federal countries, such as the US. Within the
Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI), the National Secretariat for Plant and
Animal Health Protection (SNAD) is responsible for animal health
protection. Two of SNAD's main departments are involved in animal health.
The Department of Animal Health Protection (SDSA), that has suffered from a
high turnover of managerial staff was established under Decree No. 24548 of
1934 to conduct animal disease control activities. Subsequent detailed
legislation for animal disease control has been established and is
increasingly enforced successfully. The Department of Animal Disease
Laboratories (LANARA), manages the veterinary laboratories under federal
administration. Its main task is to carry out disease diagnosis that can
often only be done in well-equipped, safe laboratories as the effects of
different diseases on animals can be deceptively similar. The state-run
veterinary services carry out the field work associated with the various
disease control programs. The latter are based on annual disease control
programs prepared by the states in agreement with SDSA. Vaccines and drugs
that are made by private laboratories and controlled for quality by



-9-
Government laboratories, are sold to farmers through commercial channels.
Only disease surveillance and control programs are run by the Government;
veterinarians in private practice undertake clinical medicine.
III. THE PROJECT
Project Background and Rationale
3.01      In the 1970's the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB) financed
a project to assist with the control of Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD). That
project helped establish a base for three technological breakthroughs in
combating FMD: (a) an improvement in the quality control of the existing
vaccine; (b) the development of an oil adjuvated vaccine that provides a
longer period of immunity; and (c) the importance of basing vaccination
strategy on epidemiologically defined zones and not on administratively
defined zones as was done in the past. In March 1983, a project was
formulated by MINAGRI and submitted to the World Bank with the object of
consolidating the progress made under the IDB loan. During project
preparation (carried out by MINAGRI, FAO/CP and the Panamerican Center for
PMD) the focus of the project was significantly expanded. The original
project formulated by MINAGRI was only to cover FMD in cattle. The revised
project is aimed at institutional development to improve the whole range of
animal health services affecting cattle, pigs and poultry. The project was
appraised during January-February 1987, and negotiations took place in
Washington, D. C., in May 1987. The Brazilian delegation was headed by
Ms. Patricia Goes Bakaj of the Ministry of Finance.
3.02      The Government has placed a high priority on increasing food
production in cost-effective ways. The livestock sector is a very
important part of the food chain in Brazil and is also an important source
of foreign exchange. The Government's priority is based on the realization
that Brazil is becoming a major food importer. In 1986, imports amounted
to nearly US$2 billion, including substantial amounts of beef. The Bank's
agricultural lending strategy for Brazil, which has traditionally focussed
on rural development in the poorer regions of the country, also recognizes
this new Government priority and aims at supporting cost-effective growth
throughout the agricultural sector. With respect to the livestock sector
the Government is presently undertaking four preliminary studies to define
a medium-term development strategy for livestock. Further studies would be
conducted with Bank support (para. 2.20). During n.gotiations the
Government provided assurances that before May 31, 1988 it would elaborate
under the coordination of MINAGRI and in consultation with the Bank a
medium-term strategy for livestock sector development (para. 4.01(a)).
3.03      The main weaknesses that have been identified as impediments to
an adequate animal health service are a lack of financial resources and
institutional weakness, especially at the federal level. The proposed
project would assist in building up an effective government service, the
object of which would be to reduce costs and increase productivity in
livestock production by reducing the present losses in production that



- 10 -
occur because of disease. It would also contribute to the welfare of small
farmers many of whom are highly dependant on livestock. The project would
support federal and state veterinary agencies in their traditional function
of disease surveillance and control. The project would not, however, crowd
out the private sector. Private veterinarians would continue to handle the
animal health problems that arise on individual farms. Vaccines and drugs
would still be produced by private laboratories and sold to livestock
producers through normal commercial channels.
3.04      Livestock disease prevention and control are indispensable to the
continued development of the livestock sector and impact directly on
producer revenues. Unless Brazil improves its public sector animal health
services, the continued cost-effective growth of the subsector will be at
risk. Furthermore, current livestock product exports (worth $800 million)
may also be at risk, since meat importing countries are increasing their
restrictions against livestock exports from countries with disease control
problems (para. 2.22). A relatively small investment in the public sector
animal health services offers an excellent opportunity to make significant
improvements in livestock production efficiency, and to avoid the
recurrence of disease-related production losses and export market
restrictions (para. 3.34-3.35).
Project Objectives and Description
3.05      The objective of the proposed project is to increase livestock
productivity by decreasing production losses resulting from disease. In
order to achieve this objective the project would assist the Ministry of
Agriculture (MINAGRI) in transforming the existing federal and
state veterinary departments into modern, cost-effective services.
Specifically, the project would:
(a) strengthen MINAGRI's Department for Animal Health Protection
(SDSA) through recruitment and training of staff, management
training, employment of consultant services and purchase of field
equipment;
(b) strengthen 15 state veterinary services through training (staff
and management) and the purchase of equipment;
(c) increase and improve the quality of staff at nine federal
laboratories belonging to the Department for Animal Disease
Laboratories, through limited recruitment, training and the use
of consultant services; and
(d) enhance the physical facilities (plant and equipment) at the nine
federal laboratories, one state laboratory in Rio Grande do Sul,
the Panamerican Center for Foot-and Mouth Disease and four
quarantine stations, to reduce the chance of virus escape,
improve the quality control of vaccines, inprove diagnostic
facilities and reduce the chances of introducintv diseases from
other countries.



- 11 -
3.06      The project would focus on controlling the diseases that affect
Brazil's most important farm animal species: cattle, pigs and poultry in
those states that contain most of Brazil's livestock. Specificall; the
project area would include the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina,
and Parana in the South; Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro and
Espirito Santo in the Southeast; Mato Grosso, Mato Grosso do Sul, Goias and
the Distrito Federal in the Center-West; and Pernambuco, Ceara, Bahia, and
Sergipe in the Northeast.
3.07      Under the project, the orientation of the federal and state
veterinary services would emphasize preventive veterinary medicine. Thus,
with increased financial resources greater attention than before would be
given to an essential Government service to cover controlling the quality
of animal vaccines and drugs, enforcing certain compulsory vaccinations,
preventing the spread of outbreaks of contagious diseases, identifying
disease control needs and assessing the costs and benefits of alternative
control strategies all of which are ongoing activities in need of
improvement.
3.08      The strengthening of the federal and state field services would
be accomplished by increasing the mobility of their staff and the time
spent in the field, improving the availability of equipment for field work,
training staff and expanding farmer outreach and education programs. The
federal field services establish national norms on animal health and
supervise and train the state veterinary services. The state veterinary
services themselves undertake the bulk of the field disease surveillance
and control work. Federal laboratory support would be for improved quality
control of vaccines, animal health drugs and insecticides, control of
chemical residues in export products and diagnostic services.
3.09      The project would bring the institutional capacity of the
subsector into line with the proposed focus on preventive medicine
(para. 3.07). Emphasis would be placed on improved cooperation with the
farming community. The design of the institutional development component
was prepared by a joint team of SDSA, LANARA and Bank staff. The
institutional capacity gaps were assessed under the following perspectives:
sectoral legislation; animal health policy making; inter-institutional
relationships; internal organizational structure; financial resources and
personnel policy. Resources such as training and the use of specialized
consultants have been included to strengthen SDSA and LANARA. Technical
assistance would be provided to both departments from different sources
such as universities (both national and foreign), private companies and
international organizations. Further details to those given in this report
on institutional development and training can be found in the working
papers entitled "Project-Supported Institutional Development" and
"Training."
Detailed Project Description
3.10      Strengthening the Department for Animal Health Protection
(US$22.8 million, 21% of project costs). The project would strengthen SDSA
by: (a) recruiting 80 professional staff and support staff to increase
coordination at headquarters and improved surveillan-e at the state level;



- 12 -
(b) training staff in management, disease control (mainly epidemiology,
parasitology and biological control) and cost-benefit analysis thraugh
seminars, short courses and post-graduate courses (10 MSc.); (c) employing
consultants (about 100 staff-months) for organization and systems analysis,
management training, cost-benefit analysis, human resources development and
legislation pertaining to animal health; and (d) purchasing field
equipment.
3.11      Strengthening State Veterinary Services (US$31.7 million, 29% of
projects costs. The project would increase the effectiveness of the state
veterinary services by: (a) training about 1,500 veterinarians (who are
already employed within these services), mainly in epidemiology,
cost-benefit analysis and management skills through seminars and short
courses; (b) providing funds to increase staff mobility, farmer outreach
programs and mass communications; and (c) purchasing field equipment.
3.12      Staffing the Department for Animal Health Laboratories (US$40.0
million, 37% of project costs). Although the physical infrastructure of
LANARA requires only a small amount of rehabilitation LANARA has never been
aadquately staffed with a sufficient number of scientists. Therefore, the
project would: (a) recruit 13 professional staff, as well as support staff
for headquarters in Brasilia; (b) recruit 107 professional staff, mostly
scientists, as well as laboratory technicians and auxiliaries for nine
federal laboratories (para. 3.13); (c) train technicians and auxiliary
staff in lab techniques, and professional staff in post graduate work (10
PhD. and 20 MSc.) and (d) finance specialized consultant services (about
160 man-months) mainly for epidemiologiéal studies and diagnostic
laboratory work.
3.13      Physical Facilities (US$13.9 million, 13% of project costs).
The project would: Ca) improve the buildings at nine of the seventeen
existing federal laboratories and at four quarantine stations; and (b)
provide funds for the purchase of additional equipment to improve the
laboratories' diagnostic capabilities and the quality control of vaccines,
drugs and chemical residues in food products and animal feed. The nine
laboratories (Pedro Leopoldo, Porto Alegre, Campinas, Castro, Sao Jose,
Brasilia, Salvador, Recife and Belem) have been selected either because of
their regional importance (at least one laboratory per region) or because
of their specialization in crucially important diseases. In addition, two
other laboratories were selected because of their importance in combating
FMD. These are the Desiderio Finamore laboratory in Rio Grande do Sul and
PANAFTOSA's laboratory outside Rio de Janeiro. The four quarantine
stations located in Sao Paulo and Rio de Janeiro airports and in thea border
towns of Uruguaiana and Foz do Iguacu have also been selected for
upgrading. The main reason for the upgrading of the buildings is to
prevent the possibility of virus escape. Preliminary building designs and
cost estimates have been completed. The final building designs for all the
laboratories and quarantine stations are expected to be finalized by
September 30, 1987.
Project Implementation
3.14      The Ministry of Agriculture (MINAGRI).  MINAGRI would have full
responsibility for project implementation through two departments within



- 13 -
the National Secretariat for Plant and Animal Health Protection (SNAD),
(see Chart). The manager of the Department for Animal Health Protection
(SDSA) would have overall responsibility for the project. Day to day
management of the project would be done by an Institutional Development
Unit which has been established under the project. The unit is headed by a
proven manager, who is also a veterinarian, and will be staffed with
planning specialists (3), economists (2), systems anialysts (3), mass
communication experts (2) and a training expert. During negotiations, the
Government provided assurances that the Institutional Development Unit
would be maintained with functions, orgauizational structure, management
and staffing in numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 4.01(b)). The existing Administration and Financial Division (DIAF)
within SNAD would be responsible for project accounts. A consultative
committee (CPCDA) on animal health policy, chaired by the SNAD Secretary,
would be created to coordinate private and public sector interests. The
head of SDSA would be the Executive Secretary; the other members would be:
representatives from the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA),
the Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural Extension Company (EMBRATER) ,
the National Council of Beef Cattle, the Brazilian Confederation of Milk
Cooperatives, the Brazilian Asssociation of Pork Producers and the
Brazilian Association of the Poultry Industry.
3.15      The DeEartment of Animal Health Protection.  In addition to the
Institutional Development Unit SDSA would continue with its three present
divisions, namely: Disease Prevention and Control, Veterinary Products and
Animal Disease Surveillance. Federal staff and the state project
coordinator (para. 3.19) would have joint control of project funds within
the states. The necessary changes to the disbursement procedures of
federal funds to the states, in order to make Federal staff jointly
responsible with state project coordinators for the control of project
funds have been made. SDSA would also establish and maintain close
contacts with EMBRATER to multiply the effects of the farmer outreach
program through the agents of the state extension companies (EMATERs). An
agreement has been signed between EMBRATER and SDSA that specifies their
respective responsibilities and obligations with respect to animal disease
prevention (Annex 5).
3.16      The Department of the Animal Disease Laboratories.  LANARA would
require a small staff in Brasilia to plan, budget and manage the federal
network of laboratories. LANARA laboratories frequently respond slowly to
requests for diagnosis due to a lack of administrative and financial
flexibility. However, within the framework of existing MINAGRI's internal
regulations, procurement authority will be given in this project to the
laboratories to enable them to make small local purchases in response to
emergency requirements.
3.17      Animal health research activities would continue to be the
responsibility of EMBRAPA, but the necessary diagnostic laboratory work for
animal health research would be undertaken by LANARA, usually at the Pedro
Leopoldo laboratory. An agreement has been signed between EMBRAPA and
LANARA that establishes their coordinated use of the Pedro Leopoldo



- 14 -
Laboratory (Annex 5). A committee on animal health research activities
with representatives from EMBRAPA, LANARA, universities and drug companies
would meet at least annually to discuss research priorities.
3.18      Federal and State Level Coordination.  Project coordination
between the federal anid state levels would be based on an agreed annual
operating plan for each stat-e prepared on the basis of general guidelines
issued by SDSA every year. The head of each state's veterinary service
would manage the project at the state level, and would ensure that the
opinions of the public and private entities belonging to the livestock
industry of that state were integrated by a committee that would meet at
least once a year. Based on those meetings, and on the national CPCDA
meeting (para. 3.14), SDSA would issue the guidelines for the preparation
of annual operating plans (POAs) for the state veterinary services. These
would be prepared by the states, with the assistance of the SDSA staff
located in each State, and forwarded to Brasilia by the end of October for
consolidation by SDSA. During negotiations the Government provided
assurances that: (a) by August 31 of each year it would furnish the Bank,
for its review and approval, the guidelines for the preparation of the
states POAs for the following year; and (b) by November 30 of each year, it
would furnish the Bank with the consolidated POAs for federal (including
LANARA) and state activities (para. 4.01(c)).
3.19      It would be a condition of disbursement for each participating
state that MINAGRI and the respective State Secretariat of Agriculture
(SEAGRI) sign a contract satisfactory to the Bank spelling out their
respective responsibilities. The contract would establish that: (a) each
state veterinary service nominate a qualified and experienced project
coordinator to facilitate coordination with SDSA staff in project planning
and implementation; (b) project implementation within a state would follow
the agreed POA (para. 3.18), unless there were a written agreement to the
contrary between MINAGRI and the respective SEAGRI; and (c) the states
would submit the necessary accounting documentation and monitoring and
evaluation reports as agreed (para. 4.03).
Pr_iect Costs
3.20      The total cost of the project over the six-year implementation
period is estimated at US$108.4 million, of which about US$22.2 million, or
20%, would be foreign exchange (see table in Loan and Project Summary).
The taxes and duties on purchases and services would be about US$5.9
million. Physical contingencies have been calculated at the rate of 15% on
civil works and 10% on equipment, giving an overall average physical
contingency of 2% of the base costs. Price contingencies (5% of the base
costs) have been applied to all components and have been estimated at 3%
for 1987, 1% for 1988 to 1990 and 3.5% p.a. thereafter. It has bz:en
assumed that periodic currency adjustments, would compensate for
differences between projected US dollar inflation and local inflation
rates.



- 15 -
Financing Plan
3.21      The proposed Bank loan of US$51.0 million would be for 15 years,
including three years of grace, and would finance 50% of project costs, net
of US$5.9 million in taxes, or 47% of total project costs. The Government,
through specific budget allocations to MINAGRI would finance US$57.2
million (53%). A condition of loan effectiveness would be that adequate
funds are allocated to the project in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget
for the remainder of 1987 and in the latter's draft budget for 1988 (para.
4.02(a)).
Procurement
3.22      The procurement procedures and amounts for the various project
elemants are shown below:
Procurement Arrangements a/
(US$ million)
Project                            Prudent                    Total
Expenditure       ICB     LCB      Shopping         Other      Costs
------------       (US$ million) -------
Civil Works          -         9.6          -          -          9.6
(4.8)                             (4.8)
Equipment and       4.2        4.4        8.2        18.0        34.8
Materials        (4.2)      (2.2)      (4.1)      (13,8)      (24.3)
Consultant Services -           -           -         1.8         1.8
(1.8)       (1.8)
Other Services       -          -           -       62.2         62.2
_______    _______   _______     (20.1)       (20.1)
4.2       14.0        8.2       82.0         108.4
TOTAL              (4.2)     ( 7,0)      (4.1)      (35.7)       (51.0
a/  Values in parentheses reflect amounts to be financed by the Bank.
3.23      Civil works would be procured under local competitive bidding
(LCB) procedures satisfactory to the Bank. Local competitive bidding would
be justified because contracts for the laboratory and buildings quarantine
stations would be small (consisting mainly of rehabilitation) and would
take place at 15 different locations.
3.24      Most equipment, inputs and supplies for laboratories and field
work would be purchased in small quantities (amounting to no more than
US$20,000 per contract) at various locations and over the length of the
project implementation period. Consequently, these would be acquired
through prudent local shopping (at least three quotations). Purchases of



- 16 -
equipment, inputs and supplies for contracts over US$20,000 but under
US$250,000 would be purchased in accordance with LCB procurement
satisfactory to the Bank. Purchases for contracts over US$250,000 would be
procured through international competitive bidding (ICB). The review of
documentation by the Bank would be as follows: all bidding packages for
civil works contracts over US$1.0 million and bidding packages for goods
over US$250,000 would be subject to prior Bank review of procurement
documentation (about 30% and 20% of the value of civil works, and goods
respectively). The balance of contracts would be subject to random post
review by the Bank after contract award. Vehicles required by the project
(US$12.0 million) as reserved procurement items are not included in the
project cost and are not financed by the proposed loan; assurances were
provided by the Government during negotiations that vehicles will be
purchased or assigned to the project in a timely manner (para. 4.01(d).
Consultant services would be selected in accordance with Bank guidelines.
During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that MINAGRI would
follow the procurement procedures outlined in paras. 3.22 to 3.24 (para.
4.01(d)).
Disbursements
3.25      The proceeds of the loan would be disbursed against: 100% of
consultant services, foreign training expenditures and foreign expanditures
made for equipment, inputs and materials; 50% of the costs of equipment,
inputs and materials and training within Brazil; and 50% of civil works.
Disbursements against the cost of incremental staff would be at 60% of
project expenditures up to an amount of US$8.0 million, at 30% up to an
aggregate amount of US$13.0 million, and 10% thereafter. The costs of
salaries would be totally absorbed by Government by the sixth year of
project implementation (para. 3.33). Disbursements against salaries,
training within Brazil, inputs and materials would be made against
statements of expenditure (SOEs). Disbursements for any purchases of less
than US$250,000 would be made against SOEs and supporting documentation
would not be submitted to the Bank but retained by MINAGRI and made
available for inspection by the Bank during supervision missions. MINAGRI
would submit to the Bank standard documentation for contracts of US$250,000
or more.
3.26      The proceeds of the loan are expected to be disbursed over six
and a half years (Annex 3, Table 3). In order to maintain the momentum
achieved during project preparation, project expenditures for training, the
hiring of consultants and the drafting of final building designs for the
laboratories and quarantine facilities which were incurred prior to loan
signing but after March 1, 1987, would be eligible for reimbursement up to
US$0.8 million equivalent. The closing date for the loan would be March
31, 1994.
Special Accounts
3.27      To facilitate Bank disbursements two Special Accounts would be
opened (equivalent to the Bank's share of approximately four months of
expenditures). A Cruzado Expenditure Special Account (CESA) would be
opened in dollars in the Central Bank, with an initial deposit of up to
US$2.2 million withdrawn from the loan account. Withdrawals from CESA
would be supported by SOEs or other required documentation, and payment



- 17 -
would be made at the cruzado exchange rate that prevailed on the date of
expenditure. To facilitate disbursements of foreign contracts and training
abroad, a Foreign Expenditure Special Account (FESA) would be established
with loan funds in dollars in a commercial bank abroad with an initial
deposit of US$0.3 million which would be operated by MINAGRI. Initial
deposits in the CESA and FESA accounts will be made simultaneously.
Disbursement requests for replenishment of the CESA and FESA accounts would
be submitted to the Bank at agreed intervals.
3.28      An advance system would be used to prefinance the Bank's share of
project expenditures. The system would work as follows: advances in
cruzados would be made by the Central Bank to the project account against
an agreement between MINAGRI and the Central Bank, providing for a future
exchange of dollars on deposit in the CESA account for the cruzados
advanced. The Central Bank, in conjunction with MINAGRI, would determine
the conditions, amount and duration of the advance. This advance system
would function with government resources and would be entirely under
government control. The CESA account would only be debited after
expenditures had been made and withdrawal applications had been submitted
to the Central Bank. A condition of effectiveness would be that an
extension for this project of the Central Bank's system of advances for
prefinancing the Bank's share of project expenditures be made
(para. 4.02(b)).
Project Account and Audit
3.29      MINAGRI would keep separate accounts of expenditures made under
the project. Certificates of expenditures, including satisfactory evidence
of incremental staff salary costs, would be made available to the Bank for
review. During negotiations, the Government would provide assurances that:
(a) MINAGRI would have project accounts audited by independent auditors
satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with sound auditing principles;
(b) terms of reference for the auditors would include verification of the
SOEs and Special Accounts; and (c) the audits would be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the close of each fiscal year
(para. 4.01(e)).
Monitoring and Evaluation
3.30      Monitoring,  Annex 4 provides details on both monitoring and
evaluation. The project would require the monitoring of: (a) the
institutional development component SDSA and LANARA; (b) physical and
financial targets; and (c) the evolution of the diseases themselves. The
ADO unit in SDSA would be responsible for collecting the data to provide
detailed semi-annual progress reports. A selection of key indicators for
the monitoring of disease (to be collected by the operating divisions) has
been agreed upon with SDSA staff. The principal criteria for these
indicators are: that they can be measured accurately and easily; that
baseline data are available or can be established within the first project
year; and that data can be expected to change as a result of project
activities (Annex 4, Table 1).



- 18 -
3.31      Evaluation.  Project evaluation would consist of: measuring the
financial resources used by animal health services in relation to the
output from the livestock sector (paras. 6-9 of Annex 4); and measuring
progress in reducing the incidence of disease. Project evaluation would
take place during the first (base-line data collection), third and sixth
years of implementation. Funds have been provided under the project for
evaluation studies. During negotiations, the Government would provide
assurances that: (a) semi-annual progress reports covering the first and
second semesters would be submitted by October 31 and April 30 of each
year; (b) by December 31, 1990, the Bank and MINAGRI would jointly review
project implementation focussing on the institutional development of the
federal and state veterinary services achieved and agree on changes
(including draft legislation pertaining to public animal health) if
necessary; and (c) a Project Completion Report would be submitted to the
Bank within six months of project completion (para. 4.01(f)).
Cost Recovery and Sustainability
3.32      Cost Recovery.  In Brazil as elsewhere, it is not Government
policy to obtain full cost recovery on animal health services. Most of the
activities carried out by SDSA (except the inspection of animals at
quarantine stations and at livestock shows) are tasks that only the
Government can provide and are provided free of charge. Furthermore, it is
not desirable that the LANARA laboratories should charge for their
diagnostic work, as this would discourage farmers from using the
laboratories and could hinder the discovery of disease outbreaks. By
contrast, the fees charged by MINAGRI to importers of live animals for the
use of the quarantine facilities and to commercial companies for the
registration of animal health products and vaccines and for product quality
control have been too low in the past. During negotiations, the Government
would provide assurances that, before September 30, 1988, it would revise
and put into use an adequate system of fees: (a) to importers of live
animals, for the use of quarantine facilities, to cover the full
operational cost of the facilities; and (b) to commercial companies, that
produce animal health products, to cover the full cost of product
registration and production quality control (para. 4.01(g)).
3.33      Sustainability.  To ensure that the increased services are
maintained by the Government after the completion of project, disbursements
for incremental salary expenditures are being made on a declining
percentage basis (60-60-30-30-10%) during the first five years of project
implementation. These costs would be totally funded under MINAGRI's normal
budgeting procedures by Year 60
Project Justification
3.34      The benefits that accrue from an animal health project are
difficult to quantify because: (a) it is often difficult to estimate the
morbidity rate (percentage of clinically afflicted animals within the herd)
for a determined disease before and after the project; and (b) it is also
difficult to determine the precise production losses that are due to a
specific disease. Nevertheless, the potentially large benefits to be
gained from the project can be seen from the following estimates.



- 19 -
3.35      In cattle, FMD causes weight loss, decreased milk production and
sometimes death in young cattle. Studies done in Brazil showed that, of
the animals clinically affected by FMD, about 60% recover their weight loss
prior to slaughter and the remaining 40% are slaughtered with a 15%
permanent weight loss. Milk production from dairy cows with FMD was found
to be reduced by over 35% in a similar study. If these losses in the
sample studies are representative of the national herd, their reduction
would result in an increased annual production of about 4,200 tons of beef
and 9,200 tons of fluid milk per year, which together have a present market
value of about US$9 million. In pigs, the death losses and additional
production costs avoided by improved disease control for hog cholera and
FMD alone could result in savings of about US$2 million annually. In
poultry, despite the fact that the industry as a whole is the most modern
of the three main livestock subsectors (cattle, pigs and poultry), the
losses due to disease are still very large. The most significant diseases
(Marek's Disease, Newcastle Disease and chronic respiratory disease) are
often fatal, generally lower feed conversion ratios and frequently cause
increased carcass condemnations. With improved vaccine efficacy and
increased diagnostic ability, a 50% reduction in today's losses would be
possible and an estimated US$27 million would be saved annually. Further
details are given in a Pre-appraisal working paper entitled "Financial
Evaluation."
3.36      In addition to the potential economic and financial benefits
mentioned above, improved livestock disease control would:
(a)  reduce the incidence of numerous less well documented animal
diseases;
(b) diminish human health problems that are transmitted either by
animals with diseases, such as rabies, brucellosis, tuberculosis
and salmonellosis, or by animal products sold without adequate
sanitary inspection;
(c)  satisfy increasingly stringent disease-related trade barriers
that are applied by meat importing countries;
(d)  prevent the outbreak of exotic diseases; and
(e)  improve the efficacy of animal health products and thereby their
effectiveness.
Project Risks
3.37      The main risk is that project implementation may suffer because
of inexperienced project management. This risk has been minimized through
the establishment of an institutional development unit to be staffed and
managed under arrangements satisfactory to the Bank. Management training
and consultant services would also be provided as support. The potential
financial risk linked to the scarcity of domestic funding has been
alleviated through appropriate provision of start-up funding and adequate
assurances of counterpart funding.



- 20 -
IV. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
4,0*      During negotiations, the Government provided assurances that:
(a) before May 31, 1988 it would elaborate under the coordination of
MINAGRI and in consultation with the Bank a medium-term strategy
for livestock sector development (para. 3.02);
(b) the Institutional Development Unit would be maintained, with
functions, organizational structure, management and staffing in
numbers and with qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para.
3.14);
(c) (i) by August 31 of each year SDSA would furnish the Bank for its
review and approval, the guidelines for the preparation of the
states annual operating plans for t'- following year; and (ii) by
November 30 of pach year, SDSA wou j turnish the Bank with the
consolidated annual operating plans for federal (including
LANARA) and state activities (para. 3.18);
(d) vehicles would be purchased or assigned to the project in a
timely manner and that MINAGRI would follow procurement
procedures as outlined in paras. 3.22 to 3.24;
(e) (i) MINAGRI would have project accounts audited by independent
auditors satisfactory to the Bank, in accordance with sound
auditing principles; (ii) the terms of reference for the auditors
would include verification of the SOEs and Special Accounts; and
(iii) the audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than six
months after the close of each fiscal year (para. 3.29);
(f) (i) semi-annual progress reports covering the first and second
semester would be submitted by October 31 and April 30 of each
year; (ii) by December 31, 1990, the Bank and MINAGRI would
jointly review project implementation focussing on the
institutionai development of the federal and state veterinary
services achieved and agree on changes (including draft
legislation pertaining to public animal health) if necessary
(para. 3.31); and
(g) before September 30, 1988 MINAGRI would revise and put into use
an adequate system of fees: (i) to importers of live animals, for
the use of quarantine facilities to cover the full operational
cost of the facilities; and (ii) to commercial companies that
produce animal health products, to cover the full cost of product
registration and production quality control (para. 3.32);
4.02      Conditions of loan effectiveness are:
(a) allocation of adequate funds in the Ministry of Agriculture's
budget for the remainder of 1987 and in the latter's budget for
1988 (para. 3.21); and



- 21 -
(b) an extension for this project of the Central Bank's system of
advances for pre-financing the Bank's share of project
expenditures be made (para. 3.28).
4.03      It would be a condition of disbursement for each participating
state that MINAGRI and the respective SEAGRI sign a contract, satisfactory
to the Bank, spelling out their respective responsibilities. The contract
would establish that: (i) each state veterinary services nominate a
qualified and experienced project coordinator to facilitate coordination
with SDSA staff in project planning, and implementation; (ii) project
implementation within a State would follow the agreed annual operating plan
unless there were a written agreement to the contrary between MINAGRI and
the respective SEAGRI; and (iii) the states would submit the necessary
accounting documentation and monitoring and evaluation reports as agreed
(para. 3.19);
4.04      Subject to reaching the above agreements, the proposed project
would be suitable for a Bank loan of US$51.0 million equivalent with a term
of 15 years, including a 3-year grace period.
June 11, 1987



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Distribution and Density of Brazil's Cattle Herd
% Total
% Total Milk      Dual Purpose
Cattle/       Cows Located      Cows Located
Region          1000 Head          X         Cattle/sq.km      Person          In Region         In Region
North                 3,948          3.3            1.1              0.7               0.7               2.1
Northeast            21,409         18.2           13.9              0.6              16.7              21.5
Southeast            34,742         29.5           37.8              0.7              56.1              39.6
South                24,458         20.8           43.5              1.3              18.8              17.7          N
Central West         33,199         28.2           17.7              4.4               7.7              19.1
Totals or
Averages            117,756        100.0           13.9              1.0             100.0             100.0
Source: FIBGE.
Note:  According to the 1980 Census there were 12.6 million milk cows and 3.22 million dual purpose cows in
the population. This includes heifers over 2 years age which are of milking or dual purpose breeds
but does not include calves less than 2 years old nor bulls. From 1950 to 1980, the herd grew an
average of 3.0%/year. This growth rate was highest in the North (4.6%) and Central West (5.0%)
regions.
March 7, 1987



-  23  -                         ANNEX 1
Table 2
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Beef Production Coeificients
Item or Coefficient                                        Value
Number of cattle 1/                                   110 million head
Herd Growth rate 1970-1980                            1.6 %
Beef Cattle Slaughter 1986                            9 million head
Offtake 1986                                          8.1 %
Annual Carcass Meat Produced/Head Inventory           23 Kg.
Cow Slaughter/Total Slaughter 1986                    27%
Breeding Female Slaughter/Steer Slaughter 1986        39%
Present Position in Beef Cycle 19862/                 Rebuilding
Steer Carcass price ratio  /                          70%
Weaning Rate per Cow Bred                             50%
Steer Carcass Yield                                   52%
Time to 480 kg. Liveweight                            52 months
Age at First Conception                               42 months
Calving Interval                                      20 months
Calf Mortality                                        10%
Average Exports 1981-1983                             367,000 tons
Average Imports 1981-1983                             38,000 tons
Consumption 1986                                      13.4 kg./person/year
Source: Mission estimates
1/ Total cattle inventory is reported to be 118 million with some 8
million being in milk production every year.
2/ Brazilians were liquidating their herds 1982 through 1984, after
rebuilding 1972-1981.
3/ Ratio is between prices during maximum slauighter period and minimum
slaughter period. Based on 1977-1985 averages of US$1.45/kg for
non-peak prices and US$2.05 for peak prices at Sao Paulo with the
official conversion rate of the day on the sale.
March 7, 1987



-  24  -                            ANNEX 1
Table 3
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Apparent Internal Consumption - All Meats (1970-1986)
(kg/person/year)
Year             Beef              Pork              Poultry            Total
1970             17.8               7.6                2.3               27.7
1971             17.8               7.9                2.3               28.0
1972             17.1               6.7                3.0               26.8
1973             17.9               7.0                4.0               28.9
1974             19.3               7.0                4.7              31.0
1975             19.4               7.2                4.9               30.1
1976             18.5               7.2                5.4               31.1
1977            20.1                7.4                6.0               33.5
1978            19.1               7.5                 6.2              33.7
1979             17.1               7.7                8.8              33.5
1980            15.6               8.2                9.5               33.9
1981            15.9                8.0                9.8              33.7
1982            16.0               7.8                10.5              34.3
1983            14.4                7.6               10.0              32.1
1984            12,2               7.4               10.1               29.7
1985            12.1                7.5                9.8              29.4
1986 (est.)     13.5               7.3                9.8               30.6
Source:   FGV, Agroanalysis.
March 7, 1987



BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Foreign Trade in Brazilian Livestock Products (1975-1985)
(U.S.$ Millions)
Total       Total                                           Livestock
Milk                Poultry  Livestock   Livestock   Livestock         Total       Total    Product as
Beef         Product    Pork        Meat      Product     Product      Product    Agriculture    All    Percentage of
Year   Export   Import   Import    Export    Exports   Exports 1/  Imports1/  Net Trade           Exports    Exports  All Exports
1975     86        12        16         8         3          97          31           66           4,992       8,669        1.1
1976    144        16       25         16        19        179           41          138           6,227      10,128        1.8
1977    173        22       46         21        32         226          68          158           7,550      12,139        1.9
1978    116       111       26          8        47        171          137           34           6,962      12,659        1.3
1979    139       201        15         0        81        220          216            4           7,671      15,244        1.4
1980    262        99       90          0       207        469          189          280           9,810      20,132       2.3       1
1981    436        83       21          2       354        792          104          688          10,009      23,293        3.4
1982    431        23       23          5       281        717           46          671           8,257      20,176        3.5
1983    542        24       27          3       242        787           51          736           9,160      21,899        3.6
1984    522        36       19         11       265        798           55          743          13,767      27,005       3.0
1985    523        39       20          8       246        777           59          718          10,791      25,638        3.0
Source: Fundacion Joao Pinheiro, EMBRAPA, FIBGE, CACEX.
1/  Trade in live animals, lamb, mutton, and eggs is not shown.
March 7, 1987



-  26  -                            ANNEX 1
Table 5
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Milk Production Coefficients
Item or Coefficient                                       Value
Number of "milk cows"                                     14 million
Cows in lactation per year                                8.4 million
Portion of milk cows that are Zebu Beef cows              34%
Portion of milk cows that have some European milk cow
breeding                                                  66%
Bull to cow ratio                                         1:25
Calving interval                                          20 months
Age of heifers at first calving                           40 months
Birth rate-calf/cow/year                                  60%
Culling rate - cows per year                              20%
Estimated total milk production                           10 billion liters
Portion pasturized                                        12%
Milk per "milk cow" per year                              700 liters
Milk per lactating cow pvr year                           1,200 liters
Portion of cows receiving nutritional supplement
during dry season                                         25%
Consumption                                               72 liters/person/year
Source: Mission estimates
Note: These data are approximate dimensior.s based on a variety of sources
and estimates. Coefficients for intensive dairy production could be
twice those shown here. Milk production includes the estimated 25%
not delivered to inspected processing plants.
March 7, 1987



-  27  -                        ANNEX I
-Table 6
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Pig Production Coefficients
Item                                                   Value
Pig inventory 1986                                            34 million/head
Herd growth rate 1970-1980                                    2.1%/year
Slaughter 19861/                                              13.4 million
Pigs weaned per sow/year (intensive production)               17 pigs
Time to 90kg liveweight (intensive production)                5.5 months
Average Carcass weight yield per head                         65 kg
Pigs weaned per sow/year (traditional production)             7 pigs
Time to 90kg (traditional production)                         10-12 months
Consumption 1936                                              7 kg/person
Source: Mission estimates
1/ This estimate includes pigs slaughtered outside federal inspection
service.
March 7, 1987



-  28  -                              ANNEX I
Table 7
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Beef, Pork and Broiler Production Data
(1975-1986)
Cattle Slaughter 1/  Pig Slaughter 2/    Broiler Production
Year            (Million Head)       (Million Head)           (1000 Ton)
1975                 10.3                  11.7                     519
1976                 10.7                  12.1                     604
1977                 11.3                  12.8                     698
1978                 11.4                  13.1                     858
1979                 10.0                  13.8                   1,096
1980                  9.6                  15.1                    1,306
1981                 10.0                  15.1                   1,490
1982                 11.6                  14.9                   1,604
1983                 11.5                  13.8                   1,584
1984                 10.2                  14.0                   1,580
1985                 10.2                  14.5                   1,490
1986est.              9.0                  15.4                   1,600
Source:   FIBGE, Agroanalysis and USDA.
These figures are for federally inspected slaughter which is estimated to be
about 95% of the cattle slaughter. The carcass weight has averaged 209 kg
per head.
2/  These figures include estimates of pig slaughter not under federal
inspection which is estimated to range up to 40% of total pigs
slaughtered. Carcass weights have averaged 65 kg per head.
March 7, 1987



-  29  -                       ANNEX I
Table 8
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Poultry Production Coefficients
Item                                          Value
Broiler meat production                                1,600,000 tons
Annual rate of production growth 1981-1986             1.5%
Broiler chicks hatched, 1986                           1.25 billion
Feed conversion, feed intake/weight gain               2.25
Age at slaughter, 1.88 kg                              54 days
Death losses over 8 week growth period                 1.8 to 3.0%
Carcass condemnation rate all causes                   1.6%
Broiler meat price to feed price ratio 1985            2.1:1
Broiler consumption, 1986                              10 kg/person
Egg production, 1986                                   10 billion
Eggs per layer/year                                    185
Egg consumption                                        67 eggs/person/year
Source: Mission estimates
March 7, 1987



- 30 -
ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 7
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Livestock Disease in Brazil
1.        The degree to which animal diseases are a constraint to livestock
production varies with the type and intensity of production practices and
with the nature and prevalence of the disease itself. In this Annex
livestock diseases prevalent in Brazil are described as to the type of
disease organism, sources and transmission of infection, distribution,
clinical signs, effects on production and the private and public actions
that can be taken to reduce these effects. A working paper written during
project preparation titled "Financial Evaluation" gives quantitative
estimates of the financial impact of some of these diseases.
Cattle Diseases
2.        Cattle disease patterns are different to those in pigs and
poultry because most cattle in Brazil are raised on an extensive basis,
which reduces the speed of disease transmission. Cattle diseases generally
reduce productivity rather than cause death. However, several can be
sources of infection for humans and therefore have important public health
considerations. Because of the importance of beef in Brazil's foreign
trade, the presence of diseases within the country is important since some
diseases, such as PMD, can impede trade. The most significant diseases
that affect cattle in Brazil are described below.
3.        Foot and Mouth Disease (FMD) is caused by a virus which has
several different types. It has been endemic in most of South America for
almost a century. The disease occurs worldwide, except in countries which
have eradicated it or to which it was never introduced. These include the
US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, Mexico and Central American
countries. Many European countries have eradicated FMD, but some still
have infrequent outbreaks which are dealt with by slaughtering infected
animals. Once a country decides to eradicate the disease, the use of
vaccines must be stopped because immune animals may harbor the virus
without showing clinical signs of infection.
4.        The disease causes blisters or vesicles to form on the feet,
mouth and teats; these lead to problems in walking, eating and nursing.
Clinical FMD can easily be confused with other "vesicular diseases,"
principally vesicular stomatitis; therefore, there is a constant need to
confirm FMD ou;tbreaks with laboratory examinations. Clinical FMD results
in weight loss and decreased milk production but is rarely fatal in areas
where cattle are partially immune from either natural exposure or
vaccination.



- 33 -
ANNEX 2
Page 4 of 7
direct public sector activity against rabies in the form of: (a) dog
vaccination programs; (b) application of vampiricidal compounds to bats
captured in caves and then released in order to kill other bats which lick
the compound; (c) injection of cows with vampirical drugs which will in
turn be transferred to the bats that bite the cows; and (d) sustained
education programs.
11.       Botulism is caused by the toxin of a bacterium (Clostridium
botulinum) that is transmitted to cows when they eat bones in an attempt to
satisfy their need for mineral salts. Botulism has been reported
throughout Brazil. Because of their high daily phosphate requirements,
lactating cows are the most susceptible animals. The death losses can be
high at peak times. Some farmers use vaccines; but these products are
often used too late. The role of the Government's animal health service is
to provide information about proper and timely mineral supplementation and
to test the phosphate content of minerals that are offered for sale.
12.       Brucellosis is a bacterium that usually causes abortions and is
transmitted from infected cows to susceptible ones. The impact can be
serious. This disease spreads more quickly among dairy cows than among
beef cows because of the closer contact in dairy herds. The disease also
decreases milk production; unpasturized milk is the main source of human
infection. The prevalence of bovine Brucellosis in Brazil is relatively
high (4% in recent serologic studies) compared to the US where a long-term
control program has reduced the prevalence to less than 0.5%. There is a
highly effective vaccine that provides lifetime immunity. The Government
services control vaccine quality, provide extension education and, in some
states, vaccinate cattle.
Pig Diseases
13.       Disease transmission under the intensive production systems is
encouraged by factors such as poor ventilation and confinement stress.
Many disease problems are a result of infectious agents and poor
management. Most diseases cause lowered feed conversion, while two
diseases, hog cholera and African swine fever (ASF), cause high death
rates. The most important disease for Brazil's pig industry are described
in this section.
14.       African Swine Fever (ASF) is so similar to Hog Cholera in
clinical appearance that the laboratory differentiation of the two diseases
is critical to the control of each disease. The ASP virus causes high
death losses which cannot be prevented by vaccination; eradication is the
only possible action. ASF broke out in South Brazil in 1978. In the
eradication program that followed, 67,000 pigs were slaughtered at a cost
of US$13.5 million; other indirect costs were estimated to be US$14.5
million; furthermore Brazil's pig exports were completely stopped for three



- 34 -
ANNEX 2
Page 5 of 7
years. Brazil's animal health services are continuing the surveillance for
ASF, and no positive test reactions have occurred since 1980.
15.       Hog Cholera (Classical Swine Fever) (CSF) is caused by a highly
contagious virus. Young pigs suffer the worst effects with markedly
lowered feed conversion and high death rates; infected sows may abort. In
Brazil, hog cholera control was started in earnest during the African swine
fever outbreak. An effective vaccine exists and Brazil has made
considerable headway against hog cholera and with a continuous campaign
could obtain its eradication. This effort requires a combination of public
information, surveillance, diagnostic service and vaccine quality control
activities, in addition to ongoing vigilance for hog cholera and ASF
through routine serologic testing.
16.       Aujeszky's Disease (Pseudorabies) mainly affects pigs, but can be
transmitted between cattle, dogs and cats. In pigs, infection causes
abortion, stillbirths and death in young pigs, The diagnosis requires
laboratory confirmation. This disease is relatively new in Brazil and is
causing problems in the breeding stock farms that import pigs. Animal
health service have developed a control program against Aujeszky's in the
states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catalina, Parana and Sao Paulo for pig-
breeding-stock herds. When an outbreak occurs in a breeding stock herd the
owner has three options: (a) total herd slaughter; (b) identification by
serologic testing and elimination of infected animals; and (c) vaccination
with an attempt to live with the disease. This last option precludes the
sale of breeding stock. Farmers who raise pigs strictly for slaughter have
very few problems; if they have outbreaks of this disease, they send the
animals to slaughter.
7.        Foot and Mouth Disease infection in pigs is generally acquired
from cattle and causes a high mortality in pigs under two months of age and
low feed conversion in older pigs. Pig owners vaccinate and attempt to
avoid exposure of pigs to cattle during times of outbreaks. The principal
public activity is through the implementation of the general FMD control
program with diagnosis of outbreaks, quarantine of farms having the disease
and vaccine quality control.
Poultry Diseases
18.       The intensive production practices and total confinement of
poultry have even more severe implications for disease spread and control
than in intensive pig productioni. Some producers have flocks that are free
of some diseases due to strict sanitation procedures and restricted access
to the poultry houses. If a disease is introduced, the spread is rapid due
to the population density in poultry houses and their total susceptibility
to infection. Other intensive poultry production enterprises control
diseases through continual vaccination programs. Most poultry diseases



- 31 -
ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 7
5.        In the South and Southeast, Brazil has made considerable progress
against FMD. Under an IDB funded control program, the occurrence of
outbreaks countrywide has been decreased to about 1,500/year in 1985 from
over 10,000 in 1975. This was achieved through the increased use of
quality controlled vaccines, increased surveillance and the control of
outbreaks when they occurred. Also during that program, more thorough
epidemiological studies were carried out. Cattle areas having similar
disease patterns were defined, and this is today the basis of the disease
control strategy for FMD. Before this strategy was defined, FMD control
campaigns were based on activities defined by administrative boundaries. A
special situation exists in Rio Grande do Sul where very few outbreaks have
occurred in the last five years; that has lead to an eradication proposal
for that state in conjunction with similar proposals for Uruguay and for
part of Argentina (the area between the Parana and Uruguay Rivers).
6.        The three different are"s in Brazil for today's FMD control
strategy are:
(a)   Endemic areas (see Map) have infrequent outbreaks because of low
animal density and varying degrees of immunity from natural
exposure. These areas are typically extensive cattle breeding
areas where frequ.-at vaccinations are often physically difficult
because of the terrain, such as the Pantanal swamps. The main
strategy here is to increase the use of the new oil-adjuvated
vaccines (these provide protection with only two vaccinations a
year) in order to achieve better immunity for weaned calves which
then typically move on to fattening areas.
(b)   Epiendemic areas are those areas where outbreaks occur frequently
because animals with various degrees of immunity are assembled
from several endemic areas to be raised and fattened on improved
pasture. In these areas, the control program strategy consists
of maintaining the immunity of the cattle brought there by
vaccination and dealing with outbreaks as quickly as possible so
that the virus does not spread.
(c)   Sporadic areas are those that have only ocassional outbreaks due
to a low animal density and limited animal movements. The
program strategy is to deal with the sporadic outbreaks quickly
and vaccinate animals in the immediate area.
7.        Countries which are totally free of FMD will only import fresh or
frozen meat from countries that are officially accepted as free because the
virus can be transmitted in fresh and frozen meat. The regulations to
establish a country as being FMD free are very strict; for example the US
requires that: (a) there have been no outbreaks and no vaccine has been
used for five years; (b) excellent disease surveillance is maintained; and



- 32 -
ANNEX 2
Page3 of 7
(c) there exists a recognized school of veterinary medicine, an efficient
animal health serv-ce and proper diagnostic capacity. Fresh meat trade
with these FMD-free countries is more lucrative than with FMD-endemic
countries because there is a price differential. Cooked and canned meat is
freely traded without non-tariff restrictions; the US and UK buy over
two-thirds of Brazil's canned beef.
8.        Ectoparasites (such arthropods as ticks, mites, biting flies,
grubs and screw worms) are a continuous problem in the tropics, not only
because of the damage they cause but, more importantly, because of the
diseases they transmit. In addition, they cause higher production costs
because of the need to routinely apply preventive insecticides. The most
prevalent diseases transmitted by insects in Brazil are anaplasmosis and
babesiosis which are both transmitted by ticks. The effects of clinical
illness from these diseases in susceptible cattle are severe anemia, weight
loss and sometimes death, especially in Imported European breeds. Zebu
cattle are more resistant both to tick infestation and clinical illness
from anaplasma and babesia infection. Cattle in endemic areas build up
immunity due to constant exposure from ticks, so that although frequent
insecticide applications reduce the exposure to anaplasma and babesia
organisms, they also reduce the chance for the establishment of natural
immunity. Maintaining the balance of the appropriate amount of insecticide
use that still allows the development of adequate natural immunity is the
basis for protection against tick-borne diseases. Vaccines have been
developed but are not uniformly effective. Farmers also use antibiotics to
treat animals having clinical evidence of the disease. In Brazil, public
sector involvement is generally through diagnosis, information programs and
control of insecticide and antibiotic quality.
9.        Endoparasites (mainly intestinal worms and liver flukes) are
common throughout the cattle population of Brazil. The effects are usually
subclinical and cause weight loss and low productivity. The effects vary
according to the type of parasite, the resistance of the host animal, the
stocking rate and the season. The weighting of these factors determine the
most strategic timing for the use of vermifuges (farmers spend over US$100
million per year on vermifuges alone in Brazil). Providing information for
farmers and rermifuge quality control are the principal of government
activities against these diseases.
10.       Rabies is caused by a virus that is infective for all mammalian
species; in Brazil, cattle are most frequently infected through bites of
vampire bats. The problem is most serious in the South, Southeast and
Center West. The fatality rate is almost 100%. Reported annual losses in
Brazil have been 6,000 to 10,000 head of cattle in recent years, but many
losses are not reported. The prevalence of virus in the environment poses
significant problems with regard to the exposure for humans who can get
infected from dogs and cats as well as from bats. There is considerable



- 35 -
ANNEX 2
Page 6 of 7
manifest themselves during the broiler growing period, but egg producers
have to deal with the same diseases as well as a few others. In all types
of poultry production the use of medication in the feed is commonly
practiced to reduce the effects of disease. In the following section the
main disease affecting Brazil's poultry production are described.
19.       Newcastle Disease occurs in different forms depending on the
virus type ranging from a mild infection to a rapidly spreading disease
with 100% fatality. It represents a constant threat; mainly to intensive
broiler production in the South and Southeast. The respiratory tract is
commonly involved, and in some forms, the central nervous and
gastrointestinal systems are the sites of lesions. This virus is also part
of the chronic respiratory disease complex and is easily spread through the
air. Vaccination is effective but must be given two or three times during
the broiler growing period. The most important roles of the Government are
to provide accurate diagnostic service, maintain vigilance against the
highly fatal virus type and control the vaccine quality.
20.       Marek's Disease is caused by a virus that provokes clinical
illness late in the broiler growing period and in laying hens. The main
losses from Marek's disease itself are from unthrifty broiler production,
decreased egg productivity and increased carcass condemnation. The lesions
cause tumors and the disease suppresses immunity such that infection often
results in losses due to other diseases, such as mycoplasmosis. Private
producers control the disease through vaccination. The Government's role
is to provide vaccine quality control and diagnostic service.
l
21.       Chronic Respiratory Disease (CRD) is caused by a complex of
infectious agents, including Newcastle disease, infectious bronchitis,
Escherichia coli and mycoplasmal agents. Sanitary and ventilation
conditions play a major role with regard to the severity of the infection.
Reduced feed conversion affects all ages, but death losses can be high and
occur mainly in broilers of about six weeks of age. The lesions are
throughout the respiratory track but are most frequently seen in the air
sacks. Eradication of mycoplasmosis in parent breeding flocks is the most
effective way of reducing CRD losses and Brazil's chicken breeder industry
has been using this approach for some years. One of the main hurdles has
been the inability to identify infected chickens because of inadequate
diagnostic service. The Government's role, therefore, is the provision of
these services to the breeder industry so that poultry production can
operate under mycoplasma-free conditions.
Goat and Sheep Diseases
22.       Goats are mainly raised in the Northeast as scavengers and are
important sources of animal protein. Hair-type sheep are also important in
the Northeast while wool-type sheep are an important in Rio Grande do Sul.



- 36 -
ANNEX 2
Page 7 of 7
The impact of many of the diseases that affect goat and sheep production is
most commonly seen in the form of weight loss and slower growth rates.
Like cattle, the extensive pasture production systems for sheep and goats
result in a less rapid disease transmission rate than for other livestock
under confined systems. The main diseases affecting Brazil's sheep and
goat production are described in this section.
23.       Internal Parasites exposure to internal parasite infection is
constant, and most sheep and goats develop some degree of tolerance.
However, subclinical infection has been shown to reduce productivity.
Owners give their goats vermifuges generally on a sporadic basis under the
extensive scavenging type management. Government animal health efforts are
directed mainly towa.d improved dissemination of inforvxation about the
proper use of vermifuges and quality control of the drugs.
24.       External Parasites such as lice and mange mites, are found
throughout Brazil's goat and sheep population.  They cause intense itching
which torments the animals and results in decreased feeding and weight
loss. Owners use insecticide dips to reduce infestation. The Government's
role is to provide advice to farmers, control the insecticide quality and,
on occasion, control the movement of severely affected animals.
25.       Caseous Lym2hadenitis (Corynebacterium pseudotuberculosis) is a
problem in goat and sheep production in the Northeast and results from
bacteria invading the lymphatic system and causing infection of the lymph
glands, which sometimes erupt as abscesses through the skin or internally.
It is a chronic problem and causes long-term disability and progressive
emaciation. The disease is usually detected in an advanced stage and is
not very responsive to antibiotic treatment. Attempts to produce a vaccine
are now in progress, but the results do not look promising.
26.       Viral Caprine Arthritis  may cause encephalitis in young goats,
but the main problem is the arthritic form causing weight loss in adult
goats. Lameness varies from severe crippling to intermittent pain. The
disease is transmitted through the dam's milk to the kids, and owners have
very few treatment options except to provide special care for severely
affected animals. If the disease is prevalent in an area, owners may
attempt to raise goats on milk from uninfected adults. There is a need for
more research aimed at better diagnostic tools and protective vaccines.
27.       Foot-and-Mouth Disease  infects sheep, but they rarely show
clinical signs. Goats are infected less often than sheep. The main
problem in the potential spreading of disease from sheep to cattle. Sheep
are not usually vaccinated, except in small farm flocks or animals going to
livestock shows. Enforced vaccination programs are the only viable
solution at present.



DRZIL
LIYESTOCX DISEASE CONML MRJECT
Project Comoments bi Year
(US $ '000)
Base Costs                              Total
1987/1988 1988/1989 1989/1990 1990/19m  1991/1992 1992/1"93 (USS '000)
A. SDSA                          19435.4   1,688.8   1,596,6  1t437.9   l.513.3   1.437.6    9,109.6
B. SERSAS                       1,776.2   2,250.6   1,830.6   1.830.6   1,830.6  1830.6   11,349*2
C. FIELD PR ONANS               5t663,3   4.024,8   4,971.8   4P971,8   54918.8   5F918.8   31,469.3
Do LANaR CENTRAL SERVICES       1277.8   1,511,3   1Y490,4   1,509.4   1,449.4   1437.9    8.676.2
E. LANARA LABORATORIES          80747M8  10.096.7   5,136.2   5,432.1   5,432.1   5P432.1   40,276.9
Total BASELINE COSTS             18,900#6  19.572#2  15.025.7  15,181.7  16,144.1  16,056.9  100,881*2
fIsical Contingencies          1,012.2      806.2         -          -         -         -     1,818.4
Price Contingencies              298.7      716.3     683.7     849.5   1,288.0   1,887*9      5,724.1
- - --- - -- ------ ------  ------- - -  ----- -   - - ---- - 
Total PROJECT COSTS              20t211.5  21P094*7  150709.4  16,031.2  17,432.1  17,944.7   106.423.7
Taxes                           10761*1   1,463.8     583.3     619.7      732.7     753.6     5t914.2
Foreign Exchmnge               5P857.1   4t937#0  2,695.6   2.779.5   2,943.7   3,018.5    22t231.4
AFril 2. 1987 17:04
Note:   Columns may not add up due to rounding.
1g10



BRAPIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CORL PROJECT
Suarl kccount by Project Coonent
(US * '000)
Phsical
LARA                           Cantinecies
FIELU   CENTRAL     LAMAMA
SDSA    SERSAS  PROGRAMS SERVICES LAORATORIES  Total       2  AouMt
=___  =  :==== = =                               -
1. IINESTMENT COSTS
A. CONSTRUCCTION AND IMPROEMENTS OF LAOTORIES        -    840.0        -        -      7,435.9   8,275.9  15.0 1.241,4
B. EOUIPIENT AND OTHERS                          216.4     75.0  1.634    169.8        3,710.1   SW809.6   9.9  577.0
Total INVESTMENT COSTS                              216.4    915.0  1,638.4    169.8     11,145.9  14,085.5  12.9 1818.4
11. RECRRENT COS
A. STAFF EXEITURES                            4,541.8  6,877.1        -  1,745,4      23,356.7  36,521.0   0.0    0.0
B. DAILY SUISISTENCE ALLOME                     233.2    739.1 12t545.5     84.5        490.9  14,093.2   0.0    0.0
C. TRAININ -AND CONSULTAITS                   1,911.0    585.0    840.0  5,831.4            -   9,167.4   0.0    0.0
P. OTE RMING EXPENDITURES                     2,150.4  1,437.6  5081.8    788.3       54181.2  14639.2   0.0    0.0
£. VEHICLE MAINTEWAICE                           56.8    795.5 119363.6     56.8        102.3  12.375.0   0.0    0.0
Total RECJRRENT COSTS                             8,893.2 10,434.2 29M830.9  8.506.4     29.131.0  86,795.7   #0.0   0.0
Total BASELINE COSTS                               9,109.6 11,349.2 31,469.3  8,676.2     40.276.9 100,881.2   1.8 1,818.4
Ph1sical Continßencies                             21.6    133.5    163.8     13.0      1.486,4  1818.4   0.0    0.0
Price Contingencies                               524.1    656.0  1,901.4    509.4      2,133.1   5,724.1   0.8   43.5
Total PROECT COSTS                                 9,655.3  12,138.8 33t534#6  9,198.6    43,896.4  108,423.7   1.7 14861.9
as=   = -            = ==      =       -=_   = = ==:-
Taxes                                             303.7    303.4  2,441.5    157.5      2,708.1  5v914.2   4.5  265.6
Foreign Exchanße                                1,480.5  1I142.9  7#587.6  3,526.1      8.494.2  22t231,4   2.8  632.9
April 2# 1987 17:04
Note:  Columns may not add up due to rounding.                                                                                                II



-  39  -                      ANNEX 3
Table 3
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(US$ Million)
Disbursement    Cumulative
Bank Year      Semester           During           Amount         Balance
Fiscal         Ending           Semester        Disbursed        of Loan
1988          Dec. 31, 1987        3   1/           3               48
June 30, 1988        3               6               45
1989          Dec. 31, 1988        5               11               40
June 30, 1989        7              18               33
1990          Dec. 31, 1989        6               24               27
June 30, 1990       4               28               23
1991          Dec. 31, 1990        4               32               19
June 30, 1991       4               36               15
1992          Dec. 31, 1991        4               40               11
June 30, 1992        3              43                8
1993          Dec. 31, 1992        3               46                5
June 30, 1993        2              48                3
1994          Dec. 31, 1993        2               50                1
March 31, 1994       1              51                0
I/ Includes initial deposit of US$2.5 million into the Special Accounts.



-  40  -                       ANNEX3
Table 4
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTRO PROJECT
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
Category                        Items                       Amount
US$ Million
I.                    Civil works.                             4.4
50% of expenditures
II.                    Salaries and per diems.                 14.0
60% of expenditures up to
an aggregate disbursement
under this category of US$8.0
million; 30% thereafter until
the aggregate reaches US$13.0
million; and 10% thereafter.
III.                    Consultant services and studies          1.8
100% of expenditures.
IV.                    External training.                       2.0
100% of expenditures
V.                    Internal training.                       2.7
50% of expenditures.
VI.                    Equipment.                               5.0
100% of foreign expenditures
and 50% of local expenditures.
VII.                     Inputs and materials.                  16.6
1O0% of foreign expenditures
and 50% of local expenditures.
VIII.                     Unallocated                             4.5
51.0



- 41 -
ANNEX 4
Page I of 5
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Monitoring and Evaluation
A. Monitoring
1.        The achievement of the goals of this project would require the
monitoring of: (a) the institutional development component to insure that
the organization and management of animal health services improve; (b) the
physical and financial aspects of the project so that project
implementation can be measured; and (c) the evolution of the diseases
themselves so that improvement in livestock productivity can be estimated.
2.        Specific guidelines have been developed for the institutional
development component. They are described in detail in the working paper
titled "Project Supported Institutional Development." In summary, they are
as follows: (a) establishment of an institutional development unit (ADO)
within SDSA; (b) initiation of new management and administration practices
in SDSA and LANARA; (c) revision of present personnel policies used in SDSA
and LANARA; (d) preparation of project training programs related to
identified skill gaps; and (e) revision and drafting of legislation that
refers to the animal health subsector.
3.        Physical implementation of the project would be monitored by
achieving project targets of new construction, physical improvements to
existing structures, equipment and new staffing. Biosecurity installations
at both the federal laboratory and the state-run Desiderio Finamore
laboratory in Rio Grande do Sul would be constructed; building improvements
would be carried out in seven laboratories and at PANAFTOSA; and the most
important staff additions would be 115 professionals for LANARA, 32
professionals for SDSA and 48 for the different SERSAS. Physical and
financial monitoring of the project would be updated based on the annual
operating plan prepared by SDSA and reviewed by the Bank annually.
4.        Monitoring the effect the project activities have on the status
of various diseases is an ongoing task of recording data at the state level
and compiling it at the federal level. Data that describe disease status
are: number of outbreaks, number of animals affected per outbreak, status
of disease as indicated by serologic information (presence of antibodies)
and diagnostic laboratory findings. One of the main objectives of the
project is to develop and improve the capacity to carry out this data
collection so that the monitoring of progress against disease occurences
can be done more reliably. Through the monitoring of disease epidemiologic
trends can be detected, estimates of productivity impacts can be made and



- 42 -
ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 5
then the most cost-effective allocations of animal disease control
resources can be made. Some of the data that is continually monitored will
also be used for project evaluation. In the following section on project
evaluation more specific key indicators of disease status are described.
B. Evaluation
5.        The broad objective of this project is to increase livestock
productivity through the cost-effective reduction of the incidence of
disease. Project evaluation would consist of: (a) measuring the resources
used by animal health services; and (b) measuring the progress in reducing
the incidence of disease. The methods for evaluating these two items are
described below.
Measuring the Resources Used by Animal Health Services
6.        Assessing the appropriate financial committment for public sector
animal health services is difficult. Certain indices can be calculated,
such as the number of veterinarians or the annual budget relative to the
number of livestock or to their value. However, such indices are not
easily compared between countries or even between states in Brazil because
of variations in: (a) the level of services provided; (b) the distances and
access to livestock areas; (c) the profitability of livestock enterprises;
and (d) the prevalence and impact of the diseases present.
7.        Under the project, data would be collected to enable evaluation
of the relationship between the size of animal health resources and the
livestock industry. Data on the dimensions of the resources used would
include: (a) the number of veterinarians in private and public service; (b)
the number of veterinarians whose main activities are in field service,
compared to the number of veterinarians that are mainly administrative,
laboratory or research workers; (c) the annual budget for recurrent costs,
other than salaries, for animal health services at federal and state
levels; and (d) the annual budget for investments in animal health services
at federal and state levels.
8.        Data on the dimensions of the livestock industry would include:
(a) herd inventory; (b) value of inventory; (c) annual production offtake
and productivity data; (d) number of farmers and workers involved in
various aspects of the livestock industry; and (e) the relative
contribution of the livestock industry to the gross national product and to
the balance of trade.
9.        These data would form the basis for the analysis and estimation
of various indices, which, when taken with qualification, could be used to
assist decision-making concerning investments, expenses and staffing in
animal health services for government agencies as well as universities and
research centers. Data would be collected during the first, third and
sixth years of project implementation.



- 43 -
ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 5
Measuring the Progress of Disease Control
10.       The measurement of the contribution of the project to increasing
livestock production by reducing the losses due to disease would be the
ideal method of evaluating the project's financial return. This would
theoretically require that: (a) all disease occurences be reported; and (b)
that the impact of a disease be translated into a specific loss of
production. Even under the best of circumstances, data on all disease
incidences are difficult to obtain, because disease occurences are not
uniformly reported. Furthermore production losses due to disease vary and
are not always easily attributable to one specific disease. Data on the
production losses avoided due to an improvement in disease control is
available in other countries (e.g., broiler production in the US) and can
be used with adjustments for the Brazilian scenario (see Pre-Appraisal
working paper titled 'Financial Evaluation").
11.       The best proxy available for measuring the reduction In
production losses due to improved disease control is to measure several
indicators of the project's technical achievement and some of their effects
on disease prevalence and incidence. Key technical indicators were
selected and agreed upon with SDSA during appraisal (Table 1). The
criteria for their selection were that: (a) they could be measured
accurately and easily; (b) baseline data was either available or could be
feasibly established in the first year of the project; and (c) the
indicators could be expected to change in value as a result of project
activities.
12.       The indicators would be measured during the first project year as
baseline data in order to be compared to the same measures in Years 3 and
6. Conceptually, there are three types of indicators:
(a)   Indirect indicators of project activity.  These are measurements
of improvement in: (i) the quality of health products used by the
livestock industry, which indirectly means that prevention and
treatment of animal diseases has improved; (ii) the number of
animals vaccinated, which indicates improved immune status of the
animal population; and (iii) the number of diagnoses performed,
which indicates improved collection and submission techniques of
specimens for diagnostic laboratory examination.
(b)   Indirect indicators of disease level.  These are measures of
disease prevalence which are cross-sectional (taken at one point
in time in a specific animal population). The most frequently
used tests are serologic surveys which measure antibody levels
and indicate exposure and immuuity to specific disease
organisms. These measures can be used to indirectly assess the
immune status of the livestock population to these agents or
their presence in the environment.



- 44 -
ANNEX 4
Page 4 of 5
(c)   Direct iidicators of losses caused by disease.  These are
measures of the outcome of infection such as outbreaks, number of
animals affected and carcass condemnation which directly
indicates animals' exposure and susceptibility to infection by
the disease agent and thereby the degree of impact on
production. Improvements in these indicators are the combined
result of such project funded activities as improved vaccine
quality, diagnostic services and field-lvel disease control.
13.       Except for the cross-sectional data, the indicators are measures
of the number of events (such as vaccines approved and outbreaks) occuring
in a calendar year and will be compared to the same measures in different
years. It is critical that the same standards and techniques be used to
measure the indicators at each time in order to use them in evaluating
project impact. Different indicators were selected for each disease
(Table 1); however, for FIMD, brucellosis, rabies, hog cholera, Newcastle
disease, infectious bronchitis and Marek's disease, the measurement of the
number of batches of the respective vaccine that are tested and approved
each year is a common indirect indicator of progress toward project
objectives.
14.       With regard to cattle diseases, indicators for FMD, brucellosis
and rabies would be measured. For FMD, the number of premises on which
clinically diagnosed outbreaks occurred is a direct indicator of program
performance and the number of laboratory diagnoses performed are indirect
indicators of surveillance and diagnostic laboratory performance. The
measurement of the number of animals having protective antibody levels
following PMD vaccination is an indicator of both the quality of the
vaccine and the vaccination technique. For brucellosis, the number of
animals vaccinated per year is an indirect indicator of animals protected,
while the 'milk ring" test and serologic information are indicators of
animals that have been exposed to the organism in the environment. A drop
in the number of nositive reactions indicates progress against
brucellosis. For rabies, direct indication of project activity can be
measured by the number of outbreaks that occurred and the number of cattle
which died from rabies per year.
15.       For the two pig diseases focused on by the project, hog cholera
and Aujeszky's disease, the number of outbreaks occuring per year is a
direct indicator of the progress towards reducing the incidence of both
diseases.
16.       For poultry diseases, indicators for Marek's disease, CRD,
Newcastle disease, mycoplasmosis and salmonellosis would be measured. In
the case of Marek's disease and CRD, it would be possible to use annual
carcass condemnation rates as a measure to indicate changes in the
incidences of these diseases. A change in the number of Newcastle disease



- 45 -
ANNEX 4
Page 5 of 5
outbreaks per year would show the effects of better vaccine quality,
diagnostic service and disease control activities. Progress made against
mycoplasma and salmonella infections can be indicated by measuring antibody
levels (through serology) which show the exposure rate to these disease
agents and thereby the degree of their presence in the chickens'
environment.
17.       In the breeding of all livestock species, various drugs are used
to treat animals for bacterial infections and internal parasites, and
insecticides are used against external parasites. Measurements of the
quality of these health products are indirect indicators of their efficacy
and of project activities.
18.       In many cases, special studies or surveys need to be done to
establish baseline values in the first year of the project as described in
Table 1. These studies would be done in selected areas and on
representative farms with the idea that the same data would be collected
from these sources in Project Years 3 and 6. These studies are not only
critical to the evaluation but would also be the first step of an overall
improved epidemiologic surveillance program which is a major monitoring
activity of the project. In addition to providing evaluation, the results
of such analyses are important for day-to-day decision-making and planning
cost-effective animal disease control strategies. The execution and
analysis of these studies, reporting of the indicators and the measurement
of animal health resources used would be the responsibility of SDSA's
DIVISO division in cooperation with the DICOMD division, LANARA and
livestock industry representatives.



ANNEX 4
MAIm                                            =abl I
LIVESTOCK DISUSE ceo. PIOJBCT
tov Itdicatores  Project taDct Os Aitml Diease
DISEASE             INDICATOR            EABURMENT 2/    IUSE LINE        PnSSU?3/ StUDIES NEEoDE  TO PROVIDE
DATA AVAIAI  IIASURB            BUSELINE DATA
Foot-and Mouth  ALO  vaccine I/        2 4                    Ye             92S          None
Disease(aftosa) quality coatrol          Produced
Oil vaccine           2 proved               yes           1002          None
quality control
(Governeent)                              ___
Oil vaceine           S Approved             Yes            40S          None
quality control         Produced
(private industry)
Outbreaks 4/          Number premises        tes         1511            None
(clitnical obser-
vations)
Outbreaks with        X Lab. diagnoeis       tes           362           None
laboratory diagnosis   outbvreks
Results of diagnosis  X Negative             Yes           492           None
for vesicular di-    Samples received
"eaese
Number of animals     S Protected eni-   Partial        Unknoun     Serologic studies of
vaccinated that are     ials                                        blood samplen collected
protected.              Sple  number                                from selected areas
and/or abbstoirs.
Brueellosis      Vaccine               X Approved             Yes           9S2           None
quality control         Produced
3-8 month old         2 Vaccinated in   tes in RS.       752 as    Studies of dairy herds
dairy heifers vacci-   age-sex group    Partial in                  in selected locations
nated                                    other states    Unknown     in NG end sr. 5/
Milk Ring Test        2 Premises posi-   Partial         Unknown   Sam  as above
tive                                    _
Serologic infor-      2 Dairy cow         Partisl        Unknown    Studies on selected
mation                  positive                                    dairy farms in a few
cooperatieves in NO and
Sp
Rabies           Vaccine               2 Ap     d            yes          942         None
quality control         M ed
Outbreaks             Number of coun-    Reliable in  456 for    Studies in selected areas
nitise in which    rS, SC, RJ.   Four         particularly in areas of
outbreaks occur-   SP             States      MO and BA vhere no infor-
red.                Partisl for               mation presently avai-
other states  Unkno       lable.
Cattle deaths          Read               Reliable in  i22 for      Studies in selected areas
RS,SC,a.SP   four         particularly in areas of
States     NA and BA where no iFfor-
Partial for               nation presently avai-
other states  Unknown     lable.
Rog Cholera     Vaccine                S Apuroved           Tee           92S         None
(Classifical    quality control         Produced
Swine Pever)
Outbreaks               Number            Tee in RS,  20-RS;        Surveys of pig producers
PR, SC      o-PR; a-sC   in certain states: SP,HGt
Unrelisble                GO and &Io possibly PE
In any      Unknown      and CE
states
Aujosky's        Outbreaks in SP       Number             Partil         Unknown    Collect outbreak data
Disease                                                                              over I year in SP.
(Pseudorabies)
g~~~~~~~~~



-  47  -                                       ANNEX 4
Table I cont..
DISEAS8               INDICATOR           MEASUREMENT         BASE LINE      PRESENT    STUDIKS NgEDED TO PROVIDE
DATA AVAILABLE   MEASURE          BASE1,INE DATA
Newcastle        Vaccine                 % ApProved         Yes, but            93X      Better data available
Disease          quality control           Produced          technique is                when control starts with
partial                     full testing technique
Outbreaks              Number              Partial, not     Not        Studies in areas of SP,
reliable       reliable    SC and RS where out-
breaks can be confirmed
by a lsboratory.
Infectious       Vaccine                S A&proved           Not done                    Data available when
Bronchitis       quality control           Produced                           None       control starts
Marek's          Vaccine                 % Approved          Not done                    Data available when
Disease          quality control           Produced                           None       control starts
Carcass condemnation  2 Carcasses con-   Partial              30X      Data being compiled by
demned having                     Unreliable   SIPA. Abattoir studies
Marek's lesions                                 will be needed.
in SP,SC,PR  __  _
Chronic respi-   Carcass condemnation  S Carcasses con-   Partial              201       Data being compiled by
ratory disease                          deuned having ty-                  Unreliable   SIPA.  Abattoir studies
pical respiratory                               will be needed.
lesions in SP,
___   - ______  ________ _____ S__           8C, PR         _
Nycoplasmosis    Serologic infor-       X Premises posi-   Partial          Unknown      Serologic survey of
in reproducer    nation                   tive                                           sample flocks in coope-
flocks                                                                                   ration with industry
Salmonellosis    Serologic infor-       X Premises posi-   Partial          Unknown      Serologic survey of
In reproducer    mation                    tive                                          sample flocks in coope-
flocks                                                                                   ration with inaustry
General inter-   Control of anthel-    X Approved           Yes but few    76Z of 51    None
nal parasitic    mintices                 Tested            samples tes-   samples
diseases                                                    ted
General arthro-  Control of lnsecti-   X Approved                                        Data available when con-
pod and arthro-  edes                    Tested              Not done       None        trol procedures are
pod borne di-                                                                           standardized and begun on
seases                                                                                   routine basis
Bacterial and    Control of antibio-   X Approved                                        Data available when con-
hemoparasitic    ties                     Tested              Not done       None        trol procedures are
diseases                                                                                 standardized and begun on
routine basis.
1)  Vaccine indicators are for batches of vaccine produced, controlled or approved.  ALOH is aluminum
hydroxide adjuvated and oil is oil adjuvated FMD vaccine.
2) All measurements are on an annual basis except for serologic information and "ringtest" which are cross
sectional.
3) Present measures are for 1985.
4) An outbreak is a reported occurrence of the disease on a premise.
5)  State abbreviations: Mines Gerais (MG), Sao Paulo (SP), Bahia (BA), Goias (GO), Ceara (CE),
Pernambuco (PE), Santa Catarina (SC), Rio Grande do Sul (RS) and Parana (PR).
Source : SDSA & Mission
Date   t February 1987



-  48  -                       ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 2
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Outline of Interinstitutional Agreements sought under the Project
A. Agreement between the Brazilian Technical Assistance and Rural
Extension Company (EMBRATER) and the Department of Animal Health
Protection (SDSA).
1.        In the past, extension activities under EMBRATER have been
divorced from any disease prevention stretegies that have been devised by
SDSA. Each entity virtually ignored the other. Although EMBRATER and SDSA
are both entities within the Ministry of Agriculture, EMBRATER is a
semi-autonomous company which has not acted in close cooperation with line
departments in the Ministry. A closer working relationship between
EMBRATER and SDSA is clearly needed if disease prevention strategies and
techniques are to be communicated to small farmers through the extension
services. Under the project, SDSA will prepare animal health prevention
"messages" that EMBRATER will then pass on to the state extension
services. The agreement between EMBRATER and SDSA establishes that SDSA
would prepare the technical input of the health prevention programs and
that EMBRATER would be responsible for the diffusion of the programs to
farmers.
2.        The agreement between EMBRATER and SDSA specifies that:
(i) an individual in each organization will be made responsible for
coordination between them;
(ii)  SDSA will report annually to EMBRATER on the status of disease in
cattle, pigs and poultry in each epidemiologically defined area,
and will update information on technical recommendations for
combatting identified outbreaks;
(iii) EMBRATER will discuss with SDSA what practical means to diminish
the spread and impact of disease could be devised as part of
disease prevention programs; further specify, once an agreed
strategy for each epidemiological area has been devised, that
EMBRATER will pass on this information to the state EMATERs
(responsible for state-level implementation); and
(iv) that financial support from SDSA to EMBRATER will be made on a
case-by-case basis.



-  49  -                    ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 2
B. Agreement between the Brazilian Agricultural Research Company (EMBRAPA)
and the Department of Animal Disease Laboratories (LANARA)
3.        In the past, EIBRAPA has undertaken research on animal health at
its own facility outside Rio de Janeiro. This facility does not have an
adequate laboratory for the diagnosis work needed for research on animal
diseases. LANARA has a much better laboratoty at Pedro Leopoldo in Minas
Gerais. After much debate, EMBRAPA is considering closing down its own
facility outside Rio and moving its staff to work in Pedro Leopoldo. This
move is supported by the Bank as beneficial to the aims of the Project.
The agreement between EMBRAPA and LANARA establishes the conditions under
which EMBRAPA will work with LANARA at the Pedro Leopoldo laboratory.
4.        The agreement specifies that:
(i) two individuals, within EMBRAPA and LANARA, will be nominated to
manage the coordination of the National Research Program in
Animal Health;
(ii) a Technical Director for the Pedro Leopoldo laboratory be
nominated,
(iii) a joint technical committee of nine members be established;
(iv) the administrative and financial conditions under which EMBRAPA
would use the Pedro Leopoldo facilities be established; and
(v) Pedro Leopoldo's work program take into account the directives of
the joint technical committee;



-  50  -                       ANNEX 6
BRAZIL
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Documents Available in Project File
1. BRAZIL: Animal Disease Control Project
Working Paper Prepared by April 1984 Identification/
Preparation Mission (FAO/CPi, July 18, 1984.
2. BRAZIL: Animal Disease Control Project
Preparation Document (FAO/CP), Novembar 15, 1984
3.  Projeto  Controle Das Doencas Dos Animais
Brazilian Preparation Document (MINAGRI), June 1986
4. BRAZIL: Livestock Disease Control Project
Pre-Appraisal Working Papers
(a) Financial Evaluation: (Dr. Hunt McCauley), November 1986
(b) Veterinary Laboratories: (FAO/CP), November 17, 1986
(c)   Organization and Management: (Dr, Frank Mulhern), January 1987
5. BRAZIL: Livestock Disease Control Project
Appraisal Working Papers
(a) Livestock Production in Brazil
(Dr. Hunt McCauley), February 27, 1987
(b) Project Supported Institutional Development (A. Tobelem),
April 1987
(c) Training (M. Fairless),
April 1987



IF~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
II                                            Ii~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~------     --
I                          a
EhS--' ,W, a---X,
.                            ,.'~[~
X~~~S .                                     1.1  . J2



i  VENEZUELA
1 i       Boa Vista    GUYANa
COLOMBIA                           \
,_9l} / a fas 11R'tnMA _
r.   X           r:            \ ~~~~CATTEa 346.01  >..AC
_A                     1                     PIGS: 4,000
POULTRY: 2r0PUTRY 223000
,  Po5' , to    '
10'  CATTLE:~~~~~427,~~  Rio Broncos'
|                       ~~~~~~CATtLE: 391,000            r         
PIGS; 158, 0                      PIGS, 266,000                                              /
POULTRY: 146307POULTRY 2,418,000                                   ,
\        )  *                           < W>- -  Porto  x       j     
*         ;' *. 1t^o.,fX                                   Velho    .               
10∞  CATllE: 427.000     *        Brnc                    I~ '                 5N ) i,
PIGS 158,000        L.J      ~                       I    AE    4,00       
4,                     XOULTRY, 3,641,000         ;.
PERU                                                       -                             M A Tyi
CAl
PIG
-uiai
:7                      BOLIVIA
200                                            
CHILE                                         PARAGUA)
CHILE
rhe -,aP hts been OP,ePard by             t
The  ow Dan*'s slat -tt  x    
he twe c toenewnwce of Vth
re#de,st and a eak,heo to, the N
nfteAns use of The Wot'd BOAb
C0fvwf*dn The dvncaN^d    '            /ARGENTINA
us"e an t  bnwONres shloI
rOn b, imp do not wpoi, on thI
padl ot The b  B* adl the & 
hb,tnahonaw Feanc Cogor*t                                                                   ,
any Anont a the te.a status 
rd anV ternoo rJr anyS              I(.
endrse,nent 0, acceta&ce of
30∞0                                                                                     t It
I ''-' ,, /                                                        U
|  70∞                                            69∞. J



IBRD 203
S 50                                                   40∞                                                    300
, FRENCH
URINAME \GUIANA/
}    }        t ~~~CATTLE, 48,000
*  PIGS 21,000                                          BRAZIL
POUlTRY. 232.000
LIVESTOCK DISEASE CONTROL PROJECT
Macapaq.
)Belem
Sao Luis                    CATTLE 2,425.000
PIGS: 827,000
POULTRY 14,692,000
oL 3trtaliera  CATTLE. 803,000
PIGS: 105.000
POULTRY. 1,912.000
CATTLE. 3.199.000           ATeTsi
PIGS. 1,316,000            CATTLE3: 3.055.000esa
POULTRY; 9,543 000         PIGS 80,000                       f                                Natal
,        POULTRY. 13,024.000            Q.aa
t                   7          i                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~Joao Pessoa
CATTLE: 1,226,000
PIGS: 201,000
CATTLE; 1,668,000                                             .      POULTRY: 3,712,000
,              (!    ; PIC3: 1.272,000                                                       CATTLE. 1,820,000
-- X   > 'POULTRY   ,000<                                                   PIGS: 500,000
ci  'POULTRY: 15.287.000
\_ 2 4'b                                     '        .    ' '. CATTLE 884,000
CATTLE: 17,439,000                                                                      POULTRY: 2,132.000          104
PIGS: 1.975,000                                                           raau  cTL,82W
POULTRY: 12.955.000                                                                PIGS. 8,000
O  i>:z F. 1 1 . t%,  CATTLE:                 /POULTRY: 1.880,000
TtUE. 5.967,000                              -                          CAtTLE; 9,350,000
4111.8. 5.67,.000              i             .                           PIGS. 2,035,000           Salvador
;S- 579.000POLR.169,;)
IULTRY:,3,211,000       CATtLE: 80,000                                   POULtRY- 16699,Y1
PIGS: 33,000
POULTRY, 1,S85,000      wERAi|
1,,"                  -  +w  
GO, &30b                 CATTLE: 19.840,000
PIGS. 3,302.000
POULTRY 53.983.000 O
PGiROSSO)*                                  ,e'f
'.'     SUL                                          0oPedro Leopoldo                  CATTLE 1,845,000
~CmoGronde,    ~          .Æ                              ~PIGS: 453,000
; .    g9   Gone,     'Belo Horizonte             .POULTRY 6,754,000
11iE, ta,190,000         .J/1
M   493,cOo            i)}' Vitdria
l    3,032,000  f                                                                               Prolect Area Boundary                          20
Areas of Endemic Foot-and-Mouth
:Y                -a              * COmlCas                                                  Disease
Sao PauloÆ                  Rio de Janeiro            U        Federal Animal Health Loboratories to be
CATTLE, 1,803,000                      Rehabilitoted under the Project
aBocastro     >                    POULTRY.PIGS: 291.000        *        Existing Federal Animal Health Laboratories
*oCostro                    ~~~~~~POULTRY: 16,834,000
Curitiba,t ~SCATTLE: 11,649,000                                   *        Panamericon Center for Foot-and-Mouth Disease
POULTRY: 104,961.000                  A        State Laborotory of Rio Gronde do Sul
CATTLE: 7,939.000                                (Desiderio Finomor)
Selo J0se60l               POULTRY: 55.781,000                    %        National Capital
Florionopolis   (CATTLE 2,653,000
PIGS 3.766,000 0                                            State Capital$
f '  , ! .  .  ,    .    - .   /  POULTRY: 52,356,000                                 Rivers
A                                       sState Boundaries
Porto   Æ         CATTLE, 14,212,000
Alegre         PIGS: 4947,000                                            __          International Boundaries
POULTRY: 66.236.000
0        200       400       600 KILOMETERS
r0             200              4C0 MILES
IRUGUAY    O
JRUGUAY                                                                              Source for onimal populairons: 1984 Year Statistks for Brozil 30'
50∞                                         4Ci∞                                           300
APRIL 1987



