Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 2864 BR
(Livestock Disease Control Project)
between
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated July 27, 1987
LOAN NUMBER 2864 BR
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated July 27, 1987, between FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority 
of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to 
assist in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to 
extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Page  2
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee 
Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of  Section 
3.02 deleted (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined 
in the General Conditions have the respective meanings therein set forth and the 
following terms have the following meanings:
(a)
"MINAGRI" means the Borrower's Ministry of Agriculture;
 
(b)
"CESA and FESA Accounts" means the accounts referred to in Section 2.02 
(b) and (c) of this Agreement;
(c)
"CESA" means the local expenditures special account to be opened pursuant 
to Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
(d)
"FESA" means the foreign exchange expenditures special account to  be 
opened pursuant to Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement;
(e)
"Account Bank" means Central Bank in respect of CESA and the bank 
referred to in Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement in respect of FESA;
(f)
"Central Bank" means Banco Central do Brasil;
 
(g)
"Cruzado" means the currency of the Borrower;
 
(h)
"Project Area" means the states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina, 
Parana, Sao Paulo, Minas Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, Espirito Santo,  Mato Grosso, Mato 
Grosso do Sul, Goias Pernambuco, Ceara, Bahia and Sergipe and the Distrito Federal;
(i)
"State Veterinary Services" means the Veterinary Services operated by the 
States and the Distrito Federal in the Project Area;
(j)
"SDSA" means the Borrower's Secretaria de Defesa Sanitaria Animal within 
its Ministry of Agriculture;
(k)
"LANARA" means the Borrower's Sistema Nacional de Laboratorios de   
Defesa Nacional within its Ministry of Agriculture;
(l)
"EMBRATER" means the Borrower's Empresa Brasileira de Assistencia Tecnica 
e Extensao Rural; and
(m)
"EMBRAPA" means the Borrower's Empresa Brasileira de Pesquisa 
Agropecuaria.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan Agreement, an amount in  various 
currencies equivalent to fifty-one million dollars ($51,000,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the  Loan Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this  Agreement for expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of 
goods and services required for the  Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement 
and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
(b)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in the Central Bank an account in dollars on terms and  conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursement out of this account  (hereinafter called CESA) 
shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in  cruzados incurred in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required to carry out the Project and to be 
Page  3
financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(c)
The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project, open and thereafter 
maintain in a bank, acceptable to the Bank, an account in dollars  on terms and 
conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Disbursements out of this account (hereinafter 
called FESA) shall be made exclusively to meet expenditures in currencies other than 
cruzados incurred in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required to 
carry out the Project and to be financed by the Bank pursuant to paragraph (a) above.
(d)
Deposits into, and payments out of, CESA and FESA shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 5 to this Agreement. The Borrower shall 
cause the Account Bank to furnish to the Bank each month certified statements of CESA 
and FESA.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be March 31, 1994 or such later  date as 
the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later 
date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge at the rate 
of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Loan not withdrawn from time to time.
Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the 
Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time at a rate per annum for each Interest 
Period equal to one-half of one percent per annum  above the Cost of Qualified 
Borrowings for the last Semester ending prior  to the commencement of such Interest 
Period.
(b)
As soon as practicable after the end of each Semester, the Bank  shall 
notify the Borrower of the Cost of Qualified Borrowings for such Semester.
(c)
For purposes of this Section:
 
(i)
"Interest Period" means the six-month period commencing on each 
date specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement, including the 
Interest Period in which this 
Agreement is signed.
 
(ii)
"Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost of the outstanding 
borrowings of the 
Bank drawn down after June 30, 1982, expressed as a 
percentage per annum, as 
reasonably determined by the Bank.
 
(iii)
"Semester" means the first six months or the second six months of 
a calendar year.
Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable semiannually on April 
15 and October 15 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in 
accordance with the amortization schedule set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.08. The  Minister of Agriculture is designated as representative of 
the Borrower for the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be taken 
under the provisions of Section 2.02 of  this Agreement and Article V of the General 
Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, and to this end, shall: (i) 
carry out Parts A through C of the Project through MINAGRI; and (ii) cause, under 
contractual arrangements, the State Veterinary Services to carry out Part D of the  
Project; all with due  diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate 
administrative, financial, managerial and veterinary practices, and shall provide, 
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
Page  4
(b)
Without limitation to its obligations under paragraph (a) above, the 
Borrower shall: (i) cause the Central Bank to provide advances in cruzados into a 
project account to be opened and operated by MINAGRI for  purposes of the Project, 
pursuant to the terms of the agreement between the Borrower and the Central Bank, 
dated April 5, 1984, providing therefor; and (ii) unless the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, not assign, amend, abrogate, fail to comply with or waive such agreement or any 
provision thereof.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and consultants' services required for the Project and to  be financed 
out of the proceeds of the Loan shall be governed by the  provisions of Schedule 4 to 
this Agreement.
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall maintain at all times an institutional 
development unit within SDSA for purposes of the Project with functions,  
organizational structure, management and staffing in numbers and with  qualifications 
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.04. The Borrower shall: (a) through SDSA, carry out its obligations 
under the agreement entered into with EMBRATER on June 10,  1987, which, includes, 
inter alia, their respective obligations and responsibilities regarding animal disease 
prevention in the Project Area;
(b)
through LANARA, carry out its obligations under the agreement entered 
into with EMBRAPA on January 27, 1987, as amended on June 10, 1987,  which includes, 
inter alia, their respective rights and obligations  regarding the use of the Pedro 
Leopoldo Laboratory and LANARA's obligation   to carry out diagnostic work for 
EMBRAPA;
(c)
through MINAGRI, enter into an agreement with each of the States and the 
Federal District in the Project Area under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank which shall include: (i) the Borrower's obligation to transfer the proceeds of 
the Loan allocated for Part D of the Project to  the respective State Veterinary 
Services; (ii) the respective State   Veterinary Service's obligation: (A) to appoint 
a qualified and experienced project coordinator to facilitate coordination with 
Federal agencies in the execution of Part D of the Project; (B) to carry out, unless 
otherwise  agreed by MINAGRI and the Bank, in each year, the activities specified for  
such State Veterinary Service in the approved annual operating plans referred to in 
Section 3.05 (b) of this Agreement; and (C) to comply with the auditing, reporting, 
procurement and other applicable obligations set forth or referred to in this 
Agreement in respect of such Part D of the Project; and 
(d)
exercise its rights under the agreements referred to in paragraphs (a), 
(b) and (c) of this Section in such manner as to protect the interests  of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the 
Bank shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive 
such agreements or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall, through SDSA: (a) not later than August 31 
each year furnish to the Bank for its review and comments, the  guidelines for the 
preparation of the proposed annual operating plans for  activities under the Project 
for the following year; and (b) not later than November 30 of each year, furnish to 
the Bank the consolidated annual operating plans for all parts of the Project for the 
following year.
Section 3.06. Without limitation to Section 9.07 (a) of the General Conditions, 
the Borrower shall: (a) not later than October 31 and April 30  of each year, submit 
to the Bank semi-annual reports on the progress of the  Project covering the semesters 
ending June 30 and December 31, respectively; (b) not later than December 31, 1990 
carry out a review of the implementation of the Project with terms of reference and 
under institutional arrangements satisfactory to the Bank; and (c) on the basis of the 
recommendations of such review agreed with the Bank, draft the statutory  or 
administrative provisions pertaining to public animal health that may be  required to 
put into effect such recommendations.
Section 3.07. The Borrower shall, not later than September 30, 1988, revise and 
Page  5
put into effect a system of fees on: (a) importers of live  animals for the use of 
quarantine facilities which shall cover the full operational cost of the facilities; 
and (b) commercial companies that produce animal health products which shall cover the 
full cost of product  registration and quality control of health products.
Section 3.08. The Borrower shall, not later than May 31, 1988,  elaborate, under 
the coordination of MINAGRI and with exchange of views  with the Bank, a medium-term 
strategy for livestock sector development satisfactory to the Borrower and the Bank.
Section 3.09. The Borrower shall, through SDSA and LANARA purchase, or assign, 
or cause the State Veterinary Services to purchase or assign, exclusively for the 
Project and on a timely basis, the respective vehicles specified in Schedule 6 to this 
Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) The  Borrower shall: (i) maintain or cause to be  maintained 
separate records and accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance  with sound 
accounting practices, the operations, resources and expenditures  in respect of Parts 
A through C of the Project of the departments or agencies of the Borrower responsible 
for carrying out the Project or any part thereof; and (ii) under  contractual 
arrangements, cause the State Veterinary Services to maintain separate records and 
accounts adequate to reflect, in accordance with sound accounting practices, the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of Part D of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall:
 
(i)
(A) have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) (i) 
of this Section 
including those for the CESA and FESA Accounts for 
each fiscal year audited, and 
(B) cause the State Veterinary 
Services to have the records and accounts referred 
to in 
paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section audited; all in accordance with 
appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by independent 
auditors 
acceptable to the Bank;
 
(ii)
furnish, and cause the State Veterinary Services to furnish, to 
the Bank as soon as 
available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such 
year, the report of such 
audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail 
as the 
Bank shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish, and cause the State Veterinary Services to furnish, to 
the Bank such other 
information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank 
shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan 
Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
(i)
maintain and cause the State Veterinary Services to maintain, in 
accordance with 
paragraph (a) of this Section, records and 
accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, and cause the State Veterinary Services to retain, until 
at least one year 
after the Bank has received the audit report for the 
fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the Loan Account was 
made, all records (contracts, orders, 
invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank's representatives to examine such records; and
 
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual 
audits referred to 
in paragraph (b)of this Section and that the report 
of such audits contains a 
separate opinion by said auditors as to 
whether the statements of expenditure 
submitted during such 
Page  6
fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the related 
withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (k) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional events are specified:
(a)
EMBRATER or EMBRAPA shall have failed to perform any of their obligations 
under the agreements referred to in Sections 3.04 (a) and (b) of this Agreement.
(b)
Any State, the Federal District or any State Veterinary Service shall 
have failed to perform any of their obligations under any agreement  referred to in 
Section 3.04 (c) of this Agreement.
(c)
The regulations referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of this Agreement shall 
have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially 
and adversely the ability of the Borrower to carry out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely that any event  specified in 
paragraphs (a) or (b) or (c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement  shall occur and shall 
continue for a period of 60 days after notice thereof shall have been given by the 
Bank to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
that the Loan Agreement has been registered by the Central Bank;
 
(b)
that the Borrower shall have provided evidence, satisfactory to the Bank, 
of the allocation of adequate funds in the Ministry of Agriculture's budget for 1987 
and in its draft budget for 1988 as  counterpart funds from the Borrower for the 
implementation of the Project; and
(c)
that the Borrower has put into effect the system of advances referred to 
in Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional matter, within the 
meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General Conditions, to be  included in the opinion 
or opinions to be furnished to the Bank, namely  that the Loan Agreement has been 
registered by the Central Bank.
Section 6.03. The date October 27, 1987, is hereby specified for the purposes of 
Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this Agreement, the Minister 
of Finance of the Borrower is designated as representative of  the Borrower for the 
purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Page  7
Ministerio da Fazenda
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco 5-5o andar
70048, Brasilia, D.F.
Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINIFAZ
611142 M NFA BR
Brasilia, Brazil
With copy to:
Minister of Agriculture
Ministerio da Agricultura
Esplanada dos Ministerios
Bloco D 8o Andar
Brasilia, Brazil
Cable address:
Telex:
 
MINAGRI
(061) 1138
(061) 1930
For the Bank:
International Bank for
   Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
 
INTBAFRAD
440098 (ITT)
Washington, D.C.
248423 (RCA) or
 64145 (WUI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their  respective names in 
the District of Columbia, United States of America, as  of the day and year first 
above written.
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL
By /s/ Luiz Carlos Bresser Pereira
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
   RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Page  8
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to  each Category and 
the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                            Amount of the
                           Loan Allocated            % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category            Dollar Equivalent)     to be Financed
(1)  Civil works                 4,400,000      50%
(2)  Salaries and               14,000,000      60%
     per diems
(3)  Consultants'                1,800,000      100%
     Services and
     Studies
(4)  Overseas Training           2,000,000      100% of foreign
                                                expenditures
(5)  Other Training              2,700,000      50%
(6)  Goods (other than           5,000,000      100% of foreign
     vehicles and                               expenditures and
     computers)                                 50% of local
                                                expenditures
(7)  Inputs and                 16,600,000      100% of foreign
     Materials                                  expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(8)  Unallocated                 4,500,000
                                __________
          TOTAL                51,000,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the 
territory of any country other than that of the Borrower; and
(b)
the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of:
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, 
except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of 
$800,000, may be made in respect of Categories (1), (3), (4) and (5) on account of 
payments made for expenditures before that date but after March 1, 1987; and
(b)
payments made for expenditures incurred by, or on behalf of or for the 
benefit of, any State Veterinary Service, unless the Bank has been  furnished with 
evidence satisfactory to the Bank that the agreement  referred to in Section 3.04 (c) 
of this Agreement, and to which the State Veterinary Service in question is a party, 
has been executed to the satisfaction of the Bank.
4.
Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Loan or the disbursement 
percentages set forth in the table in paragraph 1 above, the  disbursement percentage 
Page  9
for Category (2), may be reduced by the Bank to:  (a) 30% once the aggregate amount of 
disbursements made under such Category  shall have reached the amount of $8,000,000; 
and (b) 10% once the aggregate amount of disbursements made under such Category shall 
have reached the amount of $13,000,000. 
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are: (i) to increase livestock productivity by 
decreasing production losses resulting from livestock diseases affecting, in 
particular, cattle, pigs and poultry in the Project  Area; and (ii) to improve 
veterinary services in the Borrower's territory.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications 
thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objectives:
Part A:
SDSA Institutional Development
 
Institutional development program for SDSA including:
(1)
Recruitment of about 80 professional staff and related operational support staff 
to increase coordination at headquarters and surveillance of activities at the state 
level;
(2)
Training of staff in management, disease control (in particular  epidemiology, 
parasitology and biological control) and cost-benefit analysis through seminars, and 
short and post-graduate courses;
(3)
Provision of consultant services for organization and systems and cost-benefit 
analysis, human resource development and review of legislation pertaining to animal 
health and studies of animal diseases for monitoring and evaluation purposes; and
(4)
Acquisition and utilization of field equipment.
 
Part B:
LANARA Institutional Development
 
Institutional development program of LANARA, including:
(1)
Recruitment of about 13 professional staff, as well as related operational 
support staff for the headquarters offices in Brasilia;
(2)
Recruitment of about 107 professional staff, mostly scientists, as well as 
laboratory technicians and auxiliaries for nine federal laboratories;
(3)
Training of technicians and auxiliary staff in laboratory techniques, and of 
about 30 professional staff in post-graduate courses; and
(4)
Provision of consultants' services for epidemiological studies, and diagnostic 
and other laboratory work.
Part C:
Infrastructure Upgrading
 
Improvement of the facilities of federal and state laboratories and quarantine 
stations, including:
(1)
Upgrading of buildings: in Pedro Leopoldo, Porto Alegre, Campinas, Castro, San 
Jose, Brasilia, Salvador, Recife and Belem federal laboratories; in one State 
laboratory in Rio Grande do Sul; in the Panamerican Center for Foot-and-Mouth Disease; 
and in the following quarantine stations in the Sao  Paulo and Rio de Janeiro airports 
and at the border town of Uruguaiana and Foz do Iguacu, mainly to reduce the 
possibilities of virus escape; and
(2)
Acquisition and utilization of laboratory equipment required to   improve the 
diagnostic capabilities of such laboratories and their quality  control of vaccines, 
drugs and chemical residues in food products and animal feed.
Page  10
Part D:
Institutional Development of State Veterinary Services
 
Institutional development program for the State Veterinary Services, including:
(1)
Training of about 1500 veterinarians in, inter alia, epidemiology, cost-benefit 
analysis and management skills through seminars and short courses;
(2)
Increasing of staff mobility, and of farmer outreach, and mass communication 
programs; and
(3)
Acquisition and utilization of field equipment.
 
*     *    *     *     *
The Project is expected to be completed by September 30, 1993.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
Payment of Principal
Date Payment Due
(expressed in dollars)*
 
On each April 15 and October 15
beginning October 15, 1990
through   April 15, 2002
2,125,000
 
________________________
*
The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents determined as of the 
respective dates of 
withdrawal. See General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
 
Premiums on Prepayment
The following premiums are specified for the purposes of Section 3.04 (b) of the 
General Conditions:
Time of Prepayment
Premium
Page  11
The interest rate (expressed as a 
percentage
per annum) applicable to the balance 
outstanding on the Loan on the day of
prepayment multiplied by:
Not more than three years
0.20
before maturity
More than three years but
0.40
not more than six years
before maturity
More than six years but
0.73
not more than 11
years before maturity
More than 11 years but
0.87
not more than 13
years before maturity
More than 13 years
1.00
before maturity
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.
Procurement of Goods and Works
 
Part A:
International Competitive Bidding
 
Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured under contracts 
awarded in accordance with procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I 
and II of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD  Loans and IDA Credits" published 
by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
Part B:
Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
 
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures described in Part 
A hereof, goods manufactured in Brazil may be granted a margin of preference in 
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the 
Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto, provided, however, that:
1.
All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly  indicate any 
preference which would be granted, the information required to  establish the 
eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following  methods and stages that 
will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
2.
After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the following two 
groups:
(1)
Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Brazil if the bidder shall 
have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower and the Bank  that such goods 
contain components manufactured in Brazil equal to at least 50% of the value of the 
complete goods.
(2)
Group B: bids offering any other goods.
 
3.
In order to determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group, all evaluated bids 
in each group shall first be compared among themselves, without taking into account 
customs duties and other import taxes levied in connection with the importation, and 
sales and similar taxes levied in  connection with the sale or delivery, pursuant to 
the bids, of the goods.  Such lowest evaluated bids shall then be compared with each 
other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid from group A is the lowest, it 
shall be selected for the award.
Page  12
4.
If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph 3 above, the lowest evaluated 
bid is a bid from group B, all group B bids shall be further compared with the lowest 
evaluated bid from group A after adding: (i) to  the c.i.f. bid price of goods to be 
imported in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of: (A) the amount of 
customs duties and other import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay 
for the importation of the goods offered in such group B bid; or (B) 15% of the c.i.f. 
bid price of such goods, and (ii) to the ex-factory bid price of goods supplied 
domestically offered in each group B bid an amount equal to the smaller of:  (A) the 
amount of customs duties and other import taxes which would be  levied on the goods 
offered in such group B if they originated from the  same foreign country as the bid 
included in group B which enjoys the lowest customs duties and other import taxes, or 
(B) 15% of the ex-factory bid price of such goods. If, as a result of this comparison, 
the bid from group A is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award; if not, the 
lowest evaluated bid from group B, as determined under paragraph 3 above, shall be 
selected for the award.
Part C:
Other Procurement Procedures
 
1.
Local competitive bidding:
 
(a)
Civil works, and (b) except as provided in Part C.2 below, goods 
estimated to cost less than $250,000 per contract up to an aggregate of  $14,000,000 
shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of  competitive bidding, 
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
Local Shopping:
 
Goods estimated to cost less than the equivalent of $20,000 per  contract, up to 
an aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $8,200,000, may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of a comparison of price quotations solicited from a 
list of at least three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with 
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
Part D:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
 
1.
Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
 
(a)
With respect to each contract for: (i) civil works estimated to  cost the 
equivalent of $1,000,000 or more, and (ii) goods estimated to cost  the equivalent of 
$250,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs  2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the 
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made out of the 
CESA and FESA Accounts, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two 
conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said 
paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the Bank prior to the making of the first 
payment out of the Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b)
With respect to each contract not governed by the preceding paragraph, 
the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4 of Appendix 1 to  the Guidelines shall 
apply. Where payments for such contract are to be made  out of the Special Account, 
said procedures shall be modified to ensure  that the two conformed copies of the 
contract together with the other  information required to be furnished to the Bank 
pursuant to said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the evidence to 
be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 5 to this Agreement.
(c)
The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and (b) shall not apply 
to contracts on account of which the Bank has authorized withdrawals from the Loan 
Account on the basis of statements of expenditure.  Such contracts shall be retained 
in accordance with Section 4.01 (c)(ii) of this Agreement.
2.
The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 
to the Guidelines.
Section II.
Employment of Consultants
 
In order to assist the Borrower in carrying out the Project, the  Borrower shall 
employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and  terms and conditions of 
Page  13
employment shall be satisfactory to the Bank. Such  consultants shall be selected in 
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the Bank on the basis of the 
"Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank 
as Executing Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981.
SCHEDULE 5
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
 
(a)
the term "eligible Categories" means the Categories set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in respect of the 
reasonable cost of goods and services required for the Project and to be  financed out 
of the proceeds of the Loan allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount equivalent to $2,200,000 
and to $300,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited in the CESA and 
FESA, respectively, pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
2.
Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, payments out of the CESA or FESA, as 
the case may be, shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures in accordance 
with the provisions of this Schedule. The Account  Bank shall authorize withdrawals 
from the CESA or FESA, as the case may be,  on the basis of the evidence that the Bank 
shall have reasonably determined.  For each such withdrawal so authorized, the Account 
Bank shall debit or cause to be debited CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with the 
dollar
equivalent of the amount of the eligible expenditures in question in cruzados, in the 
case of CESA, or with the actual dollar amount or the dollar equivalent of the 
eligible  expenditures in currencies other than dollars or cruzados, in the case of 
FESA.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that CESA and FESA have 
been duly opened, withdrawals of the corresponding Authorized  Allocation and 
subsequent withdrawals to replenish CESA or FESA, as the  case may be, may be made as 
follows:
(a)
On the basis of a request or requests by the Borrower for a deposit or 
deposits which add up to the aggregate amount of the corresponding Authorized 
Allocation, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amount or amounts as the 
Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
The Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for replenishment of CESA 
and FESA, as the case may be, at such intervals as the Bank shall  specify. On the 
basis of such requests, the Bank shall withdraw from the  Loan Account and deposit 
into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, such amounts as shall be required to replenish 
CESA or FESA, as the case may be, with amounts not exceeding the amount of payments 
made out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, for eligible expenditures. All such 
deposits shall be  withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under the respective 
eligible  Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been 
justified by the evidence supporting the request for such deposit furnished pursuant 
to paragraph 4 of this Schedule.
4.
For each payment made by the Borrower out of CESA or FESA, as the case may be, 
for which the Borrower requests replenishment pursuant to paragraph 3 (b) of this 
Schedule, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank, prior to or at the time of such 
request, such documents and other evidence as the Bank shall reasonably request, 
showing that such payment was made for eligible expenditures.
5.
(a)
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank 
may deny any request for a further deposit into CESA or FESA when either of the 
following situations first arises:  
Page  14
(i)
the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals should 
be made by the 
Borrower directly from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of 
Article V of the General 
Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of this 
Agreement; or
 
(ii)  the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible 
Categories, minus 
the amount of any outstanding special commitment 
entered into by the Bank pursuant 
to Section 5.02 of the General 
Conditions with respect to the Project, shall be 
equal to the 
equivalent of twice the amount of the corresponding Authorized 
Allocation.
(b)
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the Loan allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such procedures 
as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in CESA or FESA, as the case may be, as of the date 
of such notice will be utilized in making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of 
CESA or FESA (i) was made for any expenditure or in any amount not eligible pursuant 
to paragraph 2 of this Schedule, or (ii) was not  justified by the evidence furnished 
pursuant to paragraph 4 of this  Schedule, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, deposit into CESA or FESA, as the case may be, (or, if the Bank shall 
so request,  refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the 
portion thereof not so eligible or justified. No further deposit by the Bank into CESA 
or FESA shall be made until the Borrower shall have made such deposit or refund.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding 
in CESA or FESA will not be required to cover further payments for eligible 
expenditures, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from  the Bank, refund to the 
Bank such outstanding amount for crediting to the Loan Account and immediate 
cancellation.
SCHEDULE 6
Vehicle Purchases or Assignments
The following are the vehicles to be purchased or assigned, subject to such 
modifications as the Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time:
     Executing Entity           Type of Vehicle     Number
     LANARA-Brasilia                 sedan              5
     LANARA-Laboratories             sedan              9
     SDSA                            sedan              5
     SDSA-SERSA                      pickup            70
     State Veterinary Services       pickup           900
