Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No: 18650
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1895-PAK)
December 1, 1998
Infrastructure Sector Unit
South Asia Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the
performance of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without
World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENT
(as of September 30, 1998)
Currency Unit  =   Pakistan Rupee (Rs.)
Rs. 1.0  =   US$0.216
US$ 1.0  =    Rs.46.1l15
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
MGD    =    million gallons per day (1 MGD    4,543 liters per day)
ha      =    hectares (1 ha = 2.469 acres)
km      =    kilometers (1 km = 0.621 miles)
FISCAL YEAR OF BORROWER
July I - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
CPI                  'Consumer Price Index
DFID                 Department for International Development of the United
Kingdom
ERR                  Economic Rate of Return
FY                   Fiscal Year
GMC                  Gujranwala Municipal Corporation
GoPunjab             Government of Punjab
HPP                  Department of Housing and Physical Planning
ICR                  Implementation Completion Report
IDA                  International Development Association
LDA                  Lahore Development Authority
LUDP                 Lahore Urban Development Project
LWASA                Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency
MCL                  Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore
NGO                  Non-Governmental Organization
O&M                  Operations and Maintenance
OP                   Operational Plan
PMU=                 Project Management Unit
PUDP                 Punjab Urban Development Project
SMC                  Sialkot Municipal Corporation
TEPA                 Traffic Engineering and Planning Agency
UDW           =      Urban Development Wing
Vice President:            Mieko Nishimizu
Country Director:          Sadiq Ahmed
Sector Manager:            Frannie Humplick
Task Leader:                Toshiaki Keicho



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
Cr. 1895-PAK
Contents
Page No.
Preface ....................................................................................................................................................................... .I
Evaluation Summary.......................................................2
PART I - PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Backgrround ............. ,                                         ,          .7
A. S     tatement/OEvaluation of Objectives.8
B. Achievement of Objectives.9
C. Major Factors Affecting the Project.11
D. Project Sustainability.12
E. IDAAPerformance.12
F. Borrower's Performance.13
G1. Assesmentenoffutccoee14
H. Future Operation ............. 14
I. Key Lessons Learned.15
J. Evaluation of Program Objective Categories .16
PART II - STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1   Summaty of Assessments .19
Table 2   Related Bank Loans/Credits .20
Table 3      Project Timetable.21
Table 4      Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual .22
Tables 5 & 6  Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation .23
Table 7   Studies Included in Project .25
Table 8A     Project Costs.26
Table 8B  Project Financing .26
Table 9   Economic Costs and Benefits .27
Table 10  Status of Legal Covenants .28
Table 11     Compliance with Operational Manual Statements .31
Table 12  Bank Resources: Staff Inputs .31
Table 13  Bank Resources: Missions .32
|l Tis dcumnt has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performnance of their official 
ll dtie. Is cntents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



APPENDICES
A:   Economic Evaluation ............................. 33
B:   Evaluation of the Conservation Component ............................. 56
C:   Performance Indicators set at Appraisal ............................. 63
D:   Aide Memoire of ICR Mission ............................. 68
E:   Borrower's Evaluation .............................                                77
MAP: IBRD No. 19964



I -7
Smiles on children's faces in one of the low-income urban settlenients upgraded under
the project (Mult.an, Punjab)
4~~~~~~~~~4
NE~~~~~~~~~~~~~A
r                             F
A~~~~~~~~~
Female students studying at the school renovated under the project (Walled City of
Lahore, Punjab)



- 1 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1895-PK)
PREFACE
1.    This is the Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for the Punjab Urban DevelopmentProject
in Pakistan, for which CR. 1895-PK in the amount of SDR 65.9 million equivalent was approved on
April 12, 1988, and made effective on August 1, 1989.
2.    The credit was closed on March 31, 1998, one year behind the originally scheduled closing date.
Final disbursement took place on August 12, 1998, at which time a balance of SDR 4.5 million equivalent
was canceled. Cofinancing for the project was provided by the Department for International Development
(DFID) of the Unitecl Kingdom.
3.    The ICR was prepared by Toshiaki Keicho (SASIN) of the South Asia Region, and Bina Duggal
and Gladys Stevens (SASIN) assisted in preparing the tables. Appendix A (Economic Analysis) was
prepared by Dr. Khalid Rashid (Consultant), and Appendix B (Evaluation of the Conservation
Component), which was originally for the World Bank's internal web-site, was prepared by Katrinka
Ebbe (SPR). The ICRt was reviewed by Frannie Humplick, Sector Manager (SASIN) and cleared by Sadiq
Ahmed, Country Director (SACPK). The Borrower provided its own evaluation that is attached to the
ICR as Appendix E.
4.    Preparation of this ICR was begun during IDA's final supervision/completion mission in March,
1998. It is based on materials in the project file and discussions with officials of the implementing
agencies. The Borrower contributed to preparation of the ICR by providing IDA with the necessary data
and information and by cooperating with IDA's ICR team.



- 2 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1895-PK)
EVALUATION SUMMEIARY
Introduction
1.    Punjab is the most urbanized province in Pakistan and has a number of large and rapidly growing
cities including Lahore, Gujranwala, Multan, and Sialkot. Although efforts were on-going to improve
urban management under the Lahore Urban Development Project (LUDP, Cr. 1348-PK) from mid-1980s,
urban growth in Punjab had far exceeded the provision of basic urban services and infrastructure. Water
supply was inadequate in most cities; sewerage and solid waste disposal were generally inadequate;
ineffective stormwater disposal frequently caused major economic disruption and environmental damage.
Insufficient provision of serviced land and housing for more than half of urban households had given rise
to growing squatter settlements.
2.    Various government agencies play a major role in urban development in Punjab. In case of
Lahore (the capital of Punjab), for example, the Lahore Development Authority (LDA) under the
Department of Housing and Physical Planning (HPP), Government of Punjab (GoPunjab), is primarily
responsible for urban development. The Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency (LWASA), an autonomous
agency under LDA, is responsible for the provision of water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage
collection and disposal. Other municipal services such as solid waste management in the urban area is
provided by the Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL).
3.    Preparation of the Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP) was undertaken as part of LUDP.
Project formulation was undertaken closely with the Overseas Development Administration (currently
Department for International Development - DFID) of the United Kingdom. The project (US$ 90 million)
was appraised in 1987 and approved in 1988. The project closed in March 1998, after one year extension.
Project Objectives
4.    The principal objectives of the project were to assist the GoPunjab: (a) to improve technical,
financial and management performance of key urban institutions in Lahore, and to strengthen local
government institutions in Gujranwala, Sialkot and Multan; (b) to improve cost recovery in the four
participating cities, achieving efficient and sustainable resource utilization; (c) to demonstrate the value of
coordinated area upgrading; (d) to reduce urban service deficiencies in water supply, sewerage and
drainage, traffic control and shelter; (e) to improve quality of life and productive capacity of the urban
poor, and to protect the urban environment; and (f) to prepare the framework for a future Punjab
intermediate cities project. These objectives were to be achieved through priority physical investments at
provincial and city level in urban infrastructure and institutional and financial improvements in the sector
agencies.
5.    The project's objectives were clearly defined, and they supported GoPunjab's policy of urban-
driven economic development and IDA's country assistance strategy through improving resource
mobilization and providing infrastructure services essential for industrial and economic growth. The
institutional and financial objectives aimed to reduce the dependence of local governments on transfers



-3 -
from the federal level, helping contain the growth of fiscal deficits. The physical objectives rightly gave
high priority to improvements of urban poor's living conditions. One of the most unique aspects of the
project design was synchronizing area upgrading in the Walled City of Lahore and conservation of its rildh
cultural heritage.
Implementation Experience and Results
6.    Overall, the project generally achieved its objectives. Implementation of the physical components
was very successful except the LWASA's drainage component and, therefore, the project basically
achieved its physical objectives. The area upgrading components in Lahore and in the three intermediate
cities were very successful, benefiting about 250,000 low-income population in Lahore and some 50,000
people in Gujranwala, Sialkot, and Multan. Conservation of cultural heritage in the Walled City of Lahore
was another successful component, bringing about a profound ripple effect on the life of residents of the
Walled City and its neighborhood. The traffic and transportation component in Lahore was also
successful, improving the 21 major roads and installing new traffic signals and street lighting. The
LWASA's physical component (water supply, sewerage, and stormwater drainage) was only partially
successful. This component, especially the drainage schemes in areas called Chotta Ravi and Siddique
Pura, experienced significant delays in implementation. In order to complete the drainage schemes as well
as the pilot sewer cleaning program, credit closing was extended for one year. Although the bulk of the
work on the two drainage schemes was completed thanks to the extension, it was not possible to complete
these schemes befire the extended closing date (March 31, 1998). The original physical components
included construction of stabilization ponds for sewage treatment in Lahore, but it was dropped from the
project and deferred to a later project.
7.    The achievement of the institutional development objectives was partial as some agencies
demonstrated improved institutional capacity but others did not. Institutional development was very
successful for LDA's Urban Development Wing (UDW) and the Traffic Engineering and Planning
Agency (TEPA), but less so for LWASA and the municipal corporations.
8.    The achievement of financial objectives was substantial considering that the major implementing
agency, LWASA, significantly improved its financial performance. Over the project period, LWASA
emerged as one oif the most stable utility agencies in Pakistan. MCL, depending heavily on octroi,
regularly increased its revenue every year throughout the project period, but this was not enough to keep
pace with the rapidly increasing demand for urban services. Other municipalities such as the Gujranwala
Municipal Corporaltion (GMC) and the Sialkot Municipal Corporation (SMC) have just started exploring
all means of improving their financial performance after the technical assistance under the project
completed.
9.    Project sustainability is uncertain as there are some serious problems related to Operations and
Maintenance (O&M) of the assets created under the project and solid waste management. There is a
strong preoccupation of government authorities with new construction but inadequate emphasis on O&M.
Therefore, O&M tend to be neglected, which applies to most of all infrastructure systems. Moreover,
implementation/construction of infrastructure is mainly by the provincial governments and their
Development Authorities in Pakistan. Infrastructure projects after completion are handed over to the
relevant municipaliity, which may not have the capacity, motivation and resources to carry out O&M,
resulting in inoperative systems. In addition, uncollected solid waste was accumulating on the streets and
in the sewers and drains of the many upgraded project areas, reducing the full benefits of the area
upgrading components and risking project sustainability.
10.   The IDA's performance in project identification and preparation assistance was satisfactory, but
project appraisal was somewhat deficient. IDA overestimated LWASA's capacity for contract



-4-
management and project implementation. Also, IDA was not able to identify the risk of insufficient
Borrower's commitment to institutional development components. Appropriateness of the designs and
implementation plans for the sewage treatment component (which was dropped) and for the drainaTe
component (which was significantly delayed) should have been analyzed more carefully at appraisal. The
project supervision by IDA was generally satisfactory, and hiring a competent local consultant based in
Lahore enabled effective and frequent follow-up of the supervision missions.
11.   Project preparation by the Borrower was satisfactory. Project implementation by the Borrower
was basically satisfactory though some components experienced significant delays. The majority of the
technical assistance and studies were undertaken as planned. Most of the covenants were complied with
during implementation, but audit reporting was often delayed. The operational aspects of the project was
deficient for most of the components due to the neglected O&M.
12.   The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory in view of the satisfactory achievements of
physical and financial objectives and the improved institutional capacity of some agencies. The project
would have been highly satisfactory if more attention had been given to sustainability issues such as
institutional arrangements for O&M. All the components achieved somewhat similar ERR assumed at
appraisal.
Summary of Findings, Future Operations, and Key Lessons Learned
13.   Most of the completed works were transferred- to the agencies responsible for O&M, and they are
demonstrating benefits. However, there are some critical issues related to the future operation of the
project that need to be worked out quickly in order to sustain the benefits. These issues include among
others: (a) need to develop a program to complete the two drainage schemes in Lahore which could not be
completed by credit closing; (b) need to put in place proper institutional arrangements and financing for
road maintenance and traffic infrastructure O&M such as traffic signals and street lighting; (c) need for
arrangements to avoid the disposal of solid waste into sewers and drains; and (d) need for some
mechanisms to replicate the successful pilot projects such as area upgrading and cultural heritage
conservation.
14.   The key lessons learned from this project relevant for other urban projects in Pakistan and other
countries are discussed below:
(a)    The same agency should be responsible for planning, implementation, and O&M of
infrastructure scheme where possible, or agencies responsible for O&M should at least be
involved in infrastructure planning.
(b)   Institutional arrangements for O&M of infrastructure systems should be put in place as
early as possible, and financial resources and technical staff for O&M should be secured
before implementation completion.
(c)   In order to achieve successful institutional development, technical assistance should be
designed more carefully.
(d)   Improving solid waste management must be given high priority in any urban projects as
uncollected solid waste in developing countries often accumulates in sewers and drains,
leading to frequent floods that further damage roads and other infrastructure.
(e)    Effective coordination is essential not only with other agencies participating in a
particular project but also with non-participating agencies.



- 5 -
(f)    The size and complexity of urban projects should be reduced. Where unavoidable, a
coordinating agency must be given adequate authority to manage the project.
(g)    Involvement of a highly competent local consultant, based in a project city, throughout
project implementation enabled frequent and effective follow-up of IDA's supervision.
(h)    Active involvement of local communities and NGOs in every stage of the project, but
especially in project planning and O&M, should be sought.
(i)    Private sector participation in urban infrastructure services should be considered as
alternative means of service delivery.
(j)    Monitoring indicators must be realistic, taking into considerations the capacity of
im;plementing agencies for data collection.
(k)    It might be necessary to spot-check procurement practices or to require stricter audit in
orcler to prevent a likelihood of corruption. Also, efforts should be made to increase
transparency of all aspects of development projects by disclosing more information to the
general public or by getting civil society more involved in the projects.



IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1895-PK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT



-7 -
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1895-PK)
PART I: PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
Project Identity
Name:        Punjab Urban Development Project
Credit:      Cr. 1895-PK
RVP Unit:    South Asia
Country:     Pakistan
Sector:      Infrastructure
Sub-sector:   Urban Development
Background
1.    Punjab is the most urbanized province in Pakistan and has a number of large and rapidly growing
cities including Lahore, Gujranwala, Multan, and Sialkot. The population of these cities was estimated to
be 3.7 million, 1.0 million, 0.9 million, and 0.4 million respectively in the late 1980s when this project
was prepared. Although efforts were on-going to improve urban management under the Lahore Urban
Development Project (LUDP, Cr. 1348-PK) from mid-1980s, urban growth in Punjab had far exceeded
the provision of basic urban services and infrastructure. Water supply was inadequate in most cities;
sewerage and solid waste disposal were generally inadequate; ineffective stormwater disposal frequently
caused major economic disruption and environmental damage. Insufficient provision of serviced land and
housing for more than half of urban households had given rise to growing squatter or "katchi abadi"
settlements.
2.     Various government agencies play a major role in urban development in Punjab. In case of
Lahore (the capital of Punjab), for example, the Lahore Development Authority (LDA) under the
Department of Housing and Physical Planning (HPP), Government of Punjab (GoPunjab), is primarily
responsible for urban development. The Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency (LWASA), an autonomous
agency under LDA, is responsible for the provision of water supply, sewerage and stormwater drainage
collection and disposal. Other municipal services such as solid waste management in the urban area is
provided by the Metropolitan Corporation of Lahore (MCL).
3.    IDA's first credit for an urban project in Pakistan, the Lahore Urban Development Project
(LUDP), became effective in 1984. The objectives of the US$16 million credit were to demonstrate low-
cost shelter policies, to arrest the decay in urban living conditions, and to strengthen the two project
implementing agencies, MCL and LDA. Achievements of the physical components under LUDP were
substantial, particularly the upgrading of the Lahore's historical Walled City. LDA effectively developed
its capacity to plan and execute urban projects, but MCL was slow in introducing expected improvements
in its operations.
4.    Preparation of the Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP) was undertaken as part of LUDP,
drawing on lessons learned from LUDP. Project formulation was undertaken closely with the Overseas



- 8 -
Development Administration (currently Department for International Development - DFID) of the United
Kingdom. In addition to investment in Lahore, pilot investments in three intermediate cities, Gujranwala,
Sialkot, and Multan, were included under PUDP. The project (US$ 90 million) was appraised in 1987 and
approved in 1988. The project closed in March 1998, after one year extension, with about US$ 85.9
million disbursed.
A. STATEMENT/EVALUATION OF OBJECTIVES
5.    The principal objectives of the project were to assist the GoPunjab to:
(a)   improve technical, financial and management performance of key urban institutions in
Lahore, and to strengthen local government institutions in Gujranwala, Sialkot and
Multan;
(b)   improve cost recovery in Lahore, Gujranwala, Sialkot, and Multan, achieving efficient
and sustainable resource utilization;
(c)   demonstrate the value of coordinated area upgrading;
(d)   reduce urban service deficiencies in water supply, sewerage and drainage, traffic control
and shelter;
(e)   improve quality of life and productive capacity of the urban poor, and to protect the urban
environment; and
(f)   prepare the framework for a future Punjab intermediate cities project.
6.    These objectives were to be achieved through priority physical investments at provincial and city
level in urban infrastructure and institutional and financial improvements in the sector agencies. The
original physical components included: (a) upgrading of local urban infrastructure and services (water
supply, sewerage, stormwater drainage, roads and footpaths, and street lighting) and cultural heritage
conservation of about 130 ha within the Walled City of Lahore, which is a densely populated low-income
area with a number of historic buildings; (b) area upgrading of about 415 ha in low-income North-east
Lahore; (c) city-wide incremental investments to improve, rehabilitate and extend water supply,
sewerage, sewage treatment, and stormwater drainage in Lahore; (d) traffic and transport improvements
in Lahore; and (e) pilot area upgrading of urban poor communities in the three intermediate Punjab cities
(Gujranwala, Sialkot, and Multan). The institutional and financial strengthening components, which were
to be implemented in parallel with the physical investments, included: (a) improvements in the municipal
finance and property tax systems; (b) project management; (c) sector institution training and
strengthening; (d) base mapping; (e) preparation of future investments in the Punjab cities. Equipment
and technical assistance for Lahore's water supply and sewerage were to be financed by DFID (please
refer to tables 8A and 8B for costs of each component and source of funds).
7.    The project's objectives were clearly defined, and they supported GoPunjab's policy of urban-
driven economic development and IDA's country assistance strategy through improving resource
mobilization and providing infrastructure services essential for industrial and economic growth. The
institutional and financial objectives aimed to reduce the dependence of local governments on transfers
from the federal level, helping contain the growth of fiscal deficits. The physical objectives rightly gave
high priority to improvements of urban-poor's living conditions through area upgrading, as one of the
lessons from the preceding LUDP was that, to increase poor population's access to urban infrastructure
and services, area upgrading was much more effective than sites and services in Lahore. One of the most



- 9-
unique aspects of the project design was synchronizing area upgrading in the Walled City of Lahore and
conservation of its rich cultural heritage whose preparation had started during implementation of LUDP.
8.    As described above, the project design consisted of multi-sectoral investments in Lahore and,
therefore, included many implementing agencies. It was necessary, however, to make city-wide impacts
on improvements to infrastructure services available to Lahore's rapidly growing urban population and its
urban management. The Project Management Unit (PMU) was established under HPP to help coordinate
various implementing agencies and monitor the project implementation and its development impacts.
PMU was also responsible for implementing the pilot area upgrading components in Gujranwala and
Sialkot as well as carrying out the various studies.
9.    The projecit took about 16 months to move from the Board approval to credit effectiveness
because of two main reasons: (a) delays in appointing some staff for PMU; and (b) the Borrower's own
cumbersome process (called PC- 1) to formally prepare and approve the project.
B. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES
10.   Overall, the project generally achieved its objectives though the degree of achievement varied
among the agencies and their components. The project's physical objectives were mainly achieved. The
achievement of the institutional development objectives was substantial in some agencies but partial in
the others. The achievement of the financial objectives was substantial as the major implementing agency,
LWASA, significantly improved its financial performance. Details of the achievements are described
below.
11.   Physical Objectives: Implementation of the physical components was very successful except the
LWASA's drainage component and, therefore, the project basically achieved its physical objectives. The
area upgrading components in Lahore and in the three intermediate cities were very successful, benefiting
about 250,000 low-income population in Lahore and some 50,000 people in Gujranwala, Sialkot, and
Multan. It should be noted that the successful implementation of the area upgrading schemes triggered a
number of new construction and business activities in the upgraded areas of all the cities, demonstrating
the value of integrated area upgrading. The number of bathrooms and kitchens in the upgraded areas also
increased greatly. The successful pilot schemes in the intermediate cities also created a huge demand for a
similar project in the surrounding areas. Despite the successful implementation, however, it was evident
through the IDA's supervision mission that the upgraded infrastructure systems were being damaged by
uncoordinated excavating for new gas and telephone lines in some areas of North-east Lahore and by the
non-collection of solid waste in many areas. (See also sections, D, H and I.)
12.   Conservation of cultural heritage in the Walled City of Lahore, which was another successful
component, was uniquely incorporated into the area upgrading of the historic Walled City. This
component included: (a) restoration and rehabilitation of eight schools and two community centers; (b)
conservation of city gates that are entrances to the Walled City; (c) conservation and renovation of some
historic buildings; (d) extension of the Lahore Fort Wall; and (e) upgrading of infrastructure services. The
physical and social benefits of these upgrading and conservation efforts have imparted a profound ripple
effect on the life of residents of the Walled City and its neighborhood. For example, the renovated
buildings are being used as a women's vocational center and a degree college that are also venues for
holding cultural events. The renovated/restored school buildings have been used as model schools with
improved facilities, thus upgrading the education facilities available to the children. GoPunjab has set up
a 120 bed hospital within the Walled City as a consequence of physical improvements under the project.
More detailed evaluation of the conservation component is attached as Appendix B.



- 10-
13.   The traffic and transportation component in Lahore, implemented by the Traffic Engineering and
Planning Agency (TEPA) within LDA, was also successful. This component achieved: (a) improvements
of the 21 major roads (including rehabilitation and selective road widening), totaling about 59 km lofig;
(b) inter-section improvements and channelization; (c) installation of new traffic signals at 51 major
crossings in the city; and (d) installation of street lighting. Although the implementation was very
successful, some problems related to Operations and Maintenance (O&M) gradually emerged towards the
end of project implementation. Such problems included illegal squatters on some of the widened roads,
lack of financial resources to pay for electricity bills of the installed traffic signals and street lighting, and
unclear distribution of responsibilities for road maintenance between TEPA and MCL. (See sections D,
H, and I for more on these problems.)
14.   The LWASA's physical component (water supply, sewerage, and stormwater drainage) was only
partially successful. This component, especially the drainage schemes in areas called Chotta Ravi and
Siddique Pura, experienced significant delays in implementation. The delays were due to LWASA's
limited capacity in project management and problems related to land acquisition in early years of
implementation and due to the unsatisfactory performance of the contractors and the unseasonally heavy
monsoons in late years. In order to complete the drainage schemes as well as the pilot sewer cleaning
program, credit closing was extended for one year on an exceptional basis. Although the bulk of the work
on the two drainage schemes was completed thanks to the extension, it was not possible to complete these
schemes before the extended closing date (March 31, 1998). This was because of the continued
unsatisfactory performance on the part of the contractor for the Chotta Ravi scheme and because of the
very difficult conditions where moving some utilities was needed for the Siddique Pura scheme.
GoPunjab has to finance unfinished works and associated infrastructure from its own financial sources in
order to ensure that these drainage schemes will eventually function properly.
15.   The original physical components included land acquisition for and construction of stabilization
ponds for sewage treatment in south-west Lahore. Although LWASA acquired the necessary land for this
purpose, the construction of the ponds was dropped from the project (after the 1994 mid-term review) and
deferred to a later project for the following two reasons: (a) IDA suggested to consider more variety of
options for sewage treatment such as more sophisticated treatment plants and to fully study the feasibility
of such options; and (b) GoPunjab and IDA started discussions on private sector participation in Lahore's
water supply and sewerage services and opined that if privatization is possible in the future, an interested
private company should have a say in treatment options.
16.   The other main achievements of the LWASA's physical component included: (a) construction of
about 50 new tube-wells; (b) construction of bulk transmission grid and new distribution mains; (c)
installation of bulk and domestic water meters; (d) construction of trunk sewers and laterals; and (e) civil
and electrical works for the two sewage pumping stations. These achievements contributed to about 24
percent increase in the average daily water production from 224 MGD to 278 MGD and elimination of
unmetered water connection among commercial and industrial customers during implementation of the
project. (Refer to Table 5 for more indicators for project implementation.)
17.   Institutional Development Objectives: The achievement of the institutional development
objectives was partial as some agencies demonstrated improved institutional capacity but others did not.
Institutional development was very successful for LDA's Urban Development Wing (UDW) and TEPA,
but less so for LWASA and the municipal corporations. UDW and TEPA substantially improved their
institutional capacity, especially for project implementation. This was proved by the successful
completion of their components, the area upgrading and conservation components by UDW and the
traffic and transport component by TEPA. It should be mentioned here that TEPA was actually created
under the project and became a very capable institution during the project period. However, LWASA and
MCL suffered from their weak implementing capacity throughout the project even with technical



- 11 -
assistance for institutional development. LWASA's institutional strengthening through twinning
arrangements (financed by DFID) was not very effective in improving its capacity. Also, MCL remained
as a very weak organization.
18.   Some of the, reasons for the unsuccessful institutional strengthening for LWASA and MCL may
be: (a) these agencies tended to see infrastructure projects as engineering projects and institutional
development components often got a very low priority, and the senior management of the agencies was
not serious about the institutional components; (b) the institutional development components as defined in
the project were not demand-driven and, thus, there was no ownership of the components on the part of
the Borrower's agencies; and (c) consultant selection sometimes took years due to the cumbersome
selection process, and the consultancies started only in the late stage of the project.
19.   Base mapping for 12 cities and master plans for 10 cities in Punjab were prepared, which are the
bases for future urban projects.
20.   Financial Objectives: The achievement of financial objectives was substantial considering that
the major implementing agency, LWASA, significantly improved its financial performance. Over the
project period, LWASA emerged as one of the most stable utility agencies in Pakistan. It is not only
meeting its operatin,g costs, but has been able to furnish around 50 percent of its annual debt service since
FY92. It has also been contributing marginally towards its total annual capital expenditure. Although
LWASA was only able to achieve the 3.5 percent rate of return on average revalued fixed assets, as
required by the credit covenant, in FY92 and 98, the rate of return improved from negative to an average
of around 2.5 percent for most of the years since FY92. In addition, the cost recovery increased
substantially and the operating ratio improved from around 110 percent at the start of the project to an
average of around 80 percent since FY92. (Refer to table 6 for more indicators for project operation.)
21.   MCL, depending heavily on octroi, regularly increased its revenue every year throughout the
project period. Its revenue grew by about 50 percent during the project. However, this was not enough to
keep pace with the rapidly increasing demand for urban services. In fact, it is estimated that the inflation
and urban growth adjusted figures of MCL's annual revenues decreased in real terms during the project.
22.   Other municipalities such as the Gujranwala Municipal Corporation (GMC) and the Sialkot
Municipal Corporation (SMC) have just started exploring all means of improving their financial
performance after ihe technical assistance under the project completed. For example, GMC is very keen
to implement computerization of its financial system and to increase its property through re-assessment of
lease or rental value of its shops or utilization of open space to construct commercial buildings. It should
be noted that, during the project, SMC contracted out the billing and collection of water charges to the
Habib Bank to take advantage of computerization. According to the contract, the bank was to receive 0.25
percent of the collected amount. As a result of this arrangement, the collection efficiency of water charges
drastically improved.
C. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING TBLE PROJECT
23.   Project completion was delayed by one year. The basic factors which contributed to the delay
and negatively affected project implementation are discussed under two categories: (a) factors beyond
government control; and (b) those subject to government and implementing agencies' control.
24.   Factors beyond government control: There was one factor beyond government control which
delayed the project implementation, especially the drainage schemes: heavy monsoons in later years of
implementation. The monsoons sometimes prevented the contractors from continuing construction works
and damaged some of the earlier completed works.



- 12-
25.   Factors subject to government and implementing agencies' control: There were two factors
subject to government and agencies' control. One is the lack of coordination among the agencies, and the
other is inadequate project management capacity of some agencies. The lack of coordination among the
agencies contributed to the delays and non-completion of the Siddique Pura drainage scheme in Lahore as
timely removal of some utilities was not possible. Also, uncoordinated excavating for new gas and
telephone lines damaged the newly upgraded infrastructure systems.
D. PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
26.    Overall project sustainability is uncertain as there are some serious problems related to O&M of
the assets created under the project and solid waste management. These problems must be solved urgently
in order to ensure the continued successful operations of the infrastructure systems financed under the
project and to increase the likelihood of project sustainability. Details are described below.
27.    O&M  Problems:   There is a strong preoccupation of government authorities with new
construction but inadequate emphasis on O&M. Therefore, O&M tend to be neglected, which applies to
most of all infrastructure systems. Moreover, implementation/construction of infrastructure is mainly by
the provincial governments and their Development Authorities in Pakistan. Infrastructure projects after
completion are handed over to the relevant municipality, which may not have the capacity, motivation
and resources to carry out O&M, resulting in inoperative systems. Moreover, lack of participation by
municipalities in influencing investment choices and designs leads to inefficiencies.
28.    For example, currently it is not clear which agency, TEPA or MCL, is responsible for road
maintenance and traffic infrastructure O&M in Lahore. Some of the new traffic signals and street lighting
financed by the project are already inoperative because these agencies are neither maintaining nor paying
electricity bills for traffic signals and street lighting. It is necessary to immediately sort out institutional
arrangements for road maintenance and traffic infrastructure in Lahore.
29.   Solid Waste Management: It was found during the supervision mission of the late stage of the
project that uncollected solid waste was accumulating on the streets and in the sewers and drains of the
many upgraded project areas, reducing the full benefits of the area upgrading components and risking
project sustainability. This problem exists not only in Lahore but also in the three intermediate cities.
Although solid waste management is a responsibility of municipalities, they lack the ability to undertake
the full range of solid waste management activities. None of the cities have basic landfill facilities, and
disposal is by open dumping often into drains and sewers, leading to frequent floods which also damage
roads. This problem needs to be addressed seriously and urgently in a future project.
E. IDA PERFORMANCE
30.   Identification:  The IDA's performance in project identification was satisfactory, being
consistent with the government's priorities and IDA's assistance strategy. Although LUDP was under
implementation, it was crystal clear that only continuous long-term interventions could effectively tackle
the various problems in the urban sector in Punjab, therefore justifying the identification of the project.
31.   Preparation: Preparation assistance by IDA was also satisfactory. Most of the project
preparation for the project took place under LUDP, taking advantage of some lessons learned from LUDP
(especially for area upgrading) and creating a solid foundation for PUDP. In addition, good working
relations between IDA and the Borrower, which had already been established in the course of LUDP,
contributed to the successful preparation of the project.



- 13 -
32.   Appraisal:  Project appraisal by IDA was somewhat deficient. First, IDA overestimated
LWASA's capacity for contract management and project implementation. Also, IDA was not able to
identify the risk of insufficient Borrower's commitment to institutional development components.
Appropriateness of the designs and implementation plans for the sewage treatment component (which
was dropped) and for the drainage component (which was significantly delayed) should have been
analyzed more carefully at appraisal. In addition, IDA's appraisal should have paid more attention to
project sustainability by addressing O&M issues upfront (see section D).
33.   Supervisions:  The project supervision by IDA was satisfactory. The visits of supervision
missions were frequent and timely enough. Issues were adequately identified and monitored. Despite the
lengthy implementation period of the project (about 10 years), there was only one change of the task
manager, ensuring staff continuity of the task team which included both technical and municipal finance
experts. Another aspect of the successful supervision was that IDA continued to use, during most of the
implementation period, a very competent local consultant based in Lahore, enabling effective and
frequent follow-up of the supervision missions.
34.   In March 1997, upon return from the supervision mission, the task team recommended to IDA's
management a partial extension of the credit closing by one year in order to complete the long delayed
LWASA's drainage schemes. Despite the Bank's policy of no extensions except in case offorce majeure,
one year extension was granted on the following conditions: (a) that there was full compliance with credit
covenants; (b) that no part of work would be started that could not be completed before March 31, 1998;
and (c) GoPunjab w(ould provide funding for the secondary and tertiary drains and road paving required to
make the drainage schemes function effectively. Though the bulk of work on the drainage schemes were
completed, thanks lo the extension, it was not possible to finish the work before March 31, 1998.
F. BORROWER'S PERFORMANCE
35.   Preparaticon: Project preparation by the Borrower was satisfactory. The Borrower cooperated
well with IDA and engaged excellent international and local consultants, ensuring the quality of project
preparation. There was a general political support for the project at the national, provincial, and city level.
However, more active community and NGO participation in project preparation should have been sought.
36.   Implementation:  Project implementation by the Borrower was basically satisfactory though
some components experienced significant delays. Implementation by TEPA (traffic and transportation
component) and by UDW of LDA (upgrading and conservation components) was particularly successful,
but LWASA suffered from the lack of project management capacity. In fact, with TEPA's record of
achievement and its proven institutional capacity, funds were reallocated to TEPA from surplus credit in
1996, enabling addlitional civil works that were urgently needed for Lahore. The majority of the technical
assistance and studies were undertaken as planned.
37.   Covenant Compliance:  Most of the covenants were complied with during implementation.
LWASA significantly improved its financial performance and finally achieved full compliance with its
financial covenants requiring to maintain at least 3.5 percent rate of return on average revalued fixed
assets and to adjust tariffs by at least the Consumer Price Index (CPI) plus 7.5 percent from FY95. The
two water tariff increases during FY98, 10 percent in July 1997 and 20 percent in January 1998,
contributed to the full compliance. However, the timely submission of audit reports were often delayed.
This problem was exacerbated in the late stage of implementation especially after PMU was disbanded in
March 1997 (see table 10).



- 14 -
38.   Operation:  The operational aspects of the project was deficient for most of the components,
making project sustainability uncertain (see sections D and H).
39.   Procurement:  In early 1997, a post-award procurement review was conducted by an IDA
consultant for about 60 small contracts awarded by LWASA after August 1996. The review revealed that
about 90 percent of these awards had failed to follow the Bank's procurement guidelines. In particular,
either bid prices were negotiated, or less than 10 days were allowed for bid preparation, or both. A further
check of earlier similar-sized contracts indicated that these problems were not previously apparent.
LWASA clarified that, unlike earlier PUDP contracts which were awarded by the Procurement and Stores
Unit, the contracts awarded after August 1996 were mostly handled by the O&M Directorates. In the
absence of the O&M Directorates' previous experience of the Bank's procurement guidelines, local
practices were applied. This case has proven that the method of splitting the works into many small
contracts is difficult to manage, and that it is also subject to defective procurement practice.
G. ASSESSMENT OF OUTCOME
40.   Overall Outcome:   The overall outcome of the project was satisfactory in view of the
satisfactory achievements of physical and financial objectives and the improved institutional capacity of
some agencies. The project would have been highly satisfactory if more attention had been given to
sustainability issues such as institutional arrangements for O&M.
41.   Economic Rate of Return: Economic analysis was undertaken at completion for the purpose of
comparing ex-ante and ex-post Economic Rate of Return (ERR) for the four components: (a) LWASA's
water supply and sewerage component; (b) TEPA's traffic and transportation component; (c) UDW's area
upgrading component in North-east Lahore; and (d) UDW's area upgrading and conservation component
in the Walled City of Lahore. Because neither details of the original methodologies/assumptions used for
ERR calculation at appraisal nor reliable data were available, care must be taken in assessing the
implications of comparison below. However, all the components achieved somewhat similar ERR
assumed at appraisal. ERR for LWASA's component was 11 percent at appraisal and 11.6 percent at
completion, ERR for TEPA's component was in the rage of 50 percent to 100 percent at appraisal and
52.8 percent at completion, ERR for the area upgrading in North-east Lahore was 17 percent at appraisal
and 12.7 percent at completion, and finally ERR for the area upgrading and conservation in the Walled
City of Lahore was 16 percent at appraisal and 14.6 percent at completion. More detailed ex-post
economic evaluation is attached as Appendix A.
H. FUTURE OPERATION
42.   Most of the completed works were transferred to the agencies responsible for O&M, and they are
demonstrating benefits. However, there are some critical issues related to the future operation of the
project that need to be worked out quickly in order to sustain the benefits. These issues include among
others: (a) need to develop a program to complete the two drainage schemes in Lahore which could not be
completed by credit closing; (b) need to put in place proper institutional arrangements and financing for
road maintenance and traffic infrastructure O&M such as traffic signals and street lighting; (c) need for
arrangements to avoid the disposal of solid waste into sewers and drains; and (d) need for some
mechanisms to replicate the successful pilot projects such as area upgrading and cultural heritage
conservation. These issues were supposed to be addressed in the Borrower's Operational Plan (OP), but
an acceptable OP is still being awaited though the Borrower's evaluation includes OPs of some agencies.
(See Appendix E.)



- 15 -
43.   As part of the OP, IDA requested the Borrower to include key physical, operational and financial
indicators to moniltor the continued operations of the assets created under the project and to assess their
development impacts. Such indicators are not determined yet by the Borrower, but it is suggested that
each agency identify at least a couple of performance indicators that are easily monitorable within the
agency's capacity. Appendix C contains performance indicators set at appraisal that were supposed to be
monitored periodically by the agencies during the course of project implementation. It is felt that the
number of the indicators were ambitious and overwhelming to some agencies. They had simply no
capacity to monito:r all these indicators.
I. KEY LESSONS LEARNED
44.   The key lessons learned from this project relevant for other urban projects in Pakistan and other
countries are discussed below.
45.   Implemeinitation and O&M by same Agency:  The same agency should be responsible for
planning, implementation, and O&M of infrastructure scheme where possible, or municipalities should at
least be involved in infrastructure planning. Traditionally, provincial Development Authorities are
responsible for plznning and implementation of infrastructure projects in Punjab and other provinces of
Pakistan, and completed works are handed over to municipalities for O&M. In some cases, however, this
arrangement has led to inoperative infrastructure systems as municipalities are either reluctant to take
over or incapable of maintaining the systems.
46.   Upfront Arrangement for O&M:   Institutional arrangements for O&M  of infrastructure
systems should be put in place as early as possible, but no later than completion of construction in order
to ensure necessary O&M. For the same reason, financial resources and technical staff for O&M should
be secured before implementation completion.
47.   Sustainable Institutional Development: In order to achieve sustainable institutional
development through technical assistance, the following measures should be considered in designing
institutional development components: (a) institutional components should be demand-driven, and terms
of reference for thLese components must be prepared by the Borrower to increase the sense of ownership
of the components; (b) consultant selection should be finalized before credit effectiveness so that agencies
benefit as soon as projects become effective; and (c) specific milestones should be defined for both
physical and instilutional components of a project, and funding for next milestone should be linked to the
achievement of the first milestone, both in physical and institutional components.
48.   Giving Priority to Solid Waste Management:  Improving solid waste management must be
given high priority in any urban projects as uncollected solid waste in developing countries often
accumulates in sewers and drains, leading to frequent floods that further damage roads and other
infrastructure. Improving solid waste management is especially needed for areas of upgrading and
conservation projects in order to sustain the full benefits of these schemes.
49.   Coordination Among Different Agencies:  Effective coordination is essential not only with
other agencies participating in a particular project but also with non-participating agencies. This has been
learned from suchk examples as the uncoordinated excavating for gas and telephone lines soon after paving
the roads in the upgraded area, or the delays of the drainage construction due to difficulty removing some
utilities.
50.   Simplified Project Design: The project design of PUDP included multi-sector investments in
four cities, therefore involving many implementing agencies. The delays in creating full-functioning PMU



- 16-
and its ineffectiveness in coordinating various agencies have shown that the size and complexity of urban
projects should be reduced. Where unavoidable, an institution like PMU must be given adequate authority
to manage the project.
51.   Importance of Local Consultant/Staff:  Involvement of a highly competent local consultant,
based in a project city, throughout project implementation greatly helped ensure frequent and effective
follow-up of IDA's supervision and, therefore, contributed to the success of the project. For the same
reason, Bank's Field Offices are playing an increasingly important role in project supervision. In the case
of this project, however, the importance of the good local consultant was felt more strongly as the Bank's
Field Office is in Islamabad while the main target city of the project was Lahore.
52.   Community and NGO Involvement:  More active involvement of local communities and
NGOs in every stage of the project, but especially in project planning and O&M, should have been
sought. Perhaps, adding a social scientist to the task team during project preparation would have helped.
One dispute between the contractor and local residents was reported in an area of the upgrading
component of North-east Lahore, and it was probably due to insufficient community participation in the
project. However, one of the encouraging aspects was that, as part of the sewer cleaning component in
Lahore, a public awareness campaign was being carried out in close cooperation with a local NGO to
educate local people into not disposing of solid waste into sewers and drains.
53.   Private Sector Participation:  Private sector participation in urban infrastructure services
should be considered as alternative means of service delivery. This issue often emerged during project
implementation and discussions took place between the Borrower and IDA though the project focus was
rather on a traditional public sector approach. LWASA is now seriously looking at privatization options,
and MCL is already undergoing the process of privatizing its solid waste collection and disposal
functions.
54.   Realistic Monitoring Indicators: Monitoring indicators must be realistic, taking into
consideration the capacity of implementing agencies for data collection. There should be only a small
number of indicators per each agency that are critical to monitor operations and to assess development
impacts.
55.   Strict Audit and Procurement: The procurement review of LWASA's contracts, initiated by
IDA, identified some irregularities. It might be necessary to spot-check procurement practices or to
require stricter audit in order to prevent a likelihood of corruption. Also, efforts should be made to
increase transparency of all aspects of development projects by disclosing more information to the general
public or by getting civil society more involved in the projects.
J. EVALUATION OF PROGRAM OBJECTIVE CATEGORIES
56.   Poverty Reduction and Other Social Objectives: Though poverty reduction was not the main
objectives of the project, the project did have a positive impact on the poor. The positive impact was
brought about through successful implementation of the area upgrading components that improved low-
income communities' access to urban infrastructure and services. The project benefited about 250,000
low-income population in Lahore and some 50,000 poor people in the three intermediate cities.
57.   Environmental Objectives:  The environmental objectives were only indirectly built into the
project. The filling in and reclamation of the pond within the upgraded area in Gujranwala, which was
highly polluted by industrial wastewater, has achieved some environmental benefit as exposure of the
community residents to the polluted water have been reduced. However, part of the pond was left without



- 17-
being filled for a recreational purpose, and some industries continue to discharge untreated wastewater
into the pond. There is still a risk of soil and groundwater contamination. Other environmental benefits
include better sewerage and drainage facilities in the project cities.
58.   Private Sector Development Objectives:  The objectives of private sector development were
not directly built into the project. The project was only partly successful in developing some limited
capacity of contractors and consultants in the private sector.



-18-
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(CR. 1895-PK)
PART-II
STATISTICAL TABLES
Table 1:            Summary of Assessments
Table 2:           Related Bank Loans/Credits
Table 3:           Project Timetable
Table 4:           Loan/Credit Disbursements: cumulative, Estimated and Actual
Tables 5 & 6       Key Indicators for Project Implementation and Operation
Table 7:            Studies Included in Project
Table 8A:          Project Costs
Table 8B:          Project Financing
Table 9:           Economic Return and Benefits
Table 10:           Status of Legal Covenants
Table 11:           Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Table 12:          Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Table 13:          Bank Resources: Missions



- 19-
Table 1: Summary Assessments
A. Achievement of Objectives   Substantial      Partial       Negligible    Not Applicable
Macroeconomic Policies        LI              II               I              E
Sector Policies               R               2               LI              O
Financial Objectives                          D 0I                            L0
Institutional Development      C                                              LI
Physical Object ives           E                              L               L[
Poverty Reduction                                                             El 0  []
Gender Concerns               L               LI              L-
Other Social Objectives                       LI              Eli
Environmental Objectives       L               E                              LI
Public Sector Management                                      F L             LI
Private Sector Development                                    L               LII
Other (specify)                 I             [3              Li
B. Project Sustaina  yLk                              Unlikely                Uncertain
FLI                   LI1
Highly
C. Bank PerformarIce          Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
Identification                 0                                              ElI
Preparation Assistance        L                                               LI
Appraisal                     L                      LI
Supervision                   L                                               LIE
Highly
D. Borrower Performance       Satisfactory           Satisfactory             Deficient
Preparation                    0                                              LI]
Implementation                 0                                              LII
Covenant Compliance            0                                              LI
Operation (if applicable)       I                    L I
Highly                                         High
E. Assessment of Outcome      Satisfactory    Satisfactory    Unsatisfactory   Unsatisfactory
C                              LI              LIn



- 20 -
Table 2: Related Bank Loans/Credits
Loan/Credit Title                 Purpose                  Year of Approval    Status
Precdn Opeati-o- 
1. Lahore Water Supply  The project provided for the construction of:  1967    Completed
and Sewerage Project   (a) a new well center to improve the existing
(Cr.106-PAK)         water supply and to provide water for certain
newly developed areas; (b) about five miles
of sewers with three sewage collection
centers; and (c) about three miles of unpaved
drainage channels and two main drainage
pumping stations.
2. Second Lahore      The project consisted of: (a) construction of  1976      Completed
Water Supply and     tubewells, transmission mains, main grid, and
Sewerage Project     distribution   network;  and  (b)  the
(Cr. 630-PAK)         improvement of operations by the creation of
a hydrology unit and a leak detection and
repair unit.
3. Lahore Urban      The basic objectives of the project were to:  1983        Completed
Development Project   (a)  strengthen  the  capacity  of local
(Cr. 1348-PAK)        institutions to  prepare  and  implement
integrated urban development programs to
arrest the decay in urban living conditions;
(b) improve municipal services and develop
strategies to cope with continuing urban
growth; and (c) address the delivery of
services and shelter to the urban poor.
4. Second Karachi     The primary objectives of the project were to:  1989     Completed
Water Supply Project   (a) increase potable water -supply; and (b)
(Cr. 1987-PAK)        improve operation, management and financial
viability of the Karachi Water and Sewerage
Board.
1. Sindh Special     The project supports: (a) the first five years of  1993   Underway
Development Project   the Government of Sindh's (GOS's) Policy
(Cr. 2558-PAK)       Reform Program for the urban sector by
financing action programs to deal with
enviromnental and infrastructure problems in
Karachi and three interior cities; and (b)
GOS's policy making machinery in
implementation of its program of fiscal and
administrative reforms.



- 21 -
2. Lahore Infrastructure  The project objective is to improve transport           Under
Project                services in the Lahore Urban area by: (a)                  preparaticn-
(PK-PE-10539)          involving the private sector in urban bus
services; (b) improving the performance of
the city's streets and sidewalks; and (c)
private sector participation in provision of
infrastructure/rail mass transit.
3. Punjab Municipal    The primary objective of the project is to                 Under
Development Fund       improve urban infrastructure services in the                preparation
Project                province of Punjab in a sustainable manner.
(PK-PE-55293)         This objective will be achieved through: (a)
mobilizing additional resources for urban
infrastructure development; (b) developing
an efficient mechanism for allocating public
resources   for   urban   infrastructure
investment; and (c) strengthening the
financial, administrative and managerial
capacities of the urban local bodies.
Table 3: Project Timetable
Steps in Project Cycle            Date Planned          [  Date Actual/Latest Estimate
Identification                                                          09/25/1985
Preparation                                                             04/27/1986
Appraisal                                                               04/21/1987
Negotiations                       .                                    02/15/1988
Board Presentation                       04/12/1988                     04/12/1988
Signing                                  06/09/1988                     06/09/1988
Effectiveness                            09/08/1988                     08/01/1989
Mid-term Review                                                          04/15/94
Loan/Credit Closing                      03/31/1997                     03/31/1998
ICR Preparation                          09/30/1998                     12/01/1998



- 22 -
Table 4: Loan/Credit Disbursements: Cumulative, Estimated and Actual
(UTS $ million)
Actual as % of
Appraisal Estimate     Actual            Estimate
IDA Financial Year
1988                    0.00             0.00                0.00
1989                    5,40              0.00               0.00
1990                   18.00              7.07              39.27
1991                   32.40             16.66              51.41
1992                   47.70             29.37              61.57
1993                   61.90             39.93              64.50
1994                   72.90             48.43              66.43
1995                   81.90             58.26              71.13
1996                   88.20             68.75              77.94
1997                   90.00             78.52              87.24
1998                   90.00             84.45              93.83
1999                   90.00             85.97              95.52
Date of Final Disbursement                         08/12/98



7- 23 -
Table 5 & 6: Key lIndicators for Project Imiplenientatimi anid Operationl
Gujranwala Municipal Corporation
Operational & Financial Data
(Rs. in   m illion)__ _ _ _ _                                               _ _ _ _ ___ _ _                         __  _ _ _ _ _
i987.88    1988409    1989-90    1990-91    19-91-92    1992-93    1993-94    1994-96    1995-96    1996-97
Ann!ual Revenue bySuc              ________(Rev. Est.)  (Budgeted)
Octori   _______  ________                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~99.621    133.459    135.818    115.016    141.314    150.000    150.0(0
Municipal Property Tax           ____                     ___        21.174     15.460     18.583     18.042    23.280     22.500     22.500
Tax on transfer of Immovabl Proery                     -1572i                   23.472'    24.584     23.427     29.832    33.000     33.600
Others                                      __________               48.162     22.950     39.126     47.561     24.383     45.673    43.582
Total                            i____   ____   ____                 84.6781   i95.341    218.1i1    204.0461   2`18.809    251.173    249.0821
Revenue Per 10Pol                 _____       _ _                                         58.k4-12-    56.5636  60.619    69.635     68.960
Total Direct Expense             ________               __________             16.295    156.873    15.6       1807       1809       2371
JumnbeE of Staff by Eunction                           ____    ________
General Administration                                                                      117110                110        110        110
Tax Department                   _______                         _____204                              20.8       208        208        213
Education Department             ______                   ________685  --,590                                     589        590       -590.
Health & Sanitation              _____2,214                                                           2,214      2,213     2,2i3      2.211
Others                                    ..--                                                14- -.--.-----...--487  486 ~  486        488
Total                            __ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _      3,734   1 - 3,609   , 3,606      3,607     3,6`12
Municipal Corporation Lahore
Operational & Financial Data
(R s.  in     m illion)           _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _            _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
________________________________ 1987.88    1988-89    1909-90    1990.91    1991-92    1992-93    1993-94    1994-95    1995-96    1996-97
Annual Revenue_by _Source         -_______                                                                              ________
Octori                     330.108    349.942    352.914    396.585o   484.27    47.8602 -529.625    584.949    639.625    702.000
Municipal Property Tax               63.004     5963       5.0         269      94.635     60,034     25.130    116.972    2-4.,072    7b.J900
Tax on transfer of Immovable Property  45.3~45    413-.095 _   78.266  82.215   94.586     87.i222    75.23     10.256    168.116   -190.000
Others                               75.033     73.884     111.41     134,56    154.555    177,021    129.674    145.9931   163.025    199.866
Total                               51 3.490    526.544    597.49i1   685.999    828.303    762.079    759.702    948.170    994.838   1161.866
R'e-ve-n`ue P-e-r 10500 Pe-o-pl-e -- -                            -3824         6.720     43.495   _i 4148      52.504     55.786-
Total Direct Expese369.02                     620.66     58.9A2.45             8317    800.500    788."196    907.836    970.000  1,178.098
N~uIMbe(roIStaff bvFunction                                                                          ---- --------____   ---.-.__
General Administration           __________                           1,324     1,334      1,344      1,352      135        127
Tax Department                   _________   ____                      137        138       1368 __ 142          '176        210
Education Department             ____          _______               3,639      3,692-     3,7.45 -   4,569      4,194     3,819 ___
Health & Sanitation              _____   ___1,100                              10,672     10,244     10,174     10,336     10,498
Others                           _______________                      1,737     1,894      2,050      2,048      2,039      2,029 ____
Total                                                               IT - 1,937  17,729    17,521     18,285     18l,09     1,3 



- 24 -
a) WASXs Phyicalal Data
167488  1988-9  1098940  19091   iSS-92   1992-93  i06394   1995   1995-is   1i9i:97
Avrage t_War PrdclitonMGD)            224       222    -229       236       242      248      254I      260        267 _ 278
DOMESTIC
* Metered                 31,~~~~~~~~~~660  _42,345   45.24i   50,078   53.684   57,2  236 6.3          134 7.3
--U-metered                  225.745  235.684  240,420  250,159  257,752  266,011  270.129  276,594  2?t.699  292,828
______-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~263-,405- 2_7_8_,O_9_  25.,6-61 -3_00_,2_3_7  311,43'6  32_3,6,_3,9  _33-2',495  34 3,.-73 i 35S3-,013, _367.36-2-
*Melered   -             - ~~~~~~~~~~10,840   It,672  _I,7 1-6   14.281   14,727   15,169   16,055     16.705   17.457
-Unmetered         -         8~~~~~~~~~~70   358  231     60       61        74      .4        4
fotir       -       -       -        lISl      12.030   12,178   122       14,348   14,801   15.212   16,i03      16.705   17,457
RELIGIOUS & CHR-ITABLEU
- Unmetered               27-1,__2_  1_771    1,806    1,838    1.902    1,968 - 2,027    2,81           2j7       2.12
IG-TOTAL                             26,641  291,630  299,645  315,295 1327,i86  340,408 1349,734  31,921i   371,825  386.947
b) WASA's Operational & Financial Data
1987-86  1986-89  1989.90  1990491  1991.92  1992-93  1983.94  1994.95   1995.98   1996i97
V.C Offtce                                    6   6--a                                  8a        FI       8          8         7
M  Oltike                               l3       13       16        17       17       16        17       17         18        IS 
Director P&E                            58        61       73        77       79       74        77       76         75        69
Director Acmin-                         93        97      116       123      12       118 -    22        121        119       110o
Dfrdor TrehiIng                         22        23       27_    29          30       28        29       29         28        26
___orFnac                                63       656       79       84. 86             80       83        83        a81     73
DiretorReue-.                          368       384      46         8       4         6        485      481        471i       3
DM0 (EngIneeting)    L>..-   ..._                                    10      -10        I0                io . 10             -
DC-I                                    30P       31i      371       39    .     0     8        39        38                   3
D           C-11                1        6        1        20        21      722       20  __21           21    -2?,           19
DC-Ill                                  0B                  2        3        2                 _23       2i         23        2
Dirclor P&G                             45        4         6        5         1       5          9       5           7        53
DIrcIor PAD                             68        69       82        87. 89            84         7. 85              84        78
2rclor ysir--                      27       28     .. 34       36       37        34       36        35        35         2
PYDLrjctrHdog                       -           -10        12        12. 13             12       12       I          12        *
DMI~~~~~  nj.  7                                                    so5       47       49        49        48        -
-Dirctor Maintatnance                   110     - 324      387      411. 420           394      409       406       398.      36
D..J!!0rltr                           1,05     125        .54     1.9       1,632    1,5-30    1.588    1.575     1,543. 1428
D.O. (South)                          1.       i ,294    1.548    1,643    1,680    1,575    1.635    i.622       1.588       1470
DlrctorfMVT~~~~~~~~~~~s 18              18       22       23        24       23 -  23. 23                 .23
Total No. of Staff - Permanent  3.660   -3,6 1 0    4,56  4,83    4,944  -. 4,,6-3 7,   4,813    4,773   4,676    4,327
.Temi-ag                 go0- goo           60       650 sib    s       700      700       750      -7150      760
10-Total                               4,250    4,410    6,15       5,486    5,59_4   5,3        53      5,523      5,425    5,7
___________________________ I197.88;  ifi8-89  1989.90  1990-91  1991-92  1992-83  1993-84  1994.95  1i995-96   1986-9T
AXverage Cost I MR. Gal. Water         1.089    1.205    1.339    1.603   -1.957    1.877    2.722    283          23 
Re~venue     --__               -.-
OperatinqRevenue          ~~~~~~~~154.088  195.459  232.628  304.639  484.928  485.162  809.706  667423   713 452
SheI  roperly-                     it    6.73i5 -5 59-.5-78.8"'-67.1J07-  9'4.63'4  110.407  1 14.3121225  1267
Other Income                        20.196    19.292   21.219   28.752   37.862   40.275   48.757   42.642    48.989   ___
Annual Revenue                       240.759  281.486 1313.425  400.698  617.424  61S.844  -772.776  835.322   892.078 1___
Annual 6x1,endlture  __   ~~~~~~243.890  267.516  306.S74  378.388  473.585  466.694  691.486  P661.197    677.269
Sfion Eff~icy(qays)                 258       108       79. 62             95      126       67        95       108       108
Debt Service Ratio  (0.60)  - - 0.65   0.57     0.73      0.~~~~~~~~~_454  0.49  0.28  0.40     0.40      04
Opera    atio  --        1 lO.58%~~~~~~_1 102.03%  -10-4. 92-%  -0.A   8.6    8,0.89%   96.35%   83.12%  88 29%   8  0
Ne rftRao                        v        -ye       -ye      -ye 8_ .09%    7.38%    -ye           -e        1.32%    2 27%
Current Ratio                ~~~~~    ~~~~~~0.75  0,4-6    0.65'    0.0 060  01       0.0       06 0       64       0.6
Debt Eut  ai                           2.866     4.31     7.97     3.115     2.86     2.27      2.53     27          925



- 25 -
Table 7: Studies Included in Project
No.                                                                                                                                                   l
Study                                              Status                                            Impact of study|
1.    Master Plan Update for intermediate cities  Completed. (The consultancy job regarding feasibility studies and urban  It provides first hand information and technical
(Gujranwala, Sialkot, Sargodha,      master planning of 10 intermediate cities of Punjab was awarded to a  data for detailed designing for future urban
Bahawalpur, Sahiwal, Sheikhupura     consortium of consultants through an agreement dated February 2, 1993.  projects in these cities.
Rahiim Yar Khan, etc.)               To start with a meaningful beginning, base mapping of 10 cities in Puniab
was assigned to a highly-skilled agency, Survey of Pakistan. The fmall
report was received on April 24, 1996, and approved on July 24, 1996.)
2.    Master Plan Update for Multan        Completed. (Base mapping of Multan town was done by the Project  It forms a basis for future urban projects in
Management Unit through Survey of Pakistan; whereas study of     Multan. The study report also provides useful
computerization of double entry book keeping system was done by Multan   guidelines for further data collection and
Development Authority through M/S Emmay Associates. Study has been    financial formalities.
completed, and its further development is entrusted to MDA.)
3.    Study of Metropolitan Management and    Completed. (Advisory Consultants M/S Parson Engineering Science, in  Reports are with LWASA and Gujranwala
Finance in Punjab                    association with Indus Associates, have completed the study of the cities of   Municipal Corporation.
Lahore and Gujranwala only.)l
4.    Study of Property Tax Streamlining   Completed. (Study for Gujranwala Municipal Corporation's fnancial  Reports have been sent to Gujranwala
system, water rates, and octroi tax was conducted through PMU and  Municipal Corporation for necessary
Gujranwala Municipal Corporation by M/S Parson Engineering Science,    implementation in the future.
Inc., USA in association with Indus Associates.)
5.    Study to Establish the Scope for     Not Conducted. (Deputy Managing Director LWASA was approached,
Separating Sewerage and Stormwater   who expressed his ignorance about any such study conducted in the past in
Flows                                LWASA.)
6.    Study of low-cost Sanitation Options  Completed. (The study was conducted by WASA through M/S Parsons  The LWASA's authority has been given
Engineering Science, USA, in association with M/S Indus Associates.)  targets and guidelines for future setup.
7.    Lahore Urban Development Master Plan   Not Conducted under the project, but under preparation with GoPunjab's
Update                               own funds.



- 26 -
Table 8(a): Project Costs
Appraisal estimate (US$ million)  Actual/latest estimate (US$ millioni
Local   Foreign                Local    Foreign
Item                               Costs     costs     Total      costs       costs      Total
A. Lahore Urban
Improvements
1. Water Supply                     5.2       1.2       6.4        5.2        1.0         6.2
2. Sewerage                         8.5        1.6     10.1         7.7        1.5        9.2
3. Sewage Treatment                19.8       0.0      19.8         4.2        0.0        4.2
4. Stormwater Drainage              7.9       2.6      10.5        12.6        4.8        17.4
5. WASARehab. Equipment             0.0      10.2      10.2         0.0       28.5       28.5
6. Traffic and Transport           14.9       3.2      18.1        30.0        4.0       34.0
7. Area Upgrading                   4.9       0.9       5.8         6.7        0.4         7.1
8. Walled City Upgrading and
Conservation                         5.9       1.1       7.0       11.0        0.5        11.5
9. Road and Drain Maintenance       0.0       2.1       2.1         0.2        2.0        2.2
B. Intermediate City Upgrading                                                                 I
1. Gujranwala                       1.8       0.3       2.1
2. Sialkot                          2.1       0.4       2.5        11.0        2.4        13.4
3. Multan                           0.4       0.1       0.5         1.2        0.3         1.5
C. Other
1. WASA TA                          1.3       4.2       5.5
2. Project Management, TA,
Studies, Training                    8.9       8.2      17.1              included  Above
3. Design and Supervision           3.3       1.1       4.4
Physical Contingencies               8.0 1     3.1 1    11.1 1    -
Price Contingencies                  5.2       6.8      12.0            -    -           -
TOTAL                               98.1      47.1     145.2       89.8       45.4       135.2
Table 8(b): Project Financing
|   Appraisal estimate (US$ million)   Actual/latest estimate (US$ million)_
Local     Foreign
Source               costs       costs       Total                 Total
IBRD/IDA                     61.7        28.3        90.0                  85.9
U. K. (ODA)                   1.1        18.8        19.9                 28.5
Domestic contribution        35.3           -        35.3                 20.8
TOTAL                        98.1        47.1       145.2                 135.2



- 27-
Table 9: Economic Return and Benefits
Component                     Appraisal Estimate      Actual (at Final Development)
1. WASA component                                11 %                         11.6 %
2. North-east Lahore Area Upgrading              17 %                         12.7 %
3. Lahore Walled City Upgrading and
Conservation                                     16 %                         14.6 %
4. Traffic and Transport                      50- 100 %                       52.8 %
For more details, please see the attached Appendix A.



- 28 -
Table 10: Status of Legal Covenants
Covenant             Original     Revised
Agreement   Section      type    Present  Fulfillment  Fulfillment       Description of Covenant             Comments
Status     Date         Date
Development   4.01(a)      1        C                               Records of SOEs with vouchers to be   Complied with
Credit                                                              maintained
Agreement
4.01(b)      I        CD                              Audit annually SOEs and Special   Providing audit reports to IDA
Account, and within six months of the  was often delayed.
financial year-end provide an audit
report with a separate auditor's opinion
on SOEs.
Project      2.01(b)       5        C                               Conform with the implementation   Complete
Agreement                                                           program and with an Operational
Action Plan (OAP), including:
establish Project Policy Committee in
P&D.
2.01(b)      5        C                               Conform with the implementation   Complete
program and with an Operational
Action Plan (OAP), including:
establish and staff PMU in HPEPD
with specified duties including
updating the OAP.
2.01(b)     10        CP                              Conform with the implementation   Land for Phase-I works 90 %
program and with an Operational  fenced. A sewage treatment
Action Plan (OAP); including: ensure  plant was dropped from the
WASA acquires land for sewage     project.
treatment by 12/31/88.
2.01(b)      10        C                              Conform with the implementation   Ongoing
program and with and Operational
Action Plan (OAP); including:
implement studies' recommendations.
2.01(b)      9        C                               Conform with the implementation
program and with an Operational
Action Plan (OAP); including: report                        l



- 29
Covenant             Original     Revised
Agreement   Section      type    Present   Fulfillment  Fulfillment      Description of Covenant             Comments
Status     Date         Date
progress monthly by PMU, and
through PMU quarterly to IDA.
4.01(b)(i)    1        CD                              Audit agency accounts and financial
statements annually.
4.01(b)(ii)   1        CD                              Within 6 months of financial year-end
provide certified financial statements
and an audit report for each agency.
4.02(a)      2        C                              .By FY91 and thereafter, LWASA to    LWASA implemented two
maintain at least a 3.5 % rate on return  tariff increases during FY98,
of average revalued fixed assets.  10 % in July 97 and 20 % in
January 98. LWASA shall be
in full compliance with the
financial covenants'
4.03 (a)     2         C                              From FY92, LWASA to adjust tariffs  See above.
by at least CPI+7.5 % to enable a
satisfactory proportion of internal
financing from FY95.
4.02/4.03     2        C                               Before 3/31 each year, LWASA to   Financial forecasts were
review achievement of above, copy  prepared and reviewed by IDA.
review to IDA and take necessary
measures.
4.04        2        C                               WASA debt: equity to be restructured.   Complete
4.05        5        CP                              WASA to be delegated adequate     Underway. First phase
operational powers.              delegation completed.



- 30-
Original         Revised
Agreement          Section       Covenant   Presen          Fulfillment    Fulfillment              Description of Covenant                          Comments
type          t            Date             Date
_____ ____ Status     __  _ _  _   _  _  _ _  _ _  _ _
(contd.)                4.06            2            C                                         Intermediate Cities' water/sewerage           GMC and SMC implementing
tariff plan to be prepared and               a range of revenue
implemented from 06/30/90.                   enhancements.
4.07            2          NC                                          LDA & MDA to adopt land pricing               Plot prices revised but yields
policy to ensure maintenance of              are limited by restricted supply
overall surplus and provision for            of developed plots.
investment in non-revenue generating
assets.
Covenant types:                                                                                                    Present status:
I =  Accounts/audits                                8 =   Indigenous people                                      C   = covenant complied with
2 =  Financial performance/revenue                  9 =   Monitoring, review, and reporting                      CD = complied with after delay
generation from beneficiaries
3 =  Flow and utilization of project funds          10=   Project implementation not covered by categories 1-9   CP = complied with partially
4 =  Counterpart funding                            11 =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral budgetary or               NC = not complied with
other resource allocation
5 =  Management aspects of the project or executing  12 =   Sectoral or cross-sectoral policy/ regulatory/institutional
agency                                                action
6 =  Environmental covenants                        13 =   Other
7 =  Involuntary resettlement



- 31 -
Table 11: Compliance with Operational Manual Statements
Statement number and title      Describe and comment on lack of compliance
1.                   N.A.                                    N.A.
2.
3.I
Table 12: Bank Resources: Staff Inputs
Planned               Revised/Actual
Stage of Project Cycle                 Weeks         US$        Weeks    US$ (000)
Preparation to Appraisal          _                               119.9      260.50
Appraisal                                                         38.7        67.90
Negotiations through Board Approval                                 5.0        8.77
Supervision                                                      318.3       862.62
Completion                                                         10.0        20.0
TOTAL                                                            491.9      1219.79



- 32 -
Table 13: Bank Resources: Missions
Performance Rating
Specialized       Implemen-   Develop-
Month/      Number       Days in          Staff skills        tation       ment
Stage of Project Cycle    Year       of persons     field          Represented          Status    Objectives
03/85          4           3
Through Appraisal           09/85          6           7                  -                NA          NA
04/86          1           5
04/86-05/86      6           5
08/86-09/86      10          7
04/87         12          10
Appraisal through           10/87          5           12                 -                NA          NA
Board Approval              12/87          1           14
04/88          2           7                 -                  S           S
Supervision                 07/88          6           21                 -                 S           S
12/88          -           5                 -                 S           S
07/89          7           -      ME, FA, UP                   S            S
08/89          7           -      ME, SE, FA, UP               S            S
07/90          7          19      ME, SE, FA, UP               S            S
12/90         7           13      ME, SE, FA, UP               S           S
07/91          5          16      ME, FA, UP                   S            S
12/91         7           20      ME, SE, FA, UP, PS           S           S
07/92          4          11      SE, FA                       S            S
01/93          5           -      ME, FA                        S           S
11/93         4           12      SE, FA, UP                   S           S
05/94          6           -      SE, ME, FA, UP               S            S
04/95          4           8      ME, FA, SE                   S            S
07/96          5           -      ME, SE, FA, UP               S            S
03/97          8          12      ME, SE, FA, UP, PS, DO        S           S
10/97          1           5      SE                           S           S
Completion                  02/98          4           5       SE, FA, UP                   S           S
Key:
ME:    Municipal Engineer
FA:     Financial Analyst
UP:     Urban Planner
SE:     Sanitary Engineer
PS:     Procurement Specialist
DO:    Disbursement Officer
S:      Satisfactory
NA:    Not Applicable
No Record Available



- 33 -
APPENDIX - A
ECONOMIC EVALUATION



- 34 -
Appendix A
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1895-PAK)
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A. BACKGROUND
1.    Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP) was appraised in March 1988 and the credit
agreement was signed in June 1988. Major components of the project investment and the related
executing agencies are given in the table below:
Agenc: Project Description
Water and  Sanitation  Agency  (WASA  -  Water supply
Lahore)                                 -  Sewerage
- Waste Treatment
- Drainage
Traffic Engineering and Planning Agency -  Improvement of Roads
(TEPA Lahore)                           -  Traffic signals
Chief Metropolitan Planner wing (CMP  Area upgradation:
wing)                                    -  North-east Lahore
- Walled City Lahore
Metropolitan Corporation Lahore (MCL)    Road and drain maintenance
Project Management Unit (PMU)           -  Project management
-  Preparation of new projects
-  Upgrading work for Gujranwala and
Sialkot.
Multan Development Authority (MDA)      Area upgradation
Economic Benefits
2.    This document presents an economic analysis and the Economic Internal Rate of Return (EIRR)
for the following three components of the project;
-   TEPA - roads improvement
-   CMP wing - area upgradation
-   WASA - water, sewerage and drainage services



- 35 -
3.    The economic benefits for these components have been quantified on the following basis:
TEPA       Based on value of time and fuel savings due to improved roads and smooth
traffic
CMP wing Based on increase in property value in North-east Lahore and Walled City.
WASA       Based on improved financial performance and reduction of burden on
financial resources of the province.
Other economic benefits, i.e., impact of improved hygiene conditions and reduction in
water borne diseases could not be quantified due to lack of relevant data.
Methodology
4.    Most of the traffic related data was provided by TEPA and detailed discussions were held with
TEPA staff to finalize various assumptions used in this report. Some data was also used from JICA study
published for TEPA in 1992.
5.    WASA financial data was taken from the WASA financial model, which has been developed
under PUDP and has been used extensively by PUDP supervision missions.
6.    Property values for North-east Lahore and Walled City were assessed based on the survey of the
residents of the two areas, conducted by our team.
B. TRAFFIC ENGINEERING AND PLANNING AGENCY
(TEPA) LAHORE
Project Description - TEPA Component
7.    The Traffic and Transport component of PUDP was executed by Traffic Engineering and
Planning Agency (TEPA) of Lahore Development Authority. The TEPA component started in FY87-88
and finished in FY96-97 and included:
u  Improvement of about 59 Km of major roads of Lahore.
O  Selective roads widening
o  Installation of new traffic signals at 51 major crossings in the city.
O  Intersection improvement and channelization
o  Street lighting
Project Capital Cost
8.    The total capital cost of the project was around Rs. 943 million, including Rs. 729 million as IDA
share and Rs. 214 rnillion as GoP share. The sub-component wise detail of the project is as follows:
Road improvement.                 Rs. 798
Traffic signals                   Rs. 58
Consultancy and others            Rs. 87
Total                             Rs. 943



- 36 -
9.    Major roads covered under the project are listed in the table below:
_                                              ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Table 1
Sr. Name of Roads                         Distance             Completion
No.                                        (Km)                    Date
1   Gulshan e Ravi Road                    3.25                  Sep-95
2   G.T. Road                              6.25                  Feb-96
3   Wahdat Road                            6.50                  Jun-89
4   Ferozepur Road                         9.00                 Nov-91
5   Lower Mall                             3.00                  Sep-91
6   Lytton Road                            0.60                  Mar-95
7   Inner Circular Road                    3.00                 Aug-92
8   Egerton Road                           1.20                 Nov-93
9   Empress Road                           1.75                 Nov-93
10  Davis Road                             1.75                  Nov-93
11  Fane Road                              0.60                  Jan-92
12  Mall Road                              6.50                  Mar-92
13  Outer Circular Road                    3.00                  Sep-95
14  Race Course Road                        1.60                 Feb-96
15  Queens Road                            1.30                  Aug-95
16  Nicholson Road                         0.60                  Mar-97
17  MacLeod Road                           2.75                  Nov-94
18  Multan Road                            3.00                  Mar-97
19  Township Link Road                      1.10                 Jan-96
20  Mozang Road                             1.75                 Jun-92
21  Eik Moria                               0.50                  Jun-92
Total                    59.00
Economic Benefits
10.   Traffic and Transport component of PUDP has improved road conditions by developing much
wider and better surface roads with improved geometry of traffic intersections. These road improvements,



- 37 -
coupled with traffic signals at important intersections, have resulted in smooth traffic flow, which has the
following direct economic impact:
o Time saving due to smooth flow of traffic
o Fuel saving due to improved vehicle speed
o Saving in vehicle operating cost (VOC) due to improved road conditions and reduction in
wear and tear of vehicles
11.   Due to non-availability of enough reliable data on VOC, the economic analysis of the project has
been based on time and fuel savings only, and the EIRR reported by this study is therefore somewhat on
the lower side.
12.   Time Saving: One of the major benefits of rehabilitation and improvement in road system is the
time saving in traffic flow. The traffic flow has improved as a result of better road conditions, especially
widening of roads., dual carriage ways and improved geometry of junctions. The speed limit in the city
area is 50Kmn/hr, however the travelling times do not correspond to this speed due to traffic bottlenecks in
various parts of thte city. It is assumed that average speed of vehicle increased by 20 percent from 25
Km/hr to 30 Km/hr due to improved traffic conditions on these roads.
13.   For the purpose of this analysis, people travelling during office hours (8:00 am - 8:00 p.m.) has
been considered only and value of time outside these hours has been considered negligible. The time thus
saved has been ass,igned a value based on the average income of passengers of different categories. This
has been discussed in detail below.
14.   Fuel Savingg: Other major benefit of rehabilitation and improvement in road system is the fuel
saving due to improved vehicle speed. It is assumed that average speed of vehicle increased by 20 percent
from 25 Km/hr to 30 Km/hr due to improved traffic conditions, which resulted in fuel savings. The
economic price of fuel i.e. the sale price excluding taxes has been used to quantify the economic benefit
of fuel saving. This has been discussed in detail below.
Economic Analysis - Project ELRR
15.   Lahore has an urban growth rate of about 4 percent including contribution of population growth
and migration from other towns. Traffic volume over the past ten years has increased by an average
growth rate of 17 percent. It is assumed that if the rehabilitation and improvement in road system were
not implemented under PUDP, it would have been impossible for the roads of Lahore to cope with the
increased traffic volume. The traffic volume in Lahore over the past ten years is given in figure 2.1 below:



- 38 -
Tnfficvolur.e inLahre (1986-1996)
800
700
,-,600
E400
300
~200
100
0
86-87 87-88 88-89 89-90 90-91 91-92 92-93 93-94 94-95 95-96
Year
Figure 2.1: Traffic volume in Lahore over past ten years (1986 - 1996)
16.    The project investment started in FY87-88 and finished  in FY96-97; however, IDA
disbursements continued till early 1997-98. The project benefit started realizing from FY89-90 when
earlier roads were completed. Since the capital investment is spread over a period of almost ten years and
project benefits for the roads completing in FY96-97 can be realized up to year FY05-06, this gives a total
time span of almost twenty years to be covered in the economic analysis. In order to make EIRR at
common price base, all investments and benefits have been calculated at FY89-90 prices.
General Assumnptions
17.   Various assumptions used in EIRR calculations are summarized below:
(a)    Due to improved traffic flow, the average speed of vehicles is assumed to have increased
by 20 percent from 25 Km/h to 30 Km/h
(b)    Number of working days per year            300
Number of working day per month             25
(c)    Traffic pattern is assumed such that 70 percent of the total traffic flows during office
traffic hours (8:00 am - 8:00 p.m.) and the rest 30 percent during non-office hours.
(d)    75 percent of the passengers travelling during these hours are assumed to have
economically productive time and other 25 percent are assumed to have zero time value.
(e)    Economic value of time is based on eight working hours per day.
(f)    Economic cost for operations and maintenance of roads is assumed to be Rs. 25,000/Km
/annum at FY89-90 prices. (Source: JICA study of 1992.)



- 39 -
(g)    Life of each road is assumed to be 10 years and benefits from each project component are
accounted for 10 years only.
(h)    Traffic volume data for various types of vehicles per day for various roads has been
provided by TEPA.
(i)    All costs and benefits are based at FY89-90 prices.
Value of time saving
(a)    Various types of vehicles are assumed to carry the following number of passengers,
excluding driver, during office hours.
(i)    Car          One passenger
(ii)   Mini bus     20 passengers
(iii)   Bus         40 passengers
(iv)   Rickshaw     1.5 passengers
(v)    Motor cycle   0.5 passenger
(b)    The average income of drivers and passengers, based on FY89-90 prices, has been taken
from the study carried out for TEPA under JICA assistance, published in 1992.
(c)    Seventy-five percent of the passengers are assumed to be related to work and the other 25
percent are non-work related. The time value of 25 percent of passengers has been
ignlored for this analysis.
Value of Fuel Sav)ing
(a)    Calculation for fuel consumption of different types of vehicles at different speed is based
on the equations given in the JICA study of 1992.
(b)    Value of fuel saving is calculated only on the ex-refinery price of fuel and taxes are not
included in savings.
EIRR calculations
18.   Based on lhe above assumptions, the economic benefits have been determined based on FY89-90
prices and given in Table 2.2. Detailed working of value of time saving is given in Table 2.3 and value of
fuel saving is given in Table 2.4.
19.   Project investment for TEPA component has been somewhat difficult to determine with accuracy
as both TEPA and CMP wing of LDA has been submitting common applications for disbursement to
IDA. There were about 50 (out of 176) applications for which segregation of TEPA and CMP was not
available. These applications contribute about 10 percent of the total project cost. In these cases,
judgmental decisions were made and these applications were allocated to TEPA, based on application
dates and parties t:o whom payment was made, like Phillips, etc. Similarly the year-wise utilization for
GoPunjab share wils available as a combined figure for TEPA, Walled city and North-east and component
wise breakup has been assumed on pro rata basis.
20.   Operations and maintenance cost is also somewhat difficult to ascertain. TEPA actual expenditure
on O&M during th,e past five years has been around Rs. 2 million per annum for both PUDP and



- 40 -
non-PUDP roads. This does not clearly indicate as to how much is being spent on PUDP roads. In view of
the limited financial resources, it is assumed that TEPA is not using enough of road maintenance. In order
to assess a more realistic value of EIRR, the cash outflows on O&M has been assumed as recommended
in JICA's study of 1992, i.e., Rs. 25,000 /Km /annum.
21.   Based on the above discussed cash out flows of capital investment and O&M cost and economic
inflow in terms of value of time and fuel savings, the EIRR of the project is reported as follows:
Base case                                      52.8 %
Sensitivity Analysis - Benefits +10 percent    59.5 %
Sensitivity Analysis - Benefits -10 percent    45.9 %
The detailed working of EIRR calculations is given in the Tables 2.1 and 2.4 at the end of this chapter.
22.   The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared in March 1988 predicted EIRR in the range of 50
percent - 100 percent for various sub components of TEPA investment. However since the basis of EIRR
calculations is not given in SAR, it is difficult to present any analysis of the comparison of the SAR
values with the post implementation values determined by this study.



Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP)
LDA - TEPA Componenet 
Economiic Analysis                                                                                                Table 2.1
_  .                                                i          (Rs. ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~million)
FY87-88      4.20                 4.20    10.0%            1.21        5.10                                -         (5.10)
FY88-89     15.69                15.69    10.4%            1.10        17.32         -                              (17.32)
FY89-90     42.39      0.16      42.55     6.0%            1.00       42.55        21.12        0.73     21.85      (20.70)
FY90-91     94.98      0.16      95.14    12.7%            0.87       83.06        21.12        0.73     21.85      (61.21)
FY91-92     68.06      0.16      68.22     9.6%            0.79       53.84       113.63        3.94    117.57       63.73
FY92-93     76.65      0.70      77.35     9.3%            0.72       55.37       120.64        4.18    124.82       69.46
FY93-94    111.12      0.70     111.81    11.2%            0.64       71.07       132.93        4.61    137.54       66.47
FY94-95    132.66      0.89     133.55    13.0%            0.55       73.85       141.14        5.02    146.16       72.31
FY95-96    185.80      0.97     186.77    10.9%            0.49       92.02       180.75        6.26    187.01       94.98
FY96-97    160.23      1.39     161.62    11.8%            0.43       70.24       203.49        7.05    210.54      140.31
FY97-98     50.96      1.48      52.44    11.0%            0.39       20.28       203.49        7.05    210.54      190.26
FY98-99                1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57       203.49        7.05    210.54      209.97
FY99-00                1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57       182.37        6.32    188.69      188.12
FYOO-01     _          1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57       182.37        6.32    188.69      188.12
FY01-02                1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57        89.86        3.11     92.97       92.40
FY02-03                1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57        82.85        2.87     85.72       85.15
FY03-04                1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57        70.56        2.44     73.00       72.43
FY04-05                1.48       1.48      -              0.39        0.57        62.35        2.03     64.38       63.81
FY05-06                1.48       1.48                     0.39                    22.75        0.79     23.53       23.53
Total  J  942.74     18.41    961.14 |                              588.70 J   2,034.93 |    70.50   2,105.43
_ _ _ T   _ _                                                                     j _ ______               _
EIRR Base Case_   _                                                           _
EIRR Sensitivity Analysis                                                    l_l_l_l
Benefits +10% 
Benefits  -10%             1__              _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _   __ _ _ _ _  _  _ _ __  _ _
Page 8



- 42 -
Punjab Urban Development ProJect (PUD?)
LDA - TEPA Componenet                                                                                                                _             _
Econonic Analysis - Project Benefits at FY89-90 p,ices                                                                                               Table 2.2
Assusmptlens:                            I
Speed before project (Knm/hr)                       25
__Speed after project (KCmbr)            J              30                                                      .
No of working days                                 300                                                      .
_Vehicles rsmning duTingwoknhws7Y
Passengem related to work during office ho        75Y.
_~~~~~~~R                         -    tOI        :.::::N!O    (.            _~.~...:::: d1S :   :n#~         .  .1E         488 8. S*8- r:  U.: .................... .....:8 _ .... ,.  :
Gulshan e Ravi Road                 3.25          21,118       20,590,343       137,269          35.9            4.9          8.29          0.17         5.10
2   G.T. Road                        6.25           45,431      85,183,875       567,893           35.9          20.4          8.29          0.71        21.09
3  Walhdat Road                      6.50           45,267      88,270,455       588,470           35.9          21.1          8.29          0.73        21.85
4   FerozepurRoad                    9.00           64,619     174,471,570     1,163,144           35.9           41.7         8.29          1.45        43.19
5   LowerMall                        3.00           76,848      69,163,290       461,089           35.9          16.5          8.29          0.57        17.12
6   Lytton Road                      0.60           31,100        5,598,054       37,320           35.9           1.3          8.29          0.05         1.39
7   Inner Circular Road              3.00           32,562      29,305,710       195,371           35.9           7.0          8.29          0.24         7.25
8   Egerton Road                     1.20           33,022       11,887,848       79,252           35.9           2.8          8.29          0.10         2.94
9   Empreas Road                     1.75           3S,520      20,223,158       134,821           35.9           4.8          8.29          0.17         5.01
10 Davis Road                        1.75           36,691      19,262,513       128,417           35.9           4.6          8.29          0.16         4.77
I I Fane Road                        0.60           11,764       2,117,430        14,116          35.9            0.5          8.29          0.02         0.52
12 Mall Road                         6.50           62,595     122,059,665       813,731           35.9          29.2          8.29          1.01        30.21
13 OuterCircularRoad                 3.00           21,306      19,175,310       127,835           35.9           4.6          8.29          0.16         4.75
14  Race Coume Road                  1.60           45,419      21,801,024       145,340           35.9           5.2          8.29          0.18         5.40
15 Queens Road                       1.30           39,082      15,241,863       101,612           35.9           3.6          8.29          0.13         3.77
16 Nicholson Road                    0.62           30,146       5,607,063        37,380           35.9           1.3          8.29          0.05         1.39
17 MacLeodRoad                       2.75           34,810      28,717,920       191,453           35.9           6.9          8.29          0.24         7.11
18  Multan Road                      3.00           99,409      89,468,190       596,455          35.9           21.4          8.29          0.74        22.15
19  Township Link Road               1.10           10,708       3,533,607        23,557           35.9           0.8          8.29          0.03         0.87
2   Moznag RoeAd                     1.75           29,546       15,511,440      103,410           35.9           3.7          8.29          0.13         3.84
21  Eik Mora                         0.50           22,371       3,355,695        22,371           35.9           0.8          8.29          0.03         0.83
Total eneefts                   59.02          832,332    8t50,546.22      5,670,307                         203                         7.05          211
Page 11



- 43 -
Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP)|. 
LDA - TEPA ComponenetT 
Economic Analysis - Value of time saving at FY89-90 prices                 _    __                                            Table 2.3          _
Assumptions:
Speed before project (Kmfhr)                            5                                         _     .               _ 
Speecd  afe  p oect   (Knilhr)                         30_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _ __                     _ _ _ _    _ _ _ _ _ _
1                                                      1            2,000          2,000 3  ___                         _             __
Reiclesba runn durin  2orkin hour                    70%1
Motor Cycle                     1                     0.5           2,000          2,000             1              539%          4.94|
______________           ~~~Average value of time (Rs./Veh-hr)                  35     _____9_
Page 1 I



-44-
Punjab Urban Development ProJect(PD)|.,_
LDA - TEPA Componenet   T                 l                                                                                                                     e
Economic Analysis - Value of fuel saving at FY89-90 prices                                                                 . m                               .                              Table 2.4
Assump-tions:
--Speed before project (Km/hr)                            25
Speed after project (Kmi/hr)                            30
MiNo of working days       .S                          300                                                            .            1              29            1
_ ~ ~ ~   ~    ~    ~   ~   ~    I _ _ _  _ _ _  _    __ _  _ _ _ _     _ _  _ _  _  _ _ _  _ _ _ ._    _ _  _ _ ._    __  ___             _  ___ _
Vehicles running during working hours                 70%/
MotrsCcl                 0.02817*S*S-20.186*S+107.333                 701.67         18.880.7                       8.28           5.08           3.20           2.572          369%          0.99
Passengers__________ related_ to workduringAverage ofsaving (Rs./veh 1000 Km)                                                                                                                 8.
Page 11



- 45 -
C. AREA UPGRADATION OF NORTH-EAST LAHORE
AND WALLED CITY
Project Description
23.   The area u'pgradation component of PUDP was executed by Chief Metropolitan Planner (CMP)
wing of Lahore Development Authority (LDA). This component started in FY88-89 and finished in
FY96-97 and included upgradation of the following urban services in North-east Lahore and in the
Walled City. Apart from upgradation in urban services, the Walled City component also included
conservation work.
(a)    North-east Lahore
- Water supply
- Sewerage and drainage
- Street paving
- Street lighting
- Solid waste collection
(b)    Walled City Lahore
- Water supply
- Sewerage and drainage
- Street paving
- Street lighting
- Solid waste collection
(c)    Schools upgrading in walled City
(d)    Conservation work in walled City
Project Capital Cost
24.   The total capital cost of the project was Rs. 222 million for North-east upgradation and Rs. 286
million for Walled City.
IDA Share (Rs. million)                  175                 226
GoPunjab Share (Rs. million)              47                  60
Total (Rs. million)         222                 286
IDA share ( %)                          79 %                 79 %
GoPunjab share %)                       21 %                 21 %
Economic Benefits
25.   The area upgradation component of PUDP has developed better roads and street pavements with
improved sewerage system, both in North-east Lahore and in the Walled City. These improvements in
urban services have the following direct economic impact:
-   Increase in property value
-   Increase in business activity
-   Improvement in hygiene conditions in the area



- 46 -
26.   Due to non-availability of enough reliable data regarding increase in business activities, and
impact of improved hygiene conditions, the economic analysis presented here has been limited to include
the increase in property value as the only quantifiable economic benefit of the project.
27.   Increase in property value due to the Project: One of the major benefits of upgradation is the
increase in property value, which would yield capital profits and increased property tax. For the purpose
of this analysis, a survey was conducted of North-east Lahore and the Walled City to assess the increase
in property value. The survey was conducted by the consultants own team with the help of LDA staff on
14 May 1998 in North-east Lahore and 23 May 1998 in the Walled City. The following table gives the
sample size of the survey conducted by the consultants.
No. of persons     No. of persons
contacted         responded
North-east Lahore
Commercial                                     12                  11
Residential                                    11                 11
Estate Agents                                   2                   1
Total North-east Lahore                              25                  23
Walled City Lahore
Commercial                                     21                 21
Residential                                    11                 11
Estate Agents                                   1                   1
Total Walled City                                    33                  33
28.   Since baseline measurements at the beginning of the project were not recorded in the PUDP SAR,
this economic analysis has to rely on the observations and memories of the residents of the area. It was
observed during the survey that the current prices given by the respondents were more consistent than the
prices at the beginning of the project i.e. FY89-90. Most of the people could think only few years in the
past and the property value they were quoting was more related to two to three years old values. Based on
the discussion with the residents of the area and LDA staff the following average values of property have
been assumed for the FY89-90.
North-east Lahore                       Rs. 30,000 per marla
Walled City                             Rs. 50,000 per marla
(Note: 1 Hectare = 395 marlas. 1 marla = 25 sq. yd.)
Current value          % Response
(Rs/marla)
North-east Lahore                                40,000                20 %
Weighted average of property value               60,000                30 %
Rs. 83,000 per marla                             85,000                 10 %
100,000                  7 %
125,000                 33 %
Walled City                                     50,000                 11 %
Weighted average of property value              100,000                32 %
Rs. 145,000 per marla                           150,000                 17 %
200,000                 40 %



- 47 -
Economic Analysis - Project EIRR
29.   Various assumptions used in EIRR calculations are summarized below:
(a)    Property values used in the analysis are given above.
(b)    The total upgraded area for North-east Lahore is 300 hectares and that for Walled
City is 130 hectares.
(c)    The saleable property is assumed to be 70 percent of the total area in North-east Lahore
and 80 percent in case of Walled City and the rest is assumed as roads and streets, etc.
(d)    The total economic benefits due to property value increase are only one time gain and are
spread evenly over seven years of project construction.
(e)    The operations and maintenance costs are assumed to be 0.5 percent of the project cost.
(f)    Thle project investment started in FY88-89, and completed in FY96-97. In order to make
E] RR at common price base, all investments and benefits has been calculated at FY89-90
prices.
30.   EIRR Calculations:  Based on the above assumptions, the economic benefits in terms of
increase in properly has been determined for FY89-90 prices.
31.   Both TEPA and CMP wing of LDA has been submitting common applications for disbursement
to IDA and the cost break up is based on the segregation provided by TEPA. There were about 50 (out of
176) applications for which segregation of TEPA and CMP was not available. These applications
contribute about 10 percent of the total project cost. In these cases, judgmental decisions were made and
these applications were allocated to TEPA, based on application dates and parties to whom payment was
made, like Phillips etc. Similarly the year-wise utilization for GoPunjab share was available as a
combined figure for TEPA, Walled city and North-east and component-wise breakup has been assumed
on pro rata basis.
32.   This study has been limited to include benefits due to increase in property value only. None of the
residential units were reported as rental property during our survey of the two areas. Only about 30
percent - 40 percent of the commercial properties were reported as rented units. We were also unable to
determine the total number of rental units in these areas, which is reqired to assess the total benefits due to
increase in the rerital value. Due to the difficulty faced in getting the data on rental properties, this study
did not include the benefits due to increase in rental value, and the EIRR presented below is somewhat on
the lower side.
33.   Based on the above discussed cash out flows of capital investment and O&M costs and economic
inflow in terms of increased property value, the EIRR of the project is reported as follows:



-48 -
ELRR                 13IRR
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   N orth-east   Lab_re  W alled     C ity
Base case                                                      12.7 %               14.6 %
Sensitivity analysis - 10 % increase in benefits              22.7 %                24.5 %
Sensitivity analysis - 10 % decrease in benefits                0.5 %                4.7 %/0
34.    The Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) prepared in March 1988 projected an EIRR in the range of 16
percent - 17 percent for the above two components based on expected increase in rental values. However,
since detailed working of EIRR calculations is not given in SAR, it is difficult to present any analysis of
the comparison of the SAR values with the post-implementation values determined by this study.



- 49 -
Punjab Urban Developmnent Project (PUDP)
North East Area Upgrading
Economic Analysis                                                                                Table 3.1
Assumptions           _
1) O&M Cost:           _
Annual O&M cost as percent of capital cost                         0.50%
I         I          I
2) Property Value:
Property value before project (FY89-90)        (Rs. /marla)       30,000
Property value after project completion (FY96-97)    (Rs. /marla)  83,000
Property value - inflation adjusted (FY89-90 prices)   (Rs. /marla)  32,102
Gain in properny value at FY89-90 prices       (Rs. /marla)        2,102
Upgraded area (% of total area)                                      70%
Total area of the project (300 hectares) *       (marla)         118,560
Property area benifited from the project         (marla)          82,992
Total benefits due to increase in property value  (Rs. million)  174.477
Benefit period     T-                             Year                 7 
y           4An8l5 be   0.efi 6 of t 4e 3rojects       (     .             24.925
>  im !!10 E v L0          igo
Fy 88-89     4.33 _                4.33         10.4%         1.10          4.78                     (4.78)
Fy 89-90    17.09       0.02      17.11          6.0%M         1.00         17.11              -     (17.11)
Fy 90-91    42.12       0.11      42.23         12.7%          0.87         36.87       24.925       (11.94)
Fy 91-92    14.22       0.32      14.54          9.68%         0.79         11.48       24.925        13.45
Fy 92-93    15.12       0.39      15.50          9.3%          0.72         11.10       24.925        13.83
Fy 93-94    30.10       0.46      30.56         11.21          0.64         19.43       24.925         5.50
Fy 94-95    48.45       0.61      49.06         13.0          0.55         27.13       24.925        (2.21)
Fy 95-96    26.88       0.86      27.74         10.91          0.49         13.67       24.925        11.26
Fy 96-97    23.47       0.99      24.46         11.8%          0.43         10.63       24.925        14.30
Fy 97-98                1.11       1.11         11.0%          0.39          0.43          -          (0.43)
Fy 98-99                1.11       1.11                        0.39          0.43          -          (0.43)
Fy 99-00                1.11       1.11                        0.39          0.43                     (0.43)
Fy 00-01                1.11       1.11                        0.39          0.43                     (0.43)
Fy01-02                 1.11       1.11                        0.39          0.43                     (0.43)
Fy 02-03                1.11       1.11                        0.39          0.43                     (0.43)
________ 221.77     14.85  J  236.62    _______156.47                                174.48   _  ____
*    L                    _____
EIRR Base year______________
EIRR Sensitivity An04    11         11                          09            03                       (
Benefits +10%
Byents -10%        _    1.11        1.11                        0.3_043(043
Page 16



- 50-
Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP)
Walled City Upgrading
Economic Analysis                                                                              Table 3.2
Assumptions
1) O&M Cost:
Annual O&M cost of capital cost                                  0.50%
I         I 
2) Property Value:
Property value before project (FY89-90)       (Rs. /marla)      50,000
Property value after project completion (FY96-97)    (Rs. /marla)  145,000
Property value - inflation adjusted (FY89-90 prices)   (Rs. /marla)  56,082
Gain in property value at FY89-90 prices      (Rs. /marla)       6,082
Upgraded area (% of total area)                                    80%
Total area of the project (130 hectares) *      (marla)         51,376
Property area benifited from the project        (marla)         41,101
Total benefits due to increase in property value  (Rs. million)  249.991
Benefit period     I                             Year                7
_ Annual benefits of the projects             (Rs. million)      35.713
Year  _      _Capi_tal_    OM  TOW       Anail       MutiipHig    Ad          |  Pre            Net
-   Cost  C:o~St    ashuf1    iltion          Fco         abuly         Benefit    Cm b Flow
_              __                     ..310. -                     __ _w .. 
Fy 88-89     5.57       -         5.57         10.4%          1.10         6.15         -          (6.15)
Fy89-90     12.10      0.03      12.12          6.0%          1.00        12.12         -         (12.12)
Fy90-91     45.11      0.09      45.20         12.7%         0.87         39.46      35.713        (3.75)
Fy91-92     63.40      0.31      63.71          9.6%         0.79         50.28      35.713       (14.57)
Fy 92-93    53.45      0.63      54.08          9.3%         0.72         38.71       35.713       (3.00)
Fy93-94     45.85      0.90      46.75         11.2%         0.64         29.71       35.713        6.00
Fy94-95     25.74      1.13      26.86         13.0%         0.55         14.86       35.713       20.86
Fy95-96     13.96      1.26      15.21         10.9%         0.49          7.49       35.713       28.22
Fy 96-97    20.46      1.33      21.79         11.8%         0.43          9.47       35.713       26.24
Fy97-98                1.43       1.43         11.0%         0.39          0.55          -          (0.55)
Fy 98-99               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -           (0.55)
Fy 99-00               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -           (0.55)
Fy 00-01               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -           (0.55)
Fy 01-02               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -           (0.55)
Fy 02-03               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -          (0.55)
Fy 03-04               1.43       1.43 |                     0.39          0.55         -          (0.55)
Fy 04-05               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -          (0.55)
Fy 05-06               1.43       1.43                       0.39          0.55         -           (0.55)
FyO6-07          |     1.43 1     1.43 1            1        0.39 1        0.55 1       -           (0.55)
L 285.63      19.95     305.58                                   213.78       249.99
EIRR Base year    r   14.6%I _           _            _             _            _
I   i    _  "'" '''         _ _    _       I_    _     _ _    _      _ _  _
EIRR Sensitivity Analysis   I          I             I             I            i _          I
Benefits +10%          4     _      __5%_________
Benefits -10%         -4.%7%__                                                            _
Page 16



- 51 -
]D. WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY (WASA) LAHORE
Project Description - WASA Component
35.   WASA cornponent of PUDP consist of the following sub projects for infrastructure improvement
in Lahore:
Water supply          -      Construction of 51 new tubewells
-     Rehabilitation of existing tubewells
-     Bulk transmission grid
-     Distribution mains
-     Rehabilitation of reservoirs and central workshop
Sewerage              -     Trunk and lateral sewers - North-east District
-     Trunk and lateral sewers - Central District
-     Trunk and lateral sewers - Shahdra District
-     Trunk and lateral sewers - South
-     Trunk and lateral sewers - North
Sewage treatment      -      Civil and electrical work for pumping stations at
Khokhar road and Mahmood Booti
Storm water drainage    -    Shalimar zone main drain
-     Mian Mir zone drains
-     Railway drain zone
-     Siddique Pura drain and pumping station
-     Chotta Ravi drain
Technical Assistance    Institutional strengthening of WASA for supervision and design
under DFID            and related areas.
Equipment under DFID  -      Pumping stations for sewerage treatment plant
-     Bulk and domestic water meters
-     Chlorinators
-     Ductile iron water pipes
-     Sewer cleaning equipment
-     Computers and peripherals
Project Capital Cost
36.   Project capital cost is summarized in the table below:
Rs. (million)
Water supply                                                  180
Sewerage                                                      253
Civil & electrical work for sewerage treatrnent pumping       145
station
Storm -water drainage                                         500
Rehabilitation equipment through DFID                         410
Technical Assistance through DFID                             477
Total                            1,965
37.   DFID has committed total funds of 19.5million, out of which about 18.2 million has been
disbursed up to March 1998. The DFID component is still continuing and sewer cleaning and
computerization of billing system are the major components, which are still in progress.



- 52 -
Economic Benefits
38.   Improvement in service levels: The project has helped in controlling the deterioration of water
supply and sewerage service levels in Lahore. The annual urban growth of the city is estimated at about 4
percent, which include the effect of population growth and migration from other towns. If the PUDP
investment had not been made, the service levels would have deteriorated to an unacceptable low level.
(a)    The per capita availability of water was around 50 - 60 gpcd at the start of the project,
however these figures are judgmental estimates by WASA and their accuracy can be
challenged. The population of Lahore is expected to have increased by about 50 percent
over the project period and this would have reduced the per capita water supply to as low
as 40 gpcd. Due to investments in WASA infrastructure, the water supply has been quite
stable, rather WASA estimates indicate that water supply has increased to about 70 gpcd
during the project period. Number of water consumers have increased from 276,641 in
FY87-88 to almost 400,000 in FY97-98, an increase of about 45 percent which is in line
with the urban population growth. WASA water supply service levels, although not ideal,
but are by far the best in the country and PUDP investment has played significant role in
maintaining these service levels.
(b)    The impact of investment on sewerage services is not that visible in terms of any
significant improvement in service level. This is mainly because most of the investment
has been made in developing new infrastructure and the existing infrastructure needs
major rehabilitation as it is heavily silted. The sewer cleaning component of the project
under DFID funding is underway and its benefits will be realized in the next few years.
(c)    The drainage component of the project has just been completed and citizens of Northern
Lahore were able to get only partial benefits from the drain and the pumping station
during this monsoon. WASA is going to construct the network of secondary and tertiary
drains over the period of next two to three years. Citizens of North Lahore will be able to
realize full benefits of the drainage system once the whole network is completed.
39.    Willingness to pay: Improvements in service levels has a direct effect on willingness to pay.
This is obvious from the collection efficiency of WASA Lahore, which is around 70 percent as compared
to most of the other similar agencies in the province, where it is in the range to 30 percent - 50 percent. In
spite of periodic increase in tariffs over the project period, collection efficiency has been reasonably
stable. WASA tariffs increased over 300 percent since FY80-81 and the collection efficiency during this
period dropped by about 10 percent. This drop in collection is also partly due to inefficient management
of arrears by WASA. Relatively high level of willingness to pay in Lahore, as compared to other towns in
the province, is mainly due to better service levels, which were possible due to investment in the
infrastructure.
40.    Operation under full cost recovery: One of the major economic contributions of PUDP is that,
it not only improved the service levels and the corresponding willingness to pay, it also developed a
culture and realization of operations under full cost recovery. When the project started in FY87-88,
WASA was operating under a very low cost recovery situation and was incurring a financial loss of
around Rs. 90 million a year. Increasing water tariffs was considered an act against humanity and this was
resulting in deterioration of service levels and ultimately total collapse of services. Water supply agencies
in other cities are still suffering from such situations, where consumers are not willing to pay because of
poor service levels and the agencies can not increase the service levels as they are not getting enough
revenues to meet even operational costs.



- 53 -
41    PUDP investment in physical infrastructure and financial covenants of PUDP credit agreement
has turned WASA Lahore into a financially stable institution. Other WASAs in the province are putting
heavy financial burden on the provincial budget to meet their annual losses and service levels are still not
of the level where consumers are willing to pay even one-fourth of the tariff as being paid by WASA
consumers in Lahore. This has helped the provincial economy as WASA Lahore is not only meeting all
its recurrent expenditure, but it can also furnish its debt service to the provincial government.
42.   Control of water-borne diseases: It is very difficult to quantify the direct impact of PUDP in
controlling the spread of water-borne diseases in Lahore. One of the reasons is that baseline
measurements were not obtained at the start of the project. An attempt was made to collect and analyze
past ten years' data on water-borne diseases in Lahore and other similar towns. Various health institutions
were contacted in Lahore and none of these institutions could provide relevant data as most of the data
available with them was for rural areas only.
Economic Analysis - EIRR
43.   The economic IRR for WASA component of PUDP is based on the economic benefits discussed
above. PUDP disbursements to WASA started in FY87-88 and during the three years before the project,
WASA showed an average loss of over Rs. 85 million. With the implementation of PUDP the service
levels improved which resulted in an increase in willingness to pay by general consumers in the city. This
assisted WASA to improve its financial sustainability and reduce burden on the provincial economy.
44.   Economic Ef,IRR is based on the assumption that, if the expansion of physical infrastructure and
financial reforms were not implemented under PUDP, WASA Lahore would have made financial losses
every year and this would have cost around Rs. 85 million annually to the provincial government. With
the implementation of PUDP, WASA was turned into a financially sustainable institution and unlike for
other WASAs in the province, the provincial government does not have to bear any financial burden for
WASA Lahore.
45.   Due to non-availability of health and other economic data, the EIRR is based on the economic
benefits realized by the provincial government and the over all support to the provincial economy due to
WASA being a financially stable institution.
46.   During FY89-90, WASA showed a loss of Rs. 83.5 million which had to be subsidized by the
provincial government. The EIRR calculations are based on the assumption that the financial
improvement in WASA profits every year is due to expansion of physical infrastructure under PUDP and
implementation of PUDP financial covenants. Thus any annual gain over Rs. 83.5 million loss in FY89-
90 is taken as econonnic benefit of PUDP to the provincial economy, and used as 'cash in flow' stream for
EIRR calculations. This is based on the fact that if PUDP had not been implemented WASA Lahore
would have continued to be a financial burden on the provincial government to meet its annual recurring
budget.
47.   Capital investment includes IDA and GoPunjab share of PUDP and capital expenditure by DFID.
The Technical Assistance component of DFID has been excluded from EIRR calculations. The year-wise
break up of DFID expenditure before FY92-93 was not available, therefore the accumulated expenditure
before FY92-93 has been distributed equally over previous three years.
48.   Although the non PUDP capital expenditure by GoPunjab also contributed to the physical
infrastructure, it has been assumed that the financial stability in WASA operations has been obtained
mainly due to financial covenants of PUDP, therefore non-PUDP capital expenditure has not been
included in this analysis.



- 54-
49.   Based on the above assumptions, the EIRR for WASA component has been calculated as 11.6
percent based on FY89-90 prices. The detailed working is given in table 4.1 attached at the end of this
chapter.
50.   The SAR prepared in 1988 projected an EIRR of 11 percent for combined water and sewerage
investment, based on incremental revenues, and 22 percent for the drainage component. Since the
drainage component is still not fully functional, due to absence of secondary and tertiary drains, the
economic benefits in terms of savings in property and road maintenance, reduction in commercial
disruption, etc., cannot be quantified at this stage.
51.   Due to non-availability of reliable data, separate component-wise EIRR could not be determined,
and only the economic benefit to the provincial finances has been taken as the economic benefits while
determining the EIRR. The detailed working and assumptions for the economic analysis presented in the
SAR were not available, so it is difficult to present any analysis of the comparison of EIRR given in the
SAR and that determined by this study in the post-implementation scenario.



- 55 -
Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP)
Water and Sanitation Agency - Lahore
Economic Rate of Return Calculation (EIRR)                                                                                                                        Table 4.1
Operating Revenues                            262.194    292.206    371.946    579.563    575.569    724.018      792.67  843.090    904.334   1225.377   1587.892   1915.420
Add Fln-te-ret incomnee                        18.740    20.001     24.646     32.856    34.060     40.951     38.270     43.659     34.542     46.822     65.850    69.655
|Other income                             1.456      1.218      4.106     6.471      6.215      7.806     4.372      5.330      6.484      6.484      6.484      6.484
Total Revenues                                282.390    313.425    400.698    618.890    615.844    772.775    835.321    892.079    945.360  1,278.683   1,660.226  1,991.559
Operating Expenses                            267.516    306.575    378.534    473.585    465.595    691.488    661.197    677.269    788.930    913.664   1,071.647  1,164.241
Financial expenses                             98.383    100.648    103.914    105.656    107.799    104.913    192.632    153.478    176.623    227.358    235.904    233.100
Total Expenses                                365.899    407.223    482.448    579.241    573.394    796.401    853.829    830.747    965.553  1,141.022  1,307.550  1,397.342
Net Profit/ (Loss)                            (83.509)   (93.798)   (81.750)    39.649    42.450    (23.626)   (18.508)    61.332    (20.193)   137.661    352.676    594.217
Netgain over FY88-89 profitl(loss)        =              (10.289)    1.759    123.158    125.959    59.883     65.001    144.841     63.316    221.170    436.185    677.726
Capital outflow (Water supply, Sewerage & Drainage)  1,078.229  2.556  20.932    108.828  93.800    66.413     88.863    189.480    325.452    181.907
Capital outflow (DFlD component)              476.678    24.885     24.885     24.885     28.625    12.802     18.139     84.210    145.274 1  112.974
EIRR based on actual cash flows
Total capital outlay                        1,554.907    27.441     45.817    133.713    122.425    79.215    107.001    273.690    470.726    294.881
Economic gains due to project                            (10.289)    1.759    123.158    125.959    59.883     65.001    144.841     63.316    221.170    221.170    221.170
Net gain for the year                                    (37.730)   (44.058)   (10.555)   3.534    (19.332)   (42.000)  (128.849)  (407.410)   (73.711)   221.170    221.170
EIRR (actual cash flow basis)    _                        -                    -          -         -                                       _          _
EIRR based on adjusted cash flows for FY89-90 prices                                                                                       I          I
Annual inflation                                104%       6.0%      12.7%       9.6%      9.3%      11.2%      13.0%      10.9%      11.8%      11.0%
Multipling Factor for FY89-90 prices      I               1.000      0.873      0.789     0.716      0.636      0.553      0.493      0.435      0.387
Total capital outlay at FY89-90 prices     _             27.441     39.998    105.525     87.631    50.351     59.171    134.852    204.567    114.053-
Economic gains due to project at FY89-90 prices   I      (10.289)    1.535     97.195     90.161    38.063     35.945     71.366     27.516     85.543     85.543    85.543
Net gain for the year                                    (37.730)   (38.463)    (8.330)    2.530    (12.288)   (23.226)   (63.486)  (177.052)   (28.509)    85.543   85.543
EIRR (based on FY89-90 prices)               ,       .                   _     -          -
Note:  For calculating EIRR, the benefits of the project have been included L        I
upto year FY09-10, but for printing purposes the sheet only shows
benefits upto year FY99-00.                           1                        I                                                     I          I



- 56-
APPENDIX - B
EVALUATION OF THE CONSERVATION COMPONENT
IN THE OLD WALLED CITY OF LAHORE



- 57 -
APPENDIX B
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1895-PAK)
]EVALUATION OF THE CONSERVATION COMPONENT
IN THE OLD WALLED CITY OF LAHORE
Background
1.    There is an old Pakistani saying: "A person who has not seen Lahore is not born." Pakistanis do
indeed consider the Old Walled City of Lahore to be the historic and cultural heart of their country. The
city's known history dates back more than a thousand years, to a fort on the banks of the Ravi River
which grew into a fortified city under the Afghans and Turks. It flourished as a regional center under the
Moguls in the severnteenth and early eighteenth centuries, but fell into decline and came under British
control in the mid-nineteenth century. Today the city is the political capital of the Punjab and an
important industrial and commercial center.
Current Context
2.    The Walled City, now a relatively small (2.6 sq. km.) area in the northwestern corner of Lahore's
sprawling metropolis, contains an astonishing array of cultural property. Mosques, forts, gateways,
residential buildings, palaces, tombs, alleyways, and open squares make up a vibrant urban form
expressive of a traditional way of life. In addition to this architectural heritage, traditional cultural
activities, economic pursuits and social relationships continue to thrive. The flourishing of these traditions
is enhanced by the character of the Walled City, its individual buildings, bazaars and the spaces within its
narrow winding streeits.
3.    However, many buildings and much of the Walled City's infrastructure are seriously threatened
by overcrowding, inappropriate zoning, pollution and physical decay. The area, with a population of
around 250,000, has the largest single agglomeration of Lahore's urban poor, living in some of the city's
worst conditions. In spite of these problems, land in the Walled City commands the highest prices in the
area and small businesses find it a highly desirable location because of the availability of skilled labor and
numerous consumers.. Driven by business opportunities and the real estate market, demolition and
rebuilding in the Walled City are constantly diminishing its historic fabric.
Project Summary
4.    Because of the Walled City's historical and cultural associations, as well as its commercial
importance, there is strong interest among the political leadership in addressing its social, physical and
economic problems. In this context, the Government of Pakistan and the World Bank began preparing a
cultural heritage conservation plan in 1983 through the World Bank's Lahore Urban Development
Project. In 1988, the Punjab Urban Development Project used this plan to identify historic conservation
activities. The Walled City component (US$11.33 million) focused on the repair and restoration of the
Delhi Gate (a principal entrance to the Walled City), the Delhi Gate Bazaar and the Shahi Hammam,



- 58-
located just inside the Delhi Gate. The project also improved social services by financing the restoration
and rehabilitation of eight schools and two community centers. To address the infrastructure and
economic problems of the Walled City, the project financed the upgrading of the water supply, sewerage,
drainage, paths and roadways, solid waste collection, electricity and traffic management.
International Conservation Standards and Practices
5.    For restoration work in the Walled City, the project's overarching goal was to conserve historic
structures and settings according to international standards. Wherever possible, original construction
techniques and materials were used for repairs. Changes to buildings and streetscapes were made only as
needed to accommodate contemporary uses and services. Some of the recommended international
practices followed by the project were:
* adaptive reuse of buildings for activities acceptable and beneficial to surrounding
communities;
* restoration based on documentation or restoring only that for which there is sufficient
evidence;
* minimal disruption of the historic context for service delivery including sufficient access for
service maintenance and renewal;
* original construction techniques and materials used to the greatest extent possible; and
*  reversible processes and materials or conservation that allows for further analysis of the site
when future technology or research findings become available.
Conservation of the Delhi Gate Area
6.    The Delhi Gate and the Delhi Gate Bazaar were chosen as pilot projects because of the historic
and geographic importance of the route from the Gate, through the Bazaar, to the Wazir Khan Mosque
and Golden Mosque beyond. This high visibility location provided the opportunity to begin conservation
work where it could clearly demonstrate benefits to the city and encourage others by example. When the
conservation project was first planned, it was agreed that the Gate house would be repaired and restored
for a public use. It is now occupied by a girls school, as well as a dispensary and a medical center. In the
course of the work, the building's walls and roof were repaired and stabilized and interior wall, floor and
ceiling finishes and decorative motifs were restored.
Modern Technology in H-istoric Settings
7.    One of the main challenges for the Walled City is providing modern urban services in a
traditional setting. Electricity, gas, and telephone lines are extremely difficult and costly to provide
without damaging historic architecture or creating visual discontinuity. In the Walled City, overhead
transformers and power lines disfigure streetscapes, and water and drainage lines, which have been
installed above ground, are unsightly and easily damaged. To upgrade the Bazaar, local engineers worked
long hours on solutions to infrastructure problems that were compatible with the Bazaar's streetscape. For
instance, they developed a drain design that was not only workable but also blended with the existing
historic fabric.
8.    A contextual approach to service delivery in the Delhi Gate House permitted the upgrading of its
electrical and plumbing systems, while respecting the existing setting. Since the Gate House was planned



- 59-
to accommodate a, school, it required good lighting and toilet facilities. Project architects concealed
necessary electrical wires and ducts by using plaster over walls that had originally been finished with only
a lime wash. They added new structures to the site to provide toilets, but designed them to blend with the
surrounding historic setting.
Use of Original Construction Techniques and Materials
9.    Replacemeint of the massive Deodar roof beams in the Delhi Gate's Magistrate Hall is an example
of an exceptional effort to use traditional materials. During restoration, workers discovered that the beams
were failing due to water damage and insect attack. However, the project team could no longer obtain
Deodar tree beams in Pakistan of sufficient length and girth for the roof support. In this case, the World
Bank used its contacts with India to locate beams of the correct size in Kashmir. Then the Indian and
Pakistani governments gave special permission for their transport to the site across tense political borders.
Piloting and Project Phasing
10.   The success of the Delhi Gate conservation work is due, in large part, to the careful piloting and
phasing of activities by the Lahore Development Authority (LDA). For example:
*  To convince the bazaar's businessmen that street upgrading would be worth the inconvenience
and possible short-term loss of business, the LDA piloted a small project in a nearby street. The
shopkeepers were then brought to the upgraded area to see the advantages of the improvements
for themselves.
  Restoration work on the Delhi Gate was initiated in small incremental contracts, in order to
establish, historically correct techniques and materials. Mortar work on the Gate's walls, for
instance, was done on a small area until the color and texture of the traditional mortar was
established; then a larger contract was let for the rest of the building.
Conservation of the Shahi Hammam
11.   The Shahi lammam (King's Bath) was built in about 1634, soon after the Wazir Khan
Mosque, and was part of a grand plan to provide support and upkeep for the mosque.
Architecturally and historically, it is one of the five most important buildings in the Walled City
because:
*  it is the largest historic public bath-house in the entire subcontinent;
*  it has a unique hydraulic system that supplied hot and cold water to the baths, basins and
cascades; and
*  it has the most extensive frescos of any secular building in Lahore, depicting birds of paradise,
trees of life and a magnificent variety of floral motifs.
The Shahi Hammam conservation work consisted mostly of stabilizing the structure and refinishing interior
and exterior surfaces, with an emphasis on restoration of the frescos.



- 60-
Adaptive Reuse of Historic Buildings
12.   One of the most important principles of successful conservation work is that historic buildings
must be put to active use. The underlying assumption is that no one takes care of property unless they
have a vested interest in its maintenance. Planning for this reuse and establishing commitments for
maintenance of historic buildings requires full community involvement.
13.   Project planners originally intended the rehabilitated Shahi Hammam to be the office of the
Lahore Development Authority's Conservation and Upgrading Unit. The project reuse plans were drawn
up for this function. However, the community did not support this proposal, so the building was
designated as a community center. During restoration work, the project team realized that community
center activities (including a wedding hall) were incompatible with the fragile nature of the historic
interiors. Extensive lobbying by the Lahore Conservation Society persuaded politicians to look for
another use acceptable to the community. Today the Hammam houses a women's vocational training
school and the Punjab Tourism Development Corporation office, along with a craft exhibition space,
library and tourist information center.
14.   From their experiences with the Hammam, the project team concluded that renovated historic
buildings must have an active, socially productive and locally supported use. They determined that it is
extremely important that a building's new use be:
- planned with local community participation and widely publicized to establish public support;
and
* determined early in the project in order to avoid the need for changes to contracts and working
drawings as well as extra costs and delays.
Restoration Based on Documentation and Reversible Processes
15.   In the case of the Hammam frescos, pressure from several different sources led to varying degrees
of success in meeting international standards for restoration. The contractor began work using permanent
non-removable paint on top of original fresco, arguing that it was necessary for the adhesion of new paint
to old surfaces. Political pressure encouraged rapid completion of the work, thereby eliminating time for
full documentation of the site. Finally, overly enthusiastic painters, comfortable with the local practice of
recreating missing parts of decorative schemes, finished the frescos using conjecture rather than
documentation.
16.   Such problems were not surprising to a well known Pakistani architect, who was instrumental in
promoting the preservation project. He viewed the mistakes as part of a learning process that would
eventually lead to better practices. The project team identified several measures which could prevent such
problems in the future, such as more discussion and sensitization on conservation principles for
contractors, artisans and the general public; increased site supervision; and more training in traditional
practices and techniques for project workers.
Project Outcomes
17.   The completion of the conservation projects consolidated and restored several highly visible
structures that are of great symbolic importance to the old Walled City. Also, these buildings are now used for
socially valuable activities and have the potential to stimulate private upgrading in the surrounding area.



- 61 -
18.   Commercial activity in the upgraded areas has increased, proving that historic but deteriorated inner
city centers can be rehabilitated without jeopardizing the commercial interests of the occupants. Property
values in the Walled City have gone up as a result.
19.   The project's need for craftsmen who practice traditional forms of building and embellishment has
identified skills which were lost, notably fresco painting. It has also provided employment for those who do
have traditional ski] ls, and training for others. In some cases, the project has added to the understanding of old
materials (traditional mortar mix) and helped re-establish some historic forms of construction.
20.   The project has created a ripple effect as the Provincial and Metropolitan governments have begun
improving service to the Walled City. The Provincial Department of Health has established a 120 bed hospital
and the Metropolitan corporation's dispensaries have been upgraded. Also, the Education Department and the
Metropolitan Corporation have used the renovated schools as model institutions, with improved and expanded
facilities.
21.   Finally, the project has increased knowledge and awareness of the value of cultural heritage among
the project participants and the public at large. The perceived importance of the conservation work in Lahore
has been greatly increased by the publicity which the project has generated. Numerous articles have appeared
in the newspapers and journals, and high profile visits have been made by VIPs such as the British High
Commissioner and the American Ambassador.
Factors Contributing to Project Success
* The Walled City is a vibrant and active urban center, and the buildings which were renovated are an
integral part of that urban fabric.
* The project had full political support at the national, provincial and city level.
* The Lahore Development Authority played the lead role and took all the political and financial risk
involved in executing the project.
*  Preliminary plarning and documentation, including a Conservation Master Plan, were completed in th
Lahore Urban Development Project, preparing a solid foundation for the restoration project.
*  The World Bank had the time and resources for long-range conservation planning, economic and
environmental analysis, and access to a budget for cultural heritage specialists.
* Excellent local and international consultants were actively involved in the project.
*  Effective piloting and logical phasing of this complicated project were done by the LDA, whicb
coordinated the planning, prepared bidding documents, let contracts and liaised with the public.
Source: G. Read
Acknowledgements:
22.   Special thanks for their support of the project are due to the Government of Punjab and His
Excellency the Governor of Punjab, Maim Mohammad Ahzar. For advice and administrative support thanks
are especially due to the Lahore Development Authority, Metropolitan Planning Section (LDA) and the



- 62 -
former Director General Sheikh Abdul Rashid and to the Chief Metropolitan Planner, Mr. Shaukat Jamal
Khawaja.
Sources:
Hankey, Donald. 1997. Conservation of the Cultural Heritage in Pakistan: Policy and Practices in the Walled
City of Lahore. Gilmore, Hankey Kirk Ltd. (GHK), London.
Wigg, David. 1994. Of Mosaics and Mosques: A Look at the Campaign to Preserve Cultural Heritage. World
Bank Development Essays 3. The World Bank, Washington D.C.
Lahore Development Authority, Metropolitan Planning Section and Pakistan Environmental Planning and
Architectural Consultants Ltd. (PEPAC). 1996. Issues and Policies: Conservation of the Walled City of
Lahore. New Garden Town, Lahore.
Conference Presentations: Geoffrey Read, Donald Hankey and A. Graeme Lee.
Interviews with Task Managers: Geoffrey Read, A. Graeme Lee and Toshiaki Keicho.



- 63 -
APPENDIX - C
PERFORMANCE INDICATORS
SET AT APPRAISAL



- 64 -
PAKISTAN
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
PUNJAB URBAN DEVtLOPMENT PROJECT
Performance Indicators
Performance indicators are to be determined as part of each
agency's financial planning process, and regularly monitored by the PMU.
The following indicators shall be used initially, and supplemented as
implementation proceeds.
A. Water and Sanitation Agency - WASA
1. Water
1. Water Production:        - Average daily production, by Zone.
Unaccounted for water, by zone.
2. Number of                - New and cumulative connections, metered and
Connections:               immetered, water and sewer, categorized by
consumer type.
3. Meters:                  - Number of new meters installed.
- Number of meters repaired.
- Number of meters broken for more than 2
quarters.
- Number of meters broken with average
consumption greater than 30,000 gallons per
month.
4. Distribution system:    - length, diameter and age
- bursts and repair status
- leak detection performance
- unaccounted for water - FY88 40% reduced at
21% per annum to 30%
5. Acquifer Mgmt.:         (a) WASA Tubewells
- Total number by rated capacity, actual
output, age
- Number operational, downtime and causes
(b) Private Sector
- Nunber of private tubewells newly
registered in period
- Total nunber of private tubewells
- Estimated water abstraction
(c) Storage
- WASA storage by zone, S of capacity
- Private storage by zone, % of capacity



. 65 -
(d) Water Balance
- by source of supply
- by type of disposal
2.  Wastewater and Drainage
1.  WASA Sewage             - by category
Connections:            - changes in period
2.  Sewage Flows            - from WASA-supplied consumers
- from other consumers
- Total
3.  Sullage Flows           - by source
4.  Stormwater Flows        - by source
5.  Blockages               - by category, time to repair
3. Number of staff (ti) approved and (ii) in-post) by category and function;
Headquarters and Operations.
4. Financial
Regular:
-      Average cost per million gallons produced (water) and disposed
(sewage, stormwater) by zone.
-      Average revenue per million gallons produced by zone.
-      Average age of receivables by zone.
-      Proportion of receivables older than 2 quarters and 8 quarters.
-      Collection efficiency, by zone, by consumer type, per employee.
Annual:
-      Quick current ratio
-      Debt to equity ratio
-      Debt service ratio
-      Working ratio
-      Rate of return on revalued fixed assets
B. Lahore Development Authority - LDA
1.  Land Development:
-      Average cost of land acquired
-      Average duration of land acquisition
-      Number (area) of acquisition still pending more than -x years
after commencement.
-      Average selling price of plots (per m2)
-      Proportion of plots allotted
-      Proportion of plots sold
-      Deposits as a proportion of sale price and of estimated final
cost.
-      Stock of land held awaiting development
-      Stock of land being developed



- 66 -
2. Staff Numbers
((i) approved and (ii) in-post)
-      By function and by category.
3. In addition, see E below.
E. For Guiawala and Sialkot Corporations and MDA
1. Water
1. Water Production:       -  Average daily production, by Zone.
Unaccounted for water, by zone.
2. Number of               -  New and cumulative connections, metered
Connections:               and unmetered, water and sewer,
categorized by consumer type.
3.  Meters:                -  Number of new meters installed.
-  Number of meters repaired.
-  Number of meters broken for more than 2
cuarters.
-  Number of meters broken with average
consumption greater than 30,000 gallons,
per month.
2. Wastewater and Drainage
Connections                -  by category
-  changes in period
Sewage Flows               -  from WASA-supplied consumers
-  from other consumers
-  Total
Sullage Flows              -  by source
Stormwater Flows           -  by source
Blockages                  -  by category
Number of staff ((i) approved and (ii) in-post) by category and function,
Headquarters, and Operations.
3.  Financial
Regular:
-      Average cost per million gallons produced (water) and
disposed (sewage, stormwater) by zone.
-      Average revenue per million gallons produced by zone.
-      Average age of receivables by zone.
-      Proportion of receivables older than 2 quarters and
8 quarters.
-      Collection efficiency, by zone, by consumer type per
employee.
Annual:
-      Quick current ratio
-      Debt to equity ratio
-      Debt service ratio
-      Working ratio
-      Rate of return on revalued fixed assets



- 67 -
-      Stock of developed land awaiting sale
-      Average duration of development
-      Amount (area) of land requiring more than x years for
development.
Land development as a proportion of total LDA development expenditure.
2. Number of Staff:
((i) approved and (ii) in-post)
-      By function and by category
3.  Financial Ratios:
-      Quick current ratio
-      Working ratio
-      Debt service ratio
-      Rate of return on land development
C. Multan Development Authority - MDA
1. Land DeveloDment:
-      Average cost of land acquired
-      Average duration of land acquisition
-      Number (area) of acquisition still pending more than x years
after commencement.
-      Average selling price of plots (per mz)
-      Proportion of plots allotted
-      Proportion of plots sold
-      Deposits as a proportion of sale price and of estimated final
cost.
-      Stock of land held awaiting development
-      Stock of land being developed
-      Stock of developed land awaiting sale
-      Average duration of development
-      Amount (area) of land requiring more than x years for
development.
Land development as a proportion of total LDA development expenditure.
2. Number of Staff:
((i) approved and (ii) in-post)
-      By function and by category
3. In addition, see E below.
D, Municipdl Corporations
1. Financial
-      Average income by source, per 1,000 population.
-      Average expenditure, by service, per 1,000 population.
-      Recurrent expenditure as a percentage of total expenditure.
-      Debt service ratio.



- 68 -
APPENDIX-D
ICR MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE



- 69 -
The World IBank                                   Islamabad Office              Telephone: (9251) 819781-6
INTERNATIONAL 13ANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION ANO OEVELOPMENT   20-A, Shahrah e Jamhuriat. Ramna 5/1 Facsimile: 279848
INTERNATIONAL OEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION              Islamabad, Pakistan          Teiex-:  5827 IBRO PK
March 13, 1998
Mr. Tariq Sultan
Chairman, Planning and Development Board
Govemment of Punjab
Lahore, Pakistan
Dear Mr. Sultan:
PAKISTAN - Punjab Urban DevelopmentProject (Cr. 1895-PAX)
Supervision Mission Report
OQur February 1998 Supervision and Implementation Completion Report (ICR) mission to
Lahoi e has reported the status of the Punjab Urban Development Project. I confirm the mission's
recorrimendations contained in the attached Aide-Memoire.
I am pleased to note that, following the January 1998 tariff increase, the mission estimates
that Lahore WASA shall be in full compliance with the project's financial covenants this financial
year. This positive action by Government of Punjab shall help ensure the sustainability of WASA,
and should also assist you to obtain further interest by the private sector in Lahore's water and
wastewater services.
The mission's view is that it will be difficult to fully complete the contracts for the North
Lahore drainage schemes by March 31, 1998, despite the one year extension of the Credit already
allowed by the Bank. GoPunjab has indicated its intention to request a further 3 month extension
of the Credit to complete the works. As explained during our recent CAS discussions, the Bank is
enforcing a uniform policy of no extensions in closing dates, except in cases of force majeure. We
therefoie propose to close the project on March 31, 1998 and to cancel the unutilized balanGe. The
GoPunjab would.need to make altemative funding arrangements"to comptete the unfinished works
and clear any remauuning contractual liabilities from its'own resources. The GoPunjab would also
need tD finalize and release funding for the secondary and tertiary drainage, and road carpeting in
North Lahore (as agreed in March 1997), as the PUDP drainage schemes will not be effective
without this additional infrastructure.
The mission agreed on a schedule for completing the project's ICR and the operational
plan for the operation and maintainence of project assets after closure of the project. I would like
to highlight the importance of this operational plan. It is critical that this plan confirms the full
acceptance of operation and maintenance functions by the agency to be responsible, and
Tehw: S827 IBRO PK Q Telephone: (92 51) 8197814 m FAX (92 51) 279648



Mr. Tariq Sultan                          - 70 -                    March 13, 1998
demonstrates that the arrangements are financially and technically sustainable. At present it is not
clear that such arrangements exist for the traffic improvements in Lahore, and the upgraded
infrastructure in North East Lahore (Mahmood Booti) and Sialkot.
With best regards,
Sincerely yours,
/cto
Paldtn&Af  nsa
South Asia Region
Attachment: Mission Aide-Memoire
cc:    Mr. Aftab Ahmad Khan                     Mr. Sajid Hasan
Secretary                                Joint Secretary (Banks)
Economic Affairs Division                Economic Affairs Division
Govermment of Pakistan                   Government of Pakistan
Islamabad, Pakistan                      Islamabad, Pakistan
Mr. Mian Mohanumad Amin                  Mr. Clive Warren
Managing Director                        Head of Pakistan Section
Water & Sanitation Agency (WASA)         Overseas Dev. Administration
Lahore, Pakistan                         London, UK
Mr. Shahzad Jamil                        Mr. Abdul Karim Lodhi
Director General                         Executive Director
Housing & Physical Planning              The World Bank
37/1, Murli Dhar Road                    Washington, DC
Lahore, Pakistan
0298ch2.doc



71
MISSION'S AIDE MEMOIRE
Summary
1.    A mission from the International Development Association (IDA) visited Lahore, Punjab from
February 23 to 28, 1998, to supervise the remaining components of, and review preparation of the
Implementation Completion Report (ICR) for, the Punjab Urban Development Project (PUDP)
(IDA Credit 1895..PAK). The Mission consisted of Messrs. Graeme Lee (Mission Leader), Toshiaki
Keicho (Urban Planner) (SASIN), Khalid Rashid (Financial Analyst) and Richard Wilson (Sanitary
Engineer) (Consultants).
2.    This Aide-memoire sets out the mission's findings and agreements reached with project agencies
and Government of Punjab (GoPunjab). The mission's recommendations are confirmed by IDA
Management.
3.    The mission met with representatives of the GoPunjab, the Housing and Physical Planning
Department, the Lahore Development Authority (LDA), and the Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency
(WASA).
4.    The mission wishes to express its thanks and appreciation to officials met in the agencies for their
assistance, courtesies and hospitality.
Mission Objectives
5.    The mission's objectives were to review the status of the project, the achievement of its
development objectives, progress with WASA's North Lahore Drainage contracts, and compliance with
credit agreements and covenants. The mission also had the objective of reviewing preparation of the
project's Implementation Completion Report, including agreeing with Government on an operational plan
for the project.
Overall Status of the Project
6.    Except for the WASA component's North Lahore Drainage and Pilot Sewer Cleaning schemes,
which were extended until March 31, 1998, the project was completed and the Credit closed in March
1997. With the fnial processing of eligible expenditures on the components which closed, and with the
partial continuation of the WASA component, to date about SDR 58.8 million has been disbursed by IDA
which is equivalent to 89 percent of the credit. Based upon the estimates discussed with the mission, a
further SDR 1 mil]l[ion would be required to complete the project up to March 31, 1998. The balance of
about SDR 5 million will be canceled.



72
rnijaD urDan Deveiopment rroject JiuA Credit - FAIL IY:)
Agency wise I:elt UbMaion Summary - (miion SM)
rebruary-...
Agency                                      -7 -ifsnurser- -ieq. or creRff  -1ET oa    FurpTus,V
-AU-oc-afio-h    Io Dlate    closure on 31 Mar         (ijeticit)    Utilized
"MU (kbtuaies/rStat.)                 1.347                  .
&xice  Iaxaion                        U.000
GWJranwa1a                            1.470
SiMalkot                              1.730
otal PMU                            10.340 -----      9 O-O       U.U        8099         2,441
LIA (I  A/lUMI)                      20oSo3        25.6533         O.uuO      265               ------427   98%
WASA                                :Z250U        T8c877           It.U -1V877 ---23                   83%57
Mt:L                                   LIM0.982 ~O.00                          U.92         U.12S       88%
NMA                                   03U0        .:20             O.-00U -     .0201 ----9         -  5-9%/
Other consultancy                     ).IU          M.020u -                  2---0.48                 880  %
_ o_a    _                           oS_.900 a-.S40 u                   ---D-4-            5.Sou  *5a%
7.      The project's estimated total expenditure is given in the table below. The total cost is close to the
original estimates in US dollar terms, although there are some significant variations by component.
Punjab Urban Development Project
Project Costs (All figures in Million US$)
(Draft figures and need to be finalized )
I          I                      GoP Share   IDA Share             Total       SAR Estimate
A: Lahore Urban Improvements
1: Water Supply and Rehab Equipment (WASA)                     1.35          4.66            6.02             6.4
2:  Sewerage (WASA)    1                                        1.91           6.91            8.82           10.1
3: Sewage Treatment (WASA)                                      1.00           3.11            4.11           19.8
4:  Stormwater Drainage (WASA)                                 2.65            7.78           10.43           10.5
5: WASA Technical assistance/rehab equipment                                          included above          15.7
6: DFID component (estimated as still disbursing)                                            28.50  included above
Sub total WASA                           6.91          22.47           57.88          62.50
7: LDA  - TEPA& CMP                                           11.50          41.02           52.52            30.9
8: Road & Drain Maintenance (MCL)                             0.789          1.390             2.18             2.1
9: PMU, Gujranwala & Sialkot                                    1.03         12.72            13.75           21.7
10: Multan           I          r                              0.09           1.46             1.55            0.5
11: Supervision and contingencies                                                     included above          27.5
Total                           1                             20.33          79.05          127.87         145.20
3                                                               _________________________~~~~~~~~~



73
8.    Status of Lahore WASA Component: The bulk of the work on the two North Lahore Drainage
contracts has been completed. However, there is still a considerable amount of finishing work on both
contracts which the mission considers will not be possible to complete before March 31, 1998. This is
despite the agreement reached in March 1997 that no part of the Siddique Pura work would be started
that could not be completed and commissioned as a fully functioning component of the drainage
network before M:arch 1998. This condition was imposed on the Siddique Pura contract since it was
being carried out under very difficult conditions and it was estimated that the contractor would have
difficulty in meeting the completion target based on his previous performance. No such condition was
imposed on the Chotta Ravi contract since it was not foreseen that the contractor would have any
problems in fulfilling the target dates. The Pilot Sewer Cleaning Project contract in the Old City
sewerage zone is well behind schedule for understandable reasons. The majority of the balance of the
WASA component (excluding the deferred sewage treatment plant) is complete, except for the following
outstanding items. Motors on the sewage pumps at C2 Khokhar Road Pump Station are defective and may
need to replaced if the fault cannot be satisfactorily rectified on site. A non-PUDP contract which
involves a major link to feed sewage to the C1 Mahmood Booti is the subject of extended litigation and
means that the pump station is only able to operate at minimal output.
9.    In view of the incomplete status of the North Lahore drainage and pilot sewer cleaning contracts,
GoPunjab indicated that it would request the Bank's management for a further extension of the credit to
permit:
(a)    cornpletion of works (3 months required); and
(b)   full release of retention money (12 months required after issuance of substantial
cornpletion certificate).
The mission indicated that outstanding items, such as overdue audit reports and PC-1 for roads and
secondary/tertiary drains in North Lahore, would need to be resolved prior to consideration of any request
for further credit extension.
10.   Lahore WASA has implemented a further tariff increase from January 1, 1998, yielding a total
increase for the financial year of about 24 percent. This is estimated to be sufficient to meet the required
3.5 percent rate of return in FY98. WASA has also provided a copy of its audit report for FY97.
11.   The status of the project's other components as at the March 1997 mission is as follows:
(a)    Lahore Walled City Upgrading and Conservation:  All the upgrading and
conservation contracts in the Walled City are complete, including an additional
project to repair the rain damaged city wall between Sheranwala Gate and
Kashmiri Gate.
(b)   Ncorth-east Lahore Upgrading: All the upgrading contracts in the North-east
Area are 100 percent complete with the exception of Contract 11 which was not
wholly completed due to financial failure of contractor and Contract 12 which is
85 percent complete. (These are now reported as 100 percent completed.)
(c)    Lathore Traffic and Transport: All of the street improvement schemes listed in
the revised PC-1 are now complete or in the process of being completed. The
traffic signal contract is complete and in all a total of 50 sets of traffic signals
have been installed over a wide area. Detection equipment has been installed at
three junctions on Mall Road and was observed to be operating satisfactorily. The



74
signals on Mall Road offer green wave movement through a system of cableless
linking. Equipment for a further 10 sets of signals has been delivered under the
contract.
(d)    Multan:  The upgrading projects, in the Walled City and in Usmanpura, have
been completed since 1993. The March 1997 Mission visited both projects and
found the upgrading works to be in good repair and functioning as designed. In
Usmanpura, in particular, the provision of underground sewers and water mains
and the paving of the streets have greatly improved sanitation although this could
be further improved through more frequent collection of solid waste.
(e)    Gujranwala and Sialkot: The March 1997 Mission visited Gujranwala and
Sialkot, and found all physical works 100 percent complete. In Gujranwala,
physical works were found to be in good condition and functioning as designed.
The filling in and reclamation of the pond within the upgraded area is a major
benefit but the potential of this area has yet to be fully realized. Inadequate
frequency of solid waste collection was noted.
(f)    MCL: Equipment purchases were completed, and the technical assistance for
financial and technical management were undertaken.
(g)    Studies: The majority of the Technical Assistance and studies have been
completed except for the Metropolitan Management and Finance study (not
done), the Lahore master plan update (being undertaken by GoPunjab), and the
property tax streamlining study (proposed instead through Federal funding).
12.   Audit Reports: The mission received a copy of the Lahore WASA audit report for FY97.
Outstanding audit reports include the MCL project, Special Account and SOE audit for FY97, and entity
financial reports and audits for Lahore Development Authority, Multan Development Authority, and the
Municipal Corporations of Gujranwala and Sialkot for FY96 and FY97. All outstanding audit reports are
overdue and are required immediately.
Implementation Completion Report
13.   In January 1997, IDA initially informed the Borrower of its responsibility for the Implementation
Completion Report (ICR) that has to be prepared on credit closing, and this was followed up in December
1997. The Borrower is required to submit its own evaluation report, to develop an acceptable action plan
for the operational phase of the project, and to assist IDA in preparing the ICR by making various
statistical data available. The mission has explained these requirements again to the Borrower. Since the
Credit was closed on March 31, 1997 except for the extension of a part of the WASA component, all the
project agencies except WASA have already submitted their draft evaluation reports and WASA's part is,
now being prepared. The Government has nominated the Director General, Housing and Physical
Planning, to prepare a Borrower's consolidated report, to be included in the ICR, and it was agreed that
this will be provided in draft by mid-April 1998.
14.   As mentioned above, the Borrower is required to develop an operational plan to ensure continued
operations of the assets created under the project, and the plan will be appended to the ICR. The mission
explained that all the assets and facilities procured/constructed under the project need to be transferred to



75
the agencies charged with their operation and maintenance (O&M) and that each responsible agency has
to prepare an operational plan. The plan should set out:
(a)   the required institutional arrangements and staffing needs;
(b)    estiLmates of the additional O&M costs resulting from the assets created under the project
and source of such funding; and
(c)   the key physical, operational and financial indicators to monitor the performance of these
assets.
15.   To enable the ICR to be completed within six months of the credit closing date (March 31, 1998),
as required under the present procedures, the mission and the Borrower have agreed on the following
schedule for ICR preparation:
(a)    WASA to submit its evaluation report by March 31, 1998
(b)    Borrower to submit to IDA its draft ICR and operational plan by April 15, 1998
(c)   IDA to submit a draft ICR to Borrower for comment by April 30, 1998
(d)    Borrower to submit its final ICR and operational plan by May 31, 1998
(e)    Borrower to submit its comment on IDA's draft ICR by June 15, 1998
(f)   IDA to finalize the ICR by September 30, 1998
Operational Phase of the Project
16.   The mission understands that most of the completed works have been transferred to the agencies
responsible for O&:M, and they are demonstrating benefits. However, there are some critical issues related
to the operational phase of the project that need to be worked out quickly in order to sustain the benefits.
Such issues, which must be addressed specifically in the project's operational plan to be submitted in
draft by mid-April 1998, include:
(a)    need to develop a program to complete those aspects of the drainage schemes in
North Lahore which cannot be completed by credit closing date (including the
GoPunjab-funded secondary and tertiary drains, and road carpeting, plus any
aspects of the PUDP-funded scheme which is not complete by March 31, 1998);
(b)   institutional arrangements and financing for traffic infrastructure O&M in Lahore
including electricity for street lighting and traffic signals (it must be decided
which agency, MCL or TEPA, is responsible for this O&M, and the responsible
agency must prepare an operational plan);
(c)    arrangements to avoid the disposal of solid waste into sewers and drains (Lahore
WASA has initiated a campaign together with an NGO, and this should be
expanded);
(d)    a resolution to the situation in Sialkot where completed works have not been
accepted by SMC yet, and they are now inoperative (SMC must commit itself to
the O&M and prepare an operational plan);
the need to complete transfer of full operational responsibility to WASA of the North-east
Lahore upgrading infrastructure (WASA must prepare an operational plan);



76
(e)   the completion of WASA sewage pump station component for Mahmood Booti -
C1 (feeder sewers) and Khokhar road - C2 (malfunctioning pump motors);
(f)    some mechanisms to replicate the successful pilot projects (upgrading,
conservation, sewer cleaning, etc.) must be considered; and
(g)   implementation of priority recommendations in the various studies conducted
under the project.
17.   One of the important lessons from the project is that the same agency should be responsible for
planning, implementation and O&M of infrastructure schemes. Traditionally, provincial Development
Authorities are responsible for planning/implementation/construction of infrastructure projects, and works
are handed over to municipalities for O&M. In some cases, however, this arrangement has led to
inoperative infrastructure systems as municipalities are either reluctant to take over or incapable of
maintaining the systems.



77
APPENDIX-E
BORROWER'S EVALUATION



78
APPENDIX E
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
PAKISTAN
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
(Cr. 1895-PAK)
BORROWER'S EVALUATION
I.    INTRODUCTION
Background
The Punjab Urban Development Project was formulated in collaboration with World Bank in order to
improve the existing facilities of water supply/sewerage, drainage, road net work, street light, community
development etc. in the cities of Lahore, Multan, Gujranwala and Sialkot. The project also aimed at
preparation of base maps of 12 cities in the Punjab and development studies in 10 cities namely
Gujranwala, Sialkot, Sheikhupura, Sargodha, Sahiwal, Bahawalpur, Rahimyar Khan, Burewala and Mian
Channu.
The development credit agreement 1895-PAK was signed during June 1988. The project was approved
by ECNEC in its meeting held on 24.5.1989 at a cost of Rs.3296.22 million of which 63 percent was
being financed by World Bank, 14 percent by ODA and the remaining 23 percent by Punjab Government.
The effective date was 1.8.1989. The Project was scheduled for completion in March 1997.
During execution of the Project revision of the PC-I was necessitated due to inflation and cost over runs.
Accordingly, Umbrella PC-I was prepared during January 1994 updating overall provisions to Rs.
4452.352 million. The ECNEC approved the revised Project on 18.9.1994.
H.    PROJECT OBJECTIVES
Original Project Objectives and Components
The objectives of PUDP were preparation and implementation of an integrated Urban Development
Programme to arrest the decay in urban living conditions, improve municipal services and development
strategies to cope with the continuing high level of urban growth particularly delivery of services to the
poor. The development of human resources through cost recovery, improved management and training
would enable similar schemes for replication in other cities of the province. The main objectives of the
project were as under:
(i)    To improve technical financial and management performance of the key urban
institutions in Lahore and strengthen local government institutions in Gujranwala, Sialkot
and Multan.



79
(ii)   To improve local resource mobilization and cost recovery capacity achieving more
efficient and effective resource utilization.
(iii)   To demonstrate the value of coordinated area up-gradation.
(iv)   To reduce urban services deficit in water supply, sewerage, drainage, traffic control and
shelter.
(v)    To improve the quality of life and production capacity of the urban poor and protect
urban environment.
(vi)-  To prepare a frame work for Punjab Intermediate Cities Project.
The main agencies responsible for implementation of the Project were:
(i)    Government of the Punjab
(ii)   Lahore Development Authority (U.D Wing)
(iii)   Lahore Development Authority - WASA
(iv)   Metropolitan Corporation Lahore
(v)    Multan Development Authority
(vi)   Project Management Unit
The details of the components implemented under PUDP by various agencies are as under:
Project              Executing Agency          Physical improvement and objectives
Component.
Pilot Project     Project Management Unit  Provision of improved basic facilities viz. water
Gujranwala.                               supply, sewerage, brick pavement, road metalling,
storm water channels, pond reclamation, street
light in Katchi Pumpwali, Gujranwala
(approximately 65 hectares)
Pilot Project     Project Management Unit.  Provision of basic civic amenities such as water
Sialkot                                   supply, sewerage, drainage, brick pavement, road
metalling, street light of about 115 hectares in
Fateh Garh, Sialkot.
Pilot Project     Multan Development      Provision of piped water supply, sewerage, roads,
Multan.           Authority.              open spaces, schools, public facilities, street lights,
solid waste disposal etc. in an area of about 10.1
hectares (Walled City and Usmanpura, Multan).
North-east Area   L.D.A. - (U.D Wing).     Up-gradation of about 3 50 hectares in North-east
Up-gradation                              Area of Lahore by providing new water mains,
Lahore                                    sewerage, side/surface drains, street
pavement/roads, street light, shifting of existing
trunk infrastructure, improvement of solid waste
collection system, community development works
_______________             etc.



80
Walled city Up-    L.D.A - (U.D. Wing).    Replacement of water mains, provision of
gradation and                              drainage, sewerage, solid waste collection system,
Conservation                               street pavement, roads, community centres and up-
Lahore                                     gradation of schools of walled city Lahore,
estimated area 130 hectares.
Traffic and       L.D.A - (TEPA)           Improvement of major city roads, crossings,
Transport, Lahore.                         procurement, installation of traffic signals etc.
Trunk             L.D.A /WASA.             Provision of new tubewells, main transmission
Infrastructure                            lines, distribution lines, improvement of sewerage
Lahore.                                    and drainage system and acquisition of land for
_  sewage treatment plant.
Road & Drainage   Metropolitan Corporation   To improve the capability and capacity for
maintenance of    Lahore.                  maintenance of road side drainage and road
Lahore.                                    rehabilitation system etc.
Feasibility Studies,  Project Management Unit  To prepare medium term action programme for
Master Planning &                          infrastructure investment and institutional and
Project Preparation                        financial strengthening of ten cities namely
for Ten cities and                         Gujranwala, Sialkot, Sheikhupura, Sargodha,
base mapping in 12                         Sahiwal, Bahawalpur, Rahimyar Khan, Vehari,
Punjab cities.                             Burewala & Mian Chunnu. Base mapping for
Lahore Gujranwala, Sialkot, Sheikhupura,
Sargodha, Sahiwal, Multan, Bahawalpur, Rahimyar
Khan, Vehari, Burewala, Mian Chunnu.
Strengthening of    PRTC                   Strengthening of PRTC - operations, vehicle
Punjab Road                                maintenance and financial management capacity.
Transport
Corporation.
Project           PMU                      To ensure efficient management and co-ordination
Management Unit.                           of multi sectoral projects in addition to carrying out
various studies for improving urban management.
Special Loan Covenants/Agreements: (UNDER IDA CREDIT 1895-PAK)
Covenants Description              Compliance Status.
PMU to
- send quarterly progress reports to IDA Complied with.
within one month of the end of each
quarter.
WASA/(LDA) to
- implement proposed annual tariff  WASA (LDA) increased water tariff/sewerage charges in
increase.                          February, 1988, April 1989, July 1990, July 1991, July
1993, Dec. 1994 and Nov.1996.
- Acquire land for sewage treatment  Acquired
plant



81
- adopt land pricing policy which will   LDA has revised reserve price of plots w.e.f. 23.10.1992.
ensure an overall financial surplus and
will include provision for financing non
revenue generating investment.
MDA to
- enhance water and sewerage charges. MDA enhanced water and sewerage charges in April 1992,
July 1992, April 1993 & October 1993.
- adopt a land pricing policy which will  Enhanced/revised reserve price of plots w.e.f. from 21-02-
ensure an overall f inancial surplus and   1993.
will include provision for financing non
revenue generating investment.
GMC to
- enhance water and sewerage charges   GMC enhanced water and sewerage charges in June, 1991,
June 1993 and July 1994
SMC to
- enhance water and sewerage charges.  SMC enhanced water and sewerage charges in June 1992
______________________________  and July 1994.
IH. IMPLEMENTATION EXPERIENCE AND RESULTS
(a)    Actual Achievements/Implementation by January, 1998: The closing date for the project
was 31.3.97. Most of the project components were completed before the cut of date.
However extension was granted by World Bank for completion of on going projects of
WASA, Lahore up to 31-3-1998.
(b)    Latest Position Of Physical And Financial Terms: In financial terms 97.04 percent of the
over all cost of the project stands utilized by 31.3.1998 (Table-I).
(c)   Implementation Time Table As Compared To Estimate: As per original plan, the
components of PUDP were to start during 1987 and work to be physically completed in
1996. However, most of the components were completed by 31.3.1997.
(d)    Actual Cost and Financing Arrangements As Compared To Estimate: The original
estimate prepared during June, 1987 for PUDP was Rs. 3296.22 million as indicated in
Table-LI column No.5. Owing to numerous reasons - inflation, change in scope, delays,
chamge in design, depreciation of rupee etc. revised cost has gone up to Rs.4452.352
Million. An amount of Rs.4320.820 Million has been spent up till 31.3.1998 which
coimes to 97.04 percent of the total approved cost of the project.
(e)    Bottlenecks:
Multan Development Authority
MDA had its first experience of handling an international funded project, therefore,
certain problems at the initial stage relating to the format of contracts and understanding



82
of man-month based contracts resulted in delays. The operation of special dollar account
remained under discussion resulting in delay. Frequent management changes also
affected the flow of work and achievement of results as well as continuity of the project.
Multi departmental control of the project within the same organization had also its
bearing on pace of the project. Despite above issues, the project was by and large
implemented successfully.
Lahore Development Authority(CMIP)
Great difficulty was experienced during execution of the sewerage network in the
upgrading area prior to the construction of permanent pumping station of Northern
Sewerage District.
Most of the residents of the area do not have civic sense regarding use of sewerage
system. They throw polythene bags filled with garbage/wastes into manholes resulting
blockages in the sewerage system. There should be an arrangement to educate the people
regarding proper use of sewerage system.
At the time of preparation for the aided projects, it is recommended that guaranties
should be obtained that World Bank and the Government of Punjab shall entertain the
request for obtaining funds by the executing agencies and that they would clear their
financial liabilities within a fortnight from the receipt of such applications.
Lahore Development Authority (TEPA)
Following were major problems faced by TEPA in implementing PUDP:
Counter Part Funding: During the tenure of IDA credit, TEPA had faced a continuous
problem of counter part funding. This situation not only often slowed down the pace of
work but also dampened the zeal for fast progress amongst the contractors.
Land Acquisition Problem: Some of the schemes implemented through PUDP needed
land acquisition. Since this component of the cost was not covered through World Bank
funding, the funds were to be arranged by the Govt. of Punjab .It took sufficient time in
arranging these funds. As a result, implementation was delayed. The improvement of
Qurtaba Crossing and Safanwala Chowk are two examples which are still incomplete.
Modernization of Construction Industry: The construction industry in the world has
entered into hi-tech regime, whereas in Pakistan contractors are still operating largely
with manual implements. This is because Pakistan's construction industry is still in its
infancy. Due to lack of modern machinery speed of work generally remains slow.
Sometimes this deficiency makes difficult to achieve acceptable standards/quality.
Therefore, there is a need that Pakistan construction industry is provided with
facilities/concessions so that they could equip themselves with modern road building
machinery.
Rapid Turnover of Top Management: The transfer of top as well as lower officials also
remained a problem during  implementation of the project, for example Project
Management Unit (PMU) - the institution especially established to monitor and
coordinate activities between various implementing agencies, Govt. departments and
World Bank - experienced frequent changes of its Director General. Besides Secretary



83
H&PP and the Chairman P&D were also transferred more than once. Similarly, D.G.,
LDA and Chief TEPA were changed a number of times. All these changes affected
continuity/ understanding of the project and approach to tackle the problems. These
changes certainly contributed towards decrease in the pace of project implementation and
quatlity.
Ineffective Training: The component of training has proved to be almost in-
effective.Either it was less than required or it had been used in inappropriate manner as
the benefits of training component could not trickle down to the field operators. After the
experience of this project it is urgently felt that our engineers need training in the
following fields: (i) use of road testing machinery with provision of a set of such
equipment to TEPA; (ii) technical know how for construction of manholes in the road;
(iii) maintenance of road surface levels for efficient storm water drainage; (iv) provision
of efficient, durable and economical drainage system; and (v) treatment of road edges,
verges, central medians etc. for beautification, drainage and durability.
Lack of Coordination: During implementation, coordination between WASA, WAPDA,
Telephone, Sui Gas, etc. remained an acute problem. Due to lack of coordination with
W'ASA, the problem of road drainage remained alarming. Uncoordinated actions of other
departments like WAPDA, Telephone, etc. continually caused digging of completed
roads which had adversely affected the life and riding quality of roads. Although PMU
was created to solve such problems, yet it could not bring desired changes as its orders
were not followed by various independent agencies.
Encroachments: Most of the roads widened/up-graded by TEPA have been encroached
by transporters, workshops and other business activities. All the drives to remove these
encroachments so far have failed to produce desired results. If these encroachments
continue the benefits of the project will reduce significantly.
Misc. Problems: The project over emphasized physical features and almost neglected
many other important aspects like: (i) drivers and public education through press,
electronic media, schools, etc.; (ii) road safety measures like establishment of road safety
unit; (iii) installation of proper road signs and necessary road fixtures; and (iv)
Establishment of research unit in TEPA so that experience/knowledge gained through
PUDP could be transferred to other cities of the Punjab.
WASA, Lahore
Project completion was delayed by two years. The basic factors which contributed to the
delay in project implementation, and the only partial achievement of project objectives
were: poor project design; poor selection of consultants and poor pre-qualification of
contractors and their subsequent unsatisfactory performance; inadequate knowledge of
Bank's Procurement Guidelines and Disbursement procedures; and a lack of commitment
to the overall development objectives of the project with a heavy focus on physical
works.
Other factors affecting project implementation included:
(i)    Factors beyond Government control, such as; unrealistic original implementation
schedules because of insufficient project preparation and Bank's overestimation
of capabilities of the implementing agencies.



84
(ii)   Factors subject to Government control, such as shortage of counterpart funds on
account of acute fiscal problems, poor inter-agency co-ordination; weak project
monitoring and devaluation, frequent transfers of key staff;
(iii)   Factors subject to Implementation Agency control, such as; inadequate
preparation of initial design; delay in procurement of consultancy services;
delays related to land acquisition and shifting of encroachments and underground
services; inadequate staffmg; cumbersome payment procedures and poor project
management and supervision.
(f)    Sustainability (Operation & Maintenance of Projects Implemented under PUDP)
Multan Development Authority
The Project has all the ingredients to sustain its continuity to benefit the people of
Multan. However, it does require major funding which up till now has not materialized.
The projects in water supply, sewerage and sanitation sector are likely to get support
from Asian Development Bank. Therefore, the continuity and sustainability in this sector
is expected.
The structure plan itself is proving to be beneficial in general because most of the current
projects that MDA is sponsoring are in line with the guidelines, growth patterns given in
the structure plan. However, the exact and desired implementation of the structure plan
requires that it is supported by local area plans which are yet to be prepared along with
the set of policy statement for these local area plans. The preparation of local area plans
could not take place as no priority funding is yet available and the technical capacity of
MDA is limited to take up these plans in details.
The up-gradation project (pilot project) is found to be very successful. However, no
replication has been possible due to paucity of funds.
Lahore Development Authority (TEPA)
Presently TEPA is maintaining its improved schemes from its own resources. But due to
lack of financing, TEPA is not in a position to maintain its roads for an indefinite period.
In future these roads shall be transferred to Metropolitan Corporation Lahore (MCL) for
operation and maintenance as it is their responsibility.
The operation and maintenance of traffic signals of urban traffic control (UTC) system
comprising 50 junctions is presently being done through M/S Phillips/TEPA. The issue of
funding for future maintenance of UTC system is under active consideration of the
Govt. of Punjab.
Project Management Unit
The works completed under Pilot Project Gujranwala and part of Pilot Project Sialkot
(Tubewells and Disposal work) have been handed over to Municipal Corporation
Gujranwala and Municipal Corporation Sialkot respectively. The civic bodies are
important institutions mainly concerned with the operation and implementation of urban



85
development schemes and their maintenance. They are manned by trained and
experienced staff and in their Annual Development Budgets, they have sufficient amount
to maintain the completed projects and schemes.
As; far as feasibility studies and urban master planning and other advisory consultancy
studies which have been carried out under supervision of PMU are concerned, they can
be utilized at the time of new development schemes sanctioned by the
Government/Donor Agencies for improvement of urban development programme to be
undertaken by various development agencies as the studies contain both long term &
short term plans for Development Schemes for providing all kinds of basic amenities to
the urban as well as rural population, like water supply, drainage, sewerage, building of
roads, and other sectoral schemes. The institutions to which development works are
allocated, will be responsible for the operation of these schemes.
WASA, Lahore
Overall project sustainability can be expected. Most of the physical assets created
through the project are ready for regular operation and maintenance. However, there is a
risk that overall resource constraints and the low priority traditionally given to O&M
expenditures may cause inadequate maintenance budgets to be provided to these
agencies, thereby endangering sustainability of the project in general, and reducing the
useful lives of works in particular.
(g)    Project Outcome/Achievements of Major Objectives
Multan Development Authority
The project has been successfully completed to the extent that all the objectives were
aclhieved to a reasonable degree of satisfaction except that a minor study namely,
financial study - Double Entry Book Keeping System and its Computerization is still not
co:mplete, particularly lacking on the side of computerization; although under this study
considerable work has been done, personnel has been trained and hardware set up.
Multan Development Studies have been completed. 16 input studies were prepared and
final reports (16) including preparation of structure plans were completed.
Medium and long term projects/priority programmes were identified and details
prepared. Pre-feasibility and feasibility studies of these projects were done including
preliminary engineering of the priority investment projects.
Th,e aerial photography entire controlled area of MDA i.e. 362 square kilometers of
Multan was completed. Subsequent to which topographical maps/sheets were prepared at
the scale of 1:2000 and 1:5000. The vehicles, support equipment were also purchased.
Thie up-gradation studies were conducted and two pilot projects were designed and
implemented. The work of pilot projects is intact and people are enjoying the services.



86
Lahore Development Authority (CMP)
Walled City Up-gradation & Conservation:
The history of Walled City Lahore dates back to 1000 years. It is a highly populated area
which has a number of and architectural buildings of National and International
Importance.
Under the Punjab Urban Development Project an area of 130 hectares was taken up for
up-gradation and conservation. A population of 200 thousand people has been benefited
by this programme.
Master planning of this component has been carried out by dividing the area into 17
upgrading contracts, 9 conservation contracts and 8 schools upgrading contracts.
Simultaneously, the schools upgrading contracts completed during 1992-93 have been
handed over to MCL. The conservation contracts except reconstruction of City Wall
were completed up to 30.6.1996 while reconstruction of City Wall has been completed by
28.2.1997. The upgrading contracts were completed during 1993-94 and works stand
handed over to the concerned department.
North-east Area Up-gradation, Lahore
North-east Area Lahore is located in the North-east Section of Lahore and bound by
Bund Road, G.T.Road and Shalimar Escape Drain. The area is about 350 hectares out of
which nearly 300 hectares is populated and was taken up for up-gradation under this
component. A population of nearly 250,000 has been benefited. Master planning for this
component was done according to which the area was divided into 12 upgrading
contracts. The area was lacking civic amenities and was therefore, taken up for up-
grading and improvement under this programme. The services like water supply,
sewerage, drainage, street paving, road asphalting, street lighting and solid waste
collection have been provided or improved in the area where these were existing but
deficient in capacity or quality.
Lahore Development Authority (TEPA)
The project substantially achieved its physical objectives. Most of the physical works and
studies envisioned under the project were completed and about 98 percent of the credit
was utilized. The project provided an acceptable overall economic rate of return.
However, it is uncertain whether the progress made in this area can be sustained in an
environment where public sector agencies are generally handicapped by lack of
performance based incentive structures, cumbersome bureaucratic procedures, frequent
political interference in posting and transfers etc. resulting in weak and ineffective
leadership and a high turnover of key agency staff.
Metropolitan Corporation, Lahore
Lifting dumping and sweeping capacity of garbage of MCL has increased by means of
machinery imported under the Credit and hence better civic and environmental facilities
are now provided to the citizens of Lahore.
Despite procedural delays and difficulties, MCL has made the best possible utilization of
funds.



87
In the light of Municipal Financial Consultancy report salaries/bills and personal data of
the staff has been computerized and hence the financial monitoring has improved.
Auclit aspects of the project have been taken care of in Audit Report for 1995-1996.
MCL is in a position to arrange all types of maintenance/servicing facilities to its
vehicles/machinery and hence a huge amount is being saved.
MCL could not make 100 percent utilization of allocated funds due to procedural delays
and difficulties.
Consultancy conducted by Municipal Financial Consultants was completed. However
MCL has sent a letter to LG & RD for change of procedural system in the Finance
Department.
MCL's request to World Bank for grant of extension of six months was denied otherwise
MCL could import/purchase more machinery.
Project Management Unit
The main function of PMU was to monitor and consolidate activities of implementing
agencies. PMU successively carried out this responsibility, as it had been regularly
moniitoring the disbursement of funds and stressing upon the agencies for keeping up-to-
date, financial statements. Therefore regular reports of financial activities and
development efforts used to be collected from them and consolidated in a comprehensive
pro:Forma for information of Government and World Bank. A strict watch had been kept
on lhe expenditure incurred under various Heads.
Brief description of projects carried out by PMU is as under:
Base Mapping: This was technically a very important -exercise which was got
accomplished through, Survey of Pakistan. 6-contracts were awarded to them for
completion of the work. Rs.73.00 million were spent on this consultancy. It was a part of
Feasibility Studies of 12 cities which had been got separately conducted. Thus we are
novv in possession of valuable maps of 12 intermediate cities, which can be utilized for
preparing plans for development of these cities from engineering and technical point of
view. This is a step forward for achieving the goal of urban development. All the Nation
building departments may consult these maps before undertaking the tasks of over all
development of a town, in the field of drainage, sewerage, water supply, sanitation, street
lighting, disposal of solid waste etc. These are essential civic amenities which in the
modern world, are included in the basic rights of citizens.
The base mapping has been got done as a part of Punjab Urban Development Project,
Phase-I. It is necessary that full advantage may be derived from them through a Phase-II.
The whole exercise will otherwise go waste as there is no likelihood of any serious
contemplation on the part of Government to attract foreign investment for undertaking
the second phase of urban development programme in these 12 cities in the near future.
Feasibility Studies - 10 cities: Punjab Urban Development Project included the
Feasibility Studies which were got conducted through local and foreign consultants at a
cost of Rs.59 million. The work started in 1993 and was completed during 1996. The



88
consultants presented 2 volumes on each city to PMU. These financial reports have been
examined by the staff of PMU. They are detailed study of civic problems being faced by
the ever-growing population of these cities. The consultants have analyzed these
problems and have suggested ways and means from technical and engineering stand point
to undertake the schemes and implement them. The works like, providing civic amenities
and basic facilities to the urban population and sectoral study have incorporated all
sewerage, drainage, water supply and sanitation, upgrading of roads and streets, street
light and disposal of solid waste. Detailed PC-I forms have also been prepared and
appended to facilitate the task of concerned engineers at the time of undertaking
developmental activities.
It is unfortunate that after completion of this task, the second phase, i.e., detailed
designing of these cities could not be got accomplished although it was identified to
donor agencies. Further development in this regard was therefore pending. If funds are
not made available by the Government implementation of these studies, the proposals
contained therein may go waste as the problems of civic population will keep on
increasing and the planning suggested in the studies will not remain in conformity with
the problems.
PMU Advisory Consultants: This consultancy was awarded against an amount of Rs.
30.00 million. The main jobs of this consultancy were project management engineering,
financial studies and training programme for PMU. The achievements of this consultancy
are not up to work. Major work was done in WASA, MCL, Gujranwala, TEPA (LDA)
and to some extent in PMU. The consultants had admitted in their report that the
suggestions which were given by them to WASA, for reorganizing their structure, had
not been implemented. The consultants have also carried out financial studies of
Municipal Corporation Gujranwala. In PMU they could not make any substantial
contribution. They only suggested the revision of certain proformas on which progress
reports are prepared. This sort of consultancy is required in the beginning of a project, but
in this case this was undertaken very late, almost in the last phase of the project when it
could not serve any useful purpose.
Pilot Project, Gujranwala: The aims of the project were to improve social facilities like
water supply, sewerage, brick pavement, road metalling, drainage, storm water channel,
pond reclamation and street light at a cost of Rs.60.065 Million. For this purpose, the
areas identified was Katchi Pumpwali (approx. 65 hectares). All the works have been
completed and handed over to Municipal Corporation Gujranwala.
Pilot Project, Sialkot The project was oriented to provide basic facilities to the people of
Sialkot like water supply, sewerage, brick pavement, road metalling; drainage storm
water channel, sanitation and street lighting at a cost of Rs.71.660 million. The area
selected for the purpose was 115 hectares in Fateh Garh, Sialkot. The project has been
completed successfully and partly handed over to Municipal Corporation Sialkot.
The Technical Staff of PMU headed by Project Director Gujranwala has successfully
completed the Pilot Projects in both the cities. They have taken concrete steps to achieve
their objectives. It could be safely concluded that Pilot Projects of these kinds, if properly
handled, could produce substantial results in providing basic amenities to Urban
Population of the area. Both from financial and engineering point of view, great success
has been achieved in the form of improvement of facilities like water supply, sewerage,



89
brilck pavement, road metalling, draining of storm water and pond reclamation within the
limited cost.
WASA, Lahore
In view of the principal objectives of the project, the overall outcome of the project was
satisfactory.
The project successfully achieved its objectives of directly improving basic urban
services, with particular orientation to the needs of the low income population. The
project has an acceptable overall EIRR at final development.
(h)    Bank's and Borrower's Performance
(i)    Bank Performance: The performance of the agencies involved can be judged
against the criteria of cost control, time of completion, quality control, co-
ordination, technology transfer achievements of projects etc.
The fact that the project cost went up from Rs.3296.22 Million to Rs.4452.352
Million and the project took 10 years as against the originally planned period of
8 years indicates that the performance of the agencies was not satisfactory.
In general, the performance of supervision missions of the World Bank was
satisfactory.
In terms of institutional development, the banks role has not been very helpful.
Their emphasis in terms of training has been on attending conferences and study
tours of higher ups rather than on appropriate training courses for project
personnel in project management and technical aspects.
However, Project identification by the Bank was satisfactory, being consistent
with the Govermment's priorities, and Bank's strategy for the country and the
sector.
The overall Project preparation and appraisal by the Bank was by and large
satisfactory. At appraisal the Bank however did not adequately assess the
capabilities of implementing agencies capacities, and the risk of insufficient
borrower commitment to certain components.
The responsibilities envisioned for the newly created PMU included co-
ordination of the activities of various agencies, monitoring implementation of
policy reforms and ensuring timely availability of counterpart resources. This
mandate turned out to be too ambitious and wide ranging, given PMU limited
capacity and its position within the Government hierarchy. The executing
agencies preferred to interact directly. with Bank, as they were not
administratively accountable to PMU. As a result, PMU remained ineffective
throughout the project implementation particularly with regard to WASA
component of PUDP.



90
The Banks performance during project supervision was generally satisfactory.
Supervision missions made concerted efforts to ensure that physical and
institutional objectives of the project were realized. However, in view of the
complicated nature of the project, the slow movement of institutional
strengthening components, and the limited success with resource mobilization
measures, attention of the supervisory missions in the latter years of project
implementation was increasingly taken up by matters relating to implementation
of physical works and studies.
The visits of supervision missions were well timed, and sufficient time was spent
in the field to review project progress. Issues were promptly identified and
addressed. Advice to resolve these problems was generally sound. Problems
faced on account of lack of technical expertise within agencies and inadequate
performance of consultants were overcome through the support and guidance
provided by missions. The strength and blend of skills deployed by IDA were
adequate.
The compliance with loan convenants was regularly monitored, and suitable
modifications made wherever necessary in the interest of project implementation.
However, compliance with financial covenants remained in default.
The Bank, the Government of Punjab and WASA generally worked well
together. Regular formal and informal exchanges took place throughout the
implementation period. The close interaction helped develop a friendly
environment which should benefit the implementation of follow up projects.
(ii)   Borrower's Performance: The borrowers participated in the project with full
enthusiasm. Performance of the borrowers in conceptualization of the project, its
preparation and implementation has been satisfactory. However on the recovery
side from the pilot projects (Multan), the borrowing organization is yet to
demonstrate appreciable results. Similarly, the component of public participation
also could not come to the desired level, primarily due to lack of awareness and
set up rules/regulations and codal formalities under which projects are generally
implemented.
Project preparation was deficient. The capacity of agencies to prepare, design and
execute projects was enhanced through "learning by doing" and exposure to new
technologies during implementation. Project implementation was slow in the
initial period because of institutional inertia and some problems encountered in
implementation of physical works. Inadequate pre-qualification of contractors
and weak supervision was a major reason for this slow pace of implementation.
However, institutional capability to meet targets gradually improved during
implementation and pace of execution improved substantially during closing
years of the projects, as agencies made efforts to remedy the situation. Physical
works and studies were satisfactorily completed during the project period.
WASA completed the physical works and studies envisioned under IDA financed
component in a satisfactory manner, and was successful in reducing its billing
cycle from quarterly basis to bi-monthly basis. Although the project was
successful in establishing a source of revenue for financing WASA's sewerage
operations, and increased the tariffs by 78.5 percent from FY91 to FY98, the



91
agency was unable to comply with the relevant financial convenants except for
FY92 and FY98. The main reason for this non-compliance is the lack of metered
consumption. Although all commercial connections are metered, out of the over
405,000 premises presently being served by WASA, only about 20 percent are
metered so far. Charges for un-metered connections are based upon annual rental
value of the properties. So long as this practice continues, tariffs cannot moderate
wasteful consumption. Also, sharply rising personnel and administrative costs
have been a problem.
IDA's procurement guidelines for works, goods and services were generally
followed, as well the eligibility criteria set out in the credit and project
agreements. However, long administrative delays were experienced in
recruitment of consultants.
Progress reporting, project monitoring, evaluation and co-ordination remained
deficient because of the weak role played by PMU.
IV.  SUMMARY OF FINDINGS, FUTURE OPERATIONS
AND KEY LESSONS LEARNT AND SUGGESTIONS
It has been observed that the executing agencies are weak in project preparation which should be
remedied as follows:
(i)   to engage well versed consultants for design;
(ii)  to get the second opinion on the designs of the project;
(iii)  to gset the design verified by the contractor also.
Due to lack of experience in scientific management, agencies should appoint management
consultants for supervision/monitoring.
Lack of inter agencies coordination poses a big problem and results in un-necessary delays. There
should be a high powered coordination committee to achieve for smooth coordination.
The effectiNve financial/physical monitoring is necessary for speedy completion of project. As
such, monihtoring unit be set up in each executing agency and extensive training facilities be
provided for this purpose.
Financial resources constraints and bans on recruitment should not be applicable in the
development projects, particularly foreign aided projects.
Timely release of counterpart funds is essential.
World Bank procedures regarding engagement of consultants, disbursements and procurement
are quite difficult. These may be simplified and explained in frequent seminars.
NOCs involving financial implications for Government of Punjab should be issued by the donors
to the agencies in consultation with the Government of Punjab.
The construction industry in Pakistan is under developed. Steps should be taken to modernize this
industry through incentives.



92
In order to facilitate transfer of technology, the local consultants should be given major role in the
international bidding.
Absence of under ground utility maps causes delays in laying under ground services. All utility
organizations should be required to maintain up-to-date utility maps.
In a number of Nation Building Activities sufficient funds are not available as a whole to under
take a particular assignment/project because of the financially unstable conditions and because of
the other funds allocating priorities of the Government. At this eventuality, there arises a need to
request the donor agencies like IDA, ODA and World Bank for the procurement of funds. It is
quite appreciative on the part of the above mentioned authorities that they had been and have
been coming forward to our financial rescue. Anyhow, the fact remains that the World Bank
instead of recommending for strict conditions may be more generous to sanction grants and if not
then softer loans to undertake such assignments. In view of the financial implications/crunch
faced by the Government of Punjab.
The procurement of counter part funds from the Government of Punjab, remained a problem due
to financial constraints and the payments made against the works done were mostly through the
79 percent of World Bank reimbursements. The recommendation is that the donor agencies must
entertain the funding requirements as and when requested for. Else, the delay in completion of
works shall remain.
There should be a specific administrative/legal instrument with the executing agencies to stop
people/residents of the area in obstructing execution of the work forcibly. Else, the delay in
timely completion of the work shall remain.
The up-gradation works are handed over to the concerned agencies like WASA, LDA and civic
bodies after completion. Despite that the complaints are referred to the executing agencies
unnecessarily. This should not happen. It should be mandatory on the agencies under taking
operation and maintenance, either procure funds from their own resources or raise such
requirements at the time of project preparation.
The city administration should enforce the law more effectively so that the assets developed or
upgraded may not be usurped by encroachers.
The departments who perform as executing agencies and those who undertake O&M should be
clearly identified/spelled out at the time of project preparation. The Government functionaries
should be bound to follow such arrangement effectively.
It is expedient that the short listing of consultants/contractors should be made purely in
accordance with the rules. Simultaneously, the staff posted on aided projects should be well
qualified/experienced to deliver the goods.
The staff posted on aided projects should not be transferred till completion of the job unless a
specific reason of performance and conduct therefore is established.
For further projects, different wings should be created to plan/design, estimate and execute aided
projects to ensure timely completion thereof.



93
The projects should be simple and action/demand oriented. In preparation of these projects,
Operation and Maintenance agencies be involved from the very beginning. It would be
approipriate if O&M authorities of the project are actually entrusted with the preparation, desitn
and implementation of the projects by strengthening their technical skills.
The delegation of powers with respect to project implementation and approval of change/orders
as per site requirement need to be decentralized.
The recovery procedures/strategies should be assessed carefully.
The urban institutions giving services should be capable enough to design, generate resources and
implement projects. There is a need to improve the post, pre and concurrent audit system so that
they are more development oriented.
The irnplementation period of the project was spread over a period of eight(8) years (1987 to
1995). The credit closing date to complete (including maintenance period) of this project was 31st
of March 1997 which was further extended by one year for drainage and sewer cleaning works.
The time horizon was very large. The infrastructure projects should not be spread over a period of
more than 2-3 years.
It has been experienced that the cost estimates prepared in 1985 were on low side. Although the
effects of possible cost over run due to inflation were included in the estimates, however during
implennentation of the project, it was found that the base rates were not realistic. With the result
that PC-I had to be revised in 1994. Realistic approach should be adopted while fixing the base
rates.
In spite of World Bank's clear guide lines the estimates were prepared on schedule of rates of
1979 plus prevailing premium until 1996 when the estimates of the drainage works were based on
markel. rates for which special exemption from the Punjab Government was obtained. In our
opinion such important decision should have been taken at the start of the project and made a part
of the agreement to ensure its implementation.
During the implementation period seven Managing Directors of WASA were transferred which
gives an average stay of one year and 8 months for one MD. Due to these frequent changes at the
top level the progress of the project was adversely affected causing costs over runs. Transfer of
executives at the top level should be minimized during a project period and may not be less than
three years for an incumbent.
The value for money spent on consultants can only be maximized if the sponsor is clear about the
terms of reference, the process of approval of the consultants reports and implementation of the
recomrmendations. Committees within the organization should be constituted to monitor
consultants appointment and reports etc.
It was noticed that officers which were given overseas training were not appointed on the jobs for
which they were trained. A clear example of this attitude was regarding posting of trained officers
in Lealc Detection Cell, Quality Control and Training Centre. The training needs and trainees
should be carefully identified. Once this is done the trained officer must be posted on the right
job.



94
V. OPERATIONAL PLAN
WASA, Lahore                                                                      -
As per existing organizational set up of WASA, the works are constructed by Construction
Directorates and on completion are handed over to Operation & Maintenance Directorates. The
existing organizational set up of WASA is quite strong, the completed works of water supply,
sewerage and drainage are successfully being operated by the operation and maintenance set up.
For the first time cleaning of trunk sewers on contract has been experimented in WASA. The use
of machinery for desilting and cleaning has been introduced. To achieve sustainable results of
desilting/cleaning of sewers a new Directorate of Sewer Cleaning has been established. A new
division in the northern area has also been established to further strengthen the operational
capacity.
Under PUDP, computerization was given special attention. A Billing Project to improve upon the
computerized billing system was launched which is being funded by ODA. To ensure that the
new systems are successfully operated and maintained, IDA approved 15 new posts to man the
new Computer Centres in each area of Revenue Directorate. New offices have been constructed
to house Computer Centre.
Gujranwala Development Authority
An Operational Plan of the Gujranwala Development Authority is summarized in the table below:
Per Month                 Per Year
I1.    Electricity charges payable to             Rs. 90,000/-          Rs. 10,80,000/-
WAPDA
2.    Detail of Employees
1) Disposal Driver   3 Nos.                   Rs.9,757/-            Rs.1,17,084/-
2) Asst Disposal     1 No.                    Rs.3,063t-              Rs.36,756/-
Driver
3) Sewermen          3 Nos.                   Rs.6,819/-              Rs.81,828/-
4) Complaint Clerk    1 No.                   Rs.2,108/-              Rs.25,296/-
5) Work Ministry     1 No                      Rs3,539/-             Rs.42,468/-
9 Nos.                  Rs.15,000/-            Rs.3,03,432/-
3.    Expenditure on Maintenance and               Rs.15,000/-            Rs. 1,80,000/-
Repairs.
TOTAL EXPENDITURE                          Rs. 1,30,286/-          Rs.15,63,432/-
Note:  Operation and maintenance will be carried out of the income/user charges recovered from the beneficiaries
by WASA, GDA.



95
Table 1: EXPENDITURE IN RESPECT OF INIIVIIUAL PC-I'S
SL. Name of Component         Approved   Revised   Expd. Up  Expd.Up to        % age
No.                             Cost        Cost        to        31.3.98    utilization
30.6.1997
1              2                 3          4          5           6           7
1   Pilot Project Gujranwala   60.68      60.065     60.065      60.065       100
2   Pilot Project Sialkot      72.70      71.660     71.401      71.401       99.64
3   Pilot Project Multan &     37.16      40.949     34.085      34.085       83.24
Development Studies
4   North-east Area up-        178.61    221.767    217.028     217.028       97.86
gradation & Conservation
5   Walled City Up-gradation  215.61     285.630    284.341     284.341       99.51
& Conservation
6   Traffic & Transport        561.57    988.980     964.13      964.13       97.49
7   Trunk Infrastructure Lahore   175.16    2287.591   2106.434    2311.764  101.05
Water Suapply Sewerage
Storm, Drainage & Sewage
Treatment etc.
8   Road Drainage              69.83      104.44     104.44      104.44       88.00
Maintenance Lahore MCL
9   Feasibility Studies Master    222.65  218.070    188.323     188.323      86.36
Planning & Project
Preparation and Base
Mapping in 12 Cities
10  Project Management Unit    98.51      142.550     79.845     79.845       56.01
11  Punjab Road Transport       14.39     16.410      12.694     12.694       77.36
Corporation
12  Strengthening of Excise &   13.25        -        0.126       0.126
Taxation Department.
Total:                    3296.22    4452.352   4122.912    4320.820     96.28



96
TABLE II: COST ESTIMATES BY COMPONENT - COMPARISON OF
ORIGINAL & REVISED PC-I's
(RS. IN MILLION)
Si.   Component                Original                      Revised
No.
Local    Foreign   Total    Local    Foreign   Total
I    Pilot Project   59.84     0.84     60.68     59.345    0.720     60.065
Gujranwala
2    Pilot Project   71.86     0.84     72.70     70.92     0.740     1.660
Sialkot
3.   Multan          27.14     10.12    37.26     31.795    9.154     40.949
Development
Authority
4    North-east Area, 160.355   18.26    178.61    210.077   11.690    221.767
Lahore
5    Walled City     193.26    22.35    215.61    273.730   11.900    285.630
6    TEPA            503.65    57.92    561.57    872.030   116.950   988.980
7    Municipal       20.80     49.03    69.83     8.310     110.370   118.680
Corporation
8.   Water &         1158.20   592.96   1751.16   1255.259  1032.332  2287.591
Sanitation
Agency LDA.
9.   Feasibility     187       35.65    222.65    146.070   72.000    218.070
Studies.                                                   _
10.  Project         66.61     31.90    98.51     94.650    47.900    142.550
Management
Unit.
11.  Punjab Road     7.84      6.55     14.39     3.820     12.590    16.410
Transport
Corporation.
12.  Excise &        12.25     1.00     13.25     Deleted      -
Taxation.                                   by
ECNEC
Total          2468.805  827.42   3296.22   3026.006  1426.346  4452.352



WDRI)   9964
'I' CHINA-'|_     7 X
s   J       tSoProx                    ~~~~~~To Peshaw_on    
2  *J   x  9co.                     p            < >; ISLAMABAD                          Approxinate ihne
AFGHANISTAN                                                                           Rawalpindi                      of confrol
KASHMIR
;  t             .) ~~~~~~I N D I A                                ------                   JI- lur    v    *,
703~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ie                                                  la                 0 ) xvelk ,
NORTH WEST FRONTIER
PROVINCE                            ,0/                             \                    ,      Sujiranwala  l  
-                \2      0                                                               0                                                             - 32 
helkhupuiro
BALUCHISTAN  /                                  U               N               J
fi~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I
X                             /                                  X   v   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I N  D i A  
To Kingri
A         Muz ~~~~fargarh 
ji / z ~~~~~~~~~~P A  K I 5 T A  N 
Dera Ghaz                                                      awa~nahawalpu4
PUNJAB URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECT
-'  g/    LOCATION OF PROJECT CITIES
Principal Project Cities
9 e         Other Project Cities
<   Zg*Rahiryar                                                                    National Capitals
0.       Province Capitals
'0o                                                    K                                       o        Other Towns and Cities
-280     ,     \              N                                  '                                                                                 280 I
-o)   ^ y                    2                                           -       Major Roads
S iND  /    0  20                                                                               Rivers
SIND        j_                                                                                          _     Prov,ince Boundaries          
.  20  30  40  50  60 70                                                           -    -- International Bourndaries
K LOMETERS
ITh;  ma- Pas h ean prepared by The YVorld 8knaks sla# rfianlaery Jar dhe  n -rvenmec c t
/  he rkadern and is exc,netV fOr the interns' use of The Wold Ba.,k -nd ye f merautna
t F,nance Corpora iorn Tnn a,rrpdathons uses sar -d t-e Gdares sbnt-  o his -ap On nof
'mry on  the  OnTh of ihe W,rld 6ank and thme Intern  nn! Onance Corpo.a..n  any ,dgn-nf
et  moah stea  tatts tr sa arnn etyorr nan, ern'soseMent nra accpnsa ef suchl DonsjrnaSI
700                                             720                                               740
NOVEMBER 1987



