Page  1
                                                            July 24, 1992
The Secretary to the Government
   of Pakistan
Economic Affairs Division
Islamabad, Pakistan
      Re:   Punjab Urban Development Project - Cr. 1895-PAK
            Amendment to Credit Agreement - Lahore Development Authority
            Special Account
Dear Sir:
      Please refer to the Development Credit Agreement (Punjab Urban
Development Project) between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan and the
International Development Association dated June 9, 1988 and to your
letter of June 22, 1992 requesting enhancement of the Lahore Development
Authority Special Account.
      The Association is pleased to inform you that, after due
consideration, it has agreed to amend the Development Credit Agreement as
per your request.
      Accordingly, the Development Credit Agreement is amended as
follows:
      1.    Paragraph l(c) of Schedule 3 is amended in its entirety to
read as follows:
                  (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means, in
            respect of Punjab, an amount equivalent to  $1,000,000 to be
            withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the Punjab
            Special Account, in respect of LDA, an amount equivalent to
            $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
            deposited in the LDA Special Account, in respect of WASA, an
            amount equivalent to $2,000,000 to be withdrawn from the
            Credit Account and deposited in the WASA Special Account, in
            respect of LMC, an amount equivalent to $300,000 to be
            withdrawn from the Credit Account and deposited in the LMC
            Special Account, and in respect of MDA, an amount equivalent
            to $200,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
            deposited in the MDA Special Account, all pursuant to
            paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule.
      Please confirm your agreement to the foregoing amendment by signing
and dating this letter in the space provided below.  This amendment may
be executed in two counterparts, each of which shall be an original.
Upon your confirmation, please return one fully executed original to us.
This amendment will be effective as of the date of this letter upon
receipt by the Association of one fully executed original of this
amendment.
                             Very truly yours,
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                   By:
                               Paul Isenman
                                 Director
                           Country Department II
                             South Asia Region
Page  2
CONFIRMED
ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF PAKISTAN
By:   /s/ R.A. Akhund
      Authorized Representative
Date: August 15, 1992
