OFIC IA L-
IDOGUMENTk
CREDIT NBER 195 PAK
Project Agreement
(Puijab Urban Development Yroject)
betveen
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
and
PROVINCE OF 7DNJAB
and
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
and
IUHORE VATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
and
LARORE METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
and
GUJRANVALA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
anL4
SIALKOT MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
and
MULTAN DEVELOPKENT AUTHORITY
and
PUNJAB ROAD TRANSPORT CORPORATION
Dated                           , 1988


﻿CREDIT NUMBER 1895 PAK
PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated                              1988,'between
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT    SSOCIATION (the Association) and
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB, actiht by its Governor (Punjab), LAHORE
DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (LDA), LAHORE WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
(WASA), LAHORE METROPOLITAN CORPORATION (LMC), GUJRANWALA
MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (GMC), SIALKOT MUNICIPAL CORPORATION (SMC),
MULTAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (MDA) and PUNJAB ROAD TRANSPORT
CORPORATION (PRTC).
WHEREAS (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Islamic Republic of Pakistan (the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available
to the Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to
sixty-five million nine hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 65,900,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that Punjab
and LDA, WASA, LMC, GMC, SMC, MDA and PRTC (the Implementing
Agencies) agree to undertake such obligations toward the
Association as are set forth in this Agreement; and
(B) the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to Punjab for
its use and the use of the the Implementing Agencies on terms and
conditions mutually satisfactory to the Borrower and the
Association;
WHEREAS Punjab and the Implementing Agencies, in considera-
tion of the Association's entering into the Development Credit
Agreement with the Borrower, have agreed to undertake the
obligations set forth in this Agreement;
'NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement, the
Preamble to this Agreement: and in the General Conditions (as so
defined) have the respective meanings therein set forth.


﻿-2-
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. (a) Punjab and the Implementing Agencies
declare their commitment to the objectives of the Project as set         f
forth in Schedule 2 to the Development Credit Agreement, and, to
this end, shall carry out the Project with due diligence and
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial, engineering and urban development practices, and shall
provide, or cause to be provided, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the Project.
(b) Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and Punjab and the
Implementing Agencies shall otherwise agree, Punjab and the
Implementing Agekidies shall carry out the Project in accordance
with: (i) the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement; and (ii) an Operational Action Plan acceptable to
the Association, as such plan shall be updated from time to time.
(c) Punjab shall utilize the proceeds of the Credit as
follows:
(i) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 8,300,000 for
making available to HPEPD, for the purposes of
Parts L.1 (a), L.2 (a), L.3 (a), L.3 (d), (relevant
part) and L.3(e) (relevant part) of the Project and
for establishing the PMU;
(ii) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 470,000 for
making available to E & T, for the purposes of
Parts K and L.1 (f) of the Project;
(iii) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 22,580,000 for
on-lending to LDA, for the purposes of Parts E and
F of the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement
to be entered into between Punjab and LDA, under
terms and conditions which shall have been approved
by the Association and which shall include an
interest rate of 4% per annum and a repayment
period of 25 years, including a grace period of 6
years;


﻿-3-
(iv) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 24,230,000 for
on-lending to WASA, for the purposes of IN.arts A, B,
C and D of the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan
Agreement to be entered into between Punjab and
WASA, under terms and conditions which shall have
been approved by the Association and which shall
include, in respect of Parts A and B of the
Project, an interest rate of 11% per annum and a
repayment period of 25 years, including a grace
period of 6 years, and, in respect of Parts C and D
of the Project, an interest rate of 4% per annum
and a repayment period of 25 years, including a
grace period of 6 years;
(v) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 1,110,000 for
on-lending to LMC, for the purposes of Part G of
the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between Punjab and LMC, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association and which shall include an interest
rate of 4% per annum and a repayment period of
25 years, including a grace period of 6 years;
(vi) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 1,470,000 for
on-lending to GMC, for the purposes of Part H of
the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between Punjab and GMC, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association and which shall include, in respect
of Parts H.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, an
interest rate of 11% per annum, and, in respect of
Parts H.1 (c) and H.2 of the Project, an interest
rate of 4% per annum, and, in both cases, a
repayment period of 25 years, including a grace
period of 6 years;
(vii) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 1,730,000 for
on-lending to SMC, for the purposes of Part I of
the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between Punjab and SMC, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association and which shall include, in respect
of Parts I (a) and (b) of the Project, an interest


﻿-4-
rate of 11% per annum , and, in respect of Part I
(c) of the Project, an interest rate of 4% per
annum, and, in both cases, a repayment period of
25 years, including a grace period of 6 years;
(viii) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 300,000 for
on-lending to MDA, for the purposes of Part J of
the Project, under a Subsidiary Loan Agreement to
be entered into between Punjab and MDA, under terms
and conditions which shall have been approved by
the Association and which shall include, in respect
of Parts J.1 (a) and (b) of the Project, an
interest rate of 11% per annum, and, in respect of
Parts J.1 (c) and J.2 of the Project, an interest
rate of 4% per annum, and, in both cases, a
repayment period of 25 years, including a grace
period of 6 years; and
(ix) in an amount equivalent to about SDR 5,700,000 for
making available to the Implementing Agencies, for
the purposes of the portions of Part L of the
Project for which they are responsible, on a grant
basis.
(d) Punjab shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements in such manner as to protect the interests of
Punjab and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of the
Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Punjab shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Loan Agreements or any provisions thereof.
(e) Punjab shall, for the purposes of the parts of the
Project for which it and GMC, SMC, and PRTC are responsible, and
LDA, WASA, LMC and MDA shall, for the purposes of the parts of the
Project for which they are respectively responsible, open and
maintain in dollars special accounts in the National Bank of
Pakistan on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
Deposits into, and payments out of, the Special Accounts shall be
made in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to the
Development Credit Agreement.
Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of


﻿-5-
the Credit shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement.
Section 2.03. Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall
carry out the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05,
9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to
insurance, use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records
and reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) in
respect of the Project Agreement and the parts of the Project for
which they are responsible.
Section 2.04. Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall duly
perform all their obligations under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreements, Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall not take or concur in
any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreements or any
provisions thereof.
Section 2.05. (a) Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall,
at the request of the Association, exchange views with the
Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of their obligations under this Agreement and under
the Subsidiary Loan Agreements, and other matters relating to the
purposes of the Credit.
(b) Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall promptly
inform the Association of any condition which interferes or
threatens to interfere with the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance
by Punjab and the Implementing Agencies of their obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreements.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of
the Implementing Agencies
Section 3.01. The Implementing Agencies shall carry on their
operations and conduct their affairs in accordance with sound
administrative, financial and urban development practices under
the supervision of qualified and experienced management assisted
by competent staff in adequate numbers.


﻿-6-
Section 3.02. The Implementing Agencies shall at all times
operate and maintain their plant, machinery, equipment and other
property, and from time to time, promptly as needed, make all
necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in accordance with
sound engineering, financial and urban development practices.
Section 3.03. The Implementing Agencies shall take out, and
maintain with responsible insurers, or make other provision
satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such risks
and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate
practice.
ARTICLE IV
Financial and Other Covenants
Section 4.01. (a) Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall
maintain records and accounts adequate to reflect in accordance
with sound accounting practices their operations and financial
condition in respect of the Project.
(b) Punjab and the Implementing Agencies shall:
(i) have such records, accounts and related financial
statements (balance sheets, statements of income
and expenses and related statements) for each
fiscal year audited, in accordance with appropriate
auditing principles consistently applied, by
independent auditors acceptable to the Association;
(ii) furnish to the Association as soon as available,
but in any case not later than six months after the
end of each such year, (A) certified copies of
their financial statements for such year as so
audited, and (B) the report of such audit by said
auditors, of such scone and in such detail as the
Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information
concerning said records, accounts and financial
statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
Association shall from time to time reasonably
request.


﻿-7-
Section 4.02. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Punjab shall cause WASA to adjust, and WASA shall adjust,
in accordance with guidelines satisfactory to the Association,
its tariff rates annually so as to achieve by FY91 and thereafter
maintain an annual return of not less than 3.5% of the average
current net value of WASA's fixed assets in operation.
(b) Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, WASA shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by WASA and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association the
results of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that WASA would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for WASA's fiscal years
covered by such review, WASA shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The annual return shall be calculated by dividing
WASA's net operating income for the fiscal year in
question by one half of the sum of the current net
value of WASA's fixed assets in operation at the
beginning and at the end of that fiscal year.
(ii) The term "net operating income" means total operat-
ing revenues less total operating expenses.
(iii) The term "total operating revenues" means revenues
from all sources related to operations and other
revenues incidental thereto.
(iv) The term "total operating expenses" means all
expenses related to operations, including adminis-
tration, adequate maintenance, taxes and payments
in lieu of taxes, and provision for depreciation on
a straight-line basis at a rate of not less than
3.5% per annum of the average current gross value
of WASA's fixed assets in operation, or other basis
acceptable to the Association, but excluding
interest and other charges on debt.


﻿-8-
(v) The average current gross value of WASA's fixed
assets in operation shall be calculated as one-half
of the sum of the gross value of WASA's fixed
assets in operation at the beginning and at the end
of the fiscal year, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Association.
(vi) The term "current net value of WASA's fixed assets
in operation" means the gross value of WASA's fixed
assets in operation less the amount of accumulated
depreciation, as valued from time to time in
accordance with sound and consistently maintained
methods of valuation satisfactory to the
Association.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, beginning in FY92, Punjab shall enable WASA to adjust, and
WASA shall adjust, its tariff rates annually by the amount of the
Consumer Price Index (CPI) percentage increase for the previous
fiscal year plus a factor of not less than 7.5%, so as to enable
WASA to produce, in each of its fiscal years beginning with FY 95,
funds from internal sources equivalent to a proportion satis-
factory to the Association of the three-year annual average of
WASA's capital expenditure requirements for the preceding fiscal
year, that fiscal year and the next following fiscal year.
(b) Before March 31 in each of its fiscal years, WASA shall,
on the basis of forecasts prepared by WASA and satisfactory to the
Association, review whether it would meet the requirements set
forth in paragraph (a) in respect of such year and the next
following fiscal year and shall furnish to the Association a copy
of such review upon its completion.
(c) If any such review shows that WASA would not meet the
requirements set forth in paragraph (a) for WASA's fiscal years
covered by such review, WASA shall promptly take all necessary
measures in order to meet such requirements.
(d) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "funds from internal sources" means the
difference between:


﻿-9-
(A) the sum of revenues from all sources related to
operations, consumer deposits and consumer
contributions in aid of construction and net
non-operating income; and
(B) the sum of all expenses related to operations,
including administration, adequate maintenance
and taxes and payments in lieu of taxes
(excluding provision for depreciation and other
non-cash operating charges), debt service
requirements, all cash dividends and other cash
distributions of surplus and other cash
outflows pther than capital expenditures.
(ii) The term "net non-operating income" means the
difference between:
(A) revenues from all sources other than those
related to operations; and
(B) expenses, including taxes and payments in lieu
of taxes, incurred in the generation of reve-
nues in (A) above.
(iii) The term "debt service requirements" means the
aggregate amount of repayments (including sinking
fund payments, if any) of, and interest and other
charges on, debt.
(iv) The term "capital expenditures" means all expendi-
tures incurred on account of fixed assets related
to operations.
(v) Whenever for the purposes of this Section it shall
be necessary to value, in terms of the currency of
the Borrower, debt payable in another currency,
such valuation shall be made on the basis of the
prevailing lawful rate of exchange at which such
other currency is, at the time of such valuation,
obtainable for the purposes of servicing such debt,
or, in the absence of such rate, on the basis of a
rate of exchange acceptable to the Association.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise
agree, Punjab shall, not later than June 30, 1988, restructure as


﻿- 10 -
equity not less than 33% of WASA's existing loans and amortization
arrears.
Section 4.05. Punjab shall, not later than June 30, 1989,
take appropriate action to ensure that WASA will be given the
proper authority to carry on its day-to-day operations and to
undertake project implementation.
Section 4.06. Punjab shall enable GMC, SMC and MDA to pre-
pare, and GMC, SMC and MDA shall prepare, in consultation with the
Association, not later than June 30, 1990, and thereafter imple-
ment, an improved program, satisfactory to the Association, for
levying water and sewerage charges related to supply costs in
their respective cities.
Section 4.07. (a) Punjab shall cause LDA and MDA each, in
accordance with programs mutually satisfactory to Punjab and the
Association, to adopt a land pricing policy which will: (i) ensure
the maintenance of an overall financial surplus; and (ii) include
provision for the financing of investments in non-revenue
generating assets.
(b) For the purposes of this Section:
(i) The term "overall financial surplus" means the
difference between the combined yearly capital and
current receipts and the combined yearly capital
expenditures and current expenditures.
(ii) The term "non-revenue generating assets" means
assets utilized in the provision of services not
directly charged to beneficiaries.
(iii) The term "capital receipts" means revenues received
from the sale of assets.
(iv) The term "current receipts" means revenues received
from the provision of services and from rents and
other user charges.
(v) The term "capital expenditures' means expenditures
incurred in the purchase and construction of
assets.


﻿- 11 -
(vi) The term "current expenditures" means expenditures
other than capital expenditures related to
operations.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of Punjab and the Implementing Agencies thereunder
shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i) the date on which the Development Credit Agreement
,shall terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii) the date 25 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b) If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph
(a) (ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify
Punjab and the Implementing Agencies of this event.
Section 5.63. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or
made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram,
cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or
permitted to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter
specified or at such other address as such party shall have
designated by notice to the party giving such notice or making
such request. The addresses so specified are:


﻿- 12 -
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:                   Telex:
INDEVAS                      440098 (ITT),
Washington, D.C.             248423 (RCA) or
64145 (WUI)
For Punjab:
Planning and Development Board
Government of Punjab
Lahore,
Pakistan
Cable address:                   Telex:
DEVELOPMENT                  952-44868
Lahore, Pakistan             Punjab Secretariat
Lahore, Pakistan
For LDA:
Lahore Development Authority
L.D.A. Plaza, Egerton Road
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:                   Telex:
DGLDA                        952-44391
Lahore, Pakistan
For WASA:
Lahore Water and Sanitation Agency
4-A Gulberg V
Lahore
Pakistan


﻿- 13 -
Cable address:                   Telex:
EMDWASA                      952-44868
Lahore, Pakistan
For LMC:
Lahore Metropolitan Corporation
Jinnah Hall
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:                   Telex:
TAHORE METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
Lahore, Pakistan           952-44391
For GMC:
Gujranwala Municipal Corporation
Jinnah Hall, G.T. Road
Gujranwala
Pakistan
Cable address:
GUJRANWALA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Gujranwala, Pakistan
For SMC:
Sialkot Municipal Corporation
Qila
Sialkot
Pakistan
Cable address:
SIALKOT MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
Sialkot, Pakistan


﻿-14
For XDA:
Multan Development Authority
Pull Shadab       IT
Multan
Pakistan
Cable address;
XULTAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Multan, Pakistan
For PRTC:
Punjab Road Transport Corporation
11-A Egerton Road
Lahore
Pakistan
Cable address:
TRANSCORP
Lahore, Pakistan
Section 6,02,. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of Punjab and LDA, WASA, [MC, GMC, SMC, MDA
and PRTC, or by Punjab and LDA, WASA, LC, GKC, SMC, MDA and PRTC
on behalf of the Borrower under the Development Credit Agreement,
may be taken or executed by the Chairman, Planning and Development
Board, in the case of Punjab, by the Director General, in the case
of LDA, by the Managing Director, in the case of WASA, by the
Mayor, in the case of [XC, by the Mayor, in the case of GMC, by
the Mayor, in the case of   SMC, by the Direqtor General, in the
case of MDA, and by the Managing Direcpor, in the case of PRTC, or
such other person or persons as they shall respectively designate
in writing, and they shall respectively furnish to the Association
sufficient evidence of the authority and the authenticated
specimen signature of each such person,.
Section 6,.03, This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.,


﻿IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first above
written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By                   Ao
Regional Vice President
Europe, 'ddle East and North Africa
PROVINCE OF PUNJAB
/5s/ 'r. d.
By
Authorized Representative
LAHORE DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative
LAHORE WATER AND SANITATION AGENCY
/./ A
By
Authorized Representative


﻿- 16 -
LAHORE METROPOLITAN CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative
GUJRANWALA MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative
SIALKOT MUNICIPAL CORPORATION
By
Authorized Representative
MULTAN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
By
Authorized Representative
PUNJAB ROAD TRANSPORT CORPORATION
By                              Represntativ
Authorized Representative


﻿- 17 -
SCHEDULE 1
Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I:   Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:   International Competitive Bidding
1.   Except as provided in Part D hereof, goods and works shall be
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures
consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II of the
"Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits"
published by the Bank in May 1985 (the Guidelines).
2.   Bidders for the works included in Part D of the Project shall
be prequalified as described in paragraph 2.10 of the Guidelines.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Pakistan may
be granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject
to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines
and paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Preference for Domestic Contractors
In the procurement of works in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, Punjab and the Implementing Agencies
may grant a margin of preference to domestic contractors in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs 2.55
and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraph 5 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part D:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.   Office and road safety equipment and other items estimated to
cost less than the equivalent of $50,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount not to exceed the equivalent of $3,500,000, may
be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.   Civil works, other than for Part D of the Project, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures


﻿- 18 -
satisfactory to the Association. Bidders for such works, estimated
to cost more than the equivalent of $300,000 per contract, shall
be prequalified in accordance with procedures satisfactory to the
Association.
Part E:   Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.   Review of prequalification:
With respect to the prequalification of bidders as provided
in Parts A.2 and D.2 hereof, the procedures set forth in para-
graph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
2.   Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
(a) With respect to each contract for goods estimated to
cost the equivalent of $300,000 or more, and with respect to each
contract for civil works estimated to cost the equivalent of
$600,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4
of Appendix 1. to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract required to be furnished to the Association
pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished to the
Association prior to the making of the first payment out of such
Special Account in respect of such contract.
(b) With respect to each contract not governed by the pre-
ceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for
such contract are to be made out of a Special Account, such
procedures shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed
copies of the contract together with the other information
required to be furnished to the Association pursuant to said
paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Association as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 3 to
the Development Credit Agreement.
(c) The provisions of the preceding subparagraphs (a) and
(b) shall not apply to contracts on account of which the
Association has authorized withdrawals from the Credit Account on
the basis of statements of expenditure. Such contracts shall be
retained in accordance with Section 4.01 (a) (ii) of the
Development Credit Agreement.


﻿- 19 -
3.   The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of para-
graph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
In order to assist Punjab and the Implementing Agencies in
carrying out the Project, Punjab and the Implementing Agencies
shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.


﻿- 20 -
SCHEDULE 2
Implementation Program
1.   Project Agencies
(a) Punjab shall have overall responsibility for Project
implementation and coordination.
(b) Subject to the arrangements set forth in this Schedule,
specific responsibility for Project implementation shall be
assigned as follows:
(i) for Parts H, I, and L.1 (a), L.2 (a), L.2 (e)
(relevant part), L.3 (a), L.3 (d) (relevant part)
and L.3 (e) (relevant part) of the Project, to
HPEPD, acting for Punjab, GMC and SMC;
(ii) for Parts E, F, and L.1 (b), L.2 (b), L.3 (c), L.3
(d) (relevant part) and L.3 (e) (relevant part) of
the Project, to LDA;
(iii) for Parts A, B, C, D, L.1 (c), L.2 (c) and L.3 (e)
(relevant part) of the Project, to WASA;
(iv) for Parts G, L.1 (d) and L.2 (d) and L.3 (e)
(relevant part) of the Project, to MC;
(v) for Parts J, L.1 (e), L.2 (e) (relevant part), L.3
(b) and L.3 (e) (relevant part) of the Project, to
MDA;
(vi) for Part L.2 (f) of the Project, to PRTC; and
(vii)' for Parts K and L.1 (f) of the Project, to E&T,
acting for Punjab.
2.   Project Policy Committee (PPC) and Project Management Unit
(PHU)
(a) Punjab shall exercise its responsibilities under
paragraph 1 (a) of this Schedule through a Project Policy
Committee (PPC), established within the Punjab Planning and
Development Board, and a Project Management Unit (PMU),
established within HPEPD.


﻿- 21 -
(b) PPC shall consist of representatives of line departments
of Punjab and of the Implementing Agencies and shall provide
policy and technical guidance for carrying out the Project.
(c) PMU shall be headed by a permanently assigned Director
General and shall include Directors of Engineering, and Finance
and Administration, four Deputy Directors (including one from the
Local Government and Rural Development Department, reporting
directly to the Director General) and such other senior and
clerical and support staff as may be necessary. PMU shall, inter
alia: (i) implement, as an integral part of HPEPD's development
activities, the project components for which HPEPD is responsible
under paragraph 1 (b) (i) of this Schedule; (ii) monitor the
implementation of other project components, the carrying out of
studies, the administration of training, the implementation of the
Operational Action Plan, and the achievement of cost recovery
targets and other policy objectives; (iii) update the Operational
Action Plan, including the Implementing Agencies' work schedules,
coordinate their activities, and ensure timely availability of
resources to them; (iv) maintain records of withdrawal
applications and disbursements; (v) coordinate the submission of
audit reports to the Association; (vi) prepare and submit to the
Association quarterly progress reports and other reports; and
(vii) prepare and/or coordinate the preparation of possible future
projects.
3.   Land Acquisition
Punjab and WASA shall take steps to ensure that the land
required for the sewage treatment plants included in Part D of the
Project will be acquired and in their possession not later than
December 31, 1988.
4.   Implementation of Studies
Punjab and the concerned Implementing Agencies shall ensure
that the recommendations of the various studies to be carried out
under the Project will be implemented to the extent, in a manner,
and within a time-frame satisfactory to the Association.
5.   Procurement of ODA-Financed Goods
Goods to be procured for the purposes of the Project and to
be financed from the ODA Funding shall comply with specifications
satisfactory to the Association.


﻿- 22 -
6.   Employment of ODA-Financed Consultants
Consultants to be employed for the purposes of the Project
and to be financed from the ODA Funding shall have qualifications
and experience and terms of reference satisfactory to the
Association.
7.   Progress Reports
PMU shall, on the basis of monthly progress reports received
from Punjab and the Implementing Agencies, prepare quarterly
progress reports on the Project, in form and content satisfactory
to the Association, and submit each such report to the Association
within 30 days of the end of the quarter to which its relates.
8.   Responsibility for Operation and Maintenance of Completed
Works
(a) HPEPD shall transfer, and GMC and SMC shall accept,
responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the works and
facilities, completed under Parts H and I of the Project,
respectively, and LDA shall transfer, and WASA and LMC shall
accept, responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
works and facilities, completed under the relevant portions of
Parts E and F of the Project, all under arrangements satisfactory
to the Association.
(b) Responsibility for the operation and maintenance of the
other works and facilities completed under the Project shall
remain with the agencies responsible for constructing such works
and facilities.


﻿INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
CERTIFICATE
I hereby certify that the foregoing is a true copy
of the original in the archives of the International
Development Association.
FOR SECRETARY


