Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
CREDIT NUMBER 3804 VN 
 
Development Credit Agreement 
 
(Second Poverty Reduction Support Credit) 
 
between 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
 
Dated August 15, 2003 
 
Page  2
CREDIT NUMBER 3804 VN 
DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT 
 
AGREEMENT, dated August 15, 2003, between SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF 
VIETNAM (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
(the Association). 
WHEREAS (A) the Association has received from the Borrower a letter dated 
May 30, 2003, describing a program of actions, objectives and policies designed to 
achieve poverty reduction and structural adjustment of the Borrower's economy 
(hereinafter called the Program), declaring the Borrower's commitment to the execution 
of the Program, and requesting assistance from the Association in support of the Program 
during the execution thereof;  
(B) 
the Borrower has carried out the measures and taken the actions 
described in Schedule 2 of this Agreement to the satisfaction of the Association and has 
maintained a macroeconomic policy framework satisfactory to the Association; and 
(C) 
on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, the Association has decided in 
support of the Program to provide such assistance to the Borrower by making the Credit 
as hereinafter provided; 
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit 
Agreements” of the Association, dated January 1, 1985, (as amended through October 6, 
1999) with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions) constitute an 
integral part of this Agreement: 
(a) 
Section 2.01, paragraph 12, is modified to read: 
 
“‘Project’ means the program, referred to in the Preamble to the 
Development Credit Agreement, in support of which the Credit is made.” 
(b) 
Section 4.01 is modified to read: 
Page  3
-
2
-
“Except as the Borrower and the Association shall otherwise 
agree, withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be made in the 
currency of the deposit account specified in Section 2.02 of the 
Development Credit Agreement.” 
(c) 
Section 5.01 is modified to read: 
 
“The Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the 
Credit from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of the 
Development Credit Agreement and of these General Conditions.” 
(d) 
The last sentence of Section 5.03 is deleted. 
(e) 
Section 9.06 (c) is modified to read: 
 
“(c) Not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later 
date as may be agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the 
Association, the Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Association a 
report, of such scope and in such detail as the Association shall 
reasonably request, on the execution of the program referred to in the 
Preamble to the Development Credit Agreement, the performance by the 
Borrower and the Association of their respective obligations under the 
Development Credit Agreement and the accomplishment of the purposes 
of the Credit.” 
(f) 
Section 9.04 is deleted and Sections 9.05, 9.06 (as modified above), 9.07 
and 9.08 are renumbered, respectively, Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06 and 9.07.  
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in 
the General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective 
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meaning: 
(a) 
“Deposit Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of 
this Agreement. 
(b) 
“BIDV” means Bank of Investment and Development of Vietnam, a 
state-owned commercial bank, and any successor thereto. 
(c) 
“Dong” and “VND” mean the national currency of the Borrower. 
(d) 
“ICB” means Industrial and Commercial Bank of Vietnam, a state-
owned commercial bank, and any successor thereto.  
(e) 
“SBV” means the State Bank of Vietnam, and any successor thereto. 
Page  4
-
3
-
(f) 
“SOCBs” means state-owned commercial banks, and “SOCB” means 
any state-owned commercial bank.  
(g) 
“SOEs” means state-owned enterprises, and “SOE” means any state-
owned enterprise. 
(h) 
“VBARD” means Vietnam Bank for Agriculture and Rural 
Development, a state-owned commercial bank, and any successor thereto. 
(i) 
“VCB” means Bank for Foreign Trade of Vietnam, a state-owned 
commercial bank, and any successor thereto. 
ARTICLE II 
The Credit 
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in the Development Credit Agreement, an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seventy-two million six hundred thousand Special 
Drawing Rights (SDR72,600,000). 
Section 2.02. (a) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (b) and (c) of this 
Section, the Borrower shall be entitled to withdraw the proceeds of the Credit from the 
Credit Account in support of the Program. 
(b) 
The Borrower shall open, prior to furnishing to the Association the first 
request for withdrawal from the Credit Account, and thereafter maintain in its central 
bank, a deposit account in Dollars on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Association. All withdrawals from the Credit Account shall be deposited by the 
Association into the Deposit Account. 
(c) 
The Borrower undertakes that the proceeds of the Credit shall not be 
used to finance expenditures excluded pursuant to the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. If the Association shall have determined at any time that any proceeds of the 
Credit shall have been used to make a payment for an expenditure so excluded, the 
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, (i) deposit into the Deposit 
Account an amount equal to the amount of said payment, or (ii) if the Association shall 
so request, refund such amount to the Association. Amounts refunded to the Association 
upon such request shall be credited to the Credit Account for cancellation. 
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003 or such later date as 
the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the Borrower of 
such later date. 
Page  5
-
4
-
Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a commitment charge 
on the principal amount of the Credit not withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set 
by the Association as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half of 
one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum. 
(b) 
The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date sixty days after 
the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to the respective dates on which amounts 
shall be withdrawn by the Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the 
rate set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date and at such other rates 
as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as 
of June 30 in each year shall be applied from the next date in that year specified in 
Section 2.06 of this Agreement. 
(c) 
The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places as the 
Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without restrictions of any kind imposed by, or 
in the territory of, the Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for 
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such other eligible currency 
or currencies as may from time to time be designated or selected pursuant to the 
provisions of that Section. 
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge at the 
rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the 
Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time. 
Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be payable 
semiannually on June 15 and December 15 in each year. 
Section 2.07. (a)  Subject to paragraphs (b), (c) and (d) below, the Borrower shall 
repay the principal amount of the Credit in semiannual installments payable on each June 
15 and December 15 commencing December 15, 2013 and ending June 15, 2043. Each 
installment to and including the installment payable on June 15, 2023 shall be one 
percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter shall be two 
percent (2%) of such principal amount. 
(b) 
Whenever: (i) the Borrower's per capita gross national product (GNP), as 
determined by the Association, shall have exceeded for three consecutive years the level 
established annually by the Association for determining eligibility to access the 
Association’s resources; and (ii) the Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for 
Bank lending, the Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by the 
Executive Directors of the Association and after due consideration by the Association of 
the development of the Borrower's economy, modify the repayment of installments under 
paragraph (a) above by: 
Page  6
-
5
-
(A) 
requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each such 
installment not yet due until the principal amount of the Credit shall have 
been repaid; and 
(B) 
requiring the Borrower to commence repayment of the principal amount 
of the Credit as of the first semiannual payment date referred to in 
paragraph (a) above falling six months or more after the date on which 
the Association notifies the Borrower that the events set out in this 
paragraph (b) have occurred, provided, however, that there shall be a 
grace period of a minimum of five years on such repayment of principal. 
(c) 
If so requested by the Borrower, the Association may revise the 
modification referred to in paragraph (b) above to include, in lieu of some or all of the 
increase in the amounts of such installments, the payment of interest at an annual rate 
agreed with the Association on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and 
outstanding from time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association, such 
revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the above-mentioned  
repayment modification. 
(d) 
If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant to paragraph (b) 
above, the Association determines that the Borrower's economic condition has 
deteriorated significantly, the Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further 
modify the terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as provided in 
paragraph (a) above. 
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby specified 
for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE III 
Particular Covenants 
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower and the Association shall from time to time, at 
the request of either party, exchange views on the progress achieved in carrying out the 
Program. 
(b) 
Prior to each such exchange of views, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Association for its review and comment a report on the progress achieved in carrying out 
the Program, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request. 
(c) 
Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a) of this Section, 
the Borrower shall exchange views with the Association on any proposed action to be 
taken after the disbursement of the Credit which would have the effect of materially 
reversing the objectives of the Program, or any action taken under the Program, including 
any action specified in Schedule 2 to this Agreement. 
Page  7
-
6
-
Section 3.02. Upon the Association’s request, the Borrower shall: 
(a) 
have the Deposit Account audited in accordance with appropriate 
auditing principles consistently applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the 
Association; 
(b) 
furnish to the Association as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six (6) months after the date of the Association’s request for such audit, a certified 
copy of the report of such audit by said auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the 
Association shall have reasonably requested; and 
(c) 
furnish to the Association such other information concerning the Deposit 
Account and the audit thereof as the Association shall have reasonably requested. 
ARTICLE IV 
Additional Event of Suspension 
Section 4.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General Conditions, the 
following additional event is specified, namely, that a situation has arisen which shall 
make it improbable that the Program, or a significant part thereof, will be carried out.  
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness  Date; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 
(b) of the General Conditions: 
(a) 
the macroeconomic policy framework of the Borrower is satisfactory to 
the Association; 
(b) 
The Borrower has adopted a detailed restructuring plan for each of 
Seaprodex, Vinatex and Vinacafe General Corporations, satisfactory to the Association;  
(c) 
The Borrower has issued a Common Effective Preferential Tariff Decree, 
satisfactory to the Association;  
(d) 
The Borrower has issued a decision, satisfactory to the Association, 
establishing a Debts and Assets Trading Company under the Ministry of Finance; 
(e) 
The Borrower, through its Ministry of Finance, has approved a
 
pilot plan, 
satisfactory to the Association, for the resolution through the Debts and Assets Trading 
Company of the debts of selected large SOEs;  
Page  8
-
7
-
(f) 
The Borrower has issued a decision, satisfactory to the Association, on 
the monitoring and evaluation of SOE performance;  
(g) 
Each of ICB, BIDV, VBARD and VCB has completed the re-evaluation 
of unsecured non-performing loans of five large indebted SOEs among its borrowers and 
submitted reports thereon to the State Bank of Vietnam and the Ministry of Finance; 
(h) 
The Borrower has adopted a National Strategy for Environment 
Protection, satisfactory to the Association; and  
(i) 
The Borrower has adopted and deployed an Education for All framework 
satisfactory to the Association.  
Section 5.02. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this Agreement is hereby 
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
 
Section 6.01. The Governor or a
ny
Deputy Governor of the Borrower’s State 
Bank of Vietnam is designated as the representative of the Borrower for the purposes of 
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions. 
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 
11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Borrower: 
 
State Bank of Vietnam 
 
49 Ly Thai To 
 Hanoi 
 
Socialist Republic of Vietnam 
 
Cable address: 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
VIETBANK 
412248 
(84-4) 825 0612 
 Hanoi 
NHTWVT 
 
Page  9
-
8
-
For the Association: 
 
International Development Association  
 
1818
H
Street, N.W. 
 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
 
United States of America 
 
Cable address 
Telex: 
Facsimile: 
 
INDEVAS 
248423 (MCI) or 
(1-202) 477-6391 
 
Washington, D.C. 
  64145 (MCI) 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Hanoi, Socialist Republic of Vietnam, as of the day and year first above written. 
 
SOCIALIST REPUBLIC OF VIETNAM 
 
By /s/ Le Duc Thuy 
Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION 
 
By /s/ Klaus Rohland 
 
Authorized Representative 
 
Page  10
-
9
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Excluded Expenditures 
For purposes of Section 2.02 (c) of this Agreement, the proceeds of the Credit 
shall not be used to finance any of the following expenditures: 
1.  
expenditures in the currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied 
from the territory of the Borrower; 
2. 
expenditures for goods or services supplied under a contract which any national 
or international financing institution or agency other than the Bank or the Association 
shall have financed or agreed to finance, or which the Association or the Bank shall have 
financed or agreed to finance under another credit or a loan; 
3. 
expenditures for goods included in the following groups or subgroups of the 
Standard International Trade Classification, Revision 3 (SITC, Rev.3), published by the 
United Nations in Statistical Papers, Series M, No. 34/Rev.3 (1986) (the SITC), or any 
successor groups or subgroups under future revisions to the SITC, as designated by the 
Association by notice to the Borrower: 
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
112 - 
Alcoholic 
beverages 
 
121 
 -   Tobacco, 
unmanu- 
 
factured, tobacco 
 
refuse 
 
122 
- 
Tobacco, manufactured  
 
(whether or not 
 
containing tobacco 
 
substitutes) 
 
525 
- 
Radioactive and  
 
associated materials 
 
667 
- 
Pearls, precious and 
 
semiprecious 
 
stones, unworked 
 
or
worked 
Page  11
-
10
-
Group
Subgroup
Description of Items
718 
718.7 
Nuclear reactors, and  
 
parts thereof; fuel  
 elements 
(cartridges), 
 non-irradiated, 
for 
 nuclear 
reactors 
 
728 728.43 
Tobacco 
processing 
 machinery 
 
897 
897.3 
Jewelry of gold,  
 silver 
or 
platinum 
 
group metals (except 
 
watches and watch 
 cases) 
and 
 gol
dsmiths’ or  
 silversmiths’ 
 wares 
(including 
 
 set 
gems) 
 
971 - 
Gold, 
non-monetary 
 (excluding 
gold 
 ores 
and 
concentrates) 
 
4. 
expenditures for goods intended for a military or paramilitary purpose or for 
luxury consumption; 
5. 
expenditures for environmentally hazardous goods (for purposes of this 
paragraph the term “environmentally hazardous goods” means goods, the manufacture, 
use or import of which is prohibited under the laws of the Borrower or international 
agreements to which the Borrower is a party); 
6. 
expenditures (a) in the territories of any country which is not a member of the 
Bank or for goods procured in, or services supplied from, such territories or (b) on 
account of any payment to persons or entities, or any import of goods, if such payment or 
import is prohibited by a decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under 
Chapter VII of the Charter of the United Nations; and 
7. 
expenditures under a contract in respect of which the Association determines that 
corrupt or fraudulent practices were engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a 
beneficiary of the Credit during the procurement or execution of such contract, without 
the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action satisfactory to the Association 
to remedy the situation. 
Page  12
-
11
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Actions Referred to in Recital (B) of the Preamble to this Agreement
 
I. 
Transition to a Market Economy
A. International 
Trade
:
1. 
Submission of a draft Common Effective Preferential Tariff Decree for 
approval which, inter alia, (a) provides for the transfer of the last tranche on the 
Temporary Exclusion List (TEL) to the Inclusion List (IL); (b) establishes the 2003-2006 
tariff reduction schedule on the basis of the ASEAN Harmonized Tariff Nomenclature; 
and (c) decreases the maximum tariff on all IL items to twenty percent (20%). 
 
2. 
Elimination of quantitative restrictions for all tariff lines for cement 
products, steel, construction glass, floor tiles, vegetable oil, paper and clinker. 
 
3. 
Issuance of regulations on most favored nation treatment (MFN) and 
national treatment (NT), and of safeguard measures for imports. 
B. 
Reform of State-owned Enterprises
:
1. 
Approval by the Prime Minister and public dissemination of 94 detailed 
plans submitted by line ministries, provinces, cities and general corporations for the 
reform, during the period 2003-2005, of SOEs under their respective jurisdiction, said 
plans identifying the SOEs specifically and indicating a timetable for their ownership 
transformation; and submission for approval of 10 remaining plans.  
 
 
2. 
(a) Issuance of Decision 167/2000/QD-BTC and Circular 89/2002/TT-
BTC requiring all SOEs, on an annual basis, to report the financial results for their last 
completed accounting period, to the relevant authorities; and (b) issuance of a Ministry of 
Finance letter of instruction strengthening administrative penalties on SOEs for failure to 
comply with the provisions of said Decision and Circular. 
 
3. 
Submission of a draft Decision on SOE Performance Monitoring and 
Evaluation for approval which: (a) includes compliance with financial and accounting 
regulations, including reporting requirements, among the performance indicators; (b) 
establishes SOE rating based on performance; and (c) leads to sanctions for poorly-
performing SOEs.  
Page  13
-
12
-
C. Financial 
Sector
:
1. 
Completion by each of ICB, BIDV, VBARD and VCB of the 2002 loan 
loss provisioning target indicated in the respective restructuring plan approved by SBV, 
such target established in accordance with the IAS audit completed for 2000. 
 
2. 
Completion by each of ICB, BIDV, VBARD and VCB of the 2002 target 
for resolution of non-performing loans, in accordance with the provisions of Instruction 
355/CV-CLPT. 
 
3.
Approval by State Bank of Vietnam of the timetable for BIDV, ICB, 
VBARD and VCB to prepare and adopt their respective credit manuals.  
4. 
(a) Completion of the 2001 audit of BIDV and VBARD, carried out in 
accordance with international accounting standards;  
(b) 
In regard to the qualifications to the reports of said audit, (i) both BIDV 
and VBARD have moved from cash-based accounting to accrual-based accounting; (ii) 
VBARD has implemented the use of consolidated financial statements covering its 
affiliated entities; and established an action plan to enable it within 2003 to monitor and 
accurately reflect off-balance sheet items; and (iii) both BIDV and VBARD have 
established action plans to strengthen within 2003 their respective management 
information systems.  
5. 
(a) Issuance of Instruction  04/CV-CLPT directing BIDV, ICB, VBARD 
and VCB to undertake and complete the re-evaluation of unsecured non-performing loans 
to SOEs during 2003-2004; and (b) establishment of a list of 80 SOEs with large 
unsecured non-performing loans for debt re-evaluation in accordance with said 
Instruction.      
6. 
Formulation of recommendations to: (a) revise Circular 74/2002/TT-
BTC to strengthen the creditor’s rights of BIDV, ICB, VBARD and VCB in the re-
evaluation and resolution of SOE non-performing loans, and (b) coordinate the resolution 
of non-performing loans with the reform plans for SOEs.  
D. 
Private Sector Development
:
1. 
Issuance of the Government Decision 94/CP approving an action plan to 
promote the development of the private sector. 
 
2. 
Issuance of the Prime Minister’s Directive 17/TTg to strengthen the 
implementation of the Enterprise Law, including through the publication of a list of 
permits required.  
 
Page  14
-
13
-
II. Inclusive 
Development
A. Health
:
Issuance of the Prime Minister’s Decision 139/2002/QD-TTg to establish 
provincial-level Health Care Funds for the Poor to finance out-of-pockets costs for 
eligible individuals using public health services. 
B. Land
:
Issuance of land-use right certificates: (i) to about thirty-five percent 
(35%) of users of urban residential land; and (ii) in forest area, to about sixty percent 
(60%) of household and individual land users who have received or rented forest land 
directly from the State.  
C. Environment
:
Completion of stakeholders consultation on a National Strategy for  
Environmental Protection. 
III. Modern 
Governance
A. 
Comprehensive Poverty Reduction and Growth Strategy (CPRGS)
:
Establishment of a national steering committee to guide the implementation of the 
CPRGS. 
B. Public 
Finance
:
Enactment of the revised Budget Law to support decentralization 
and transparency in budget planning, formulation and execution. 
C. Legal 
Development
:
1. 
Enactment of Law 02/2002/QH11 on Amendments of and Additions to a 
Number of Articles of the Law on Promulgation of Legal Instruments, which, inter alia, 
requires the publication in the Official Gazette of legal documents issued by the 
Government, Prime Minister, line ministers, head of ministerial-level agencies, Supreme 
People’s Court and Supreme People’s Procuracy, as a condition of their effectiveness. 
 
2. 
Enactment of Law 06/2002/L/CTN on the Organization of the People’s 
Courts, which, inter alia, transfers the management of the local courts from the Ministry 
of Justice to the Supreme People’s Court. 
D. Information
:
Approval by the National Assembly of the Law on Statistics to 
ensure quality of data, transparency and public access to information. 
 
