Document of
The World Bank
Report No. 12233-DO
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
JANUARY 19, 1995
FILE COPY
Country Department II
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office






CURRENCY UNIT
Dominican Peso (RD$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(As of December 30, 1994)
US$1.00 = RD$ 12.97
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
WEIGHT AND MEASURES
Metric System
and
1 TAREA = 0.062 Hectares (ha)



MAP SECTION



ACRONYMS AND ABBREVIATIONS
AEO                Agricultural Extension Officer
(Oficial de Extensi6n de Agricultura)
AIRAC              Association of Rural Institutions for Savings and Credit
(Asociaci6n de Instituciones Rurales de Ahorros y
Creditos)
ADESJO             Association for the Development of San Jose de Ocoa
(Asociaci6n para el Desarrollo de San Jose de Ocoa)
BA                 Agricultural Bank
(Banco Agrario)
CATIE              Tropical Agronomic Center for Investigation and
Teaching
(Centro Agron6mico Tropical de Investigaci6n y
Ensefanza)
CDE                Dominican Corporation for Electricity
(Corporaci6n Dominicana de Electricidad)
CEA                State Council for Sugar
(Consejo Estatal del Azucar)
CENDA              North Center for Agricultural Development
(Centro Norte de Desarrollo Agropecuario)
EMS                Environmental Monitoring System
(Sistema de Monitoreo Ambiental)
FIDA               Agriculture Federation for Development
(Federaci6n de Desarrollo de Agricultura)
GEW                Group Extension Workers
(Grupo de Trabajadores de Extensi6n)
L4D                Dominican Agrarian Reform Institute
(Instituto Dominicano de Reforma Agraria)
INDRHI             National Water Resources Institute
(Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos)
INESPRE            National Institute for Price Stabilization
(Instituto Nacional de Estabilizaci6n de Precios)
ISA                Higher Institute of Agriculture
(Instituto Superior de Agricultura)
M&E                Monitoring and Evaluation
(Monitoreo y Evaluaci6n)
MIS                Management Information System
(Administraci6n del Sistema de Informaci6n)
MUV                Manufacturing Unit Valve
NEP                New Economic Program
(Nuevo Programa Econ6mico)
NGO                Non Governmental Organization
(Organizaci6n no Gubemamental)
OFWME  P           On-Farm Water Management Project



I



(Proyecto de Manejo de Agua a nivel de Finca)
O&M                Operation and Maintenance
(Operaci6n y Mantenimiento)
PEU                Project Execution Unit
(Unidad de Ejecuci6n del Proyecto)
POA                Annual Work Program
(Programa Anual de Trabajo)
PR&D               Participatory Research & Development
(Investigaci6n y Desarrollo Participatorio)
PROMAF             On-Farm Water Management Project
(Proyecto Manejo de Agua a Nivel de Finca)
PROMATREC          Irrigated Land and Watershed Management Project
(Proyecto de Manejo de Tierras Regadas y de Cuencas)
PRYN1              Water Users Association of Nizao, Santiago
(Asociaci6n de Usuarios de Agua de Nizao, Santiago)
SDB                Standard Bidding Documents
(Documentos Corrientes para Propuestas)
SEA                Ministry of Agriculture
(Secretaria de Estado de Agricultura)
SOEs               Statement of Expenditures
(Cuentas de Gastos)
WUA                Water Users Association
(Asociaci6n de Usuarios de Agua)
WMF                Water Management Fund
(Fondo de Administraci6n de Agua)
YSURA              Water Users Association of Azua
(Asociaci6n de Usuarios de Agua de Azua)



ANNEX 10
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Documents Available in Project Flle
A. Background and Project Preparation Papers
1.    Dominican Republic. Agricultural Sector Study.
1986. World Bank. Report No. 6267-DO.
2.    IICA. 1988. Proyecto de Desarollo Agricola
en Tres Areas Prioritarias Bajo Riego. Contrato
INDRHI/IICA 2426.
3.    Irrigated Farming Development Project. Project Brief. 1989.
FAO/CP. Report No. 157/89 CP-DOM. 14 PB.
4.    Dominican Republic. Country Economic
Memorandum. Beyond Stabilization: An
Agenda for Sustainable Growth. 1991. World
Bank.
5.    Proyecto Integrado de Reforestaci6n y
Conservaci6n Comunal de la Cuenca del Rio
Nizao.
1992. FAO. Report TCP/DOM/2251(F).
6.    Proyecto de Desarollo Agricola Bajo Riego y en
la Cuenca del Nizao. Preparaci6n del proyecto.
2 volumes.
1993 FAO/CP. Report No. 55/93 CP-DOM 16.
B. Working Papers
1.    Detailed Project Costs and Financing Tables.
WP No. 1.
2.    Promotion of Credit Cooperatives. WP No. 2.
3.    Irrigation Infrastructure. WP No. 3.
4.    Economic and Institutional Analysis of Soil
Conservation Practices in the Dominican
Republic. Jose Abel Hernandez. 1992.



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Contents
1. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY           ...................           i
2. THE SECTOR CONTEXT         .........................             1
A. The Economy    .............................              1
B. Agriculture in the Economy .....................          1
C. The Irrigation Subsector .......................          3
3. DEVELOPMENT POTENTIAL AND CONSTRAINTS ......                .   7
A. Potential ................................. 7
B. Current Irrigation Water Management ....     ...........  7
C. Agricultural Development ......................           8
D. Environmental Constraints ......................          9
4. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED               .....  ... 11
A. Bankwide Lending for Irrigation and Drainage .. ....... 11
B. Lending to Agriculture in Latin America and the Caribbean  . 12
C. World Bank Involvement in the Dominican Republic ...... 12
5. PROPOSED STRATEGY, DESIGN, AND RATIONALE
FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT ....................... 13
A. The Government Strategy in Irrigation  ....   .......... 13
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement ................... 14
C. Project Design and Strategy ..................... 15
6. THE PROJECT             ................................ 17
A. Project Objectives ........................... 17
B. Project Components .......................... 17
C. Detailed Project Features .............   .......... 18
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited the
Dominican Republic in May-June 1993, comprising Mmes./Messrs. Moreau
(Mission Leader), Palaco-Nielsen (Bank), Eastwood (Economist Consultant),
Lafont (Irrigation Specialist Consultant), Arboleda (Sociologist Consultant).
Peer reviewers were Mme. Lallement (EC4IN) and Mr. Darghouth
(AF5AG). Mmes./Messrs. Edilberto Segura, Michael Baxter and Elizabeth
Katz are the Department Director, Division Chief, and Task Manager,
respectively, for the operation.



I
I



7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ......           ..    .......... 24
A. Costs ................................... 24
B. Financing ................................ 25
C. Disbursements ............................. 25
D. Procurement .............................. 27
E. Cost Recovery ............................. 29
8. PROJECT ORGANIZATION ...........               ............. 31
A. Project Coordination ......................... 31
B. Accounts and Audits  ......................... 32
C. Monitoring and Evaluation ...................... 32
9. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, ENVIRONMENTAL
IMPACT, EFFECT ON WOMEN, AND PROJECT RISKS                 34
A. Benefits ................................. 34
B. Economic Analysis  ...........        ............... 35
C. Environmental Impact    ...........    .............. 36
D. Effect on Women     ............      ............... 37
E. Project Risks .............................. 37
10. SUMMARY OF AGREEMENTS REACHED AND
RECOMMENDATIONS ......................... 38
ANNEXES
Annex 1.     Total Summary Accounts
Project Components by Year
Financing Plan by Disbursement Category
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
Annex 2.     Performance Indicators
Annex 3.     Supervision Plan
Annex 4.     Land Distribution in the Three Project Irrigated Areas
Annex 5.     Rio Nizao Watershed Management Program
Annex 6.     Participatory Research and Development Grants Scheme
Annex 7.    Irrigation Infrastructure Components
Annex 8.     Training and Technical Assistance
Annex 9.     Financial and Economic Analysis
Annex 10.    Documents Available in Project File



ANNEX 9
Page 9 of 9
return in YSURA can be found in the cost of irrigation development and the benefits
attributable to increased crop production. Even though investment in the irrigation system in
YSURA has been limited to drainage and riverbed protection and land levelling, costs of
operation and maintenance are particularly high, and the overall base cost of the irrigation
component per hectare, at about US$ 1200, is above that in PRYN (US$ 1030) and Nizao-
Valdesia (US$ 920). Due to the lack of investment in irrigation per se, a smaller proportion
of the area benefits from infrastructure development. The cropping pattern, notwithstanding
the inclusion of industrial tomatoes, also has a relatively limited representation of high value
vegetable crops (reflecting the less favorable location with respect to the major urban centers
and resulting poorer marketing opportunities). For these reasons, overall net crop production
benefits per hectare are about 10 to 20% below those in Nizao-Valdesia and PRYN
respectively.
27.   Even at 14%, the IRR for YSURA is satisfactory in the context of an Opportunity
Cost of Capital (OCC) of 12%. The overall rate of return for the project at 19% indicates a
sound project.
Sensitivity
28.   Sensitivity analysis carried out for the overall project indicates a greater sensitivity to
changes in benefits than in costs. Switching values at the OCC show that benefits would
need to fall by 18% while costs could increase by as much as 22% before reducing the IRR
to 12%. Both changes are, however, substantial and unlikely to arise. The impact of 10 and
20% changes in costs and benefits is indicated in the table below. Another possibility is a
lag in benefits, if all benefits were to be delayed by one year, the IRR would fall to 14%.
Essentially the test results show that relatively significant adverse conditions would be
required to reduce the economic viability of the project to below acceptable levels.
Sensitivity Tests on ERR
ERR
Base Case       +10%        +20%
Increase in costs                    19           15          12
Decrease in Benefits                 19           15          11
Inc. in costs and Dec. in benefits                12           5



DOMIICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
1. LOAN AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Borrower:         Dominican Republic.
Implementing
Agency:           National Water Resources Institute (INDRHI)
Beneficiaries:    INDRHI; Ministry of Agriculture; Association for the Development of
San Jose de Ocoa (ADESJO); Water Users Associations of Nizao,
Santiago, Azua; and Nizao Watershed Farmer Associations.
Poverty:          Program of targeted interventions. Poverty reduction measures include
investments in irrigation infrastructure in irrigated small-farm areas, a
watershed management program for farmers living below the rural
poverty threshold, and establishment of eligibility criteria for the
allocation of research and extension programs to ensure that these
programs meet the needs of the small farmers in the project areas.
Amount:           US$28.0 million equivalent, including up to
US$800,000 of retroactive financing.
Terms:            Maturity of 20 years, including a 5-year grace period, at the Bank's
standard variable interest rate.
Commitment Fee: 0.75 % on undisbursed loan balances, beginning 60 days after signing,
less any waiver.
Financing Plan:   See para. 7.2
Economic Rate
of Return:        Estimated at 19 percent average for the 3 irrigated areas.
Staff Appraisal
Report:           12233-DO.
Maps:             IBRD No. 25141, Nizao; 25142, Ysura; and 25143, PRYN.



ANNEX 9
Page 8 of 9
increases by another 5% of the area each year until the 30% coverage is attained in PY7.
The cropping patterns under the different irrigation systems are the same as those indicated
in the financial analysis. Similarly, yields of areas without adequate irrigation or drainage
are assumed to be 15% below average in the without project situation and improve to
average levels with the intervention of the project. In areas benefitting from agricultural
development, yields increase in accordance with the crop models and cropping intensity
improves 20%. Because of the large proportion of the area affected by land levelling in
PRYN and YSURA, it is assumed that this would include the 30% of the area benefitting
from agricultural development. In the case of Nizao-Valdesia, the area affected by land
levelling would be additional, yields would increase but there would not be any impact on
cropping intensity. In PRYN, the areas receiving drainage are assumed to be among those
benefitting from land levelling.
Prices
23.   Because of the frequent changes in trade regime and erratic implementation of tax
laws, the relationship of financial to economic prices in the Dominican Republic fluctuates
and is difficult to determine. Import taxes currently average 25 - 30% and there has been
progress in stabilizing the exchange rate, which is now guided by market forces. For the
purposes of the economic analysis of the project, an SCF of .8 has been adopted to reflect
existing distortions.
24.   For tradeable agricultural inputs and outputs, the border prices estimated by the
preparation mission have been adopted. The appraisal mission has also followed the practice
of using the financial wage rate for unskilled labor to value farm labor as off-farm
employment opportunities at similar wage rates are readily available.
Results
25.   The cost and benefit streams used in the economic analysis are given in Tables 1 to
12 of Appendix 1 and the results are summarized below:
Internal Rate of Return (%)
Area               IR
Nizao-Valdesia     21
PRYN               21
YSURA              14
Three areas together     19
26.   Costs for activities other than irrigation development have been allocated roughly in
proportion to the area under the three schemes, so explanatory factors for the lower rate of



I~~- 



ANNEX 9
Page 7 of 9
D. Economic Analysis
Scope
20.   Economic analysis has been carried out for the individual irrigation schemes and for
the three combined, accounting for almost 90% of project costs. The analysis covers all
related investment both for irrigation infrastructure as well as agricultural development and
institutional strengthening. It does not include the Watershed Development component and
related research in view of the experimental nature of these activities.
Assumptions
21.   The areas under the three irrigation schemes expected to benefit from project
activities and the phasing of investment are indicated in the tables below. In addition, it is
assumed that extension and research activities would have an impact on 30% of the area
farmed under each scheme in the formi of adoption of improved technical packages and
increased yields.
Project Area (ha)
Nizao-Valdesia    PRYN         YSURA
Total area:                    8500        4650         6300
Area benefitting from:
Irrigation improvements       3000         600
Drainage/Protection            -          1200         1800
Land Levelling                650         3400         3200
Phasing of Investment (%)
PYl     PY2     PY3     PY4    PY5
Nizao-Valdesia
Irrigation        5%     40%     40%     15%
Land Levelling    10%     40%     50%
PRYN
Irrigation        15%     60%     25%
Drainage          15%     60%     25%
Land Levelling    20%     20%    20%     20%     20%
YSURA
Drainage          15%     60%     25%
Land Levelling    20%     20%     20%    20%     20%
22.   The impact on the cropped area is assumed to occur in the year following the
investment. For the agricultural development the impact starts on 5 % of the area in PY2 and



- 1 -
2. THE SECTOR CONTEXT
A. The Economy
2.1         The performance of the Dominican Republic's economy slowed
dramatically in 1979-90 compared with 1970-78. Economic growth averaged 7.5
percent in 1970-78 but only 1.2 percent in 1988-92. In the earlier period, under
conditions of domestic price stability and external equilibrium, GDP growth exceeded
population growth (which was 3 percent) and allowed increasing investment and
consumption per capita. But, since 1979, GDP has not grown as fast as population,
and per capita consumption declined at an average annual rate of about 2 percent.
2.2         The reasons for the general stagnation of economic growth include
extensive price controls, poor performance in the public sector, and inadequate
policies, distortions, and uncertainties in the trade sector. These factors led to
inadequate investment in public infrastructure and human capital development.
2.3         In 1990 the Government, with the support of the IMF, initiated a
New Economic Program which has focussed successfully on reducing inflation and
stabilizing the economy. The exchange rate system has been unified and a market-
determined exchange rate has stabilized at RD$12.97 per U.S. dollar (as of
December 30, 1994). Domestic prices have been liberalized and reforms have been
initiated in trade, taxation, and the financial sector. These recent improvements in
economic performance provide an opportunity for expanded Bank assistance.
B. Agriculture in the Economy
2.4         Natural conditions in the Dominican Republic are favorable for
agriculture development. The sector employs about 35 percent of the labor force.
The traditional exports of sugar, coffee, cocoa, and tobacco are the main crops,
occupying more than half of the agricultural land and generating more than 60
percent of merchandise exports. The remaining land suitable for agriculture is
dedicated largely to food crops, of which rice is now the most important. Crops
accounted in 1991 for about 68 percent of the gross value of agricultural production
with the remaining 32 percent shared by livestock (28 percent) and forestry and
fisheries (4 percent). But the contribution of farming to the economy has been
declining. The agricultural sector--including the sugar industry--accounted for only
17 percent of GDP in 1991, compared with 19 percent in 1980 and 26 percent in
1973. Although the annual growth rate of total GDP was about 2.8 percent in 1980-
89, for agricultural GDP it was only 1.4 percent, dropping to less than 1 percent in
1988-92.



ANNEX 9
Page 6 of 9
to family labor at full development is well over twice the wage rate, suggesting that there
should not be a problem with paying the water charge. In fact, even in this situation, where
the water charge is highest, it only represents about 11 % of total costs. Supplementary
analysis of the returns per hectare for individual crops with full costing of the labor input
shows that only a few crops - maize, rice and peanuts - in the situation of inadequate
irrigation/drainage would not generate enough revenue to cover the cost of the with project
water charge.
Payment of Water Charges
18.   If this is the situation, why has the record of payment of water charges, which have
been much lower, been so poor in the past? and what is the implication for payment in the
future? Essentially there is a problem of perception: in so far as water has been perceived as
a free good and irrigation a public service, farmers have been reluctant to contribute to
upkeep of the system. The situation has been aggravated when the service has not been
efficient and water has not been available in adequate amounts when required. With the
development of Water Users' Associations and the transfer of responsibility for upkeep of the
distribution system to them, the situation has improved, as witnessed by the better payment
record of WUA members. There is a greater sense of responsibility for the system and
correspondingly a greater willingness to pay for its upkeep. However, experience has shown
that willingness to pay is very closely linked with the quality of the service provided and the
need for water. In these circumstances, the importance of ensuring the efficiency of the
irrigation system is underlined. This requires not only better infrastructure but also training
in improved operation and maintenance practices. It is therefore an integral part of the
project to strengthen the WUAs with a view to improving the effectiveness of services
rendered to members, enabling enhanced recovery of costs of irrigation system operation and
maintenance and facilitating the achievement of financial viability.
19.   Although payment of the water charge does not represent a significant outlay for the
average farmer, it would not be realistic to expect that full cost recovery could be easily
achieved under the project. Given that existing recovery is about 60 - 70% of amount due in
PRYN and YSURA, where the WUAs have been established for some time, and probably
lower in Nizao-Valdesia, where users are only partially organized, a reasonable target might
be cost recovery of the amount required to finance WUA operations, i.e. operation and
maintenance of the distribution network, by the third year of the project. By the end of the
project, about 80% of total 0 & M costs might be recovered under the PRYN and Nizao-
Valdesia systems, but it is unlikely that more than 50% recovery of the total 0 & M costs of
YSURA could be achieved. The lower expected recovery under the YSURA system is both
a reflection of the higher cost and the fact that project intervention would be less
comprehensive than in the other two areas.



- 2 -
2.5          When the agricultural sector is viewed more closely, the problems are
clearly found mostly in the crop subsector. The average annual growth rates of
agricultural GDP by subsector for 1980-89 are 3.9 percent, forestry and fisheries;
0.7 percent, crops; and 2.4 percent, livestock. Crops lacked dynamism especially in
the second half of the past decade; 1981-90 average growth rates for rice, maize,
sorghum, and beans were close to zero or negative. Domestic agricultural policy, a
lack of credit, deterioration of mechanization services and irrigation systems, and an
extreme drought in 1990, all contributed to this situation.
Iblmate and Soils
2.6          The climate and soils in the Dominican Republic place practically no
restrictions on growing tropical and some subtropical crops. Warm temperatures
throughout the year allow a 12-month growing season with irrigation. Although the
temperature does not vary substantially, the seasons are distinguished by variations in
rainfall. The summer rainy season lasts from May/June to October/November when
the winter dry season starts. There are very sharp differences in rainfall between the
windward and leeward sides of the four mountain ranges that cross the island. The
rainiest areas are in the northeast, which is exposed to the trade winds, and in the
Cordillera Central (above 2,000 millimeters per year). In some southern areas,
rainfall can be as low as 500 millimeters per year. This range of variations, from
high humidity to semi-aridity, is aggravated by the great differences in altitude.
2.7          Soil types vary widely and thus so does production potential. Soils
that have agricultural potential (Classes I to IV) cover 20 percent of the country's
area, and soils suitable for pasture (classes V and VI) cover another 25 percent. The
remainder (classes VII and VIII) comprises mountain areas suitable for forests (53
percent) and conservation (2 percent).
Land Use and Distribution
2.8          The Dominican Republic has a total area of 4.8 million hectares, of
which 2.6 million hectares or 54 percent are suitable for agricultural and livestock
production. The remaining 46 percent are marginal areas and, at best, are suitable
for forestry and conservation. Of this, large areas have been deforested or are
without any use. Some 1.7 million hectares are under pasture and support livestock
production, mainly beef and milk. Approximately 0.6 million hectares are under
cultivation, with sugarcane, cocoa, coffee, tobacco, coconuts, and fruit trees
occupying an estimated 0.3 million hectares. About 0.3 million hectares produce
seasonal crops for the domestic market, mainly rice, maize, beans', groundnut, root
and tuber crops, and tomatoes. Seasonal crops have shown a strong increase in some
areas at the expense of tree crops, pasture, and forest areas. Increased irrigation
may have contributed to this trend.



ANNEX 9
Page 5 of 9
limitation to planting of host crops over specified periods, was proving relatively effective
and industries were returning to the Azua area and expecting to substantially increase
contracts for planting there in the next few years. It was therefore considered appropriate to
assume that a relatively important part of the cropped area (25%) under the YSURA model
would be planted with industrial tomatoes.
15.   In the without project situation of inadequate irrigation/drainage envisaged under
Model A, yields are 15% below average. With improvement to the irrigation/drainage
system under the project, yields increase to average levels. Cropping intensity does not
change. Under Model B, yields develop to the full potential identified in the crop models
while cropping intensity improves by about 20% to 0.94 in Nizao-Valdesia and YSURA to
0.8 in PRYN. For both models, it is assumed that the farmer's family would be in a
position to provide the majority of the labor required and that only 10% of labor
requirements would be hired. In the without project situation, current water charges prevail,
whereas with the project, charges are increased to cover WUA costs in the first year and
subsequently to cover the full cost of irrigation system 0 & M.
Results
16.   Appendix 1 gives the results of the financial analysis in the form of farm budgets for
the various models achieving in PY5 an averaged incremental farm income of 45% in Nizao-
Valdesia, 51% in YSURA, and 72% in PRYN. They are summarized in tenns of return to
family labor below:
Summary of mnancial Analyis Results
Returns to Family Labor
(RD$/person/day)
Irrigation System  Without Project   Full Development   % Increase
PRYN
Model A                 138                177            28%
Model B                 172                217            26%
Nizao-Valdesia
Model A                 157                191            22%
Model B                 194                246            27%
YSURA
Model A                 119                145            22%
Model B                 150                186            24%
17.   In the case of Model B, the combined impact of the increase in labor input and the
full water charge in year 2 causes a drop in return to family labor below that in the without
project situation. This is also due to the establishment of new plantations of banana and
plantain. Once the establishment phase is over, income improves to a level significantly
above that in the without project situation. Even in YSURA in the Model A situation, return



-3 -
2.9          Land distribution is characterized by a considerable concentration of
land holdings with large farms. Census data from 1981 indicate that almost half (49
percent) of the agricultural land is titled and held by private owner-operators, 22
percent is controlled by the state, 3 percent is rented or sharecropped, and 26 percent
is illegally occupied state and private land--or is under unclear status. It is estimated
that 29 percent of the total irrigated area is property of the Dominican Agrarian
Reform Institute (IAD) and the State Council for Sugar (CEA), while the remaining
is private land. Titles given by IAD to farmers are temporary. This severely limits
farmers' access to credit outside the Agricultural Bank (BA) and restricts full benefits
from on-farm infrastructural investments.
C. The Irigation Subsector
2.10         The Dominican Republic is well endowed with water resources.
However, the distribution of those resources is not ideal for irrigation and
cultivation. Precipitation ranges from 400 to 2,500 millimeters a year, with sharp
differences even within relatively small irrigation systems. Because of the steep
relief of the catchments, aggravated by deforestation, river flows closely follow
rainfall. In the dry season, river flows are low and some rivers are dry in the semi-
arid zones. Prospects for expanding cultivation by developing new lands are limited,
but considerable opportunities exist for intensification of irrigated agriculture and, in
particular, for better use of the existing irrigation infrastructure.
2.11         Irrigation systems began to appear in the 1920s, and the period 1930-
54 marked the greatest incorporation of areas into irrigation. The National Water
Resources Institute (INDRHI) was founded in 1965, launching a policy of regulating
the headwaters of Dominican rivers through the construction of storage dams and
modem irrigation systems not far from urban centers. A low pace of irrigation
development, however, was recorded from 1960 to 1979. During these decades the
Government developed a policy of multipurpose use of water resources by
constructing dams for power generation, irrigation, industrial and civil use. From
1970, a new irrigation program was initiated mainly to develop large irrigation
schemes. During the same period, investments in dams and irrigation infrastructures
averaged about 10 percent of total Government expenditures or about half of all
investments in agriculture. Hydroelectric power plants associated with 7 storage
dams have a total installed capacity of 270 megawatts, with average annual
generation of 400 million kilowatt hours contributing 12 percent of the annual
generation of the Dominican Corporation for Electricity.



ANNEX 9
Page 4 of 9
Current                Water Charge with Project
Systemn           RD$             WUA only          *YUA + INDRMII District
RDS       % inc.         RD$       % inc.
PRYN              313         355         13%          530         69%
Nizao-Valdesia        219        315         44%          515         135%
YSURA              181        275         52%           785        334%
11.   The difference, in terms of a water charge covering the full costs of 0 & M is very
significant, particularly for YSURA. The situation with respect to the costs of the WUA for
0 & M of the distribution network alone represents a relatively modest increase. This is
most true in the case of PRYN, which bears out the impression that this WUA currently
comes closest to covering the costs of its operations.
Assumptions for Financial Analysis
12.   Financial analysis has been carried out on the basis of six farm models, two for each
irrigation system. All models are two hectares each, considered to be the modal size of
holding. Cropping intensity (excluding pasture) at the outset of the project reflects current
practice and is 0.78 for YSURA and Nizao-Valdesia and 0.67 in PRYN where there are
several larger holdings which are less intensively farmed. The crop models on which the
farm models are based are those developed by the FAO/CP Preparation Mission.' For
inputs, the prices were obtained from suppliers and verified by SEA technicians working in
the project area, while those for outputs represent average farmgate prices for the period
January-October. Labor was valued at the daily wage rate prevailing in the project area of
RD$ 60/day. The prices used by the Preparation Mission have been adopted with a
coefficient of 1.05 to reflect the price increase since the time of collection in January 1993.
13.   For each system, farm model A represents a fanner who benefits from improvement
in irrigation/drainage alone, while farm model B shows a farmer with adequate irrigation
who benefits from agricultural development on his holding. The models and their evolution
over a five year period are given in Appendix 1. In each area, the cropping pattern differs
in order to represent what is typical based on past practice and an estimate of future
prospects. There is assumed to be a slight change in the relative importance of different
crops over the development period. The proportions of total cropped area represented by the
various crops and the yields at different stages of development are also given in Appendix 1.
14.   In the case of YSURA, particular consideration has been given to the prospects for
industrial tomatoes. While this crop has been important in the past, in recent years it has
been a major victim of the white fly. The mission was informed that control, in terms of
1. See Appendix 5, Annex 1, Volume 1, Report 55/93 CP-DOM 16. A minor modification
was made to the budget for vegetables (horticolas) in order to include costs of mechanization
in the without project situation.



-4-
Legal and Insttutonal Framework
2.12         Water Rights. In the Dominican Republic, the development and use
of public water resources are subject to Law 5852, Ley del Dominio de las Aguas
Terrestres (Water Law). This law covers virtually every aspect both of water
development, from underground and surface sources, and end uses, whether
domestic, industrial, or agricultural. It provides, among other things, for the
creation of irrigation districts. The law also authorizes INDRHI to grant water rights
based on an appraisal of the adequacy of existing or planned irrigation works to use
the water effectively. INDRHI has responsibility for supervising use of the water
and ensuring that all conditions of the law are met, including measuring the amount
of water used and establishing priorities for use among groups of farmers supplied
from a common source. Under the law, a water right is tied to the land and does not
belong to the individual who owns or farms the land. Each year, water users must
request a specific amount of water that can be used effectively for the purposes
indicated in the water right--and this request is granted or modified by INDRHI,
depending on the water supply and facilities available to satisfy such requests.
INDRHI can also cancel water rights or transfer them to other lands. Uses in the
public interest have priority over private uses.
2.13         Cost Recovery. The Water Rate Law of 1982 established that all
irrigation districts were to become self-financing and recommended a 50 percent
recovery of operation and maintenance expenditures in 1984, to increase annually by
10 percent through 1989. INDRHI has been having difficulties enforcing this law
because of the unreliability of water supplies and the slow pace of organizing water
user associations. Water tariffs, therefore, have remained low and cost recovery is
unlikely to improve significantly in areas where services to water users are poor or
unusable (Table 2.1).
Experience with the pilot
program of On-Farm
Water Management                 Tal      PeetRDhatYesoWaer Care
Project (PROMAF)                            (RDS/ha/ Year)
shows, however, that,      Syslem      Non-rice crops           Rice
when responsibility for                 10 ha > 10 ha      < 10 ha  > 10 ha
operation and
maintenance is             Nizao-Valdesia  219  438         438     876
transferred to the         I'SURA        180   361          361     723
beneficiaries in water
user associations, fee
collection rates are much higher than before. Regarding cost recovery of irrigation
investments, the current law enables the Government, through IAD, to acquire land
for redistribution through the cuota parte (share of land) system after irrigation
canals have been constructed. Landowners must return to the Government 50



ANNEX 9
Page 3 of 9
three systems which have been used in the financial and economic analysis. The revised
costs are indicated in the table below:
Revised Operation & Maintenance Costs
(RD$/ha/year)
Organization       Activity         Nizao-           PRYN            I'SURA
Valdesia
INDRHI       Administration         30               45              75
Operation              25               25              50
Maintenance            145             105              385
Total:           200              175              510
WUA         Administration         45               65              40
Operation              135             150              100
Maintenance            135             140              135
Total:           315              355              275
TOTAL                              515              530             785
9.    In establishing these costs, it has been assumed that INDRHI would remain
responsible for the 0 & M of feeder/main canals, drainage and river protection works,
pumping stations and service roads, while the WUA would take charge of the 0 & M of the
distribution network (mostly lateral and sub-lateral canals and structures). In the calculation
of WUA costs, the work of gate keepers and labor contributed by farmers for canal cleaning
have been valued. Inefficiency of the District Offices is assumed to be overcome with a
reduction of 50% in staff costs compared with the present situation. The existing disparity in
remuneration between Santiago (PRYN) and the other areas remains, with salaries for PRYN
staff 60% higher than those elsewhere. As the project intervention in YSURA is limited, it
has been assumed that operation activities of the District Office would not improve although
there would be some improvement in maintenance due to the availability of new equipment;
at the WUA level, performance would be only 75 % of that of PRYN. District Office 0 &
M costs for YSURA are higher than for the other two systems because of the heavy
maintenance required by the extensive conveyance canal, the dense drainage network and the
wells.
10.   The following table provides a comparison of current water charges and those
proposed under a with-project situation on the assumption that the revised costs would be
fully reflected in water charges:



-5-
percent to 80 percent of their lands included in public irrigation projects. Farmers
with holdings of less than 6.3 hectares do not pay cuota parte.
2.14        Organization of Water User Asodations  Law 5852 also provides
for the formation of water user associations. In 1984, a draft regulation was
prepared for the organization of water users and their representation at all decision
making levels of INDRHI (national, irrigation district, zonal, sector and communal
farm turnout levels). So far, water user associations have been created only at the
district level in three projects (Azua, Nizao, and Santiago). To help the Government
transfer management to water user associations, a pilot project (PROMAF) supported
by USAID was implemented with INDRHI. Two project areas, Azua (YSURA) and
Santiago (PRYN Contract I), were partially developed, covering 14,400 hectares and
serving 6,000 farmers. The results have been most impressive: water use is more
efficient and fee collection rates are more than 80 percent of potential against the
nationwide today of 25 percent.
Public Institutions
2.15        The Ministry of Agriculture (SEA) is nominally responsible for
implementing and coordinating the agricultural policies set out by the presidency and
the National Council for Agriculture (CNA). SEA's administrative control over
decentralized agencies it funds is limited. These include the State Sugar Council
(CEA) and the National Institute for Price Stabilization (INESPRE), both of which
have a significant effect on agriculture. The activities that SEA directly controls are
primarily technical and skill-intensive, such as agricultural research, extension,
training, planning, data collection and analysis; performance of these activities is
generally poor.
2.16        The Dominican Agrarian Reform Institute is an autonomous agency
that was established in 1962 with an endowment of 192,000 hectares expropriated by
the state. Later, other lands were expropriated and entrusted to IAD to manage; for
instance, in 1972, by law, all rice holdings larger than 500 tareas' (about 31.44
hectares) were expropriated. Later, all holdings over 100 tareas, which benefitted
from Government-financed irrigation systems, were required by law to turn over to
the Government a variable fraction of the land--50 percent if the land was cultivated
before irrigation and 80 percent if it was not. IAD's land reform program is to
distribute land to small farmers on terms that permit most of them to become self-
sufficient and productive. Performance of the land distribution program is poor,
however, because of cumbersome and lengthy IAD procedures.
1. One Tarea = 0.062 Hectares



ANNEX 9
Page 2 of 9
C. Financial Analysis
Scope
4.    Financial analysis has been carried out at the farm level in order to determine the
financial viability for the farmers of the proposed developments and, in particular, to assess
their capacity to pay water charges to cover the operation and maintenance of the irrigation
systems.
Water Charges
5.    In accordance with the provisions of Decree No.555 of December 1982, users of
water for irrigation provided under INDRHI projects are required to cover the costs incurred
by INDRHI to operate, maintain and administer such systems through payment of annual
water charges. The basic tariff is estimated on a per hectare basis for irrigated holdings of
less than 10 ha. Users of water for more than 10 ha pay double the basic amount for each
hectare over 10 and cultivators of rice also pay double per hectare irrigated.
6.    Water charges are proposed by INDRHI and established by parliamentary decree.
Although they are intended to cover the costs indicated above, in fact the amount charged has
consistently been inadequate and the amount actually collected, ranging from 20 - 60% of the
amount due, considerably less. Furthermore, the process of establishing the charges is
subject to political control and consequently it is difficult to introduce increases. Current
charges were established by Decree No. 435-9 in October 1990. For the three systems
covered under the project, the rates are given below:
System                   Water Charge
RD$/ha/yr
Santiago (PRYN)                313
Bani (Nizao-Valdesia)          219
Azua (YSURA)                   181
7.    Where WUAs have been established, as in PRYN and YSURA, they have been given
the responsibility for operation and maintenance of the secondary and tertiary canals and
authorized to collect water charges to cover this cost. In these areas, no separate charge is
collected by INDRHI, although the Institution remains responsible for operation and
maintenance of the main canal. Collection, at 60 - 70% of the amount due, is considerably
better than in areas where WUAs have not been established but the WUAs still rely on
INDHRI for provision of heavy equipment and sometimes other support necessary to carry
out their responsibilities.
8.    Current water charges are inappropriate for two reasons: (a) they are not regularly
updated to reflect changes in costs; and (b) actual costs do not reflect efficient operation and
maintenance expenses as they are influenced by excessive staff and inadequate facilities. In
the context of the project and following detailed analysis of budgets of INDRHI Irrigation
District Offices and existing WUAs, the mission has estimated revised 0 & M costs for the



-6 -
2.17        The National Water Resources Institute, an autonomous state agency
under SEA, is responsible for planning, development and regulation of water
resources. INDRHI was created by statute in the mid-1960s. The agency has
statutory authority to investigate potential and proposed water resource developments,
to determine availability of water, to adjudicate and allocate water between
competing applications, and to charge and collect fees for water use. INDRHI is
divided into four departments: Planning, Projects, Administration, and Irrigation
Districts. For field operations, the country is divided into districts, which are
subdivided into zones (and occasionally subzones) and sectors. Districts are usually
divided on the basis of watersheds, although rivers sometimes are boundaries. Only
a small portion of the area of a district comprises irrigation systems and related
projects.
2.18        The Agricultural Bank was established in 1952 to support the
Government's agricultural policy by providing the necessary financing. It is
managed by a 7-member Board of Directors. The chief executive, who is appointed
by the president of the republic, is also the director general. The Board of Directors
includes the governor of the central bank, one representative from each of the
country's five different administrative regions, and one from the Ministry of
Agriculture. The headquarters is in Santo Domingo and there are 31 branches
throughout the country. BA is lending mainly to small farmers who cannot obtain
commercial banking credit for reasons of collateral, creditworthiness, and distance
from bank locations. Of about 104,000 loans that BA had outstanding in 1990, about
65,000 (62 percent) averaged US$600; an additional 17,000 (16 percent) averaged
US$1,000. A large part of these small farmers are beneficiaries of the agrarian
reform and, as such, have access to BA credit without providing collateral. By law,
these agrarian reform loans are guaranteed by the state, which reimburses BA for the
unpaid portfolio; it does so very irregularly and with considerable delay, straining on
BA's resource availability.



ANNEX 9
Page 1 of 9
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
financial and Economic Analysis
A. Introduction
1.    Financial and economic analysis has been undertaken for the major part of the project
which is concerned with the development of irrigated areas. The analysis does not cover the
watershed management component as the activities proposed at this stage are essentially
experimental in nature, intended to provide guidance for more extensive development in the
future.
B. Target Population
2.    It is estimated that there are about 10,300 farmers under the three irrigation systems
involved in the project distributed as follows:
Irrigation Scheme               No.of Farmers
PRYN                             2,015
YSURA                            4,800
Nizao-Valdesia                   3,500
The figures for PRYN and YSURA are up-to-date and may be considered accurate as
they refer to members of the Water Users' Associations (WUA). The number of farmers
under the Nizao-Valdesia scheme is more difficult to determine precisely as users have been
organized in only 3 of the 8 sections, and the number of users in the 3 organized sections is
about 1,260 farmers.
3.    In the PRYN area, 48% of farmers are beneficiaries of land reform and account for
about 30% of the land under the scheme. In YSURA, practically all holdings were
distributed as a result of land reform. There are only two settlements of land reform
beneficiaries under the Nizao-Valdesia scheme. Holdings of land reform beneficiaries
average about 1.5 ha. Because of the significant presence of private landowners in the
PRYN and Nizao-Valdesia schemes, there is more variation in land holding size in these
areas, although not all private landowners are large farmers. Even outside the land reform
settlements, not all farmers have title to the land they farm, often as a result of disputes over
inheritance.



-7-
3. DEVELOPMENT POTENTIL AND CONSTRAINTS
A. Potential
3.1         Temperatures are conducive to year-round crop growth. And total
average precipitation in many areas of the Dominican Republic (Santiago, for
example) may appear to be satisfactory for rainfed crop production, reaching 1,000
millimeters per year. But the irregularity of the rainfall pattern and high
evapotranspiration rates most commonly produce high risk for rainfed crop
production. Thus high-input crops, such as tomatoes for processing, face special
constraints. Typically, areas with average precipitation of 6,000 millimeters/year to
1,000 millimeters/year are still classified as having an arid climate. A 1978 study
estimated the country's irrigation potential at 550,000 hectares which would require
43 percent of the total annual flow.2 This potential is considered overoptimistic,
even unrealistic, however, as it is based on assumed irrigation efficiencies of 50 to
60 percent--85 to 90 percent for the conveyance and distribution systems and 60 to
65 percent for on-farm efficiency. Irrigated area today is believed to total 230,000
hectares. This area has considerable potential given the near proximity of a large
export and import substitution market.
B. Current rrigation Water Manag      t
3.2         The most pressing problem, in all regions in the country but especially
in irrigated areas, is poor management of existing resources, as reflected by a very
low overall irrigation efficiency, of about 25 percent in the Dominican Republic.
This is attributed to the relative abundance of water supplies; in some areas, the
farmer has little incentive to manage water efficiently. Lack of properly designed
and constructed primary and secondary canals and of adequate water control,
measurement structures, and sufficient farm turnout devices are also key. In most of
the country's irrigation systems little attention has been paid to minor canals, water
management, and on-farm development, which has resulted in low field efficiencies.
Similarly, there is insufficient main drainage infrastructure to provide drainage
outlets to all farm units. As a result, about 20 to 25 percent of the land in the
irrigation systems suffers from waterlogging, salinity, and high water tables. Other
deficiencies include poor condition of the irrigation systems, including silted canal
2.    INDRHI, 1978: Plan Nacional de Investigaci6n, Aprovechamiento y Control de
Aguas Subterrdneas (PLANIACAS).



ANNEX 8
Page 6 of 6
and implementation and management of adaptive research in the field as well as practical
experience in technology transfer. Experience with participatory approach would be a strong
advantage. The Research Specialist would speak and write fluent Spanish.
19.         Duration of Contract. The assignment would be for 2 months in PY1, then 1
month each year during the last four years of project implementation.



- 8 -
and drains, inoperative gates, and the siltation of regulating and--to a lesser extent--
storage reservoirs 3
3.3          Other factors that contribute to the inefficient use of irrigation systems
are the problems in the layout of on-farm irrigation canals because of the incomplete
or outdated cadastral maps of the irrigated areas; the poorly developed agricultural
production plans and cropping patterns, which are not based on available water
resources in the storage reservoirs at the beginning of each dry season; insufficient
knowledge by INDRHI and water user associations of the actual crop coverage; and a
lack of operational manuals. In addition, irrigation requirements are not calculated
on the basis of crop needs and actual rainfall, but are estimates. Water is delivered
on demand when there is no scarcity and on a rotational basis at other times to
different farmers, usually without strict time limits. There is no irrigation at night
and on Sundays.
3.4          As a result of system deficiencies and a past mobility to adjust to
variations in demand, large volumes of water are lost to the drains or to the farms at
night and during the rainy season--and substantial areas are affected by waterlogging
and salinization.
C. Agriuural Deveopment
3.5          As noted above, agriculture in the Dominican Republic is characterized
by a dualistic system of large and small holdings (para. 2.9). The coexistence of
extensively operated large farms and many smallholders producing mainly for
subsistence constrains technological development, appropriate use of resources, and
increases in productivity. The levels of agricultural technology vary by region, crop,
and fann type, but remain generally low. Intensive use of modern production inputs
is limited to sugarcane, rice, tobacco, and some vegetables. Reliable data on areas
planted to rainfed or irrigated seasonal crops and agroeconomic comparisons between
the two farming systems are lacking. In general, the low productivity of crops in the
Dominican Republic can be traced to weak research and extension services; low
cropping intensity; inefficient management of farms, particularly those producing
livestock and permanent crops; high cost of inputs; and land tenure and the related
limited access to formal credit. In addition, poor water management, low irrigation
efficiency and the problems of waterlogging and salinity associated with irrigation
3.     Development Strategies for Fragile Lands. 1990. Evaluation of the on-farm water
management project in the Dominican Republic. USAID contract no. DHR - 5439-
C-19-6054-00.
4.     World Bank. 1986. Dominican Republic - Agricultural Sector Study Report no.
6267-DO.



ANNEX 8
Page 5 of 6
provide on-the-job training in watershed management, as well as help establish the format and
trend of watershed planning during the initial years of project implementation.
12.         Scope of Work. Working closely with ADESJO, the specialist would assist
project staff to formulate work plans to guide watershed management planning and
implementation in the Nizao watershed area following the guidelines and concepts presented in
Annex 5. With the project team, the incumbent would assist to assemble baseline data including
maps, aerial photos, statistical output data, land-use data, climatic data, streamflow and sediment
discharge data, etc. In addition, he will participate in the definition of research programs and
in the preparation and setting-up of an Environmental Monitoring system.
13.         Qualification and other Experience. The incumbent would be DR national and
would hold a degree in either watershed management, agricultural science, or forestry. He
would possess at least 10 years of experience in soil and water resource management. In
addition, he would be versed in each of the following teclhical skills:
(a)   Computer literate in word processing and use of standard spreadsheets;
(b)   Soil sampling, soil survey, land use capability, and soil classification;
(c)   Soil loss and run-off estimation procedures including for non-agricultural lands;
(d)   Participatory land management procedures;
(e)   Soil and water conservation;
(f)   Mapping skills, aerial photos interpretation.
14.         Place of Duty. San Jose de Ocoa.
15.         Duration of Contract. 5 years.
Participatory Research Specialist
16.         Duties. The Participatory Research Specialist would work with the PEU and the
watershed specialist to establish a Participatory Research and Development Grants Scheme as
presented in Annex 6.
17.         Scope of Work. The Research Specialist would prepare detailed technical bidding
documents for the four major PR&D contracts. In the course of project implementation he/she
would advise the PR&D-GB in preparing standard format for RD&D proposals and in reviewing
the technical proposals as well as their costing.
18.         Qualification and Experience. The Research Specialist would be internationally
recruited and would have agricultural qualifications and post graduate training in rainfed and
irrigated crop production. He/she will have more than 10 years field experience in the planning



-9 -
also contribute to low productivity. An increase in crop productivity and more
efficient land use depend on the removal of these constraints. The Government has
initiated development projects aimed at increasing the productivity of some export
crops, such as coffee and cocoa, but insufficient attention has been given to other
crops.
3.6          Major potential for increasing production lies in improved use of
irrigation facilities, which would allow the present cropping intensity--about 80
percent--to be increased to 130 to 140 percent. As mentioned earlier, efficient
functioning of the existing irrigation system is constrained by institutional, financial,
and system design issues of INDRHI and water user associations.
D. Environmental Constraints
Drainage and Salinization
3.7          Most irrigable land in the Dominican Republic is in the 3 large rift
valleys that lie between the island's 4 mountain ranges. The topography of the
irrigable areas varies from moderately hilly and undulating to uniformly flat. Slopes
of 2 to 5 percent and the many streams allow good surface drainage of gently sloping
land. However, incomplete irrigation infrastructure and over-irrigation has produced
drainage problems in low-lying areas. As a result, the permanent waterlogging of
some plots has created a "water-bridge" between the saline water table and the top
layers of the soil. Little research has been done on this issue. Another problem is
the potential threat of saline intrusion in coastal aquifers. This is most likely to
occur where storage for hydroelectricity or consumptive use of water for irrigation in
the dry season reduce flows near river mouths or estuaries so much that ground
water recharge cannot prevent the advance of seawater. There has been no indication
that this process is under way in the southwest or northwest, which would affect the
quality of water available to the increasing population at beach resorts and other
coastal towns. Nevertheless, the prospect cannot be ignored in view of likely
increased demands for water for irrigation, industrial production, and domestic
consumption. There is only limited information on the behavior of aquifers (coastal
or inland) with which to estimate the probability of saline intrusion and design
remedial or preventive measures. The proposed project would require that
investments for such areas address this issue as part of the environmental monitoring.
Degradation of Natural Resources
3.8          Deforestation, combined with inappropriate agricultural use of
mountain and hill areas, has intensified soil erosion, which in some areas has
irreversibly damaged the soil's productive capacity. Soil erosion has caused
excessive sedimentation in riverbeds, storage dams, and irrigation canals. The loss



ANNEX 8
Page 4 of 6
6.          Job descriptions for the T.A. specialists, Economist/MIS/Monitoring Specialist,
Watershed Management Specialist, and Participatory Research Specialist would be as described
below:
Economist/MIS/Monitoring Specialist
7.          Duties. The internationally recruited specialist would be required assist his
counterpart in PEU to develop practical Management Information Systems/Environmental
Monitoring System and to devise a program for monitoring project activities in the irrigated
areas as well as in the Nizao watershed.
8.          Scope of Work. The specialist would work closely with PEU personnel and
WUAs and ADESJO staff. He/she would devise systems and source for the collection and
analysis of technical and financial parameters of project activities.  During project
implementation, in the irrigated areas, the data base so created would be continuously updated
so that each WUA would be in a better position to manage carefully the use of lands and of
irrigation water, as well as the cash-flow of the different farm models. In the Nizao watershed,
the data base would be used to accurately review the MC development plans as low cost,
technically and economically viable. The tools and approach to the participatory approach to
MC management would be constantly under review and the MIS would assist management to
devise ever more transparent means of explanation of options, in the smooth planning and
imnplementation, with modifications, if appropriate. Both in irrigated areas and in the watershed
area, the specialist would propose key socioeconomic indicators of project impact (qualitative
and quantitative).
9.          Qualifications and Experience. The Economist/MIS/Monitoring specialist would
hold a degree in agricultural economics and relevant experience extending over at least ten years.
He/she would demonstrate ability to work with multi-disciplinary teams and competence to set
up operational procedures. Technical skills would include:
(a)   computer literacy with experience in setting up large database systems, using
spreadsheets and word processing;
(b)   micro project planning and economic and financial feasibility analysis;
(c)   knowledge of farm survey participatory approach and systems.
Fluency in Spanish.  Experience of working in the irrigated areas and/or
watershed areas would be an advantage.
10.         Duration of Contract. 3 months during PYL.
Watershed ant Specialist
11.         Duties. The Watershed Management Specialist would work closely with the
Project Executing Unit, technical staff of ADESJO, and farming communities representatives
to develop management plans for priority microcatchments. In so doing, the incumbent would



- 10 -
of vegetative cover has reduced water retention capacity in the catchment areas,
producing irregular water flows and flooding, and has reportedly led to the drying up
of hundreds of small rivers and streams. In addition, the useful life of hydraulic
infrastructre such as storage and re-regulating reservoirs is shortened.
3.9          Little has been done to address the deforestation and inappropriate use
of mountain slopes which cause the erosion. Preliminary experience with the Plan
Sierra (Sierra Plan) and a few projects of the General Forestry Directorate and the
Ministry of Agriculture suggests that responsibility for soil and water conservation
and management of forest areas are dispersed among various government institutions
with overlapping activities and conflicting objectives. Moreover, land rights and
regulations on land use are not clear. Thus, where an individual settler occupies
state land, neither the individual nor the state is willing to invest in the land, even
through tree planting. Private sector involvement generally is constrained by a lack
of clear rules about land to be used for forests and uncertainty about future changes
in regulations. All these issues would be addressed on a pilot basis through the
proposed project.



ANNEX 8
Page 3 of 6
*      project objectives and participatory MC planning;
*      study trips to demonstrations and treatment sites;
*      forest land management treatments;
*      agroforestry management treatments;
*      rainfed and irrigated farming techniques;
*      village responsibilities in the management of community lands.
Detailed training programs would be worked out with the help of the technical
team and the sociologist/training specialist recruited for reinforcing the team of ADESJO.
Technical Assistance
5.            In order to help upgrade technical skills and develop managerial capabilities at the
level of each WUAs and ADESJO, the project envisages Technical Assistance (TA). TA is
identified as being both national and international and recruitment would be carried out
accordingly.
Technical Assistance       Pi, I        PY2          PY3          PY4          PY5
Short-Term T.A. (month)
Economist/MIS/Monitoring       3            -
Specialist
Accountant                     3            1
Legal Expert                   1            -
Procurement Specialist         2
Research Specialist            2            1            1            1            1
Long-Term T.A. (year)
Project Coordinator            1            1            1            1            1
Watershed Management           1            1            1            1            1
Specialist                                                                                l
Civil Engineer                 1            1            1            1            1
Water Management Expert        1            1            1
Agriculturalist                1            1            1            1            1
Monitoring Specialist          1            1            1            1            1
Administrator                  1            1            1            1            1
Accountant                     1            1            1            1            1
Computer Specialist                                                                1



- 11 -
4. BANK INVOLVEMENT AND LESSONS LEARNED
A. Bankwide Lending for Irrigation and Drainage
4.1         Irrigation and drainage projects account for about one-third of Bank
lending to agriculture. Although Bank-supported investments in irrigation and
drainage have been generally beneficial, there is growing concern about the quality of
some of the projects. The overall operational performance has been poorer than
expected and the sustainability of many investments is uncertain. Recurring issues
include the effectiveness of large-scale, public sector, gravity irrigation systems as
opposed to largely private-sector irrigation development; the proportion of projects
not completed, especially under program or time-slice approaches; poor preparation
and design of schemes; overestimation of irrigation system efficiency; substandard
construction quality; the low level of cost recovery; and the role of major commodity
price shifts. The physical infrastructure has often deteriorated, leading in some cases
to long-term declines in production and low efficiency in water use. Inadequate
operation and maintenance funding and institutional and organizational problems have
contributed to this shortfall in performance. Borrowers often disengaged too early
from projects, leaving irrigation and drainage systems incomplete and land
development unfinished, with complementary services inadequate or seriously
delayed.5 In addition, some Bank-financed projects suffer from underestimated costs
because of inadequate engineering designs, preparing tender documents, and bids;
slower-than-estimated civil works construction and equipment delivery times; and
lower-than-estimated water use efficiencies.'
4.2          Poor design of the system has also contributed to a poor cost-recovery
record in Bank-financed irrigation projects. In most cases, no capital costs were
recovered, and in two-thirds of the Bankwide projects reviewed, the covenant
requiring that cost recovery fully satisfy operation and maintenance funding had not
been met, with the proportion of operation and maintenance costs recovered generally
reaching only a range of 15 to 45 percent. In addition to an unreliable water supply
resulting from poor design and poor operation and maintenance, the two other factors
in weak cost recovery are the often heavy burden of direct and indirect taxes already
imposed by governments on farming and a lack of government commitment to
recover costs.7
5.    Evaluation Results for 1989, Operations Evaluation Department (OED).
6.    Annual Review of Evaluation Results for 1989 - Agriculture and Rural
Development, OED.
7.    World Bank Lending Conditionality: A Review of Cost Recovery in Irrigation
Projects, OED, OPS No. 6283, June 1, 1986.



ANNEX 8
Page 2 of 6
3.           Farmer Training. The content of any training would depend
on the training received by the extension staff and the findings of the
participatory research. Allowance has been made in the costs for a certain
number of days per year for training in production techniques and water
management, and also for field days and visits to research stations or
experimental farms. Provision has also been made for the establishment of a
demonstration plot in each sector at a cost of RD$5,000/plot/year. The costs
for the different types of training and the number per year per system are
about DR$60 per participant for training in production techniques and water
management, DR$20 for field days, and DR$10 for visits.
Numbers of Participants
Course/Systen     PYI      PY2      PY3       PV4       PY5S
Production
techniques
Nizao                700     1000     1000      1000      1000
PRYN                400       600      600       600       600
YSURA                950     1500     1500      1500      1500
Water
Management
Nizao               700      1000     1000      1000      1000
PRYN                400       600      600       600       600
YSURA                950     1500     1500      1500      1500
Fleld Days
Nizao               1000     2000     3000      3000     a 3000
PRYN                 500     1000     1500      1500      1500
YSURA               1000     2500     3500      3500      3500
Visits
Nizao               500      1000     1500      1500      1500
PRYN                400       800     1200      1200      1200
YSURA                800     1500     2500      2500      2500
4.           Training in the Nizao watershed will be done following the guidelines described
in Annex 5. Throughout project implementation, the microcatchment planning process will
introduce project objectives, the participatory mode of operation, the technical treatment options
and their estimated effect on production, the local responsibilities for management of community
lands and the cost sharing arrangements to the concerned villagers. This can be done through
visits to sites where different demonstration treatments have been implemented. The training
would in summary cover the following topics:



- 12 -
B. Lending to Agriculture in Latin America and the Caribbean
4.3         From recent Bank experience lending to agriculture in the Latin
America and the Caribbean Region, several factors have been identified as
contributing to poor project performance: lack of a supportive policy environment;
inadequate counterpart funding; weak implementation institutions in the sector; overly
complex design; and technical shortcomings in preparing and appraising projects.
The institutional weakness suggests that the size and complexity should be largely
determined by the demonstrated implementing and funding capacity--and
commitment--of the agencies involved. For irrigation projects, the failure to
adequately involve proposed beneficiaries in project design and implementation is
also seen as a major cause of unsatisfactory performance. The result is overly
optimistic assumptions about efficiency and productivity increases.
C. World Bank Involvement in the Dominican Republic
4.4         The Dominican Republic experience shows more than a decade of
checkered relationships between the Government and the Bank. The Bank lent only
US$86 million to the Dominican Republic between 1969 and 1978. The relatively
small amount loaned was mainly a result of the Government's lack of clear
investment priorities, inadequate project preparation capacity, reluctance to address
sectoral issues in the context of project financing, and extremely conservative policies
regarding external borrowing. Moreover, project implementation performance was
disappointing and disbursements were slow, while poor management of the public
investment program and public finances led to a perennial shortage of counterpart
funds. At the end of the 1970s, a spurt increased Bank lending to US$172 million.
Between 1982 and 1986, total Bank lending was only US$66.6 million, 46 percent of
which was canceled for similar reasons as in 1969-78.
4.5         The progress of the Government's New Economic Policy has been
encouraging (para. 2.3). Inflation has been dramatically reduced and international
reserves accumulated. All targets under the first Stand-by Arrangement with the
IMF agreed to in August 1991 were met. A Paris Club rescheduling was achieved in
November 1991 and most of the corresponding bilateral settlements have been
completed. All arrears to multilateral creditors were eliminated early in 1991, and
the Government has serviced its debt to them on time since then. A second Stand-by
Agreement was approved in July 1993. These recent improvements in economic
management give the Bank an opportunity to assist the country's development
through an increase in conventional investment lending.
4.6         The Bank has made five agricultural credits or loans to the Dominican
Republic in the past two decades, totaling some US$104 million. Two of them were
irrigation projects--a US$13.0 million IDA credit for the Yaque del Norte Irrigation



ANNEX 8
Page 1 of 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Traning and Technical A   2iEanc
1.          There is good technical experience within INDRHI in
construction of irrigation infrastructure, however experience in water and
irrigated land management, as well as watershed management is limited. A
key feature of successful irrigated land and watershed management is the
close involvement of the people who use the resources in question. Unless
the program responds to their priorities and requirements and brings quick
and substantial benefits, the improvements are unlikely to be sustained. This
kind of "participatory" or "interactive" planning is to a large extent new in
the Dominican Republic. ADESJO, the NGO working in the Ocoa area, is
one of the few organization with some experience in this domain. Moreover,
some gaps have been identified in the areas of financial management,
monitoring information system, and management of research and extension
programs. The training and technical assistance component of the project is
designed to overcome these gaps in the domestic experience and to upgrade
the technical skill of farmers and technical staff in the selected areas who will
be involved in project execution. Recruitment of staff will be done on a
contractual basis to give better leverage to the users to monitor and control
the contracted services.
Traning
2.           Staff Training:
(a)   Communications. This is the training in extension
methodology with the interactive process that would be carried
out by ADESJO. Extension staff from the WUAs would go to
San Jose de Ocoa for 6 days each year. The cost per person is
estimated on the basis of DR$200/day plus DR$100 for
materials.
(b)   Technical. For extension staff from the WUAs, training
would be provided by the contracted specialized institutions for
technology generation and transfer. 10 days per year at a cost
of DR$200/day.
(c)   Study trips to other WUAs. For extension staff to meet and
exchange experiences. One day per trimester at a cost of
DR$100/day.



- 13 -
Project, approved in 1973, and a US$27.0 million Bank loan for the Nizao Irrigation
Project, approved in 1979. The others were livestock development, cocoa and coffee
development, and sugar rehabilitation projects. For the two irrigation loans that have
been evaluated by OED ERRs as calculated by OED have been much lower than in
the respective SAR or PCR. Three lessons are relevant. First, given the
institutional weakness of public agencies in the agricultural sector, sustainability for
irrigated farming development requires the involvement of the private sector.
Second, some institutional support is, nevertheless, required for public institutions to
ensure adequate monitoring, coherent policies, and a long-term investment strategy.
Third, implementation of rural development requires a participatory approach. This
asks for a starting phase of group management training for the farming community to
design and agree on needed investments and rules for managing the land in a holistic
and sustainable manner.
5. PROPOSED STRATEGY, DESIGN, AND RATIONALE
FOR BANK INVOLVEMENT
A. The Government Strategy in Irrigation
5.1         Agriculture accounts for 17 percent of GDP and more than 70 percent
of the country's earnings from merchandise exports. The Government has invested
heavily in the sector. Investments in dams and irrigation canals averaged about 10
percent of total Government expenditures on capital formation in the last decade or
about half of all investments in agriculture. Little attention has been paid, however,
to infrastructure maintenance, on-farm development, water management, and the
development of productive support services. The proposed project reflects the shift
of emphasis from capital-intensive projects to projects that will generate quick returns
and will not rely too heavily on the public sector. With the liberalization of prices
and the transfer of the marketing of most crops to the private sector, the full
exploitation of partially developed irrigation potential offers the best and quickest
means to increase agricultural production and incomes.
5.2         The Dominican Government has decided to increase investment in the
irrigation subsector in order to sustain agricultural and export growth, protect
significant existing investments in irrigation infrastructure, increase the productive
capacity of small farmers in poor rural areas, and produce the environmentally
sustainable systems. Toward this end, the Government has taken several actions to
fix the problems of the irrigation sector. The Government is now implementing a
program to increase water charges, so that the irrigation districts become financially
self-sufficient, and to transfer the responsibility of operation and maintenance to the



I



- 14 -
beneficiaries. INDRHI's investment program includes three categories: new
projects, involving irrigation and multi-purpose use; rehabilitation and improvement
projects, including structures missing or in need of repair, to cover about 150,000
hectares; and completion projects, to finish up several irrigation systems served by
existing storage dams. The proposed project is one of six priority projects economy-
wide for which the Government has sought support from the international
community.
B. Rationale for Bank Involvement
5.3         The Bank has had a limited lending program in the country, with few
successful projects. There are currently no Bank-financed agricultural projects under
implementation in the Dominican Republic. There is a need to rebuild credibility
and mutual confidence between the Bank and the Government. In this context, the
Bank has renewed its attempts to develop a policy dialogue in agriculture through in-
depth sector work to identify additional measures that can be taken to help the
agricultural sector fully benefit from the macro reforms. The proposed project
provides an opportunity to complement this sector work through limited participation
in a project which can achieve useful results without having to tackle issues sector-
wide. It builds on a dual lesson from the past: the need for strong Government
ownership and as much private-sector participation as possible--based on a careful
assessment of the risks. This is preferable to relying on weak Government
institutions.
5.4         The main reasons for Bank participation in the project have already
been described above. Irrigation is the major area of focus of Government in
agriculture at present. The successful pilot operation (PROMAF) aims to transfer
responsibility for operation and maintenance to the beneficiaries organized in water
user associations. Through the proposed project, the Bank will be able to play a key
role in helping Government to strengthen and reorient supporting activities--
extension, watershed management, cost recovery, the transfer of full responsibility
for operation and maintenance to farmer groups, approaches to sustainable
management by water users, land titling, and defining of the roles of the public and
private sectors. The Bank has extensive experience in Latin America and elsewhere
in all these issues.
5.5         The proposed project is consistent with the objectives enunciated in the
Country Assistance Strategy that accompanies this Report, of broadening the benefits
of economic growth and promoting sustainable natural resource use. The project is
also consistent with the Bank lending strategy in agriculture in the Dominican
Republic and the full commitment of the Government to do three things: formulate
and implement a rational long-term strategy and policies for irrigation development,
complementing the initial steps to be taken under the proposed project; strengthen the



ANNEX 7
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Iriation I    rastructure Components
Nizao-
Valdesia      PRYN I        YSURA'
Related Areas (ha)
Gross                                  10,000         5,500          7,500
Net irrigable                           8,500         4,650          6,300
Conveyance and Distribution
- Rehabilitation and Completion
of canals (kIn)                          55             -
- Construction of elevated canals/
canalettis (km)                                        20
- Repairing, replacement of
gates (nb)                                -            32
- Lateral water intake (nb)                30            -
- Water intake civil works (nb)           845
- Junction and Escape civil works (nb)     20            11             -
Drainage and canal protection
- Rehabilitation of existing drains (km)   -             42            37
- Construction of new main drains (km)     -             -             31
- Installation of drain pipes (Iam)        -             -             13
- Main canal ditch protection (nb)         -             2
On-farm civil works
- Underground pipe drains (Iam)            -             -             150
- Land levelling (net ha)                 650          3,400         3,200
Heavy Equipment for O&M
- Dredger                                  -             1              1
- Back digger                              1             1              1
-Grader                                    1             1              1
- Pick-up                                  1             1              1
1. excluding the eastern part of Rio Jura (about 30% of the total area)



- 15 -
institutional framework, allowing the public sector to play a stronger role in
promoting private sector participation for a more efficient and flexible use of
irrigated areas in a sustainable manner; and alleviate land titling constraints. It is
also consistent with the 1990 World Bank Agricultural Sector Review, which
emphasized the need to promote private sector participation in rehabilitation and
modernization and selected expansion of the irrigated area. Bank involvement would
help strengthen the capacities of the private sector, improve the allocation of public
investment, and provide support for improved natural resource management and
environmental impact assessment in the subsector.
C. Project Design and Strategy
5.6         The strategy for promoting improved irrigation management and
development and the design of the proposed project incorporate lessons learned from
projects in the Dominican Republic and Latin America and the Caribbean, as well as
the more general lessons from wider Bank lending in irrigation. These relate
particularly to the need to improve the operational performance and the sustainability
of irrigation projects. The project has been kept small in scope and as simple as
possible to test the implementation capacity of the executing agency and the
subcontracted organizations--and to ensure it would be implemented adequately
during the relatively short time of 5 years. If implementation goes smoothly, a quick
follow-up project with larger scope and scale is envisaged.
5.7         The proposed project would be the third Bank-financed irrigation
investment in the Dominican Republic. It differs from the previous projects in that it
would focus on private user associations. It is designed to support beneficiary
participation in irrigation development as a mean of avoiding many of the pitfalls
associated with large-scale public irrigation schemes. In addition, the proposed
project would be innovative by addressing sustainable development and
environmental issues in the Nizao watershed holistically. So, it should be considered
not only as an irrigation project but as an Irrigated Land and Watershed Management
project.
5.8         The project would include a relatively large investment program to
improve water management of the overall main and distribution irrigation system, as
well as leveling and drainage in the 3 selected irrigated areas--Nizao-Valdesia,
YSURA, and PRYN1. In addition, a pilot program in the Nizao watershed would
develop and test methodologies for the protection and sustainable agricultural
development of the upper part of the Nizao river basin. The different water user
associations and farming community associations have been extensively consulted in
project design and played an active role in project preparation. During project
preparation, a participatory rural assessment was made by a national team led by a
rural sociologist.






- 16 -
5.9         During implementation, farmer approval would be required for
proposed investments and for proposed institutional strengthening programs for their
user organizations. Further, to ensure that investments do not subsidize and promote
inadequate operation and maintenance practiced by private users, agreements with
beneficiaries would specify standards for operation and maintenance and remedies for
noncompliance. There is little or no discriminatory taxation of agriculture. The
project would help water user associations set overall parameters for cost recovery
and implement a creditable system for collection.
5.10        Last, the project design includes components for agricultural and
institutional development of water user associations and watershed farmer
associations. Agricultural support services would be contracted to specialized private
organizations by establishing a competitive system for allocating funds for technology
generation and transfer--participatory research and development--based on clear,
precise eligibility criteria (Annex 6). For Nizao watershed management, 5 micro
catchments have been selected, which represent the major farming systems of the
region; models of micro catchment management would be developed that could be
extrapolated to the whole Nizao river basin. Because of the project's limited
objectives, it will not deal with problems of the agricultural credit system. Most
farmers in the project area are small farmers. Most of the required inputs and
existing technologies are modular and can be adopted gradually, so little capital
would be needed initially. Project support would be limited to providing assistance
for the preparation of necessary credit documentation and the organization and
training of farmers' groups of mutual guarantee.
5.11        Beyond the rehabilitation and completion of the three selected
irrigation schemes, the project and the proposed Bank-supported agricultural sector
work would help with development of a long-term strategy for subsectoral irrigation.
The strategy likely will include more clearly defining roles of the public and private
sectors and setting up a participatory approach for sustainable management by the
users of existing irrigated areas. For the Nizao watershed management pilot
program, the main findings of the project would be analyzed during a workshop that
would be organized in the fourth year of project implementation. The workshop
would develop a national strategy for natural resources management.



Participatory Research and Development
Detailed Cost
(US$ 000)
Commercial I                               Watershed
| nCrops    Irrigated                   Management,
Technological     Land                     Mtapping and
Cost            Packages     Management       IPM           ENMS          Total
Equipment                  27,000       146,250        50,000          3,000       226,250
Vehicles:                  52,500        52,500        35,000         65,000       205,000
4WD bicab                   (x3)          (x3)          (x2)          (x4)          (x12)
Motocycle                   (x3)          (x3)          (x3)          (x2)          (xlI )
Demonstration Plots         7,000       149,200         7,000          7,000       170,200
Contract EMS        l                                                198,000       198,000
Contract Mapping    r                                                 57,720        57,720
Personnel Expenses        858,850       865,750       218,700        218,700     2,162,000
Operating Costs           598,325       102,749        92,650         92,650       886,374
Vehicle O&M                65,625        65,625        43,750         68,125       243,125
OQ
Training Expenses         107,500       161,300        50,000         10,000       328,800 !     w 
l    I   IIIITOTAL  I     1,716,800     1,543,374       497,100       720,195     4,477,469       o



- 17 -
6. THE PROJECr
A. Project Objectives
6.1         The project's main objective is to improve small-farner income in the
selected areas and to test and develop methodologies that can be replicated
nationwide both for efficient production support services, water management, and
operation and maintenance of irrigation systems and for sustainable and
environmentally sound watershed management. The criteria for selection of the three
irrigation areas were based on agronomic and economic potential as well as the
strength of local water users' associations, which are key project beneficiaries and
implementing agencies. The project will also rehabilitate and improve existing
irrigation systems and strengthen user associations for the development and
management of the selected irrigated areas and the Nizao watershed. The Nizao
watershed was chosen because of its importance to downstream hydroelectric and
irrigation facilities, and because of the existence of a strong, local NGO that will
play a key role in mobilizing community participation in the Project. Last, the
project should help reduce the fiscal cost of irrigation schemes to the Government
through appropriate cost-recovery policies.
B. Project Components
6.2         The project would have several activities related to irrigated land and
watershed management. First, it would include investment in rehabilitation and
improvement of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and leveling. Second is
provision of grants to communities in the Nizao watershed to promote improved
microcatchment management treatments including farming practices and soil and
water conservation measures. A third activity is to promote agricultural development
by strengthening support services--technology generation and transfer, extension, and
savings and credit cooperative services to ease access to credit for farmer groups--
primarily through contractual arrangements between users and private firms and
NGOs. A fourth activity is institutional development for the strengthening of user
associations in the selected areas and of INDRHI through a technical assistance team.
The project would also provide for technical studies for the detailed design of
rehabilitation and completion of irrigation and drainage infrastructure and for the
design of water control devices. Sixth, the project would address development of a
management information system and the setting up within INDRHI of a unit for
monitoring and evaluation, including environmental monitoring. Project finance
would be mainly for civil works, training, technical studies, and technical assistance
for producer organizations and INDRHI.
6.3         Land titling is critical, because it enables farmers in the Dominican
Republic to gain access to credit and thus provides farmers an incentive to invest in



ANNEX 6
Page 4 of 5
Criteria for Allocating Funds for PR&D Projects
Selection Criteria  |  Points             Qualification concepts
1. No Negative Environ    Yes/No     * Environmental Assessment of proposed
-mental Impact                      technology
2. Farmers' Interest         50      * Rapid Rural Diagnosis
*Farmers' participation
3. Economic Importance       30      * Ranking of main crops (Quantity and
of:                                 Value)
a) existing crops                 * National and/or International market
b) new crops                        potential
4. Short/Medium term         20      * status of existing technologies;
expected results and               * extent of validation trials required;
impact                             * yield increase and/or production cost
decrease
5. Regional priority         10      * Regional/National Research
I ____________________  ___________    Development Plan
6. Institutional Capacity    10      * Experience with past and/or on-going
research projects in the proposed
research area;
* National/Regional facilities;
* Linkages with related National/Regional
/International Research Institutions



- 18 -
their land. The project would specifically address land titling through the financing
of additional equipment, vehicles and technical assistance to accelerate the title
distribution program in the project areas. To ensure that titling problems would not
limit agricultural development in project areas, a condition of disbursement for
investment in irrigation infrastructure in the respective irrigated areas would be that
INDRHI have submitted to the land courts (Tribunales de Tierra) the documentation
required to initiate the appropriate legal actions for the award of final land titles to at
least 80% of farmers living in each of the project areas (para. 10.2(b)). Although
land values in the Nizao watershed are much less attractive than in irrigated areas,
the Government during negotiations agreed that a land title distribution program for
the watershed would be completed during project implementation (para. 10.3(f)).
This is to ensure adequate farm land management through labor-intensive investments
in required soil protection measures. For community land management, prior to
negotiations the Government agreed that community land management responsibility
would be given to farmer associations at the village level for soil protection measures
and for planting and exploiting trees.
C. Detailed Project Features
Irrigtion Infrastructure (UJS$11.8 million, 36.8 percent of total base cost)
6.4         Under this component, the project would finance rehabilitation,
completion and modernization of existing schemes, land-leveling and drainage in
Nizao-Valdesia, YSURA, and PRYNI.
6.5         Civil Works. The following is a summary description of the
envisaged infrastructure operations (Annex 7).
*     Completion or rehabilitation of irrigation distribution systems.
The project would complete the existing distribution systems in Nizao-
Valdesia (55 kilometers of secondary and tertiary canals) and in
PRYN1 (20 kilometers of elevated canals or canalettis).
*     Upgrading of main canals and control structure. To facilitate
operation and maintenance operations, reduce water losses, and
improve flexibility in water distribution, the project would repair and
upgrade the main canals and control structures in Nizao-Valdesia and
PRYN1.
*     Completion or rehabiliation of surface drainage and land leveling.
The project would improve the surface drainage systems on an
aggregate area of 1,200 hectares in PRYN1 (42 kilometers of primary
open drains) and of 1,800 hectares in YSURA (68 kilometers of



ANNEX 6
Page 3 of 5
5.           Membership of the PR&D Grants Board. The Board would
have a membership of nine, one from the Secretariat of Agriculture, one
from INDRHI as the Chairman, two from the PROMATREC/EU, four
representatives of the respective Users Associations, and one external
Research Specialist. Specialists would be co-opted to the Board, if
necessary, to review PR&D proposals. The Board would meet once a year.
The PROMATREC/EU would be responsible for the PR&D-GS Technical
Secretariat.
6.           Adm         te Procedures.1
o     The PR&D-GB would publicize the availability
of grants to universities and to other competent
private sector institutions, the broad objectives
and the procedures to be followed;
o     PR&D proposals would be submitted to the
PR&D-GS Technical Secretariat in a standard
format, complete with detailed costing;
o     Following review, the Board would approved
selected proposals that meet the criteria and
judged to make a significant contribution to
agreed priority R&D topics;
o     The proposals would be reviewed by the Bank
following a preliminary review by the PR&D-
GB;
o     Procurement of specified items would be done
by INDRHI in consultation with the selected
institution;
o     Funds for agreed operational expenses would be
transferred, quarterly and iti advance, to a
dedicated account, set up by the selected
institution;
o     Expenditure would be subject to audit as with
other project funding;
o     Progress with PR&D funded through the PR&D-
GS would be reviewed annually by the PR&D-
GB and the Bank, prior to the release of funding
for the next year's work program.
1. To be formally agreed with the Bank prior to disbursement of funds.



- 19 -
primary drains) to address recurrent waterlogging and soil salinity
problems. It would also improve water distribution at the farm level
by land leveling necessity areas in Nizao-Valdesia (650 hectares),
YSURA (3,200 hectares), and in PRYN1 (3,400 hectares).
Nizao Watershed ManemenTreatments (US$2.36 million, 7.4 percent of tota
base cost)
6.6         The project would promote improved management systems in selected
microcatchments in the Nizao watershed. The amounts of anticipated project works
have been estimated from the size of the project area, land uses (see Table 1, Annex
5), the physical and socioeconomical characteristics of the Nizao watershed area, and
the general experience of adoption of such treatments. Activities need to be
integrated across the watershed and among land uses in order to bring about
sustained improvements and the right balance of short-term and long-term benefits.
Five microcatchments have been selected representing the major farming systems of
the region, and models of microcatchment management would be developed that
could be used as demonstrations and for extrapolation to the whole Nizao river basin.
6.7          The project would use grants to finance seeds or planting material and
fertilizer package for the first year of subproject implementation for village
communities who have agreed on a village management plan on community lands and
who will adopt the recommended treatments. Cost-sharing would be done essentially
through labor provided for community land preparation, terracing, afforestation, and
maintenance of rehabilitated areas. In addition, the project would finance income-
supporting activities for each microcatchment as needed--for instance, off-farm,
small-irrigation infrastructure, including diversion and headwork structures, PVC
pipelines, and pressure tanks. Individual on-farm investments would be borne by
project beneficiaries and financed by credit through existing financial intermediaries
or by cash from the farmers given the already well-known profitability. However, to
support activities by women's groups, the project would use grants to finance
required activities such as beekeeping and upgrading of small livestock.
Agicutual Development (US$3.0 million, 9.3 percent of total base cost)
6.8         For the full benefit of investments in irrigated areas and in the Nizao
watershed, most of the farmers will need agricultural support services. But, because
irrigation-related technology and--especially--sustainable conservation and production
techniques are lacking in the upper parts of watersheds, adaptive and applied on-farm
research will be needed in the project areas. Given the weaknesses of public
agricultural support services, the only effective way to obtain these services would be
for fanner associations to contract private firms or NGOs such as the Higher Institute
of Agriculture (ISA), Agriculture Federation for Development (FDA), IICA (Inter-



ANNEX 6
Page 2 of 5
o     Relevance to the interest and priorities expressed
by the farming communities;
o     Economic importance of existing and potential
crops for which technological packages would be
proposed, in the context of national and/or
international market potential;
O     Likelihood of producing results of use to small
producers in the short/medium term;
o     Relevance to the regional priorities;
o     Institutional capacity. Experience and ability to
complete the proposal with existing staff and
facilities. Linkages with related
national/regional/international institutions;,
o     Appropriateness of experimental approach and
methodology for technology transfer.
o     Cost.
A system of weighing the selected criteria would be developed
as described in the following table.
4.           Criteria for Type of Expenditu  The type of expenditure
for support under the PR&D Grants Scheme would include:
o     Equipment;
o     Vehicles;
O     Operational expenses, including operating costs
of vehicles and equipment, the cost of casual
labor for field experiments and travel and
subsistence expenses for R&D staff; and
O     salaries of contractual staff.
O     overhead costs. Up to 20% of total direct costs
would be granted.
Expenditures not eligible for support under the PR&D Grants
Scheme would include:
O     salaries of permanent staff;
0     civil works.



- 20 -
American Institute for Cooperation on Agriculture), Tropical Agronomic Center for
Investigation and Teaching (CATIE), and Association for the Development of San
Jos6 de Ocoa (ADESJO). As part of project preparation, an agricultural development
plan has been prepared and would be implemented under the guidance and
supervision of PEU/INDRHI research and extension specialists following the
participatory research and development grants scheme (Annex 6).
6.9          Adaptive Research. According to proposed eligibility criteria, the
selected firm(s) would expand existing research lines and would initiate new specific
lines of adaptive research in project areas (Annex 6). The research would emphasize
a participatory approach and would cover all aspects of irrigation and drainage and
sustainable conservation and production techniques. National, regional, or
international firms or institutions specialized in agricultural research would be
selected to undertake these activities. The selected firm(s) would subcontract, if
required, the use of existing facilities or personnel in the research stations of El
Escondito (Nizao-Valdesia), CIAZA (Ysura), and CENDA in the Santiago-PRYN. It
would be PEU/INDRHI's responsibility to ensure that these activities are conducted
in accordance with the overall adaptive research objectives of the Irrigated Land and
Watershed Management Project, agreed to by the respective user associations, and
done in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
6.10         Transfer of Technology. To complement the research work, the
selected firm(s) would also be responsible for the initial diffusion of improved
technologies. Technology transfer programs would include demonstration plots in
the fields of farmers who volunteer, field days, discussion groups, and regular
training sessions and workshop for extension and research personnel. The project
would support the establishment and functioning of irrigation-focused demonstration
plots. Most of the technology would be based on existing knowledge with results
from the adaptive research to be fed into the program as they become available. In
the Nizao watershed, the project would follow the same approach and would support
the establishment and functioning of demonstration plots in each selected
microcatchment.
6.11         A condition of disbursement for this component would be that a short
list of institutions for participatory research and development support services has
been presented to the Bank for its review and approval (para.10.1(f)). During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that contracts for participatory research and
development support services would be signed no later than June 30, 1995
(para. 10.3(d)).
6.12         Extension. Groups of 15 to 25 farmers would be organized to benefit
from extension services in the field. Group extension workers and an agricultural
extension officer would be contracted by the water user associations in the irrigated



ANNEX 6
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Participatory Research and Development Grants Scheme
1.          The general term "Participatory Research and Development"
refers to the whole process of diagnosis, priority setting, technology
generation, technology testing and transfer with the participation of farming
communities. The project would provide finance to establish a Participatory
Research and Development Grants Scheme (PR&D-GS) to enable specialized
institutions to undertake agricultural technology generation, testing and
technology transfer that would contribute to priorities of the farming
community in the project areas. A Participatory Research & Development
Grants Board (PR&D-GB) would be established to review PR&D proposals.
Their first task would be to establish criteria for assessing these proposals.
This Annex sets out initial proposals for these criteria. Following detailed
review by the PR&D-GB, a final list of criteria would be prepared and
agreed with the Bank by June 30, 1995. This Annex also sets out the
proposed membership of the PR&D Grants Board and arrangements for the
administration of the PR&D Grants Scheme.
2.           Recommendation Areas. Four main recommendation areas
have been identified:
(a)   irrigated land management including water management,
drainage, soil management, saline soil reclamation, and
irrigated farming system;
(b)   technological packages for existing and potential crops, with
a market oriented approach (internal and international);
(c)   integrated pest management focussed on the reduction of
pesticides;
(d)   watershed management and environmental monitoying.
3.           Criteria for Type of PR&D projects. Grants would normally
be for two or three years and PR&D proposals eligible for support under the
PR&D Grants Scheme would be assessed against the following criteria:
0     Environmental impact. Likelihood of having a
negative environmental impact would be
sufficient for rejecting the proposal;



- 21 -
areas and by ADESJO in the watershed. The extension support is expected to reach
an estimated 5,000 small farmers in the irrigated areas and about 1,500 farmers in
the Nizao watershed.
Institional Development (US$13.93 million, 43.5 percent of total base cost).
6.13        The project appraisal included an institutional capacity assessment to
determine the ability to implement the proposed program. Institutional capacity gaps
have been identified against program tasks.
6.14        User groups would require substantive improvements in four areas:
administration, personnel management, financing, and accounting; for water user
associations, technical matters related to system operation (irrigation programming,
water distribution, monitoring, and control), system maintenance (contractual
procedures, maintenance programming and implementation), and cost-recovery
procedures; procedural matters, such as water and land rights; and organizational
aspects concerning preparation and implementation of meetings, report preparation,
and so on. The project would support a training program centered on the above-
mentioned aspects. INDRHI would be responsible for implementing this training
program with the help of external consultants, when required.
6.15        In addition, to help farmers obtain access to credit and to provide them
an incentive to invest in their land, the project includes a land titling component.
IAD together with INDRHI, has an ongoing program to distribute land titles for
farmers throughout the country. This program involves recompilation of existing
information, updating cadastral maps, farm surveys, farmers interviews, as well as
legal procedures to distribute official and registered land titles. The project would
finance required additional equipment, vehicles and technical assistance to accelerate
the title distribution program in the project areas. INDRHI would be responsible for
executing this component by contracting additional topographic teams and specialized
legal consultants.
6.16        In INDRHI, the implementing capacity for the proposed program is,
by and large, in place. The major gaps found are limited to a lack of experience in
the areas of management information system, monitoring and evaluation, and
financial management. Setting up the project execution unit within INDRHI would
require the modernization of managerial and communications systems with basic
hardware, such as a system of personal computers to link the divisions of INDRHI,
regional offices, and water user associations. The project would provide a total of
21 consultant-months, including 5 person-months of technical expertise to support
improvement of both the operation and maintenance system and training for water
user associations, 4 person-months of financial management expertise, 6 person-
months of a research management specialist to support the establishment of the






- 22 -
participatory research and development grants system, 3 person-months of an
economics or management information system or monitoring specialist, one person-
month of land titling legal expertise, and 2 person-months of procurement expertise.
Establishment of PEU in manner satisfactory to the Bank and fully staffed, including
the Project manager, with personnel of experience and qualifications satisfactory to
the Bank would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 10.2(e)). In addition, to
facilitate field travel and the maintenance of main canals in the irrigation districts, a
fleet of three small four-wheel-drive pickup trucks, two motorgraders, three
retroexcavators, and one dredge would be financed.
Studies (US$0.91 million, 3 percent of total base cost).
6.17        The project would finance all the works required to rehabilitate and
improve the irrigation and drainage systems and leveling in Nizao-Valdesia, YSURA,
and PRYN I. To improve the overall water management of these irrigation systems,
project financing would cover (a) a technical study on main canal regulation, canal
system management, and the design of distribution systems in the selected areas,
taking into account the experience gained with the use of automatic water-level
regulators (counterweight gate) in PRYN I, and (b) a detailed study on the layout of
the irrigation and drainage system. Given the urgent need for these studies to select
consulting firms and start preparations, prior to negotiations, the Bank received the
draft terms of reference for technical studies for the design of water control devices
and the detailed layout designs for the first 2-year investments in conveyance and
distribution systems, drainage, and leveling. At negotiations, assurances were
obtained that: (i) the irrigation control studies would be completed by no later than
December 31, 1995; (ii) the recommendations of such studies would be reviewed
jointly with the Bank by no later than June 30, 1996; and (iii) immediately thereafter,
such recommendations would be implemented in a manner satisfactory to the Bank
(para. 10.3(e)).
6.18        Cadastral maps of the irrigated areas will be updated. And in the
Nizao watershed, aerial photos will be needed to set up an environmental and
evaluation unit. The project would finance socioeconomic rapid rural assessments,
land registers, an operation and maintenance manual, a mid-term review of the
project, preparations for a follow-up project, and a comprehensive review of legal
documents on water rights, water tariffs, cost recovery, land rights, and user
associations. In addition, a maximum of US$200,000 will be made available to the
Ministry of Agriculture (SEA) for the carrying out of agricultural policy studies.
Monitoring and Evaluation
6.19        The project would develop a management information system to
improve the technical and financial management of irrigated schemes at the water



Annex 5
Attachment 1
Page 11 of 11
MC INDICATIVE PLAN - OUTLINE
1.    Introduction
2.    Basis for selection
3.    MC characteristics
3.1 Physical resources
3.2 Land use and crop production
3.3 Human resources
3.4 Livestock resources
3.5 Summary table
4.    Project framework (treatment menu adapted to MC conditions)
5.    Problem census
6.    Rapid resource appraisal
7.    Problem analysis and solutions
7.1 Analysis of key problems in utilization of natural resources
7.2 Linkages between priority problems and project framework
7.3 Selection of treatments
7.4 Linkages between key treatment and supporting activities
7.5 Management of range and forest land
8.    Indicative plan for villages and MC as a whole
9.    Summary of forest activities
10.   Summary of agricultural activities (annual and perennial crops)
11.   Summary of village affairs activities



- 23 -
user associations level and the INDRHI level. Assurances were obtained during
negotiations that the design of a management information system would be completed
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by no later than December 31, 1995 and
immediately thereafter a such system would be implemented in a manner satisfactory
to the Bank (para. 10.3(g)).
6.20        Monitoring and evaluation of project activities and of environmental
aspects (development of an environmental monitoring system), would be undertaken
with the help of external technical assistance. A calendar of key events would be
maintained to document issues as they arise and actions of water user associations
and INDRHI management. Topics would include progress on civil works,
agricultural development, institution strengthening, staff training (including
performance of technical assistance), procurement, budget preparation and
disbursement, watershed activities, cost and expenditure monitoring, and cost-sharing
activities. Project finance would cover purchase of equipment, contracting, external
support and studies.



ANNEX 5
Page 10 of 11
training and consensus reaching process with the involved farming
communities at the village and micro-catchment levels.
Tentative Physical Objectives
l          \ e~~N'arsl
Proposed Treatments              j  PY3|                            Total   ]
- Area covered (ha)                              3,000   3,500    5,600   7,400    19,500
- Forestry Area planted (ha)                     2,200   3,100    3,100   3,600    12,000
- Agroforestry and Agriculture Area treated according  500  1.660  2670   2.700    7,500
to % of slope:
0 - 25%  Annual Crops (ha)                      170     550      900     900    2,520
25 - 40%  Coffee (ha)                            270     900    1,435   1,435    4,040
40 - 55%  Fruit Crops (ha)                        60     210      335     365      940
- Living Hedges - average of 850 m/ha (km)         415    1,370   2,200   2,250    6,235
- Earth contour ridges - average of 850 m/ha (km)  415    1,370   2,200   2,250    6,235
- Tree individual terraces - 150 u/ha            9.000   31,500  50,250  54,750   145,500
- Contour stone lines - average of 50 m/ha (km)     20      80      130     150      380
- Composting Pits (unit)                           210     700    1,120    1,220   3,250
- Windbreaks - 200 m/ha (km)                        45     150     250      275      720



- 24 -
7. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
A. Costs
Table 6.1: Proposed Proieci Features and Projected Costs
Local Foreign Total      Local Foreign Total        "     B % Total
Ba%e
-DR million --.      -... US$ million .-..      FE      Cosis
Investmeni Costs
Cisil Works                58.41  87.43  145 85      4 73  7.08  I IR8       60%      38.04
VehicleslEqwpment          6 79 29 64   36.43        0 55  2 40  2 95         80' c    8 52
Technical Assisrance.     42 11 21.12   63 23        3 41  1 'I  5 12         40%      14.13
Srudies.TYasning
Support Sen Ices           32 72  4 1   37 54       2 65  0 19   3 04        13;      9 80
Granes for Waltershed     22 72   6 42  29 14        1.84  0 52   2 36        22%      7.61
Sub-Tc'aj              162 77 149.43  312 21      13 18 12 1)  25 28       48%      78.80
Recurrent Costs            59 28 24 7   83 98        4 60  2 (K)  6 80        29'.     21.20
Base Cost                 222.05 174.13  396 19     179At 14 10  32 08         4%.   Q100.00
Phbsical Connngencies      22.23  20 13  42 36       1 80  I 63   3 43        47'.      10 73
Pnce Conungencies          75.95  19 26  95 34       6 I5  1 56  7 72         20%      24.10
TOTAL PROJECT COST      32036 213.65   534 1(     2594   173 0  4324        40%      13480
7.1              Project costs are estimated at the equivalent of US$43 million about 40
percent of it foreign exchange. Investments account for about 78 percent of base
costs and recurrent expenditures--mainly operation and maintenance of the irrigation
schemes--for 21 percent. Physical contingencies have been estimated at 10 or 15
percent, depending on the item financed; overall physical contingencies amount to
10.7 percent of base costs. Price contingencies reflect an estimate of local inflation
at 10 percent per annum and foreign inflation estimated in accordance with the World
Bank manufacturing unit valve index at 2.67 percent in 1995 and 3.5 percent
thereafter. Overall price contingencies amount to 24.1 percent of base costs.



ANNEX 5
Page 9 of 11
the signatures of the farmers' associations representatives and the individual
recipients of treatments.
24.         Finalization of Indicative MC Management Plan. An
outline of this report is attached in Attachment 1. The report would
summarize the results of the interactive planning process described in the
preceding paragraphs and would thus contain sections provided the general
characteristics of the MC, the results of the problems census discussions, the
rapid resource appraisal and the problem solving discussions as well as a
sumrnaiy of the agreed treatments. The report would provide an aggregation
of the village plans and would give the framework within which ADESJO
would operate. It would also give an indication of the size and the phasing
of its work.
25.         Approval of Indicative MC Management Plan. Tlhe MC
planning/technical team would submit the Indicative Plan to the Project
Executive Unit PEU, which would be responsible for quality control
(responsiveness to guidelines, completeness and depth of analysis, adequacy
of proposed treatments and cost implications) and for approval of the Plan.
E. Preparation of Annual Work Plans and Budget
26.         The Indicative MC Management Plan would be elaborated to
provide the work program and budget for the first year of implementation.
In subsequent years, it would be necessary to review progress made and
experience gained as well as possible results from pilot work and
demonstrations and the MC planning/technical team would need to interact
and agree with the MC villages on the appropriate modifications to the
original Indicative Management Plan. The activities would be aggregated for
the MC and broken down by activities.
F. Physical Objectives for Forestry and Soil Conservation  M ent
27.         In accordance with the PC-PCPS approach, the final choice of
technologies is made based on the existing ecological constraints and the
community's objectives. Therefore, the physical objectives of the Watershed
Management program are only tentative and should not be viewed as
indicators of project achievements. The EMS and Participatory Rural
Assessment missions would provide required information on the
socioeconomic and ecological impact of the program. Short-ternm
implementation would be monitored according to the specific investment
objectives included in each project's annual work plan, based on the village
and MC plans after they have been negotiated and agreed upon with the
project Executing Unit. The first year of project implementation has been
considered as a zero year in term of physical achievements since the
participatory approach will require a relatively long period of sensibilization,



- 25 -
B. Financing
7.2         The project would be financed by the Bank, the users, and the
Government. A Bank loan equivalent to US$28 million is proposed to finance 65
percent of eligible project costs, net of taxes and duties. An amount of up to
$800,000 will be provided to finance retroactively goods and services required for
project start-up, especially consultants' services for technical assistance as described
in Annex 8. Bank financing, on a net taxes and duties basis, would cover 100
percent of foreign exchange expenditures. The Bank would finance 80 percent of
total project expenditures on civil works, including studies and engineering and
design (US$13.3 million), and on required investments for support services. It
would also finance 100 percent of technical assistance to INDRHI's Project
Execution Unit. Operating costs for adaptive research, technology transfer,
extension services, and promotion of credit cooperatives would be carried out jointly
with counterpart funds and loan funds. Loan financing for operating costs would be
made on a declining basis during project implementation. Users would provide the
necessary counterpart funds (equivalent to US$0.9 million) to finance on-farm
investments, part of the operating expenditures for agricultural support services and
operation and maintenance costs in the irrigated areas on an increasing basis. The
Government's contribution (equivalent to US$14.3 million) would finance the balance
of local currency requirements for civil works and equipment/vehicles and of
operating expenses, and would be met by annual budget appropriation to INDRHI.
The Government would make the proceeds of the loan available to INDRHI.
Assurances that the Government would provide the necessary annual counterpart
funding to INDRHI according to each annual work program were obtained during
negotiations (para. 10.3(b)).
C. Disbursements
7.3         Loan proceeds are expected to be fully disbursed by June 30, 2003, a
period of 8 years, the standard disbursement profile for Bank-financed projects in the
Dominican Republic (Table 7.1). Statement of Expenditures will be used for all
disbursements of incremental operating costs and for works and goods, except
contracts exceeding US$1 million equivalent for civil works and US$200,000
equivalent for goods and the first contract for works and goods over US$200,000 and
US$25,000 respectively, and consulting services of firms and individuals exceeding
$50,000 and $20,000 respectively, for which submission of full documentation would
be required in accordance with Bank guidelines. Relevant documentation in support
of statement of expenditures would not be submitted to the Bank, but would be
retained at the project execution unit for auditing and for ex-post review by Bank
missions.



ANNEX 5
Page 8 of 11
(h)   Discussion of rainfed and irrigated farming situation;
(i)   Selection of treatment options specially for promoting rainfed
and irrigated horticulture;
(j)   Discussion of supporting activities (beekeeping, terraces,
irrigation, small livestock) and how they can be used to
facilitate for target groups (range and forest land users, owners
of marginal lands, etc.) to accept key treatments; and
(k)   Agreement on a program of demonstrations and pilot work.
21.         It should be clear to the villagers that they will need to choose
among treatments to meet their priorities. The resource available under the
project for the five MCs amount for an average MC of 4,000 ha to US$0.4
million. If more is spent in a particular area, it means either that less will
be spent in another MC or that the total project area will be reduced. The
latter option would unfortunate in view of the widespread nature of the
degradation problems in the Nizao watershed and the need to find cost
effective and replicable solutions. Viewing watershed development as a
continuous process, there is considerable scope to make a good start within
this indicative cost frame by varying the area treated, the phasing and
selection of treatments. The supporting treatments (irrigation, rainfed
terraces, horticulture, beekeeping, small livestock,
trees on field boundaries, etc.) would be linked to the adoption of treatments
of the range and forest community lands and would be subject to a ceiling of
33% of total treatment cost.
22.         Preparation of draft village management plan. Guided by
the problem solving discussions (paras above), the MC planning/technical
team would prepare the village treatment plan showing the recipients,
volumes, phasing and location (map) of different treatments. The phasing of
the works may be spread over at most a four year period. Applying the unit
costs indicated in the treatment menu the total and average cost per hectare
cost can be calculated (cost would be updated on an annual basis) and the
responsibilities of the implementing agency (ADESJO) determined. The
responsibilities of the village and its individual members in terms of
management practices and cost sharing should be indicated. A check should
be made to ensure that the average cost of supporting treatments per village
household does not deviate too much from one village or MC to another.
23.         Discussion of draft village management plan. 'The draft will
be presented to and reviewed in the village as the frame for the collaboration
during the following four years (detailed work plans would be prepared each
year in the light of progress and experience). Amendments would be made
where necessary and the village should be asked to indicate its agreement by



- 26 -
7.4     During
negotiations,
assurances were                              Table 7.1: DISBURSEMENT CATEGORIES
obtained that the
Borrower would                 CaLegory        Amounm of Loan   Percentage of Expendirures
establish a special                            Allocated        to he financed
account in the Banco                           (US$ millions)
Central de la                  Civil Works             9.50     80 f
Repuiblica                     Goods other than         2.25    100% of foreign expenditures.
Dominicana, in U.S.            those required under             I00'1 of local expenditures lex-
dollars, to cover all          Pan C of Lhe Project            factory): 85% of local expendiures
eligible Bank                                                   for other items procured locally
expenditures under             Consultants' Serviees    4.90    100%
the loan, with                 and raining other than
those required under Pan C
procedures for the             of the Project
operation of the
Goods and Consultants   2.00    100% of foreign expenditures and 60%
special account                Services under Pan C of          of local expenditures
satisfactory to the            the Project iPR&D contracts}
Bank (para. 10.3(a)).          Subgrants under Pan B    2 40    100 % of amounLs disbursed under a of
The authorized                the Project lNLZao Watershed      Subgrant
allocation for the             Management)
Special Account                Incrernental Operating costs  0.60  100%, until withdrawal applicanons
would be $600,000,                                              have reached the aggregate of $350,000;
with an initial deposit                                         80% unal withdrawal applications have
reached the aggregate of S500.000; and
to be made of                                                   50% thereafter
$300,000, and a full
amount authorized              Unallocated             6.35
allocation to be                       TOrAL          28.0
released when
disbursements reach a
level of $6.0 million. Disbursements will be made under authorized signatures from
a designated representative of the Borrower. At negotiations, Government assurances
were received that withdrawal applications for replenishment of the Special Account
will be prepared by INDRHI in accordance with Bank policies and procedures.
7.5             In addition, during negotiations, assurances were obtained that
INDRHI would establish a project account separate from the special account for the
equivalent of US$1 million to cover counterpart expenditures. The establishment and
release of a Dominican peso amount equivalent to US$1 million (initial deposit) into
the project account would be a condition of effectiveness (para. 10. l(c)).
7.6             There are two conditions for disbursements. First, satisfactory
evidence that INDRHI submitted to the Tribunales de Tierra the documentation



ANNEX 5
Page 7 of 11
sustainable production systems) are identified. In remaining areas the main
land use featLres (forest, range and farm land) are noted and problems of
degradation and erosion are observed and discussed (livestock trends, fodder
and fueliwood shortages, cultivation practices). Having identified targets
areas it will be importanit to clarify the users/owners of these areas (e.g.
users of range and forest land, owners of marginal crop land, farmers who
could benefit from conservation practices). Field appraisal offers an
opportunity to explore solutions with such targets groups and to explain to
participants the linkages between priority problems and possible project
treatments. Problems of declining water supply may for example be
remedied by efforts to improve vegetation and infiltration. Marginal lands
may be released from crop production if the owner can enhance productivity
elsewhere. Range degradation may be reversed if the stall feeding season
can be prolonged through project activities to enhance cultivated forage
production. The targets areas and groups would be recorded on field maps
as a basis for further discussion of solutions.
20.          Village discussions of solutions and treatments priorities.
On the basis of the outcome of the problem census and the rapid resource
appraisal and having given the village a chance to consider the treatment
menu, the next step in the interaction would be:
(a)   Discussion of fodder situation (objectives - subsistence or sale
- and trends in livestock keeping; constraints in the form of
scarcity of labor and fodder; investments in livestock if fodder
constraints were removed; sources of winter fodder and
opportunities to enhance availability; range management);
(b)   Discussion of fuel wood situation (different source of energy;
quantities used; sale of wood);
(c)   Agreement on range and forest areas needing treatments;
excluding areas which are beyond repair and those that appear
to be in relatively good shape;
(d)   Selection of treatment options for selected range and forest
areas with due consideration to the needs for fodder and wood;
(e)   Discussion of management practices for the selected range and
forest areas, the benefit sharing arrangements for forest
treatments and phasing of interventions;
(f)   Discussion of perennial crops situation (coffee, bananas, and
fruit trees)
(g)   Selection of treatment options for agroforestry practices;



- 27 -
required to initiate the appropriate legal actions for the award of final land titles to at
least 80% of farmers living in each of the irrigated areas will be required for civil
works expenditures in the respective irrigated areas (para. 10.2(b)). Second, grants
for soil and water management to any community in the Nizao watershed area will be
allowed only after an appropriate management plan of natural resources for the
selected microcatchments has been agreed upon by INDRHI's project execution unit
and the community (para. 10.2(c)). In general, INDRHI shall refrain from
presenting to the Bank withdrawal applications in respect of expenditures not
included in the POA approved for the year in question (para. 10.2(a)).
D. Procurement
7.7         The Financial and Administration Subdirectorate of INDRHI would be
responsible for monitoring all procurement activities and for ensuring compliance
with Bank procurement guidelines. The Bank's standard bidding documents for all
international competitive bidding operations would be used, and similar documents
would be agreed upon at negotiations for LCB use. Procurement would be
undertaken by INDRHI, the implementing agency, which has satisfactory
procurement capacities and experience. Present INDRHI regulations do not conflict
with application of Bank guidelines. Project execution unit staff would have
technical expertise to carry out procurement and the project execution unit would
retain consultants to prepare designs and bidding documents for the construction or
rehabilitation of irrigation structures and for the contracting of support services.
7.8         Civil Works. Construction or rehabilitation of irrigation structures,
drainage, land leveling, and riverbed protection work would be distributed in 3
geographical areas with individual lots ranging in value from US$200,000 to US$2.9
million (Irrigation Infrastructure Working Paper No. 3). Contracts estimated to cost
US$1 million equivalent and above would be awarded through international
competitive bidding procedures; contracts valued between US$200,000 and US$1
million, up to an aggregate of US$3.8 million would follow LCB procedures
acceptable to the Bank (Table 7.2).
7.9         Goods. Graders, trucks, and four-wheel-drive vehicles would be
packaged as much as possible for international competitive bidding. Contracts valued
above US$200,000 would be awarded through international competitive bidding;
contracts ranging between US$25,000 and US$200,000, up to an aggregate of
US$0.4 million, which would include smaller vehicles, motorcycles and
communications equipment, would follow LCB procedures acceptable to the Bank;
other items estimated to cost less than US$25,000, including furniture and other
small equipment, would be acquired on the basis of price quotations from 3 qualified
contractors, with an aggregate of US$0.2 million.



ANNEX 5
Page 6 of l1
16.         Usual operational procedures obviously include discussion with
villagers. These discussions frequently take the form of obtaining village
consent to plan drawn up by respective technical teams. T'his project,
however, aims at not only involvement in approval of plans but active village
participation in the formulation and implementation of these management
plans. Such participation would ensure that the interventions respond to the
perceived local needs and priorities and that a genuine commitment to and
responsibility for the success of the operation is generated. The method used
to achieve such participation is the Farmer Centered - Problem Census
Problem Solving (FC-PCPS) approach described below. The village is the
management unit for forest and range community lands and for resource
sharing arrangements with respects to community lands. The building blocks
of the Indicative MC Plan are the village plans formulated through close
interaction over problems and solutions (chosen from the treatment menu) in
each of the selected MC villages. The MC boundaries may have to be
adjusted to avoid dividing a village and thereby complicating data collection
and interaction. The time required to prepare the Indicative MC Plan will, to
a large extent, depend of the number of villages embraced by the MC but an
average estimate of 8 weeks is given above.
17.         Assemble relevant data. In preparation for village discussion,
the planning group would mobilize available information and survey
conditions in the MC villages.
18.         Problem census meetings. Armed with the relevant data and
analysis a problem census meeting would be arranged in each MC village in
consultation with local authorities. Problem census meetings involve all
villagers with livestock, land or other agricultural activities. Men and
women participants record their individual problems and form small groups
to discuss and prioritize these problemis. Each small group then reports its
prioritized list of problems to the village group in a plenaiy session which
determines and prioritizes a list of problems for the village as a whole. No
problem is excluded at this stage. T'he process is structured and non
threatening. Importantly, it initiates the relation between village participants
and the project planning/technical team by listenintg to the villagers. Once
the village group has identified and prioritized problems, the treatment menu
suitably adjusted to MC conditions is presented to them and the objectives of
the project explained. The linkage between project activities and priority
problems are explored and appointments made for problem solving
discussions.
19.         Rapid resource appraisal. Problem solving activities are
initiated with a field assessment of village resources. The appraisal is an
attempt to observe resource problems and discuss solutions in the field
through a combined effort by the project technical/technical team and village
participants. Using copies of topographical maps important landscape
features are recorded and areas which do not need treatments (areas with



- 28 -
7.10
Investments for
watershed management                               Table 7.2:
would generally be             SUMtIARY OF PROPOSED PROtCUREMENT ARRANGEMiENTS
dispersed throughout the                 (IUSS millions equivalent)
watershed area, time-                              ICB    LCB   Other a' Total
sliced, and small scale--   c0 II Works
with an aggregate of         *Infrastincnure       119    -            11.9
US$3.2 million. Because                            1 5    -      -     19.5)
tLand Le%eling        -      3 8          3.8
they would consist                                       t3 01         03 01
mainly of the purchase of
fertilizers and seeds or      Equipment and Veh;le. l     0.41   0. 1   3 .24
planting material
managed by ADESJO,            Technical Asststancef
Stdies.Trdining              -      7 1   7.1
they would be unlikely to                                  -    i6.2)  (6.2i
attract foreign
competition. Therefore,      ASnculpp  al De elopmen44                  4.4
they would be procured                              .           ,2.9)  (2 9
through local works          Gi-t for Watershed                  3.2    3.2
procedures if valued at                             .      .           I 3.2)
below US$25,000 per          Operanng Costs b                    9.7    9 7
purchase and through                                .      .     lo8)  (0.B)
LCB if valued above this
amount.                              Total        14 4    42    24.6   43 2
ofl  hich  WBRDi  1 1.4p  13.41l  (13 2)  i28.0)
7.11                          _i  -uncunts in paredrwes %h^  IIicn,ation  rron. loan pr.xeedi. vi.lu  are roundea
Consultants. The
project would contract for technical assistance and training activities with consultants
whose qualifications, experience, and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank and whose selection will be in accordance with principles and
procedures on the basis of the Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by the
World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency, published
August 1981. Prior review of terms of reference, selection and contractual
documents for individuals will be required for contracts exceeding US$20,000, and
for all consultant contracts with firms exceeding US$50,000. Contracts below the
respective prior review thresholds will require only prior review of terms of
reference, subject to a total aggregated amount not exceeding US$1 million.
7.12          Review of Procurement. Prior to review by the Bank, a review of
procurement would be required for all international competitive bidding and for the
first LCB operation, whatever the amount for goods and works. The review will
cover about 76 percent of the total value of work contracts and 80 percent of the total



ANNEX 5
Page 5 of 11
12.         This menu is a basic tool in the MC planning process the
project technical assistance team will help to determine on technical.
economic and institutional grounds which treatments are applicable to the
situation in a particular MC. These remaining treatments would need to be
explained to the MC population in the course of the problem solving
discussions (see below). The menu would be revised annually in the right of
experience with project implementation and with the help of the project M&E
unit.
13.         'I'he cost sharing arrangements between the project and the
beneficiaries during the establishment (investment) phase will be indicated for
each treatment and will be explained to the villagers in the course of
selecting priority treatments during the problem solving discussions. The
subsequent recurring costs of operation, maintenance and management will be
the responsibility of the villages and/or individual farmers concerned.
14.         The benefits of the different treatments generally accrue to the
villagers adopting the intervention in question. In the case of the forest and
range lands treatments, they are, however, shared among the villagers to
establish a Community Renewable Fund (CRF) for community agreed
investment. The aim should be to establish a partnership between the
Government and the villages/communities/associations in the Nizao
watershed, to develop a matching grant process for financing the first priority
investrnents required for a sustainable watershed management. The financing
of these first priority investments will come from the project during the first
three years of the project, then from the Nizao Watershed Management Fund
( Nizao WMF) which would be established under the project. It is hoped
that after these first community investments have benefitted to the concerned
villages/communities, they will be able to replenish the CRF and thus,
through this, they will ensure the sustainability of this operation.
D. The Preparation of Indicative MC Plan
15.         For each selected MC model, the concerned villages will have
to prepare an Indicative MC Plan. The following steps may be distinguished
and will be discussed below. A rough indication if time required is given.
(a)   Assemble relevant data                      2 weeks
(b)   Village discussion of problems and constraints  1 week
(c)   Rapid Resource Appraisal                    1 week
(d)   Village discussion of solutions and priorities  1 week
(e)   Preparation of draft village management plans  1 week
(f)   Discussion of draft village management plans  1 week
(g)   Finalization of indicative MC management plan  1 week
(h)   Approval of indicative MC management plan   1 week



- 29 -
value for goods. In addition, supervision missions would selectively post review
contracts below the threshold levels.
E. Cost Recovery
Irrigation Scheme
7.13        Operation and Maintenance. According to the Dominican Republic's
Water Rate Law of 1982, user groups are now officially responsible for operation
and maintenance in irrigation schemes and collect charges from users to cover the
full cost of these activities. Because of the unreliability of water supplies, however,
incompleteness of drainage and on-farm distribution systems, and slow pace in
organizing water user associations, INDRHI had difficulty in enforcing this law.
Under the project, standards for operation and maintenance would be defined by
INDRHI for each selected irrigated area.
7.14        Investment. There is a sound policy for the recovery of the capital
cost of new irrigation projects--essentially a land for infrastructure swap. Once the
irrigation projects have been constructed, the Government, through IAD, may
acquire land for redistribution through the cuota parte system. Owners of 6.3
hectares or more must return to the Government between 50 and 80 percent of their
lands included in such projects. A new law defining a cost-recovery mechanism for
new investments related to surface and ground water use has been prepared and is
being submitted to the Legislative Chamber. But for rehabilitation and completion of
irrigation projects, even under the proposed new water law, no such mechanisms
exist. Part of the capital costs of rehabilitation can, however, be recovered through a
land betterment levy. The levy would be based on the cost of investment, net of
taxes. This amount would be divided by the total number of water rights of the
scheme and, for each cropping season, based on seasonal cropping pattern,
beneficiaries would pay in proportion to their share of water rights.
7.15        Given the high increase in operation and maintenance recovery costs
proposed under the project, it would be unrealistic to ask for capital cost-recovery
measures during the first 2 years (Table 7.3). But, before June 30, 1997, measures
for a significant capital cost-recovery level would be taken for farmers with more
than 6.3 hectares of irrigated lands.



ANNEX 5
Page 4 of 11
Agroforestry Management Model
10.         The objective would be to increase sustainable productivity by
promoting improved management system over a limited land area of higher
potential based on timber-yielding tree plantations, multipurpose trees, coffee
and fruit trees plantations.
Proposed treatments include:
(a)   multipurpose coppice plantations with emphasis on legume
trees for nitrogen fixation purpose;
(b)   introduction of rust resistant coffee varieties, of selected
improved fruit trees such as avocado, lemon and bananas, as
well as of improved cultivation practices;
(c)   enrichment seeding and fertilization of degraded rangeland
capable of increased production through improved soil
management combined with grazing management;
(d)   promotion of food and forage legumes on existing fallow land
to enhance soil fertility and expand food production and the
availability of forage: and
(e)   promotion of living hedges, of vegetative or stone contour
bunding, and of contour bench terracing techniques;
Rainfed and Irrigated Farming Model
11.         The project would promote technical packages with increased
sustainable productivity, increase integration of livestock and cropping
systems, small-scale irrigation, horticulture and apiculture. Activities
include:
(a)   introduction of conservation tillage along the contour on slopes
exceeding 4%;
(b)   promotion of improved seeds, fertilization, IPM plant
protection;
(c)   strengthening the present efforts to promote rainfed
horticulture on contour terraces leading to increased moisture
conservation and erosion control; and
(d)   when possible, promotion of irrigated horticulture using
diversion and reservoir schemes with pressure tanks when
necessary.



- 30 -
Table 7.3 Comparison of Current Water Charges and
Those Proposed under the Project
Current          Water Charges with Project
System                RDS               RD$            percent
increase
Nizmo-Valdeds            219               515          135 percent
YSURA                  181               785         334 percent
PRYNI                 313               530           69 percent
7.16        Assurances concerning the implementation of cost-recovery measures
in the irrigation schemes were obtained during negotiations (para. 10.3(h)); the
measures would be incorporated into the operational manual to be prepared during
the first year of project implementation (PYI). The presentation of an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to: (i) raise, by no later than June 30, 1996, the level of
the water charges in order to recover all operation and maintenance costs; and
(ii) introduce, by no later than June 30, 1997, measures that will enable INDRHI to
recover from farmers holding more than 6.3 hectares of irrigated land a significant
portion of the capital cost of the investments --would be a condition of project
effectiveness (para 10.1 (b)).
Watershed
7.17        To ensure the financing of the expansion and the spreading of the soil
and water management practices developed under the project, a watershed
management fund would be established during implementation of the project.
Because improvements of watershed management would benefit farmers in the upper
and middle part of the watershed but also, indirectly users downstream (CDE, the
hydroelectric company, municipalities, and irrigation farmer associations), the
Government intends to develop a strategy that would lead to the water management
fund being replenished annually by contributions from these doWnstream water users.
There would be no covenant under the project to try to recover costs of externalities
at this time. Instead, the project would work with the Government under the
proposed water management fund--following the procedures indicated in the new
water law, to be enacted in a few months--and try to develop such mechanisms for
the future.



ANNEX 5
Page 3 of 11
7.          Treating degradation frequently involves changing the ways
people manage the land resource. Sustainable management will require
active participation of related communities/villages. T'he communal use of
forest and range lands offers a particular challenge. Thus it is crucial that
the Government agrees that community land management responsibility be
given to farmers' associations at a village level for soil protection measures
as well as for planting and exploiting trees. Micro-catchment development
must be seen as a process of gradual improvement. People may not accept
improved management on the total forest and range area, and even if they do
it may be advisable to test the capacity and the commitment of the village on
part of the area. The interaction with people, thus, often dictates phasing of
activities and looking at the development efforts as the start of a more
continuous process. One of the principal tasks of the technical experts in
watershed management and participatory plarning to be recruited will be to
guide the MC planning and implementation process with a suitable treatment
menu and provide on-site training to staff.
C. The Treatment Menu
Forest land Management Model.
8.          Although forest land belongs to Government it is frequently
used by villagers. Sustainable management will require active participation
of related communities/ villages. Thus, it is crucial that the Government
agrees that community land management responsibility be given to farmers
associations at a village level for soil protection measures as well as for
planting and exploiting trees.
9.          Close cooperation between villages and technical staff will be
required to determine the best combinations of treatments according to
villages preferences and sites conditions. Emphasis will be placed on cost-
effective measures which produce early increase in production while
maintaining at least 40% vegetative cover over soils. Proposed treatments
include:
(a)   fuelwood coppice plantation on sites manually prepared and/or
mechanically ripped to encourage moisture conservation;
(b)   establishment of conifer plantations by planting on manually
prepared slopes; and
(c)   soil conservation afforestation which would comprise earth
terracing by mechanical means where necessary, planting trees
along ripped and fertilized terraces, and broadcast seeding of
the entire area with a mixture of forage seed, grass seed and
fertilizers. Gullies would be revegetated, and small check
dams constructed where necessary.



- 31 -
8. PROJECT ORGANIZATION
A. Project Coordination
8.1         INDRHI would be the executing agency for the overall project. All
civil works, technical assistance, and engineering services would be done under
contract, in accordance with terms acceptable to the Bank. INDRHI would supervise
the proposed technical studies and all required additional civil works for completing
the existing infrastructure in the irrigated areas of the project. Key performance
indicators of the project that were defined (Annex 2) and discussed with the
Government and with the beneficiaries during appraisal would serve as a management
tool to monitor project implementation.
8.2         Active farming community participation is an innovative and essential
feature of this project. Using a farmer-centered, problem-census, problem solving
approach (Annex 5), contractual arrangements would be made between water user
associations and specialized institutions for support services--extension, technology
transfer, and participatory applied research. Contracts for participatory research and
development would be awarded following the procedures described in Annex 6.
Management of the Rio Nizao watershed would similarly emphasize participation and
responsibility of the farming community for formulating and implementing the pilot
program in each microcatchment. ADESJO, a private NGO, would be contracted to
provide the required support services in for the Nizao watershed management pilot
program.
8.3         No direct financing of credit is proposed under this project. Although
the medium- and large-scale farmers have little difficulty obtaining credit, small-scale
farmers frequently have difficulties obtaining institutional credit--apart from farmers
in the Agrarian Reform, who have access to credit through the Agricultural Bank.
Small farmers must show that they have a land title and they will receive technical
assistance from an known agency or private source. To overcome this, the user
associations would hire private credit specialists to help farmers organize in mutual
solidarity groups and prepare necessary paper work. The contractual arrangements
with specialized institutions (including ADESJO in the watershed area) for support
services to the farmers combined with the proposed land title distribution program,
would also facilitate small-farmer access to credit. In addition, following the
successful experience of the Association of Rural Institutions for Savings and Credit,
the project, through its pilot program of development of savings and credit
cooperatives, would provide support to the Association of Rural Institutions for
Savings and Credit over a limited period of 2 years, for the promotion of grass-roots,
rural, and financial organizations in the project areas.



ANNEX 5
Page 2 of 11
depleted. The following table presents the possible repartition of use for
each selected zone according to the soil capacity.
Proposed land use in the sectors of the Nizao watershed area
Rancho        Nizao      Niahoma-                   Ntzao-
Polential Uise  Arriba      Niedio      Niaboinuta    Jiguey      V'aldesia     Total
of Soil
Ha     %     Ha     %     Ha     %     Ha     %     Ha    %      Ha     %
Forestry      873    14   4,655   39   5,961  44    6,392  75   9,369   68   27,250  56.0
Agroforestry  1,727  27    4,148  34   4,828   36    805     9   4,325  32   15,833  25.9
Pasture      1,200   19   2,429   20   2,639  20    1,403  16                 7,671  12.6
Crops        2,500   40    810     7     -      -     -     -                 3,310  5.4
Total      6,300  100  12,042  100  13,428  100  8,600  100  13,694  100  54,064  100
3.             Five micro-catchments in the medium and upper part of the
Nizao watershed, covering an area of approximately 19,500 ha, have been
selected in representing the major farming systems of the region.
B. Objectives
4.             The main objective of this project component would be the
attainment of sustainable systems of resource use in the medium and upper
catchments or more generally of a sustainable watershed management system
in the Nizao river basin (i.e., bringing about a better balance between supply
and demand for fodder and wood, controlling erosion, a better use of
agricultural lands, and enhancing income and employment) through the
development of integrated management models, namely: (i) forest land;
(ii) agroforestry; (iii) rainfed and irrigated farminlg.
5.             Although the rationale for this component is the need to halt
degradation of natural resources in the Nizao watershed area, the realization
of tangible and immediate benefits for the farm families in the project area is
of vital importance for adoption of treatments and for subsequent protection
and maintenance of investments.
6.             As the main objective under this component is to develop
models and to test methodologies. the replicability i.e., the cost effectiveness
of the proposed treatments will be a major concern. Priority should be given
to degraded lands which will give an adequate return to investments. Where
there is a choice between more or less expensive but still viable treatments, a
judgement about the return per dollar spent should guide the choice.



- 32 -
8.4         A project execution unit comprising a technical division and a finance
and administration division, would be set up in INDRHI and would directly report to
the general manager. The project execution unit would contract with a specialized
firm for the evaluation of project activities, including environmental aspects in the
project areas.
8.5         At negotiations, assurances were obtained that INDRHI would
maintain the project execution unit with staffing, functions, and organizational
structure satisfactory to the Bank (para. 10.3(c)). Assurances were also provided that
the project execution unit would submit semi-annual progress reports to the Bank not
later than 3 months after the end of each respective period. Such reports would
include information on the status of physical works under the project, progress in
training the user associations and in having user associations increase their
responsibilities in the management of the respective areas, the effects on agricultural
production, intensification of land use, development of land and water conservation
measures in the Nizao watershed, and the levels of cost recovery achieved.
B. Accounts and Audits
8.6         INDRHI would maintain separate accounts to record expenditures
made under the project using an agreed-upon plan of project accounts. A plan of
accounts would be prepared so that in each selected area of the project, each user
association and project execution unit would establish an accounting procedure,
acceptable to the Bank (para. 10. 1(d)). Each user association would maintain records
of expenditures and consolidate such records. Statements of expenditures will be
prepared by each user association and coordinated by the project execution unit.
Copies of supporting documentation for reimbursement requests provided to the
WUAs would be maintained by the project execution unit and made available to
visiting Bank missions and independent auditors, who at their discretion would make
direct visits to WUAs for purposes of the overall audit. Project accounts, including
the special account and statement of expenditures, would be audited annually by
independent auditors, acceptable to the Bank, following terms of reference approved
by the Bank. Such audit reports would be submitted to the Bank not later than 6
months after the close of each financial year.
C. Monitoring and Evaluadon
8.7         The basic tool for monitoring project activities would be the annual
work program, an instrument that integrates all Irrigated Land and Watershed
Management Project management functions into one tool: programming, work
organization, and distribution of tasks, personnel management and monitoring and
evaluation. A management information system would be implemented by no later
than December 31, 1995 (para. 10.3(g)), in each project area and aggregated at the



ANNEX 5
Page 1 of 11
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINCAN REPUBLIC
IRIUGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Rio Nizao Watershed Management Program
A. Project Area
1.           The total area covers about 91,600 ha, 88% of which is
strongly to severely eroded, vegetation is badly degraded, soils are shallow in
many places and soil loss is very high (about 295 t/ha/year). The main cause
of this degradation is deforestation (rate of deforestation of 2.3% per year),
combined with inappropriate agriculture use of hilly and steep sloping areas
(70% of the total area has a slope of 32%). The population of the Nizao
watershed is about 48,000 inhabitants, with an average population/km2
density of 53. Land distribution in the area is characterized by a dualism
between large and very small holdings. 85 % of all holdings occupies less
than 40% of the land, and 1.2% of the farmers have more than 25% of
agricultural lands.
Current land use in the sectors of the Nizao watershed area
Ranmbo      Nbuo     Mahomr- N-
Arribc     Medlo     Mabomnha   Jiguey     Valdeja     Teed
Ha    %    Ha    %    Ha    %    Ha   %    Ha    %    Ha    %
CpfUw   3,702  35  2,291  14  9,182  40  3,202  32  6,692  42  25,169  27
Crop.   1,798  17  3,510  21  3,902  17  4,400  44  2,060  13  16,670  18
Crop.
&ps     699   7   2,295  14   803   4    -        4,530  29  8.327  9
-     - k!   450  3   230  1    300   3               980   1
.Wood   1,300  12    915  6   5,623  25  1,500  15        -   18,938  21
Jlbwkn  2,901  28  6,732  41  3,099  14   498   5   2,368  15  21,498  23
Totl   10,400     16,193 022839         9,900     15,650     91,582  100
Source: INDRHI-FAO, SEA, August 1992.
2.           However, due to population growth, which has put
unsustainable pressure on agricultural and non-agricultural lands (forest,
rangeland, bush fallow) and overtaxed soil fertility, the natural resources of
about 67 % of the area have been mined and their productive potential



- 33 -
project execution unit level. The project execution unit would coordinate the annual
development of the annual work program subject to the approval of the general
manager of INDRHI and the Bank. The project execution unit would be responsible
for issuing, no more than 3 months after the end of each period, semi-annual reports
on progress of implementation of the components, which would be submitted to the
general manager of INDRHI, and through it to the Bank. If implementation progress
is not satisfactory for any of the components, the project execution unit would initiate
remedial action in agreement with the general manager of INDRHI and the Bank.
Annual reviews with Bank participation would be used for setting investment plans
and work programs. Performance would also be reviewed during these missions. (A
set of key performance indicators is presented in Annex 2).
8.8         At the same time, the project would develop an Environmental
monitoring system within INDRHI to be implemented and monitored in each irrigated
area and in the Nizao watershed. Factors to be monitored would include climate
(wind, temperature, rainfall, and so on), stream discharge in the upper part of the
watersheds, above the irrigation schemes, and below at various points, nutrient
content of discharge water; flow and water level at critical points in the irrigation
systems; water table elevations in project areas; water salinity levels in coastal areas;
physical and chemical properties of soil in irrigation areas and in the watershed area;
forestry coverage; agricultural acreage in production; cropping intensity; crop yield
per unit of land and water; erosion or sedimentation rates in project areas; relation
between water demand and supply of users (equitability of distribution); condition of
distribution and drainage canals (siltation, presence of weeds, and condition of
linings); upstream watershed management (industrial activity and agricultural extent
and practices); incidence of disease and presence of disease vectors; and health
condition of project population.
8.9         In addition, two major evaluations of the project would be carried out
by independent consultants contracted by the project execution unit. First, a mid-
term review would be held by no later than December 31, 1997 to: (a) assess
progress in implementation measured by performance objectives; (b) verify the
continued validity of the design assumption in light of implementation experience;
and (c) undertake necessary adjustments in project objectives, design, and
implementation arrangements. Second, these would be an end-evaluation (project-
completion) report.
8.10        Assurances to this effect were obtained at negotiations (para. 10.3(i)).
Terms of reference for the design of a Monitoring and Evaluation system that would
track both the indicators described in Annex 2, as well as measures of project
benefits (para. 9.1), would be prepared by the project execution unit and agreed upon
with the general manager of INDRHI and the Bank.



I



- 34 -
9. BENEFITS, ECONOMIC ANALYSIS, ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT,
EFFECT ON WOMEN, AND PROJECT RISKS
A. Benefits
9.1         The proposed project likely would foster a rational nationwide long-
term strategy and policies for irrigated farming and watershed development. These
are the other main anticipated project benefits:
*     increased productivity, employment, and incomes on about 5,000 small
farms from irrigated zones that now produce at well below their
potential. There are 10,300 farmers in the project irrigated areas.
Most of the investments for distribution and drainage infrastructure and
for land leveling proposed user project financing will benefit small
farmers because large farmers in Nizao-Valdesia and PRYN1 have
already completed the required civil works with their own financing
sources. In YSURA, aLmost all of the farmers are very small farmers
from the Agrarian Reform.
*     Poverty reduction in the Nizao watershed by raising income of about
1,500 small farmers (out of a total of 9,000 small farmers) to be
reached by project activities during the 5-year period, most of them
living below the rural poverty threshold of about DR$3,500 (US$280).
*     Saving in operation and maintenance expenditures as a result of
rehabilitation and improvement of irrigation structures, improved
maintenance, and reduced water losses.
*     Water savings from more efficient on-farm water use.
*     Development and testing of methods for sustainable watershed and
irrigated land management.
*     Strengthening of the private sector role, thus improving efficiency and
flexibility in the management of existing irrigated schemes and in the
provision of agricultural support services.
*     Reduced Government subsidies through higher revenues from
increased cost recovery.



ANNEX 4
DO    fINCAN REPUBLIC
RRIGATED LAND AND WATERSED MAANAGEMENT PROJECT
LAND DISTRIBUTION IN THE THREE PRO.TECT RRIGATED AREAS
0.0-1.5. 1.6-2.5  2 6-.O   5.L40   [1-1    32100    Total |
.:__.:ha            ha.      -ha:     ha      h       ha.
Farmers     1,771    567       670     295      133      6     3,442
Area (ha)   1,425   1,143    2,389    2,045   2,054     944   10,000
Farmers     3,404   1,161      154      46      35      -      4,800
Area (ha)   3,960   2,322      461     277     480             7,500
Santiago
Farmers      822     745       267      123     57       1     2.015
Area (ha)    836    1,529    1,015    1,004   1,028      88    5,500
3,500
-3,000 
2,500
2,000 
1,500   \ 
1,000 l 
O - 
2zLO                                YSURA
o    N    o     <       /       Nizao-Valdesia
o    co   Lo
u     _     _
cn



- 35 -
B. Economic Analysis
9.2          Economic analyses have been done for the 3 irrigated areas on
expenditures covering, first, rehabilitation and completion of the irrigation
infrastructure and, second, overall project activities including infrastructure
investments, agricultural support services, and institutional strengthening.
9.3          Sensitivity. Sensitivity analysis has been done on the viability of the
schemes under adverse conditions. Switching values were used to determine the
percentage of changes in key variables required to reduce the ERR to the opportunity
cost of capital (Table 9.1). The sensitivity of individual schemes to changes in
benefit and cost streams varies widely, given the diversity of schemes and cropping
patterns.
9.4          The results show that--at       Table 9.1 Economic Rates of Return
a discount rate of 12 percent, the                  (percenl)
assumed opportunity cost of capital in
the Dominican Republic--such schemes     Nuzao-Valdesia          21
are relatively insensitive to cost      Arua (YSURA              14
overruns and reduced benefit from lower
production (due to prudent assumptions),  Average irrigated areas  19
but more sensitive to a decrease in
benefits resulting from commodities
price reductions. Thus, critical determinants in the viability of these schemes are
marketing conditions. Farm models have been prepared by cautiously taking into
accounts the internal and outside markets absorption capacity. (For details of
financial analysis and economic analysis, see Annex 9).
9.5          Watershed Management Pilot Program. Given the participatory
approach, the scope and type of interventions and, hence, incremental annual
production at the end of the project cannot be predicted precisely. Difficulties in
making estimates are compounded by widely varying agroecological and social
conditions between microcatchments in the watershed.
9.6         In addition, the economic analysis should take into account the cost of
soil erosion on- and off-farm. On-farm erosion cost is the associated decrease of
crop yield. A current study (Hernandez 1992. Working Paper No. 4) at Ocoa River
watershed, with a slope of 30 percent, indicates that bean yield fell by 0.26
kilograms per hectare for each ton of soil loss, while pigeon pea yields fell by 2.1
kilograms per hectare for each ton of soil loss. But an economic analysis of returns
to investment in soil conservation measures, such as diversion ditches and live
barriers, revealed that the internal rate of return of 17 percent would not be
sufficiently attractive to the farmer. Off-farn quantifiable costs of soil erosion are an



Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Apprximative
Dates                                                    Expected Skill           Staff Input
(month/year)              Activity                         Requirements             (staff-weeks)
5-6/97                Supervision Mission                  Agriculture/TM                 3
Financial Analysis/Economics
11-12/97              Mfd-Term Review                      Agriculture/TM                    11
to review progress in overall project  Irrigation Engineering
implementation, its socio-economical  Sociologist
impact and implementation of cost    Watershed Management/Forestry
recovery mechanisms                  Financial Analysis/Economics
M&E/MIS/EMS
1998                  Two Supervision Missions             Agriculture/TM                    12
Financial Analysis/Economics
Irrigation Engineering
1999                  Two Supervision Missions             Agriculture/TM                    16
Financial Analysis/Economics
Watershed Management/Forestry
Irrigation Engineering
M&E/MIS/EMS
2000                  Supervision Mission                  Agriculture/TM                     8
(including preparation of a PCR)     Financial Analysis/Economics
Environmentalist
Sociologist



- 36 -
increased maintenance cost of irrigation systems and shortened economic life of
hydropower reservoirs because of sedimentation. The incremental maintenance costs
for irrigation systems, due to increased sedimentation have been estimated at US$2
million annually out of total operating and maintenance cost of US$3.4 million. For
the 5 principal dams in the country with a design life of 50 years, the average life
has been reduced to 20 years--40 percent--by unanticipated sedimentation. A
program to extend the useful life of the Valdesia Dam through hydraulic pumping of
sediment, was initiated in 1988 and cost US$4.5 million in the first year.
9.7         If these benefits were included in the analysis of project benefits, the
ERR would be higher than estimated here (Table 9.1).
C. Environmental Impact
9.8         The execution of the proposed project would not increase
environmental hazards. On the contrary, the project would improve land and water
management in the selected areas, by reducing the problems of drainage and salinity
in existing irrigated areas. Rehabilitation and completion of irrigation or drainage
works and the strengthening of user groups in operation and maintenance would
improve water use efficiency and conservation. Cost-recovery requirements would
help curb excess demand for irrigation. In the Nizao watershed area, upstream from
the irrigated area, the project--through its watershed management pilot program--
would address the problems of deforestation and inappropriate use of mountain slopes
that cause the erosion.
9.9          These technical considerations relate to possible side effects. In the
irrigated areas considerations involve improving water use and soil fertility. The use
of fertilizers may be increased but will be carefully monitored by INDRHI through
its environmental monitoring system, to avoid wasteful or environmentally damaging
levels. Crop pest protection should be improved through the development of
integrated pest management techniques. No land clearing is planned in noncultivated
lands and negative impact is expected. In the watershed cultivated areas soil fertility
should be improved by replacing fallow with forage legumes and pulses. And the
use of marginal lands should be changed, increasing productivity through soil and
water conservation, agronomic practices and minor irrigation. Some soil
conservation practices--including earth movement--would be undertaken to increase
water and moisture retention, but with careful design, no negative effect is expected.
In the watershed range and forest areas, technical considerations involve enhancing
vegetative coverage for in situ soil and moisture conservation, improving
management, increasing productivity, and supporting no land clearing program in
uncultivated lands. Chemical fertilizers would be used in the vegetative rehabilitation
efforts but application would mainly be one time and quantities would be small and



Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Supervision Plan
Supervision input into Kea Activities
Approximative
Dates                                                     Expected Skill            Staff Input
(month/year)              Activity                          Requirements              (staff-weeks)
5/95                   Supervision Mission                  Agriculture/TM                      8
(Project Launch Workshop)             Irrigation Engineering
Watershed Management/Forestry
Sociology/Community participation
Economics/Financial Analysis
5-6/95         - Review of bidding documents and     Irrigation Engineering             6
procurement plans;                  Procurement
- Review of design;
- Review of accounting plans;         Financial Ana vsis
- Review of Detailed Plans for:
(a) Irrigation Infrastructure
(b) Agricultural Development       Agriculture/TM
(c) Watershed Management Program
7/95                   - Review of Plan for:                                                   3
(a) Extension Program              Agriculture/TM
(b) Research Program
(c) Monitoring and Evaluation
(MIS/EMS)                        M&E/Economics
11-12/95               Supervision Mission                  Agriculture/TM                     3
to review start-up, and implementation  Training
of organizational arrangements;      Irrigation Engineering
to assist in preparation of annual    Watershed Management
work plans and budgets;
to assist in preparation of Associations
and Management Training Program
5-6/96                 Supervision Mission                  Agriculture/TM                     6
Review of Cost Recovery Procedures
11-12/96               Supervision Mission                  Agriculture/TM                     8
to review, inter alia, progress in    M&E/Economics
agricultural development/irrigation   Irrigation Engineering
infrastructure/watershed management   Watershed Management
and installation of MIS and EMS



- 37 -
rapidly absorbed. Some soil conservation measures could be necessary to increase
moisture retention, but efforts to minimize earth movement would avert possible
negative effects.
D. Effect on Women
9.10        Women traditionally are responsible for small livestock, domestic
chores (including fetching water and fuelwood), and child care, but also play a major
role in crop cultivation. In the watershed area, the afforestation program and the
introduction of forage legumes would, in the long term, reduce the burden on women
by providing larger quantities of fuel and fodder closer at hand. The participatory
approach has been designed to give women an important role in the selection of
recommended techniques.
E. Project Risks
9.11        The risks involve whether the Government is willing enough to move
towards more privatization of the irrigation subsector and of rural development
generally, the availability of adequate counterpart funds, and the enforcement of cost-
recovery and self-financing schemes. These risks would be minimized by front-
loading actions, such as granting land titles to ensure ownership of the irrigated land
and community rights for watershed community land. Technical risks are limited, as
requirements for irrigation rehabilitation, leveling, and drainage works are relatively
unsophisticated and well known in the country. Investment in civil works in the
initial year of the project has purposely been kept low in order to minimize the risk
of falling behind schedule. Moreover, INDRHI, which has proved effective during
preparation, with its proposed project execution unit reporting directly to the general
manager, will increase the effectiveness of coordination. And Bank missions would
be scheduled to participate in formulating and reviewing annual operation plans and
budgets. Considerable emphasis is also being given to participatory research and
development in order to ensure effective use of improved irrigation systems and
better exploitation of market opportunities. Both the size and complexity of the
proposed project appear to be within the capacity of INDRHI and the private
organizations involved, namely water user associations, and ADESJO.



ANNEX 2
Page 2 of 2
Performance Indicators
ACTIVITY               UNIT           PY1          PY2          PY3          Pl4           PY5        TOTAL
Field days
* Nizao-Vldesia          man*day        1,000         2,000       3,000         3,000        3,000        12,000
* Ysura                  man*day        1,000         2,500       3,500         3,500        3,500        14,000
* PRYN                   man*day         500          1,000       1,500         1,500        1,500        6,000
Visits
* Nizao-Wldesia          man*day         500          1,000       1,500         1,500        1,500        6,000
* Ysura                  man*day         800          1,500       2,500        2,500         2,500        9,800
* PRYN                   man*day         400           800        1,200         1,200        1,200        4,800
Demonstration plots
* Nizao-Vldesia            Plots          2             4           6             6            6            24
* Ysura                    Plots          2             5           7             7            7            28
* PRYN                     Plots          2             5           5             5            5            22
Total Farmers             Farmers        1,500        4,120        5,150        6,200        7,200         7,200
contacted
D. Studies
Water Contml             % of Total      100%           -            -            -                        100%
(Nizao-Valdesia)
Land Register
* Nizao-Valdesia         % of Total       40%          60%                                      -           100%
* Ysura                  % of Total       40%          60%                  -                   -          100%
* PRYN (+ maps)          % of Total       30%          50%          20%                         -          100%
Mid-Term Review                            -            -          100%                         -          100%
Project Preparation                        -            -            -                        100%         100%
E. Monitorine
- MIS development         % of Total      40%           60%                                      -          100%
-EMS                      ,i of Total      40%          60%           -             -            -          100%
E Institutional
Development
INDRHI T.A.             T.A.*month        11            2            1            1             1           16
Training WUA
. WUA Officials          man*day          90           90           90           9tl           90          450
. WUA Staff              man*day         150           150         150           150          150          750
Nizao Watershed
T.A.                   T.A.*month        12           12           12            12           12           60
. Training of staff      man*day         930           30           30           30            30         1,050
. Overseas visits         week             -            2           2             2             -            6
. National Workshop      man*day                        -            -           160                       160
E. Reporting and
Audit
POA for PYI ready
by Dec 31, 1994                       12/31/1994
and subsequent POAs
on November 30 of                                     11/30        11/30        11/30         11/30
each year thereafter.
Audit compleed                                       05/1995      05/1996      05/1996       05/1997
Operating Manual
. Prepared                            12/31/1994
. Disseminated                                       03/1995
. Implemened.                                                     06/1995



- 38 -
10. S1MMARY OF AGREEMEIT REACHIED AND RECOMMENDATIONS
During negotiations of the proposed Loan, agreement from the Government of
the Dominican Republic was reached on the following main actions.
10.1 Conditions of effectiveness:
(a)   Signing of the Subsidiary Agreement.
(b)   Opening of the Project Account with an initial deposit of US$1.0
million to cover counterpart expenditures (para. 7.5).
(c)   Adoption of a plan of accounts satisfactory to the Bank (para. 8.6).
(d)   Presentation of an Annual Operating Plan for 1995 satisfactory to the
Bank.
(e)   Establishment of PEU in manner satisfactory to the Bank and fully
staffed, including the Project manager, with personnel of experience
and qualifications satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.16).
10.2 Conditions of disbursement:
(a)   Irrigation Infrastructure Component. Satisfactory evidence that
INDRHI has submitted to the Tribunales de Tierra the documentation
required to initiate the appropriate legal actions for the award of final
land titles to at least 80% of farmers living in each of the irrigated
areas will be required for civil works expenditures in the respective
irrigated areas (para. 6.3; 7.6).
(b)   Nizao Watershed Management Treatments Component. The ADESJO
Agreement and subgrant agreements must be signed; subgrants to
communities for soil and water management measures in the Nizao
watershed would be allowed only if a comprehensive natural resources
management plan for the selected microcatchment has been agreed to
by the INDRHI, project execution unit and related communities (para.
7.6).
(c)   Agricultural Development Component. Finalization of criteria and
procedures, satisfactory to the Bank, for carrying out the component;
presentation of a short list of firms for participatory research and
development support service contracts (para. 6.11).



ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Firformance Indicators
ACTIVITY               ULIT            PYI          PV2          PV'3         PY4           PY5         TOTAL
A. Civil Works
* Nizao-Valdesia
Final Design          % of Total       40%           40%          20%            -                        100%
Irrigation Works      % of Total        5%           40%          40%          15%                        100%
Land Levelling            ha           65 ha        260 ha       325 ha                 -                 650 ha
* YSURA
Final Design          % of Total       60%           40%           -                                      100%
Major drainage/       % of Total       15%           60%          25%                                     100%
Flood control
Farm drainage         % of Total       25%           75%                  -             -                 100%
Land Levelling            ha          225 ha        562 ha       675 ha        788 ha                   2,250 ha
* PRYN
Final Design          % of Total       40%           30%          30%            -                        100%
Gated Structures         Unit           10           22            -                                       32
Irrigation works      % of Total        5%           35%          60%            -             -          100%
Land Levelling           ha           340 ha        680 ha       850 ha      1,020 ha       510 ha      3,400 ha
B. Operation &
Maintenance
- O&M Equipment           % of Total       100%           -            -             -             -          100%
- O&M Training for
each system
,Users                    Course           4             4            4            4             4            20
, WUA off. and staff      Course           2             2            2            2             2            10
, INDRHI staff            Course           2             2            2            2             2            10
- O&M Manual
* Nizao-Wldesia          % of Total       70%          30%            -            -             -           100%
* PRYN                   % of Total       50%          50%                                                   100%
C. Aericultural
Develol..ent'
- Research
, Expand lines              lines          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.          n.a,
Initiate new lines        lines          n.a.          n.a.         n.a.         n.a.          n.a.         n.a.
- Training of Extension
Staff
* Nizao-Valdesia         man*day          140           140          140          140           140          700
* Ysura                  man*day          160           160          160          160           160          800
* PRYN                   man*dy           120           120          120          120           120          600
- Tbchnology Transfer
* Nizao-Valdesia          man*day        1,400        2,000        2,000         2,000         2,000        9,400
* Ysura                   man*day        1,900        3,000        3,000         3,000         3,000       13,900
* PRYN                    man*day         800          1,200        1,200        1,200         1,200        5,600
1. for irrigated areas only. Given the nature of the development program in the Nizao
watershed area, no key indicator has been proposed (see Annex 5).



- 39 -
10.3 Assurances were obtained that:
(a)   The Government would establish a special account in the Banco
Central, in U.S. dollars, to cover all eligible Bank expenditures under
the loan with procedures for the account's operation clearly established
and acceptable to the Bank (para. 7.4).
(b)   The Government would provide the necessary annual counterpart
funding to INDRHI according to each annual work program (para.
7.2).
(c)   INDRHI would maintain the project execution unit with staffing,
functions, and organizational structure satisfactory to the Bank (para.
8.5).
(d)   INDRHI would refrain from presenting to the Bank withdrawal
applications in respect of expenditures not included in the POA
approved for the year in question (para. 7.6).
(e)   Contracts for participatory research and development support services
would be signed no later than June 30, 1995 (para. 6.11).
(f)   The irrigation control studies would be completed by no later than
December 31, 1995; the recommendations of such studies would be
reviewed jointly with the Bank by no later than June 30, 1996; and
immediately thereafter, such recommendations would be implemented
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.17).
(g)   By no later than December 31, 1996, the Government would prepare
and furnish a land title distribution action plan, satisfactory to the
Bank, for the farmers of Nizao watershed who have not received final
titles; by no later than June 30, 1997, the Government would start the
implementation of such action plan; and by no later than June 30,
1999, the Government would complete the implementation of the
action plan (para. 6.3).
(h)   The design of a management information system would be completed
in a manner satisfactory to the Bank by no later than December 31,
1995 and immediately thereafter such system would be implemented in
a manner satisfactory to the Bank (para. 6.19).
(i)   By no later than December 31, 1995, the Government would present
an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to: (i) raise, by no later than



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Estimated Schedule of Bank Disbursements
(In US$ million)
Disbursement         Cumulatihe          Balance of
FY/End of Semester          During Semesier         Amount               Loan
July 30, 1995                                                                      28.00
FY 1996
Dec. 31, 1995                                0.78                  0.78            27.22
June 30, 1996                                 1.18                 1.96            26.04
FY 97
Dec. 31, 1996                                1.68                  3.64            24.36
June 30, 1997                                2.08                  5.72            22.28
FY 98
Dec. 31, 1997                                2.08                  7.80            20.20
June 30, 1998                                1.04                  8.84            19.16
FY 99
Dec. 31, 1998                                2.08                 10.92            17.08
June 30, 1999                                3.12                 14.04            13.96
FY 2000
Dec. 31, 1999                                2.08                 16.12            11.88
June 30, 2000                                2.08                 18.20             9.80
FY 2001
Dec. 31. 2000                                3.12                 21.32             6.68
June 30, 2001                                2.08                 23.40             4.60
FY 2002
Dec. 31, 2001                                1.74                 25.14             2.86
June 30, 2002                                 1.74                26.88             1.12
FY 2003
Dec. 31, 2002                                1.12                 28.00             0.00



- 40 -
June 30, 1996, the level of the water charges in order to recover all
operation and maintenance costs; and (ii) introduce, by no later than
June 30, 1997, measures that will enable INDRHI to recover from
farmers holding more than 6.3 hectares of irrigated land a significant
portion of the capital cost of the investments (para. 7.16);
(j)   Two major evaluations of the project would be conducted: a mid-term
review by the Government and the Bank and an end-evaluation
(project-completion) report (para. 8.9, 8.10).
10.4        With the above assurances, the proposed project would be suitable for
a Bank loan of US$28.0 million equivalent on standard terms with 20 years' maturity
and variable interest rate.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 4
DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED
MANAGEMENT PROJECT
Financing Plan by Disbursement Categorv
(EJS$ 000)
Users'
Associations       World Rank        Ooverrment          Total                   Local
---------------............................--------                -----     For.     CExcL.
Amount      X     Amount      X     Amount      X     Amount      X       Exch.   Taxes)
A. C1vil Works                         0.0     0.0   12300.1    78.2 - 3429.1     21.8  15729.2     36.4    8870.9    6858.3
B. Equipment                           0.0     0.0    2464.3    78.3    682.9     21.7   3147.2      7.3    2464.3     682.9
C. Studies, Training, TA               0.0     0.0    5909.5   100.0       0.0     0.0   5909.5     13.7    2038.5   3871.1
0. Contracts                           0.0     0.0   2865.8     64.5    1574.1    35.5   4439.8     10.3     504.7   3935.1
E. Funds                               0.0     0.0   3213.2    100.0       0.0     0.0   3213.2      7.4     591.0    2622.2
F. 0 & 4 WUA                        646.0     18.6      9.1      0.3   2815.7     81.1   3470.8      8.0     598.9   2871.9
C. 0LH IJNDHR                        55.4      4.0       0.0     0.0    1334.8    96.0   1390.1      3.2     496.8    M8.4
H. 0     H  NDORNI                   28.1      1.6       0.0     0.0    1748.8    98.4   1776.8      4.1     634.9    1141.9
I. Other 0 S N                        0.0      0.0    743.9     35.2   1367.7     64.8   2111.6      4.9     743.9.  1367.7
J. Personnel                           0.0     0.0       0.0     0.0     814.7   100.0    814.7       1.9      0.0     814.7
K. Land Titling                      187.0    15.0     623.3    50.0     436.3    35.0    1246.6      2.9    363.7     882.9
........................................_........._.  _ .   ........_._..__,______.--______
Total Disbursement                   916.4      2.1   28129.2    65.0   14204.0    32.8  43249.6     100.0  17307.5   25942.0
-----------         s=s====-5__=s=ss                   s   se   _   =s    s    =s-      _
4/26/1994 10:51
Disbursement by Financier by Semester
(US$ 000)
Users"
Associa    Yorld    Goverrn
tions      Bank     ent      Totat
Amount    Amount    Amount   Amout
Semester
1    137.3    3499.0    1529.2   5165.4
2     137.3   3499.0    1529.2    5165.4
3      53.8   3756.3    1618.7    5428.8
4      53.8   3756.3    1618.7    5428.8
5      71.6   3219.3    1512.9    4803.8
6      71.6   3219.3    1512.9    4803.8
7     87.7    1929.6    1234.4   3251.6
8      87.7   1929.6    1234.4    3251.6
9     107.9   1660.5    1206.7    2975.1
10     107.9   1660.5    1206.7   2975.1
TOTAL         916.4   28129.2   14204.0  43249.6
4--/26  ----19-94  10:51-            ---------
4/26/1994 10:51



ANNFXJ 4
Page      o
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMNICAlN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROTECT
Project Components bv Year
Base Costs                                Totat
1995      1996       1997      1998       1999    DR5000    USS000
A. Irrigation
1. Nizao-VaLdesis                 19671.8    29752.6   30025.6    13731.9    4774.8   97956.7     7836.5
2. YSURA                          25288.0    33524.9   18849.3    .8366.8    8366.8   94395.7     7551.7
3. PRYN                           20722.1    16211.2   10469.6     6368.4    6368.4   60139.6     4811.2
.......................................................................
Sub-total                            65681.9    79488.7   59344.5    28467.1   19509.9  252492.0    20199.4
B. watershed Management              3198.7     5763.9    7209.0     9077.6   10887.7   36137.0     2891.0
C. Agricultural Development
1. Extension Nizao-Valdesia         624.8      339.1     374.1      467.8     374.1    2179.9      174.4
2. Extension YSURA                  692.7      422.8     462.8      556.5     462.8    2597.7      207.0
3. Extension PRYN                    574.1     270.4     284.4      346.9     284.4    1760.2      140.8
4. Participatory Research         16075.7    10384.2   10086.9     9710.7    9710.7   55968.4     4477.5
.......................................................................
Sub-total                             17967.4   11416.5   11208.2    11082.0   10832.0   62506.1     5000.5
D. tnst. Strengthening
1. INORHI/Executive Unit          19820.1     7518.3    9010.1     5422.6    4187.0   45958.2    3676.7
2. WUA Nizao-Valdesia                164.8     102.5     102.5      102.5     102.5     575.0       46.0
3. IUUA YSURA                        94.8      102.5     102.5      102.5     102.5     505.0       40.4
4. IJA PRYN                          94.8      102.5     102.5      102.5     102.5     505.0       40.4
5. Credit Cooperatives              863.3     1582.5       0.0        0.0       0.0    2445.7      195.7
. .......................................................... ...........
Sub-total                            21037.8     9408.4    9317.8     5730.3    4494.7   49988.9     3999.1
............................................................ ...........
Total BASELINE COSTS                 107885.8  106077.5   87079.4    54357.1   45724.3  401124.0    32089.9
Physical Contingencies            11660.4    11771.7    9922.7     5551.7    4054.8   42961.3    3436.9
Price Contingencies                9589.0    17871.6   23092.5    21382.4   24598.5   96534.0     7722.7
............................................... .........................
Total PROJECT COSTS                  129135.1  135720.9  120094.6    81291.1   74377.7  540619.4    43249.6
Taxes                                  0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0       0.0       0.0        0.0
Foreign Exchange                  66076.2    60525.5   47990.4   24616.1    17135.9  216344.0   17307.5
..... ........1........................................................................................
4/26/1994 10:51



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
DOMINICAN ItEPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND WATERS[ED MANAGrEMENT PROJECT
ToIal SuLnijnnLry Accounts
DRS 000                             USS 000                      X Total
---~                 -      -      I- X Foreign   Base
Local  Foreign    Total         Local  Foreign    Total       Exchange     Costs
..............................     ........................... ....................
1. INVESTMENT COSTS
......._.......
A. Civil Works
1. Irrigation Structures        27050.4   40575.6   67626.0       2164.0   3246.0    5410.1       60.0       16.9
2. Drainage                     18268.8   27403.2   45672.0       1461.5    2192.3   3653.8       60.0       11.4
3. On-Farm Works                13736.0   20604.0   34340.0        1098.9   1648.3   2747.2        60.0       8.6
............... ........................... . .. .....................  ..........   ............................... .......... .... ............
Sub-TotaL                          59055.2   88582.8  147638.0       4724.4    7086.6  11811.0       60.0       36.8
B. Equipment
1. Office/Training              2238.7     3577.8    5816.5        179.1    286.2     465.3       61.5        1.5
2. Irrigation                    4248.9   16995.6   21244.5        339.9    1359.6   1699.6       80.0        5.3
..............................     ........................... ....................
Sub-TotaL                          6487.6    20573.4   27061.0        519.0    1645.9   2164.9        76.0       6.7
C. VehicLes                          301.6    5729.7    6031.2         24.1    458.4     482.5        95.0       1.5
0. Technical Assistance            20494.3   11140.9   31635.2        1639.5    891.3   2530.8        35.2       7.9
E. Land Titling                     9100.0    3900.0   13000.0        7?8.0    312.0    1040.0        30.0       3.2
F. Training                         7977.7    3807.4   11785.1        638.2    304.6     942.8       32.3        2.9
G. Studies                          5326.5    6102.3   11428.8        426.1    488.2     914.3        53.4       2.8
H. Grants for Watershed            22990.6    6497.7   29488.3       1839.3    519.8    2359.1        22.0       7.4
1. Support Services Contract      33088.6     4954.1   38042.7       2647.1    396.3    3043.4        13.0       9.5
Total INVESTMENT COSTS            164822.1  151288.3  316110.4      13185.8  12103.1   25288.8        47.9      78.8
It. RECURRENT COSTS
................
A. 0 & H INDRHI                    17180.2   11453.5   28633.7       1374.4    916.3    2290.7        40.0       7.1
8. 0 A H WUA                       24243.0    6060.7   30303.7       1939.4    484.9    2424.3        20.0       7.6
C. Operating Costs                 11557.2    7534.7   19091.9        924.6    602.8    1527.4        39.5       4.8
D. Personnel                        6984.2       0.0    6984.2        558.7       0.0    558.7         0.0       1.7                             P 
Total RECURRENT COSTS             59964.7    25049.0   85013.6       4797.2   2003.9    6801.1        29.5      21.2
.. _.__...........................  ................................ ....  __.... ...... ........ ___......_.....__,__,____.iT
Total BASELINE COSTS              224786.8  176337.3  401124.0      17982.9  14107.0   32089.9        44.0     100.0                             o
Physical ContingencIes          22547.8   20413.5   42961.3       1803.8    1633.1   3436.9        47.5       10.7
Price ContIngencles             76940.8   19593.2   96534.0       6155.3    1567.5   7722.7        20.3      24.1                             4-
..............................     ...........................   ....................
Total PROJECTS COSTS              324275.4  216344.0  540619.4      25942.0  17307.5   43249.6        40.0      134.8
4/26/199gm==223s53.UUWE            g==    .:S====   ZW.8UU      Csuuuuauu!-'i=-U2
4/26/1994 10:51



DOMINICAN          REPUBLIC                        -20'          71                           69'      20'
IRRIGATED LAND AND                                      '            Pryn Area
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT                                                   Sanhi
NIZAO AREA                                  -
- 7 DOMINICA          RP7I:omig
<>   5 J    Fansa&REPUBLIC                   1
MS i~~~~~~~~Sn
RANCHO ARRIBA                                                    B-h            Wtrh    Aroeo
A-                       s,                                                                                   ,
../  \   1   _      /          \                  1*_.''                71,            70           69
\CTrrodelCroswr                          Villa Altagracia
L.       SELECTED MICROCATKHrAtAIJI           NIZAb MEDIO
MAIN CANALS                               6 (   It3/                       ( f) I
LATERAL CANAL                          -_                     MAHOMA       I
IRRIGATED AREAS                                              ' \  (MAHOMITA I
_ DAMS                                                               () 2 8t3 h4 I t,
* RESERVOIRS                                                A Jsgu  storagds o.V.......
RIVERS                                                                        \
San Jose                         ,
- MAIN ROADS               dde Dcoo Q               JIGUEY          \  r75                                                              SANTO
SECONDARY ROADS                           J/ G9 900 Ua I                                                                                S DOMINGO
Aguacale dar'       - N
o5           10       I:
?                                          l~~~~~~~~~~~~~onsa da lae Palma       I '
KILOMETERS                                         I 738 m         /'
NIZAO*   j 
TAa,  VALDESIA'      1             San                 Hana
To Azua                                                                                                     S . s  r~on aIH
>                k 1 1 -^ es.l F|] ) ;1 I h.:    CrisicObol
,  tValdesia;o'.
v _._                        t       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~slaroge dom n
.        .                                    ]    | $;u~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e.eslolustn dan.m 
Naoyo    No ayo
Ni    0    Sabane Grande
>            M~~~~~oanzas
Inc Calderas
Thi,s mp has b-en prepored
by The WanId Banksstaff
Nencisisaty to the con -nience
NIZAO           AREA                                                                                               f readers a,nd is for tha
;na laeof The Wand Bank
Grap. Tha d-nasninaan  ase
ad the baunaries shd
-   MAIN CANALS                                                                                         no this cop do nat snply, an the
MAIN CANALS                                                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~part of The World Bank Groop,
any a~d g-n t an the 1agal
LATERAL CANALS                                                                                          sa   f any trit-y o, Ony
eRndorsment or acceptance of
IRRIGATED AREAS                                                                                          sob b-adaria
-     DAMS
I RESERVOIRS                                                             V
RIVERS                                                                 Valdesia Dam
-        MAIN ROADS
SECONDARY ROADS
Barias
Dam
0         1         2         3         4
KILOMETERS
To Azua 
\        ~~~Jua,, Caballero Conol                                            )      )
To Son Cristobal
and Santa Daoningo
\ AGRARIAN REFORM ! / ...................... ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Gregorio
i~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Bn                                          M.c AETTLEMENT-01
To-                             A Las Calderas
0
O                                                                                                                                                                     j_L
a                                                                                                                           (n~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~O
_                                                                                                                                                                    |a_



DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
IRRIGATED LAND AND
WATERSHED MANAGEMENT PROJECT
PRYN AREA
Monte Cristi
Puerto Plato
V\1illa Vasquez
Imbert
/           A          .~~~~~~~~0
-  ? DOMINICAN       ii SITUA                     N MP                    Cmira
aBian             PUon  BLI                -0 M    CANAL
\  /           t g               i            '  t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 2\~~~~~~~\Pu m pt~~~~~~~upng  plant
Sabanet    _____ A       CANALS
Are  Santo Domingo         IRRI(ATED ARASantiago
/             t)                    ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Diversijn 
-20   oro o          70         6J 20--            R    I                     0         10o20Ver d          om
r?z --> ~ATL4NTIC        OCEAN <t ..XA. 
18Pr  y     n Area18                            RVERS
'$  5 -!3   V  PRYN AREA                          AREA
e v? DOMINlcANM                                                                        I SITUATION MAPN,'STUCUR
-UB MLIC                                                                   A CMAIN CANALANAL
OS.n Jn 
LATERAL CANALS        LATERAL CANALS
'\>   Ysura Area ua  ISanto Domingo  )AIRRIGATED AREAAREA
\   :  w T-'        -a  S        -   ~~~~~~DAMS 
B-A o.oo zoWlrhd~                                                              '    (- RESERVOIR  0  10  20  30
-18 *     ~~~~Areaz1-                   ==    RIVERS                                 KILOMETERS
.        ~~~~Car-lbbeanw Sea            -   MAIN ROADS
PRYN AREA
_  z   \ 4C<                                             ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MAJOR INFRASTRUCTURE
MAIN CANAL
C GV-oc / > ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LATERAL CANALS
\   \  7 >2                                            ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~IRRIGATED AREA
>  To Imbert             ~                    RIVERa
(  MLt=  A   y                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ARROYOS
\ i\ =Navtirxe / .................. ~~~~MAIN ROADS
O ~ ~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ a_ adan an the le>                                                        A
l~~~~~~~~sae of aa tertryo>a
by T h da en World cptancs f                                                           plant
m nd hha boundories  shown                                                      \ n
profTh e Wor/ h o nk b.- p p-edfvroe 
O  bsy rudgen W- n S.  eglo
'0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~at
w0                                                                                                                      (5oh,   d.  KILpEER o
-h b-  -                        ILM TR
o                                                                          Z               w~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~t



IBRD 25142
20'     ~~~~71'      70           69W     0
YSURA       AREA                                                      W.,sf.e-P odf                        DOMINICAN        REPUBLIC                                                     ATLANTiC  OCeAN
SITUATION MAP                                                        ;IIl /o}l'Zo.nvmd                   IRRI GAT E D    LAN D    AN' Dh .o ogo
i  0   5      10     15    20                                            and ib. bouodo,sPicodelYague  lhio.p d. ,hoilyon Ph.  WATERSHED  MANAGEMENT PROJECT 
I   I  I                          Pica del 'togae  on~~~~~~~~~~~, ibi Th. W-do no, G-.pty      M   N    G   M   N                                      DOMICA
KILOMETERS  c          /3,5/1.e                               port. fYTheWodBRnAGroup,      -                        AREA            R                                 on DO aINICANBLIC
\~~~~~~~~~~P    on Duarten on                           _h lgo
i   | \     Z 22216Mils  C Q r d i I I e    2,175m          lomoRedollM  s.LhunAr:-s      ||           _     ^tAINCANAL5                     |  RESERVaORecfon |A MAIN CANALS  RESERVOIR
A 2,226o V,295m. c______4 \_                                                                       LATERAL CANALS                    RIVERS N2 mYsura Area R                             Santo Domingo
Hoto Viejo                                 CLATMERLJ CAREALS                                                                         -     RMINEROAS                                    B
Sabone         0,                                                                                                                               B ... h- .6~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~______Bresn
Sabmnefa                                           C \                                                           DAMS                               SECONDARY ROADS            i                  Worhonked
dam                                                                                                                         18'              Area~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Ae
C a ri b b e o n  Sea
1t     )                    I       Constanza                                                                                              71'          70'          69'
To Los Maiasdce                     (                                  ,)YSU RA                                                       AREA
Forfo n MaA o2,188 m                                                                                                                                                            0     1    2     3    4     5
Farfan                        ,/         /                    eb\'./      A',188.                              MAJOR INFRASTRUCTURE
'>   //<\  Bohechio   C>9 y                       |                                                                                         KILOMETERS
l                     'u~~~~~~~~~n Juan   ,etr                                                                                             r5 
Padre los Casc                                                    To Son Juan
] S [ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~e rlra Maguano r _i 
diversion do
Vullarbando  a
A Lorno Pauzo                                                                                                                                                                                                do,, ,  p   \  '  1  10   t<dvrodAz
I         |                                          4                       \    }          - >         e              l l9                        \              l t i/e  r  r)a
Ak>! L loma Polnzom,a do) uraro |                                                    /
10690                                          j M.erlo  PierolP o                                                                                       L Vies
TobarC                     rib     ea
|                9       ~      ~~~~~~~~~~ Neybc6a B                           robbr,ry|| 
Sea~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~el
L  > oP>=rahona                                                        |                                            Puerto Viejo      r   : , i ,1w e c1 *      S e a        OCIOLt 1993
OCTOBER 1993



