                               DominicanRepublic
                 IrrigationandWatershedManagementProject
                              (LoanNo. 3875-A-DO)
                 ProposedAmendmentto the LoanAgreement


 1.     This proposal seeks the approval of the Executive Directors to amend the
Loan Agreement of the D O IrrigatedLands and Watershed Project (Loan 3875A-
DO). This i s in response to a request from the Government of the Dominican
Republic, dated June 14, 2004, to utilize undisbursed amounts from the Irrigated
Lands and Watershed Project (Loan 3875A-DO) for the refinancing of a Project
Preparation Facility (P341-0-DO and P341-1-DO) for the proposed Water and
Sanitation Project in Tourism Areas SIL. As of June 14, 2004, the undisbursed
loan amount was US$11.76 million, of which, according to the last supervision
mission of March 2004, US$4 million will not be used by the closing date of
December 31, 2004. Consequently, there were on-going consultations with the
Government of the Dominican Republic for a partial cancellation of excess loan
amounts. However, in light of the recent Government's request dated June 14,
2004, the Board is now asked to issue its non objection to amend the Loan
Agreement nr. 3875A D O in order to incorporate the necessary legal provisions
(including the creation of a new category of disbursements) to accommodate the
refinancing of the above mentioned PPF as requested. This will imply waiving on
an exceptional basis, (i)OP8.10 in regard to the Refinancing of a Project
Preparation Facility thus allowing that the refinancing costs of the above PPF be
funded through loan 3875A and (ii)     OP/BP 13.25 regarding Use of Project Cost
Savings to refinance the PPF. As per Art. 55 of the Constitution of the Dominican
Republic, this amendment will have to be ratified by Congress. Recently, several
projects pending Congressional ratification were pulled out of Congress as a
precautionary measure to allow meeting the expenditure targets of the IMF-
supported macroeconomic stabilization program. Nevertheless, the amendment
will serve the country's needs and support their recovery efforts in this critical
macroeconomic juncture; as such, it should be approved by the Board. Moreover,
preliminary discussions with the authorities indicate that projects financed by
multilateral agencies will be shortly resubmitted to Congress for approval, since
these projects are supporting priority reforms for the country.

                            PARTIBACKGROUND

2.      In 1998, the Government of the Dominican Republic requested a Project
Preparation Facility Advance to finance certain expenditures required for the
preparation of the proposed Water and Sanitation Project in Tourism Areas (the
Project). This Advance was approved by the Bank on July 8, 1998 (Letter of
Agreement No P341-0-DO) for an amount of $1.20 million. On September 8,
1999 the Advance was increased by US$650,000 up to a total advance of US
$1.85 million (Letter of Agreement No. P341-1-DO). A final increase of
US$150,000 that would have taken the total advance to US$2 million was
approved'on 20 July, 2000 (Letter of Agreement P341-2-DO) but it was never
disbursed.

                                         - 2 -



3.      The US$1.85 million advance corresponding to Letters of Agreement
P341-0-DO and P341-1-DO was fully disbursed and utilized for the purposes
established in thecorresponding agreements which included:

        (a) Establishment and strengthening of a Project preparation unit within
            the Technical Secretariat of the Presidency;
        (b) Preparation of the processes of private sector participation in the
            provision of the services o f (i)water supply; (ii)
                                                              sewerage, wastewater
            collection, treatment and disposal; and (iii)solid wastes collection and
            disposal, in the following tourism centers: Boca Chica, Juan Dolio,
            Puerto Plata, Sosua, Cabarete, Samana-Las Terrenas, Bavaro-Punta
            Cana and Barahona; and
        (c) Carrying out of additional studies required for project preparation,
            including studies of: economic and financial aspects, fiscal impact of
            the proposed project, groundwater, oceanography, coastal erosion
            control, social assessment, topographical and soil surveys.


4.      Although the project preparation activities financed with the advance were
successfully completed, and the proposed Water and Sanitation Project in
Tourism Areas remains a priority for the Government of the Dominican Republic,
the preparation of the project has been postponed due to the country's difficult
macroeconomic situation. After years of sustained growth, in 2001 the Dominican
Republic entered a period of recession, which precipitated in 2003 with the
collapse of the country's third largest commercial bank and the weakening of
other two medium-sized banks. To avoid the spread of a crisis of confidence to
the rest of the financial sector, the Central Bank stepped in by providing liquidity
assistance to the banks estimated at 21 percent of GDP. As a result of the crisis,
public sector domestic debt increased from 4.7 percent of GDP at end-2002 to an
estimated 18.9 percent of GDP by end-December 2003. The sharp depreciation of
the local currency contributed to a significant valuation increase of the external
public debt to GDP ratio from 22.3 percent in 2002 to 37.9 percent in2003. Lack
of confidence fueled a massive capital flight in 2003. Currency depreciation also
caused inflation to increase from 5.2 percent in 2002 to 27.4 percent in 2003 (or
from 10.5 percent at end 2002 to 42.7 percent at end-2003). Although not fully
evaluated yet, the social impacts of the crisis are dramatic.

To address the crisis, the authorities designed a program that was supported by a
24-month Stand-by Arrangement (SBA) for US$620 million, approved by the
M F ' s Board in August 2003. The program aimed to strengthen the banking
system through a number of reforms, stabilize public debt through fiscal
adjustment, and relieve pressure on the currency by limiting monetary expansion.
The first tranche of the program (US$120 million) was disbursed in early
September 2003.

                                          - 3 -



 During the remainder of 2003, the program had little success, amid significant
 slippages in policy implementation, both in the fiscal and monetary sectors.
 Corrective steps began in January 2004, with approval of the 2004 budget and
 associated tax measures, a firming of monetary policy, a renewed commitment to
 exchange rate flexibility, and electricity sector measures. This set the stage for
 agreement on a revised economic program and the completion of the first review
 of the SBA on February 11 followed by the disbursement of a second tranche
 (US$66 million).

Despite a better than expected growth performance in the last quarter of 2003, the
Dominican Republic's economy continues to be in crisis in 2004. GDP growth
projection for 2004 i s estimated at negative 0.4 percent. New slippages in the
 implementation of the stabilization program, mostly on the expenditure side,
 induced the IMF to postpone the second review of the Stand-by Agreement,
 originally planned for May 2004. A new review i s tentatively scheduled to take
place before the transition to President elect, Dr.Leone1Fernandez.

The tight fiscal discipline that will be requiredto meet the IMFtargets, inaddition
to postponing the proposed project, i s precluding the Dominican Government to
proceed with an immediate repayment of the PPF advance and its accrued
interests and charges to the Bank.

5.      Undisbursed funds @om Loan 3875A:                 The Dominican Republic
Irrigated Lands and Watershed Management Project's Loan 3875 was approved
by the Board in May 1995 for an amount of US$28 million for the following
development objectives: (i)    to improve small farmer income in three irrigated
areas through irrigation system rehabilitation, improved water users association
and improved packages for agricultural production; (ii)to test and develop
methodologies that can be replicated nationwide for production support services,
water management, and operation and maintenance of irrigation systems; (iii)     to
test and develop methodologies for decentralized sustainable and environmentally
sound watershed management practices; and (iv) to help reduce the fiscal cost of
irrigation schemes to the Government through cost-recovery policies. The Project
was declared effective in April 1997. The closing date was extended once, from
December 31, 2003 to December 31, 2004. As of June 14, 2004, the undisbursed
loan amount was US$11.76 million and there were on-going consultations with
the Government of the Dominican Republic for a partial cancellation of excess
loan amounts. As a result of a supervision mission in March of 2004, it was
estimated that more than US$4 million of the undisbursed amounts will not be
used by the closing date. The Project's overall rating i s satisfactory.

6.      Justification of refinancing of PPF through Loan 3875A. Given that the
advance funds were properly utilized, that the proposedproject for water and
sanitation has been postponed for the time being due to the economic crisis and
that the same economic crisis will preclude the Government of the Dominican
Republic to repay the advance and accrues interest due on June 30, the Boardi s
asked to amend the Loan Agreement nr. 3875A to include a new component that
would cover the re-payment of the PPFthrough this Loan.

The World Bank                                                  1818 H Street                 SenderPhone
INTERNATIONALBANK FOR RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT             Washington, DC 20433          SenderFax
INTERNATIONALDEVELOPMENTASSOCIATION                             USA

                                                                               June          ,2004


            H i s Excellency
            Carlos Despradel
            SecretarioTCcnico de la Presidencia
            Secretariado TCcnico de la Presidencia
            Palacio Nacional
            Avenida MCxico
            Santo Domingo, Rep6blica Dominicana


                              Re:     Loan No.3875-DO(Irrigated Land and WatershedManagement
                     Project)
                                      ThirdAmendment to the Loan Agreement

           Excellency:

                     Please refer to the Loan Agreement between the Dominican Republic (the Borrower) and
           the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development (the Bank) dated November 14, 1995
           with regard to the above-captioned Project (the Loan Agreement).

                    We are pleased to informyou that, pursuant to your letter of request dated 14June, 2004
           and our recent discussions on the subject, the Bank hereby agrees to amend the Loan Agreement
           so as to incorporate all necessary provisions to allow for the refinancing the advances made under
           the Bank's Project PreparationFacility to finance certain activities required for the preparation of
           a proposed water and sanitation project in tourism areas (PPF 341-0-DO and PPF 341-1-DO
           dated April 13, 1998 and September 8, 1999, respectively).

                    Consequently the Bank hereby amends the Loan Agreement to read as set forth inAnnex A
           to this letter (the specific changes made in arriving at those amended texts are reflected for your
           convenience inAnnex B to this letter).

        Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing amendment by signing and dating this
letter inthe spaces provided below. This amendment letter shall be executed in two counterparts
each of which shall be an original.


         Upon confirmation please return one fully executed original to us. The provisions set
forth in this amendment letter shall become effective as of the date of this letter upon receipt by
the Bank of one fully executed original of this amendment letter.


                                        Very truly yours,

                               INTERNATIONAL BANKFOR
                       RECONSTRUCTIONAND DEVELOPMENT



                            BY
                                        Caroline Anstey
                                             Director
                              Caribbean Country Management Unit
                            Latin America and the CaribbeanRegion




AGREED:

DOMINICANREPUBLIC


By:


Name:


Date:

