Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3875-DO
                             Project Agreement
             (Irrigated Land and Watershed Management Project)
                                  between
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                                    and
                INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS
                          Dated November 14, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3875-DO
                             PROJECT AGREEMENT
    AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1995, between INTERNATIONAL
BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) and
INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE RECURSOS HIDRAULICOS (INDRHI).
    WHEREAS (A) by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between Dominican Republic (the Borrower) and the Bank, the
Bank has agreed to make available to the Borrower an amount in
various currencies equivalent to twenty-eight million Dollars
($28,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Loan Agreement, but only on condition that INDRHI agree to
undertake such obligations toward the Bank as are set forth in
this Agreement;
    (B)   by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between
the Borrower and INDRHI, the proceeds of the loan provided for
under the Loan Agreement will be made available to INDRHI on
the terms and conditions set forth in said subsidiary
agreement; and
    WHEREAS INDRHI, in consideration of the Bank's entering into
the Loan Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake
Page  2
the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
    NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                                 ARTICLE I
                                Definitions
    Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Loan Agreement and the General
Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
                                ARTICLE II
                         Execution of the Project
    Section 2.01. (a) INDRHI declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Loan Agreement, and, to this end, shall carry out the Project
with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering,
conservation, agricultural, technical and environmental
practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided, promptly
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources
required for the Project.
    (b)   Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a)
above, INDRHI shall carry out Part B of the Project in
accordance with the terms of the ADESJO Agreement. Except as
the Bank shall otherwise agree, INDRHI shall not amend, assign,
waive or fail to enforce the ADESJO Agreement or any provision
thereof.
    Section 2.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to this Agreement.
    Section 2.03. INDRHI shall carry out the obligations set
forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09 of the
General Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and
services, plans and schedules, records and reports, maintenance
and land acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project
Agreement.
    Section 2.04. INDRHI shall duly perform all of its
obligations under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, INDRHI shall not take or concur in any
action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision
thereof.
    Section 2.05. (a) INDRHI shall, at the request of the Bank,
exchange views with the Bank with regard to progress of the
Project, the performance of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Loan.
    (b)   INDRHI shall promptly inform the Bank of any condition
which interferes or threatens to interfere with the progress of
the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of Loan, or the
performance by INDRHI of its obligations under this Agreement
and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
    Section 2.06. (a) Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, INDRHI shall, by no later than
June 30, 1995, enter into agreements, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, with institutions,
acceptable to the Bank, and selected in accordance with
Page  3
procedures satisfactory to the Bank, specialized in
agricultural technology, for purposes of governing: (i) the
assistance to be provided by such institutions to INDRHI in
carrying out Part C of the Project; and (ii) the annual
provision of funds by INDRHI to such institutions for the
carrying out of such assistance.
    (b)   INDRHI shall exercise its rights and comply with its
obligations under the Research Agreements in such manner as to
protect the interests of the Borrower, the Bank and INDHRI, and
to accomplish the purposes of the Loan, and except as the Bank
shall otherwise agree, INDRHI shall not assign, amend, suspend,
terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Research Agreements or
any provision thereof.
    Section 2.07. (a) INDRHI shall establish, and thereafter
maintain and operate during Project implementation, a Project
executing unit, with functions and responsibilities
satisfactory to the Bank.
    (b)   INDRHI shall ensure that PEU is at all times headed by
a Project manager, assisted by staff in adequate numbers, all
with qualifications and experience satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 2.08. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, INDRHI shall: (a) by no later
than December 31, 1995, complete the studies referred to in
Part E (a) and (b) of the Project; (b) by no later than June
30, 1996, review jointly with the Bank the recommendations of
such studies; and (c) immediately thereafter, implement such
recommendations in a manner satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 2.09. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.01 of this Agreement, INDRHI shall: (a) by no later
than December 31, 1995, initiate the implementation of the
systems referred to in Part F of the Project, in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (b) immediately thereafter,
continue the implementation of such systems in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 2.10. (a) INDRHI shall, by no later than June 30,
1996, prepare and furnish to the Bank an operational manual
satisfactory to the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, a
cost-recovery mechanism for operation and maintenance costs to
be applied to each Water Users Association that will benefit
from the works carried out, or to be carried out, by INDRHI
under Part A of the Project.
    (b)   INDRHI shall, by no later than June 30, 1997, prepare
and furnish to the Bank an operational manual, satisfactory to
the Bank, which shall include, inter alia, a cost recovery
mechanism for capital costs to be applied to each Water Users
Association that will benefit from the works carried out, or to
be carried out, by INDRHI.
    (c)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, INDRHI shall
not amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the
operational manuals referred to in subparagraphs (a) and (b)
above.
    Section 2.11. (a) INDRHI shall exercise its rights and
comply with its obligations under each Subgrant Agreement in
such manner as to: (i) protect the interests of the Borrower,
the Bank and INDRHI; (ii) comply with its obligations under
this Agreement; and (iii) achieve the objectives of the
Project.
    (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, INDRHI shall
not assign, amend, suspend, terminate, waive or fail to enforce
any Subgrant Agreement or any provision thereof.
    Section 2.12. INDRHI shall carry out the action plan
Page  4
referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement in accordance
with its terms.
    Section 2.13. (a) INDRHI shall, by no later than November 30
of each year, starting in 1995, furnish to the Bank, for its
review and approval, an annual operating plan for the following
calendar year, which shall include, inter alia: (i) the
Project's budget for the respective year; (ii) a description of
all the activities related to the execution of the Project for
such year; and (iii) the expenditures to be incurred during
such year.
    (b)   As part of the review referred to in paragraph (a)
above, the Bank may recommend to INDRHI to make adjustments in
the respective POA. INDRHI shall, by no later than 60 days
after the conclusion of such review, furnish to the Bank the
revised POA, including the Bank's recommendations, and
thereafter carry out, or cause to be carried out, such revised
POA in accordance with its terms.
    (c)   INDRHI shall refrain from presenting to the Bank
withdrawal applications in respect of expenditures not included
in the POA approved for the year in question.
    Section 2.14. INDRHI shall, by no later than September 30
and March 31 of each year, starting in September 1995 and until
the completion of the Project, prepare and furnish to the Bank,
a report of such scope and in such detail as the Bank may
reasonably request, on the progress achieved by INDRHI in the
carrying out of the Project and in the implementation of the
action plan referred to in Section 3.06 of the Loan Agreement
during the preceding semesters ending on June 30 and December
31, respectively.
    Section 2.15. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 2.05 of this Agreement, INDRHI shall: (a) jointly with
the Borrower and the Bank participate in the review referred to
in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement; and (b) if required by
the Bank, prepare and furnish an action plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, to make adjustments in Project implementation within
the timeframe specified in Section 3.05 of the Loan Agreement,
and carry out such action plan in accordance with its terms.
    Section 2.16. Without limitation to the provision of Section
2.01 of this Agreement, INDRHI shall carry out the Project in
accordance with the performance indicators set forth in the
letter from INDRHI to the Bank of even date herewith (the
Supplemental Letter).
    Section 2.17. INDRHI shall open and thereafter maintain an
account at BCRD for purposes of depositing the counterpart
funds necessary for the carrying out of the Project, under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
    Section 2.18. (a) INDRHI shall, by no later than December
31, 1995, enter into an agreement with AIRAC, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank, determining AIRAC's
functions and responsibilities in assisting INDRHI in carrying
out Part D.1 of the Project.
    (b)   Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, INDRHI shall
not amend, assign, waive or fail to enforce the AIRAC Agreement
or any provision thereof.
                                ARTICLE III
                    Management and Operations of INDRHI
    Section 3.01. INDRHI shall carry on its operations and
conduct its affairs in accordance with sound administrative,
financial and environmental practices under the supervision of
Page  5
qualified and experienced management assisted by competent
staff in adequate numbers.
    Section 3.02. INDRHI shall at all times operate and maintain
its plants, machinery, equipment and other property, and from
time to time, promptly as needed, make all necessary repairs
and renewals thereof, all in accordance with sound engineering,
financial, conservation and environmental practices.
    Section 3.03. INDRHI shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to
the Bank for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts
as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
    Section 4.01. (a) INDRHI shall maintain, in accordance with
the procedures referred to in Section 6.01 (c) of the Loan
Agreement, records and separate accounts adequate to reflect in
accordance with consistently maintained sound accounting
practices its operations and financial condition, including
records and separate accounts reflecting the resources and
expenditures in connection with the execution of the Project.
    (b)   INDRHI shall:
          (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                paragraph (a) above, and its financial statements
                (balance sheets, statements of income and
                expenses and related statements) for each fiscal
                year audited, in accordance with appropriate
                auditing principles consistently applied, by
                independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
         (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in
                any case not later than six months after the end
                of each such year: (A) certified copies of its
                financial statements for such year as so audited;
                and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors
                of such scope and in such detail as the Bank
                shall have reasonably requested; and
        (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                concerning said records, accounts and financial
                statements as well as the audit thereof, as the
                Bank shall from time to time reasonably request.
    (b)   For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals
from the Loan Account were made on the basis of statements of
expenditure, or for all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals were made from the Special Account, INDRHI shall
provide to the Borrower all records and accounts necessary to
allow the Borrower to perform its obligations under Section
4.01 of the Loan Agreement.
                                 ARTICLE V
                       Effective Date; Termination;
                        Cancellation and Suspension
    Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and
effect on the date upon which the Loan Agreement becomes
effective.
    Section 5.02. This Agreement and all obligations of the Bank
and of INDRHI thereunder shall terminate on the date on which
the Loan Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
terms, and the Bank shall promptly notify INDRHI thereof.
    Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
Page  6
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any
cancellation or suspension under the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VI
                         Miscellaneous Provisions
    Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between
the parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing.
Such notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given
or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is
required or permitted to be given or made at such party's
address hereinafter specified or at such other address as such
party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
    For the Bank:
          International Bank for
            Reconstruction and Development
          1818 H Street, N.W.
          Washington, D.C. 20433
          United States of America
          Cable address:                 Telex:
                INTBAFRAD                  248423 (RCA)
                Washington, D.C.            82987 (FTCC)
                                            64145 (WUI) or
                                           197688 (TRT)
    For INDRHI:
          Instituto Nacional de Recursos Hidraulicos
          Centro de los Heroes
          Santo Domingo, D.N.
          Republica Dominicana
    Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under
this Agreement on behalf of INDRHI, may be taken or executed by
the General Manager or such other person or persons as such
General Manager shall designate in writing, and INDRHI shall
furnish to the Bank sufficient evidence of the authority and
the authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
    Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to
be signed in their respective names in the District of
Columbia, United States of America, as of the day and year
first above written.
                       INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                         RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                       By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
Page  7
                       INSTITUTO NACIONAL DE RECURSOS
                         HIDRAULICOS
                       By /s/ Carlos Mayobanex Cabral
                                                Authorized Representative
                                SCHEDULE 1
                   Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I.  Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A: International Competitive Bidding
1.  Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods and works
shall be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with
procedures consistent with those set forth in Sections I and II
of the "Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA
Credits" published by the Bank in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
    (a)   When contract award is delayed beyond the original bid
validity period, such period may be extended once, subject to
and in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2.59 of the
Guidelines, by the minimum amount of time required to complete
the evaluation, obtain necessary approvals and clearances and
award the contract. The bid validity period may be extended a
second time only if the bidding documents or the request for
extension shall provide for appropriate adjustment of the bid
price to reflect changes in the cost of inputs for the contract
over the period of extension. Such an increase in the bid price
shall not be taken into account in the bid evaluation. With
respect to each contract made subject to the Bank's prior
review in accordance with the provisions of Part D.1 (a) (i) of
this Section, the Bank's prior approval will be required for:
(i) a first extension of the bid validity period if the period
of extension exceeds sixty (60) days; and (ii) any subsequent
extension of the bid validity period.
    (b)   In the procurement of goods and works in accordance
with this Part A, INDRHI shall use the relevant standard
bidding documents issued by the Bank, with such modifications
thereto as the Bank shall have agreed to be necessary for the
purposes of the Project. Where no relevant standard bidding
documents have been issued by the Bank, INDRHI shall use
bidding documents based on other internationally recognized
standard forms agreed with the Bank.
    (c)   To the extent practicable, contracts for goods and
works shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to cost more
than the equivalent of $200,000 and $1,000,000, respectively.
Part B:   Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
    In the procurement of goods in accordance with the
procedures described in Part A hereof, goods manufactured in
the Dominican Republic may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the provisions of paragraphs
2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and paragraphs 1 through 4 of
Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:   Other Procurement Procedures
1.  Goods, other than those required for Part B of the
Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of less than $200,000
but more than $25,000 per contract, up to an aggregate amount
Page  8
equivalent to $400,000, may be procured under contracts awarded
on the basis of competitive bidding, advertised locally, in
accordance with procedures satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  Works estimated to cost the equivalent of less than
$1,000,000 but more than $200,000 per contract, up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $3,600,000, may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive bidding,
advertised locally, in accordance with procedures satisfactory
to the Bank.
3.  Goods, other than those required for Part B of the
Project, estimated to cost the equivalent of $25,000 or less
per contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $200,000,
may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of
comparison of price quotations obtained from at least three
suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Bank.
4.  Goods required for Part B of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of more than $25,000 per contract may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Bank.
5.  Goods required for Part B of the Project estimated to cost
the equivalent of $25,000 or less per contract may be procured
under contracts awarded on the basis of comparison of price
quotations obtained from at least three suppliers eligible
under the Guidelines, in accordance with procedures acceptable
to the Bank.
Part D:  Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.  Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and
final contracts:
    (a)   With respect to: (i) each contract to be awarded
pursuant to the provisions of Part A hereof; and (ii) the first
contract to be awarded pursuant to the provisions of Parts C.1,
C.2 and C.4 hereof, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 2
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, such procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract required to be furnished
to the Bank pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d) shall be furnished
to the Bank prior to the making of the first payment out of the
Special Account in respect of such contract.
    (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3
and 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.  Where
payments for such contract are to be made out of the Special
Account, said procedures shall be modified to ensure that the
two conformed copies of the contract together with the other
information required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to
said paragraph 3 shall be furnished to the Bank as part of the
evidence to be furnished pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4
to the Loan Agreement.
    (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Loan Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
2.  The figure of 15% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Part E:
    All procurement of goods and works under Parts C.1, C.2 and
C.4 hereof shall be carried out using bidding documents
Page  9
satisfactory to the Bank.
Section II. Employment of Consultants
1.  In order to assist INDRHI in carrying out the Project,
INDRHI shall employ consultants whose qualifications,
experience and terms and conditions of employment shall be
satisfactory to the Bank. Such consultants shall be selected in
accordance with principles and procedures satisfactory to the
Bank on the basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants
by World Bank Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing
Agency" published by the Bank in August 1981 (the Consultant
Guidelines). For complex, time-based assignments, INDRHI shall
employ such consultants under contracts using the standard form
of contract for consultants' services issued by the Bank, with
such modifications as shall have been agreed by the Bank. Where
no relevant standard contract documents have been issued by the
Bank, INDRHI shall use other standard forms agreed with the
Bank.
2.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 of this
Section, the provisions of the Consultant Guidelines requiring
prior Bank review or approval of budgets, short lists,
selection procedures, letters of invitation, proposals,
evaluation reports and contracts, shall not apply to: (a)
contracts for the employment of consulting firms estimated to
cost less than $50,000 equivalent each; or (b) contracts for
the employment of individuals estimated to cost less than
$20,000 equivalent each, up to an overall aggregate amount
equivalent to $1,000,000. However, said exceptions to prior
Bank review shall not apply to: (a) the terms of reference for
such contracts; (b) single-source selection of consulting
firms; (c) assignments of a critical nature, as reasonably
determined by the Bank; (d) amendments to contracts for the
employment of consulting firms raising the contract value to
$50,000 equivalent or above; or (e) amendments to contracts for
the employment of individual consultants raising the contract
value to $20,000 equivalent or above.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                       Procedures for and Terms and
                          Conditions of Subgrants
1.  INDRHI shall carry out an appraisal of the respective
Farmers Association and the proposed Nizao Watershed
Subproject, under terms satisfactory to the Bank.
2.  The amount of each Subgrant shall not exceed an amount equal
to $100,000.
3.  Each Subgrant shall be made and disbursed in Pesos.
4.  No expenditures for goods, works or consultants' services
required for a Nizao Watershed Investment shall be eligible for
financing out of the proceeds of the Loan unless such
expenditures shall have been made not earlier than one hundred
and eighty days prior to the date on which the Bank shall have
received the request and information required under paragraph
5 of this Section in respect of such Subgrant.
5.  Each request by INDRHI for authorization to make withdrawals
from the Loan Account in respect of a Subgrant shall contain:
(i) a summary description of the Farmers Association and the
Nizao Watershed Subproject including a description of the
expenditures proposed to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan; and (ii) the term and conditions of the Subgrant
Agreement.
6.  Each Subgrant shall be made pursuant to a Subgrant Agreement
under terms and condition satisfactory to the Bank, whereby
INDRHI shall obtain rights adequate to protect the interests of
Page  10
the Borrower, the Bank and INDRHI, including the right to:
    (a)   require the Farmers Association to carry out and
operate the Nizao Watershed Subproject with due diligence and
efficiency and in accordance with sound technical, financial,
agricultural, conservation, environmental, ecological and
managerial standards and to maintain adequate records;
    (b)   require that: (i) the goods, works and consultants'
services to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan shall
be procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement; and (ii) such goods, works and consultants'
services shall be used exclusively in the carrying out of the
Nizao Watershed Subproject;
    (c)   inspect, by itself or jointly with representatives of
the Bank, if the Bank shall so request, such goods and the
sites, works, plants and constructions included in the Nizao
Watershed Subproject, the operation thereof, and any relevant
records and documents;
    (d)   require that: (i) the Farmers Association shall take
out and maintain with responsible insurers such insurance,
against such risks and in such amounts, as shall be consistent
with sound agricultural practices; and (ii) without any
limitation upon the foregoing, such insurance shall cover
hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation and
delivery of goods financed out of the proceeds of the Loan to
the place of use or installation, any indemnity thereunder to
be made payable in a currency freely usable by the Farmers
Association to replace and repair such goods;
    (e)   obtain all such information as the Bank or INDRHI shall
reasonably request relating to the foregoing and to the
administration, operations and financial condition of the
Farmers Association and to the benefits to be derived from the
Nizao Watershed Subproject; and
    (f)   suspend or terminate the right of the Farmers
Association to the use of the proceeds of the Loan upon failure
by such Farmers Association to perform its obligations under
the Subgrant Agreement.
