Page  1
                                                            CONFORMED COPY
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3875-DO
                              Loan Agreement
             (Irrigated Land and Watershed Management Project)
                                  between
                            DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                                    and
                   INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
                              AND DEVELOPMENT
                          Dated November 14, 1995
                                                      LOAN NUMBER 3875-DO
                              LOAN AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated November 14, 1995, between DOMINICAN
REPUBLIC (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to
the feasibility and priority of the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested the Bank to assist
in the financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by Instituto Nacional
de Recursos Hidraulicos (INDRHI) with the Borrower's assistance
and, as part of such assistance, the Borrower will make
available to INDRHI the proceeds of the Loan as provided in
this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of
the foregoing, to extend the Loan to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement and in the
project agreement of even date herewith between the Bank and
INDRHI (the Project Agreement);
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
Page  2
                                 ARTICLE I
                      General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to Loan
and Guarantee Agreements" of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985,
with the modifications set forth below (the General Conditions)
constitute an integral part of this Agreement:
      (a)   The last sentence of Section 3.02 is deleted.
      (b)   In Section 6.02, subparagraph (k) is relettered as
sub-paragraph (l) and a new subparagraph (k) is added to read:
            "(k)  An extraordinary situation shall have arisen
      under which any further withdrawals under the Loan would
      be inconsistent with the provisions of Article III,
      Section 3 of the Bank's Articles of Agreement."
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the
Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein
set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
      (a)   "Action Plan" means the Borrower's action plan
referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this Agreement;
      (b)   "ADESJO" means the association for the development of
San Jose de Ocoa (Asociacion para el Desarrollo de San Jose de
Ocoa), duly established pursuant to the Borrower's Decree No.
105-92 of 1992;
      (c)   "ADESJO Agreement" means the agreement entered into
between ADESJO and INDRHI under terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Bank, pursuant to Section 2.01 (b) of the
Project Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to
time, and such term includes, all schedules and agreements
supplemental to that Agreement;
      (d)   "AIRAC" means the association of rural institutions
for savings and credit (Asociacion de Instituciones Rurales de
Ahorros y Creditos);
      (e)   "AIRAC Agreement" means the agreement referred to in
Section 2.18 (a) of the Project Agreement;
      (f)   "BCRD" means the Borrower's Central Bank (Banco
Central de la Republica Dominicana);
      (g)   "Farmers Association" means any farmers non-
governmental organization active in the Nizao Watershed Area
(as hereinafter defined);
      (h)   "INDRHI's Law" means the Borrower's Law No. 6 of 1965;
      (i)   "Irrigated Area" means any of the project areas in
the Borrower's Provinces of Azua, Peravia-San Cristobal and
Santiago;
      (j)   "Nizao Watershed Area" means an area of approximately
91,600 hectares, located in the upper part of the Nizao river
basin which includes the areas of Nizao Medio, Mahoma-Mahomita,
Jiguey, Nizao-Valdesia and Rancho Arriba;
      (k)   "Nizao Watershed Subproject" means a specific
subproject for the improvement of natural resources and
watershed management systems in the Nizao Watershed Area, to be
carried out by a Farmers Association;
Page  3
      (l)   "Pesos" means the currency of the Borrower;
      (m)   "PEU" means the Project execution unit, referred to
in Section 2.07 (a) of the Project Agreement;
      (n)   "POA" means any of the annual operating plans
(Programas Operativos Anuales) referred to in Section 2.13 (a)
of the Project Agreement;
      (o)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.17 of the Project Agreement;
      (p)   "Project Area" means the Irrigated Area and the Nizao
Watershed Area;
      (q)   "Research Agreements" means the agreements referred
to in Section 2.06 (a) of the Project Agreement;
      (r)   "Subgrant" means a grant made or proposed to be made
with the proceeds of the Loan by INDRHI to a Farmers
Association, for the financing of a Nizao Watershed Subproject;
      (s)   "Subgrant Agreement" means an agreement to be entered
into between a Farmers Association of the Nizao Watershed Area
and INDRHI, for the purposes of making a Subgrant, as referred
to in paragraph 3 (c)(ii)(B) of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
      (t)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and INDRHI pursuant to
Section 3.01 (b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended
from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to such Agreement;
      (u)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (v)   "Tribunales de Tierras" means the land courts
established pursuant to the Borrower's Law No. 1542 of 1947;
and
      (w)   "Water Users Association" means any water users
association established in accordance with the Borrower's Law
No. 5852 of 1962.
                                ARTICLE II
                                 The Loan
      Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on
the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in the Loan
Agreement, various currencies that shall have an aggregate
value equivalent to the amount of twenty-eight million Dollars
($28,000,000), being the sum of withdrawals of the proceeds of
the Loan, with each withdrawal valued by the Bank as of the
date of such withdrawal.
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (i) amounts paid (or, if the
Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower on account of
withdrawals made by a Farmers Association under a Subgrant, as
referred to in Part B of the Project, to meet the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for a Nizao Watershed
Subproject, in respect of which the withdrawal from the Loan
Account is requested; and (ii) expenditures made (or if the
Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for Parts A, C, D, E and F
the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan.
      (b)   The Borrower may, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in BCRD,
Page  4
on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Deposits
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2003
or such later date as the Bank shall establish. The Bank shall
promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a
commitment charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent
(3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Loan not
withdrawn from time to time.
      Section 2.05. (a) The Borrower shall pay interest on the
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, at a rate for each Interest Period equal to the
Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of the
preceding Semester, plus one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%).
On each of the dates specified in Section 2.06 of this
Agreement, the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
principal amount outstanding during the preceding Interest
Period, calculated at the rate applicable during such Interest
Period.
      (b)   As soon as practicable after the end of each
Semester, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of the Cost of
Qualified Borrowings determined in respect of such Semester.
      (c)    For the purposes of this Section:
            (i)   "Interest Period" means a six-month period
                  ending on the date immediately preceding each
                  date specified in Section 2.06 of this
                  Agreement, beginning with the Interest Period
                  in which this Agreement is signed.
           (ii)   "Cost of Qualified Borrowings" means the cost,
                  as reasonably determined by the Bank and
                  expressed as a percentage per annum, of the
                  outstanding borrowings of the Bank drawn down
                  after June 30, 1982, excluding such borrowings
                  or portions thereof as the Bank has allocated
                  to fund: (A) the Bank's investments; and (B)
                  loans which may be made by the Bank after July
                  1, 1989 bearing interest rates determined
                  otherwise than as provided in paragraph (a) of
                  this Section.
          (iii)   "Semester" means the first six months or the
                  second six months of a calendar year.
      (d)   On such date as the Bank may specify by no less than
six months' notice to the Borrower, paragraphs (a), (b) and (c)
(iii) of this Section shall be amended to read as follows:
                  "(a)  The Borrower shall pay interest on the
            principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and
            outstanding from time to time, at a rate for each
            Quarter equal to the Cost of Qualified Borrowings
            determined in respect of the preceding Quarter, plus
            one-half of one percent (1/2 of 1%). On each of the
            dates specified in Section 2.06 of this Agreement,
            the Borrower shall pay interest accrued on the
            principal amount outstanding during the preceding
            Interest Period, calculated at the rates applicable
            during such Interest Period."
                  "(b)  As soon as practicable after the end of
            each Quarter, the Bank shall notify the Borrower of
            the Cost of Qualified Borrowings determined in
            respect of such Quarter."
Page  5
                  "(c) (iii) `Quarter' means a three-month period
            commencing on January 1, April 1, July 1 or October
            1 in a calendar year."
      Section 2.06. Interest and other charges shall be payable
semiannually on May 1 and November 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal
amount of the Loan in accordance with the amortization schedule
set forth in Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.08. The General Manager of INDRHI, or such other
person or persons as such General Manager shall appoint in
writing, is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of taking any action required or permitted to be
taken under the provisions of Section 2.02 (a) of this
Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
                                ARTICLE III
                         Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to
the objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, and, to this end, shall:
            (i)   cause INDRHI to carry out the Project, in
                  accordance with the provisions of the Project
                  Agreement and the operational manuals referred
                  to in Section 2.10 of the Project Agreement;
                  and
           (ii)   shall take or cause to be taken all action,
                  including the provision of funds, facilities,
                  services and other resources, necessary or
                  appropriate to enable INDRHI to carry out the
                  Project, and shall not take or permit to be
                  taken any action which would prevent or
                  interfere with INDRHI's carrying out of the
                  Project.
      (b)   The Borrower shall transfer the proceeds of the Loan
to INDRHI, on a grant basis, under a subsidiary agreement to be
entered into between the Borrower and INDRHI, under terms and
conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests
of the Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of
the Loan, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to
enforce the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services
required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1
to the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Bank and the Borrower hereby agree that
the obligations set forth in Sections 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07,
9.08 and 9.09 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance,
use of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and
reports, maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall
be carried out by INDRHI pursuant to Section 2.03 of the
Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall:
      (a)   by no later than December 31, 1996, prepare and
furnish to the Bank an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank,
to distribute final land titles to the farmers living in the
Page  6
Nizao Watershed Area, which shall include, inter alia, a
timetable for its implementation;
      (b)   by no later than June 30, 1997, commence the
implementation of the Action Plan; and
      (c)   by no later than June 30, 1999, complete the
implementation of the Action Plan.
      Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of
Section 9.01 of the General Conditions, the Borrower, jointly
with INDRHI, shall participate in a review to be held with the
Bank, by no later than December 31, 1997, to assess the
progress made by INDRHI in: (a) carrying out the Project; and
(b) achieving the objectives of the Project. As part of such
review the Bank may require that the Borrower and INDRHI
prepare an action plan, satisfactory to the Bank, to make
adjustments in Project implementation. The Borrower shall
furnish such action plan to the Bank, by no later than 30 days
after the conclusion of the review in question, and shall
thereafter carry out, or caused to be carried out, such action
plan in accordance with its terms.
      Section 3.06. By no later than December 31, 1995, the
Borrower shall prepare and furnish to the Bank an action plan,
satisfactory to the Bank, to:
      (a)   raise, by no later than June 30, 1996, the level of
the water charges to the Water Users Associations in the
Irrigated Area in order to recover all operation and
maintenance costs; and
      (b)   introduce, by no later than June 30, 1997, measures
that will enable INDRHI to recover from farmers holding more
than 6.3 hectares of irrigated land a significant portion of
the capital cost of the investments carried out or to be
carried out under Part A of the Project.
      Section 3.07. The Borrower shall carry out the action plan
referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 3.08. Without limitation upon the provisions of
Article IX of the General Conditions, the Borrower shall:
      (a)   prepare and furnish to the Bank not later than six
(6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be
agreed for this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a
plan, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall
reasonably request, for the future operation of the Project;
      (b)   afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange
views with the Borrower on said plan; and
      (c)   thereafter, carry out said plan with due diligence
and efficiency and in accordance with appropriate practices,
taking into account the Bank's comments thereon.
                                ARTICLE IV
                            Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to
which withdrawals from the Loan Account were made on the basis
of statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)   maintain or cause to be maintained, in
                  accordance with sound accounting practices,
                  records and accounts reflecting such
                  expenditures;
           (ii)   ensure that all records (contracts,
Page  7
                  orders, invoices, bills, receipts and
                  other documents) evidencing such
                  expenditures are retained until at least
                  one year after the Bank has received the
                  audit report for the fiscal year in which
                  the last withdrawal from the Loan Account
                  was made; and
          (iii)   enable the Bank's representatives to
                  examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)   have the records and accounts referred to in
                  paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                  the Special Account for each fiscal year
                  audited, in accordance with appropriate
                  auditing principles consistently applied, by
                  independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
           (ii)   furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but
                  in any case not later than six months after the
                  end of each such year the report of such audit
                  by said auditors, of such scope and in such
                  detail as the Bank shall have reasonably
                  requested, including a separate opinion by said
                  auditors as to whether the statements of
                  expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                  together with the procedures and internal
                  controls involved in their preparation, can be
                  relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                  and
          (iii)   furnish to the Bank such other information
                  concerning said records and accounts and
                  the audit thereof as the Bank shall from
                  time to time reasonably request.
                                 ARTICLE V
                           Remedies of the Bank
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (l) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   INDRHI shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the Project Agreement or the Subsidiary
Agreement or the ADESJO Agreement or the AIRAC Agreement;
      (b)   as a result of events which have occurred after the
date of the Loan Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall
have arisen which shall make it improbable that INDRHI will be
able to perform its obligations under the Project Agreement or
the Subsidiary Agreement or the ADESJO Agreement or the AIRAC
Agreement;
      (c)   IHDRHI's Law shall have been amended, suspended,
abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect, in the opinion
of the Bank, materially and adversely the ability of INDRHI to
perform any of its obligations under the Project Agreement or
the Subsidiary Agreement or the ADESJO Agreement or the AIRAC
Agreement;
      (d)   the Borrower or any other authority having
jurisdiction shall have taken any action for the dissolution or
disestablishment of INDRHI, ADESJO or AIRAC or for the
suspension of its operations;
      (e)   ADESJO shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the ADESJO Agreement; and
Page  8
      (f)   AIRAC shall have failed to comply with any of its
obligations under the AIRAC Agreement.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraphs (a) or (e) or (f)
of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall
continue for a period of sixty days after notice thereof shall
have been given by the Bank to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) or (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                                ARTICLE VI
                        Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as
additional conditions to the effectiveness of the Loan
Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the
General Conditions:
      (a)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly executed
and delivered by the parties thereto;
      (b)   that the Project Account has been opened with an
initial deposit of $1,000,000 or its equivalent in Pesos at the
time of such deposit;
      (c)   that INDRHI has adopted accounting procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank;
      (d)   that PEU has been: (i) established in a manner
satisfactory to the Bank; and (ii) fully staffed, including the
Project manager, with personnel of experience and
qualifications satisfactory to the Bank; and
      (e)   that the Project annual operating plan for 1995,
satisfactory to the Bank, has been presented to the Bank.
      Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional
matters, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (c) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Bank:
      (a)   that the Project Agreement has been duly authorized
or ratified by INDRHI, and is legally binding upon INDRHI in
accordance with its terms; and
      (b)   that the Subsidiary Agreement has been duly
authorized or ratified by the Borrower and INDRHI, and is
legally binding upon the Borrower and INDRHI, in accordance
with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date February 12, 1996 is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of the General
Conditions.
                                ARTICLE VII
                Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. Except as provided in Section 2.08 of this
Agreement, the Secretario Tecnico de la Presidencia of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for
the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
Page  9
            Secretariado Tecnico de la Presidencia
            Palacio Nacional
            Avenida Mexico
            Santo Domingo
            Republica Dominicana
      For the Bank:
            International Bank for
             Reconstruction and Development
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                Telex:
                  INTBAFRAD                 248423 (RCA)
                  Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                             64145 (WUI) or
                                            197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through
their duly authorized representatives, have caused this
Agreement to be signed in their respective names in the
District of Columbia, United States of America, as of the day
and year first above written.
                        DOMINICAN REPUBLIC
                        By /s/ Jose Luis Seliman
                                                Authorized Representative
                        INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
                        RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
                        By /s/ Shahid Javed Burki
                                                  Regional Vice President
                                          Latin America and the Caribbean
                                SCHEDULE 1
                  Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, the allocation of the
amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                                 Amount of the
                                Loan Allocated                 % of
                                 (Expressed in             Expenditures
Category                       Dollar Equivalent)         to be Financed
(1) Civil works
    (a)  Infrastructure            7,220,000              80%
    (b)  Land levelling            2,280,000              80%
Page  10
(2) Goods, other                   2,250,000              100% of foreign
    than those                                            expenditures;
    required under                                        100% of local
    Part C of                                             expenditures
    the Project                                           (ex-factory
                                                          cost); 85% of
                                                          local expen-
                                                          ditures for
                                                          other items
                                                          procured locally
(3) Consultants'                   4,900,000              100%
    Services and
    Training, other
    that those
    required under
    Part C of the
    Project
(4) Research                       2,000,000              100% of foreign
    and extension                                         expenditures and
    services under                                        60% of local
    Part C of the                                         expenditures
    Project
(5) Subgrants                      2,400,000              100% of amounts
    under Part B                                          disbursed under
    of the Project                                        a Subgrant
(6) Incremental                      600,000              100%, until
    Operating Costs                                       drawal applica-
                                                          tions have
                                                          reached the
                                                          aggregate of
                                                          $350,000;
                                                          80% until with-
                                                          drawal appli-
                                                          cations have
                                                          reached the
                                                          aggregate of
                                                          $500,000; and
                                                          50% thereafter
(7) Unallocated                   6,350,000
                                 __________
         TOTAL                   28,000,000
                                 ==========
2.  For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country
other than that of the Borrower;
    (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from
the territory of the Borrower;
    (c)   the term "Incremental Operating Costs" means office and
travel expenditures (excluding office rent) incurred by the
staff of the PEU during the carrying out of the Project; and
    (d)   the term "Training" means the cost of training
materials, tuition fees and per-diems of Water Users
Associations' officials and staff.
3.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of:
    (a)   payments made for expenditures prior to the date of
Page  11
this Agreement, except that withdrawals, in an aggregate amount
not to exceed $800,000, may be made in respect of Categories
(2), (3) and (4) on account of payments made for expenditures
before that date but after November 14, 1994;
    (b)   payments made for expenditures under Part A of the
Project, unless the Bank has received evidence, satisfactory to
the Bank, that INDRHI has submitted to the Tribunales de
Tierras the documentation required to initiate the appropriate
legal actions for the award of final land titles to at least
80% of the farmers living in each of the Irrigated Areas;
    (c)   payments made for expenditures under Part B of the
Project, unless the Bank has received satisfactory evidence
that: (i) INDRHI and the corresponding Farmers Association have
agreed on a natural resources management plan, satisfactory to
the Bank, with respect to each Subproject; (ii) INDRHI has
entered into: (A) the ADESJO Agreement; and (B) a subgrant
agreement with the corresponding Farmers Association under
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank including, inter
alia, those set forth in Schedule 2 to the Project Agreement;
and (iii) the Borrower has delegated to the corresponding
Farmers Association the responsibility to manage and maintain
its community land;
    (d)   payments made for expenditures under Part C of the
Project, unless the Bank has received satisfactory evidence
that: (i) INDRHI has applied criteria and procedures,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the carrying out of such Part of
the Project; and (ii) a short list of the institutions that may
enter into Research Agreements has been presented to the Bank,
for its review and approval.
4.  The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be
made on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures
under contracts for: (a) works and goods estimated to cost less
than $1,000,000 and $200,000 equivalent, respectively (other
than the first contract for works and awarded under Parts C.2
and C.4 of Section I of Schedule 1 to the Project Agreement);
(b) consulting firms and individual consultants estimated to
cost less than $50,000 or $20,000, respectively; and (c) all
incremental operating costs, under such terms and conditions as
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.
                                SCHEDULE 2
                        Description of the Project
    The objectives of the Project are: (a) to improve the income
of the farmers in the Project Area through the development of
methodologies for: (i) sustainable and environmentally-sound
watershed management; and (ii) efficient support services on
agricultural production, water management, and operation and
maintenance of irrigation systems; and (b) to reduce the fiscal
cost of irrigation schemes through the adoption of appropriate
cost recovery policies.
    The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Bank may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:   Irrigation Infrastructure
1.  Completion of the construction of about 38 kilometers of the
existing secondary and tertiary canals in the Nizao-Valdesia
area.
2.  Rehabilitation of about 17 kilometers of the existing
secondary and tertiary canals in the Nizao-Valdesia area.
3.  Construction of about 20 kilometers of elevated canals and
canalettis in the Santiago area.
Page  12
4.  Improvement of the main canals and control structures in the
Nizao-Valdesia and Santiago areas.
5.  (a) Rehabilitation of about: (i) 42 kilometers of primary
open drainage systems located within the Santiago area; and
(ii) 37 kilometers of primary drainage systems located within
the Ysura area; and (b) construction of about 31 kilometers of
primary drainage systems located within the Ysura area.
6.  Improvement of water distribution at the farm level, through
land levelling of about: (a) 650 hectares in the Nizao-Valdesia
area; (b) 3,200 hectares in the Ysura area; and (c) 3,400
hectares in the Santiago area.
7.  Installation of about 13 kilometers of drain pipes in the
Ysura area.
8.  Construction of two canal ditch protection works in the
Santiago area.
Part B:   Nizao Watershed Management Systems
    Financing of Subprojects comprising: (a) forest land
management programs; (b) agroforestry management programs; (c)
rainfed and irrigated farming programs; and (d) supporting
activities programs including, inter alia: (i) construction of
off-farm small-irrigation infrastructure, including diversion
and headwork structures; (ii) installation of pipelines and
pressure tanks; and (iii) assistance to women's groups engaged
in the production of agricultural activities.
Part C:    Agricultural Development
    Carrying out of a research and development program on
management of irrigated land, integrated pest and watershed,
and environmental monitoring, for the benefit of about 5,000
small farmers in the Irrigated Area, and about 1,500 small
farmers in the Nizao Watershed Area.
Part D:   Institutional Development
1.  Provision of technical assistance to the Farmers
Associations in the Project Area in order to strengthen their
institutional capacity, through the implementation of a
training program in the areas of administration, management of
personnel, financing and accounting, operation and maintenance
of irrigation systems, cost recovery procedures, and irrigation
laws.
2.  Provision of technical assistance to INDRHI in order to
strengthen its institutional capacity for carrying out the
Project, including the training of the staff required therefor.
Part E:   Studies
    Carrying out of studies on: (a) canal regulation and
management of canal irrigation and drainage systems in the
Project Area; (b) layout of the irrigation and drainage systems
in the Project Area; (c) preparation of future agricultural
projects; and (d) agricultural policy issues.
Part F:   Monitoring and Evaluation
1.  Design of a management information system of irrigated and
drainage schemes in order to improve the management of such
schemes under the control of INDRHI and the Water Users
Association in the Irrigated Area.
2.  Design of an environmental monitoring system for INDHRI.
                                   * * *
Page  13
    The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2003.
                                SCHEDULE 3
                           Amortization Schedule
                                          Payment of Principal
    Date Payment Due                     (expressed in dollars)*
November 1, 2000                               540,000
May 1, 2001                                    555,000
November 1, 2001                               575,000
May 1, 2002                                    595,000
November 1, 2002                               620,000
May 1, 2003                                    640,000
November 1, 2003                               665,000
May 1, 2004                                    685,000
November 1, 2004                               710,000
May 1, 2005                                    735,000
November 1, 2005                               765,000
May 1, 2006                                    790,000
November 1, 2006                               820,000
May 1, 2007                                    845,000
November 1, 2007                               875,000
May 1, 2008                                    910,000
November 1, 2008                               940,000
May 1, 2009                                    975,000
November 1, 2009                             1,010,000
May 1, 2010                                  1,045,000
November 1, 2010                             1,080,000
May 1, 2011                                  1,120,000
November 1, 2011                             1,160,000
May 1, 2012                                  1,200,000
November 1, 2012                             1,245,000
May 1, 2013                                  1,285,000
November 1, 2013                             1,330,000
May 1, 2014                                  1,380,000
November 1, 2014                             1,430,000
May 1, 2015                                  1,475,000
_____________________________
*   The figures in this column represent dollar equivalents
    determined as of the respective dates of withdrawal. See
    General Conditions, Sections 3.04 and 4.03.
                          Premiums on Prepayment
    Pursuant to Section 3.04 (b) of the General Conditions, the
premium payable on the principal amount of any maturity of the
Loan to be prepaid shall be the percentage specified for the
applicable time of prepayment below:
    Time of Prepayment                        Premium
                                   The interest rate (expressed
                                   as a percentage per annum)
                                   applicable to the Loan
                                   on the day of prepayment
                                   multiplied by:
Not more than three years                     0.15
    before maturity
More than three years but                     0.30
    not more than six years
    before maturity
More than six years but                       0.55
    not more than 11 years
    before maturity
Page  14
More than 11 years but not                    0.80
    more than 16 years
    before maturity
More than 16 years but not                    0.90
    more than 18 years
    before maturity
More than 18 years before                     1.00
    maturity
                                SCHEDULE 4
                              Special Account
1.   For the purposes of this Schedule:
    (a)  the term "Eligible Categories" means Categories
(1) through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
    (b)  the term "Eligible Expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for  the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Loan allocated from time to time to the Eligible Categories in
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
and
    (c)  the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $600,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account
and deposited in the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3
(a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank
shall otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be
limited to an amount equivalent to 300,000 until the aggregate
amount of withdrawals from the Loan Account plus the total
amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by
the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions
shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of 6,000,000.
2.  Payments out of the Special Account shall be made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures in accordance with the
provisions of this Schedule.
3.  After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of
the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
    (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for a
deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
from the Loan Account and deposit in the Special Account such
amount or amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
    (b)   (i)   For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank requests for
                deposits into the Special Account at such
                intervals as the Bank shall specify.
         (ii)   Prior to or at the time of each such request, the
                Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents
                and other evidence required pursuant to
                paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or
                payments in respect of which replenishment is
                requested. On the basis of each such request, the
                Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw
                from the Loan Account and deposit into the
                Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall
                have requested and as shall have been shown by
Page  15
                said documents and other evidence to have been
                paid out of the Special Account for Eligible
                Expenditures.
    All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the
Loan Account under the respective Eligible Categories, and in
the respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified
by said documents and other evidence.
4.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the
Special Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank
shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents
and other evidence showing that such payment was made
exclusively for Eligible Expenditures.
5.  Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Bank shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
    (a)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that
all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Loan Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
    (b)   if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the
Bank, within the period of time specified in Section 4.01 (b)
(ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of
the audit of the records and accounts for the Special Account;
    (c)   if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the
Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the
right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan Account
pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General
Conditions; or
    (d)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated
to the Eligible Categories, less the amount of any outstanding
special commitment entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section
5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project,
shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Loan Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to the Eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall
specify by notice to the Borrower.  Such further withdrawals
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall
have been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit
in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be
utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
6.  (a)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that
any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph
2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence
furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice
from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the Bank
may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if
the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal
to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree,
no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account shall
be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made
such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
    (b)   If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any
amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be required
to cover further payments for Eligible Expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to
the Bank such outstanding amount.
Page  16
    (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to
the Bank all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
    (d)   Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a),
(b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Loan
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in
accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement,
including the General Conditions.
