Argentine Repu,blic.,,-:,
Biodiversit CosevaknPrjc
* Project -Document.
THE WORL.-DAINK



GEF Documentation
The Global Environment Facility (GEF) assists developing countries to protect
the global environment in four areas: global warming, pollution of international waters-,
destruction of biodiversity, and depletion of the ozone layer. The GEF is jointly implemented
bythe United Nations Development Programme, the United Nations Environment Programme,
and the World Bank:
GEF Project Documents - identified by a green band - prpvide extended project-
specific information. The implementing agency responsible for each.project is identified by
its logo on the cover of the document.
Gjobal Environment-Division
Environment Department      .
World-Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, DC 20433
Telephone: (202) 473-1816
Fax: (202) 522-3256



Report No. 17023-AR
Argentine Republic
Biodiversity Conservation Project
Project Document
September 1997
Country Management Unit
Argentina, Chile and Uruguay
Latin America and the Caribbean Region



CURRENCY EOUIVALENTS
Currency Unit - Peso (Arg$)
EXCHANGE RATE
(September 16, 1997)
US$1.00   Arg$1.00
Arg$1.00 = US$1.00
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 to December 31
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
The metric system has been used throughout the memorandum.
Vice President: Mr. Shahid Javed Burki
Director:      Ms. Myma Alexander
Acting Sector Leader: Mr. Luis Coirolo
Team Leader: Mr. Robert Kirmse
This report is based on an Appraisal Mission carried out in July 1997. The World Bank core team
included Robert Kirmse (team leader), Random DuBois (protected areas, FAO/CP preparation), Douglas
J. Graham (biodiversity and information systems), Estanislao Gacitua-Mario (social and participation
issues), and Rudy Van Puymbroeck (legal). The following specialists contributed substantively to project
preparation: Richard Smith (protected area management), Guillermo Wood (Costab), Patricia Parera
(social assessment and public participation), Alejandra Moreyra (buffer-zone activities), Gary Costello
(social mitigation plan), Vicente Abreu (biodiversity information systems), and Jim Tolisano
(institutional). The local preparation team was coordinated by Roberto Ronchietto and Hugo Iza.
Document formatting was done by Greicy Amjadi.



ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ABCP          Argentina Biodiversity Conservation Project
APC           Area Protegido Copo
APLV          Area Protegido Los Venados
APML          Area Protegido Monte Le6n
APN           National Parks Administration
APQC          Area Protegido Quebrada del Condorito
APSG          Area Protegido San Guillermo
Bank/FAO-CP  World Bank/Food and Agriculture Organization Cooperative Program
BCP           Biodiversity Conservation Project
BIS           Biodiversity Information System
CAS           Country Assistance Strategy
CBD           Convention on Biological Diversity
CC            Consultative Commission
COP           Conference of the Parties (to the Convention on Biological Diversity)
CZMP          Coastal Zone Management Project
DGCA          Direcci6n General de Coordinaci6n Administrativa
DNCAP         Direcci6n Nacional de Conservacion de Areas Protegidas
DNI           Direcci6n Nacional de Interior
DRFN          Directorate for Native Forests (within SRNyDS)
DTR           Regional Technical Delegation (within APN)
DTRP          Patagonia Regional Technical Delegation
EIA           Estudio de Impacto Ambiental
FAO/CP        FAO Cooperative Program
FUCEMA        Fundaci6n para la Conservaci6n de Especies y del Medio Ambiente
FVSA          Fundaci6n de Vida Silvestre
GEF           Global Environment Facility
GEF Project    Biodiversity Conservation Project
GIS           Geographic Information System
GOA           Government of Argentina
GTZ           German Technical Assistance Agency
IBRD          International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
ICB           International Competitive Bidding
ICyT          Instituto Nacional de Capacitaci6n y Tecnologia
IDB           Inter-American Development Bank
IIA           Informe de Impacto Ambiental
IMA           Informe Medioambiental
INTA          National Institute for Agricultural Research
LATEN         Environmental Division of LAC (World Bank)
LIB           Limited International Bidding
MB            Mega Byte
MP            Mitigation Plan
NCB           National Competitive Bidding
NFPA          Native Forests and Protected Areas Project



NGO            Non-Governmental Organization
NPAS           National Protected Areas System
OED            Operations Evaluation Department
OP             Bank's Operational Policy
PA             Protected Area
PAP            Project-Affected Population
PAR            Project Audit Report
PCR            Project Completion Report
PlU            Project Implementation Unit (of the NFPA project)
POA            Annual Operating Plans
PP             Participation Plan
PRA            Participatory Rural Appraisal
PU             Project Unit
RDBMS          Relational Database Management System
SA             Social Assessment
SAS            Social Assessment Specialist
SAP            Social Assessment Program
SGN            Sindicatura General de la Nacion
SIDIF          Sistema Integrado de Informacion Financiera
SINAIA         Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental
SINAPA         Sistema Nacional de la Profesi6n Administrativa
SOE            Statement of Expenditures
SRNyDS         Secretariat of Natural Resources and Sustainable Development
STAP           Scientific and Technical Advisory Panel (for the GEF)
TOR            Terms of Reference
UAI            Unidad Auditoria Internal
UNDP           United Nations Development Program
WWF            World Wildlife Fund
WWW            World Wide Web



ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART I: PROJECT SUMMARY
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY ....................................................                                                                            i
COUNTRY/SECTOR BACKGROUND .....................................................                                                                           1
PROJECT OBJECTIVES ....................................................                                                                                   4
PROJECT DESCRIPTION .....................................................                                                                                 4
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ....................................................                                                                          7
PROCUREMENT ....................................................                                                                                          7
DISBURSEMENT ....................................................                                                                                       10
ACCOUNTS AND AUDITING1 1.................................................... 
MONITORING AND EVALUATION .....................................................11
RATIONALE FOR BANK AND GEF INVOLVEMENT .....................................................                                                             12
SOCIAL ASSESSM                 EN            T AND BENEFICIARY  PARTICIPATION ....................................................                      14
THE MITIGATION PLAN .....................................................                                                                                14
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY .................................................... 15
LESSONS FROM BANK-WIDE OPERATIONS ....................................................                                                                  15
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS .....................................................                                                                             17
PROJECT BENEFITS ....................................................                                                                                   17
PROJECT RISKS ....................................................                                                                                       18
AGREEMENTS (TO BE) REACHED .....................................................                                                                        19
SCHEDULE A: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING .....................................................                                                           22
SCHEDULE B: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS ....................................................  24
SCHEDULE C: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS .....................................................                                                    27
SCHEDULE D:  STATUS OF BANK GROUP OPERATIONS ..................................................... 28
SCHEDULE E: ARGENTINA AT A GLANCE .................................................... 30
PART II: TECHNICAL ANNEXES
ANNEx A: BIODiVERSiTY ASSESSMENT .....................................................                                                                  32
ANNEX B: PROTECTED AREAS AND ASSOCIATED SUPPORT COMPONENT ................................................... 43
ANNEX C: BIODIVERSITY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT COMPONENT .................................................... 68
ANNEX D: MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION COMPONENT .................................................. 78
ANNEX E: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN ....................................................                                                     85
ANNEX F: INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS ....................................................                                                                   100
ANNEX G:  INCREMENTAL COSTS AND GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS .................................... ........ 109
ANNEx H: PROJECT COSTS .....................................................                                                                          112
ANNEx I: SUPERVISION PLAN ....................................................                                                                        122
ANNEX J: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN PROJECT FILES ....................................................                                             124
MAP: IBRD No. 28753






PART I: PROJECT SUMMARY



i
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC--GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
GRANT AND PROJECT SUMMARY
Source of Grant:         Global Environment Facility Trust Fund (GEF Trust Fund)
Recipient/ Implementing    Argentine Republic/ National Parks Administration (APN)
Agency:
Beneficiary:             Local communities, visitors to the national park system and
national and international conservationists commnitted to
protecting biodiversity of global importance.
Amount:                  SDR 7.3 million (US$10.1 million equivalent)
Total Project Costs:     US$21.9 million equivalent (US$10.1 million GEF grant,
US$11.5 million from GOA and beneficiaries, and
US$289,000 PDF)
Terms:             Grant
Financing Plan:    Source                   Total (US$ million)
GEF Trust Fund           10.1
Government Counterpart   11.1
Beneficiaries             0.4
GEF-PDF                   0.3
Total:                   21.9
Economic Rate of Return:  N/A; see Annex G
Map:                     IBRD No. 28753
Project Identification No.:   AR-GE-39787



ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
1. BACKGROUND
COUNTRY/SECTOR BACKGROUND
1.    Because of Argentina's extensive latitudinal and altitudinal ranges, and the
resulting climatic variability, the country is characterized by a broad mix of ecological
regions and rich biological diversity. Of the 178 terrestrial ecoregions in Latin America
and the Caribbean identified in a recent World Bank/World-Wide Fund for Nature (WWF)
study, 18 are found in Argentina. They range from the tropical rain forests of Misiones
Province to the cold and arid Patagonian steppes of southern Argentina. While most are
shared with adjacent countries, several are exclusive to Argentina, including most notably
the Espinal, the Monte, the Pampas, and the C6rdoba Montane Savannas (Chaco
Serrano). Predictably, this diversity in ecoregions supports a large number of species of
flora and fauna. For example, with a total land area of 2.7 million km2 (two percent of the
world's land surface), Argentina accounts for 12.2 percent of the world's gymnosperm
species, 12.3 percent of the world's mushroom species, 10.9 percent of birds, and 8.7
percent of mammals. The country is particularly rich in endemic species, with more than
2,500 vascular plant species, 32 amphibian species, 53 reptile species, and 46 mammal
species found nowhere else.
2.    Argentina has long recognized the importance of these biological resources. Its
national park system, the first in Latin America, dates back to 1903 with the donation of
some 7,500 ha of private land to the State. This initial holding was subsequently enlarged
and became the Nahuel Huapi National Park, the nation's first national park created along
with the National Parks Commission in 1934. Other important milestones leading to the
present national park system include the establishment of the country's other major
southern parks-Lanin, Los Alerces, Perito Moreno, and Los Glaciares in 1937; the
creation of the national school for park rangers in 1967; and the development of a national
protected areas system (NPAS) in 1986. Today, the country's protected area system has
grown to cover some 4.9 percent of the national territory (about 13 million hectares). Of
this total, some 22 percent is in the federal park system, which currently consists of 31
national protected areas, while the remaining area is under provincial or other forms of
local control.
3.    In addition to their importance for biodiversity conservation, Argentina's national
park system also represents an important economic resource. Several of the country's
national parks and reserves are major tourist attractions which provide significant sources
of revenue. Similarly, the area of native forests with commercial potential is estimated to
cover some 15 million hectares; it produces about 7.3 million rn3 of wood per annum,
equal to about half of the country's production.



2
4.    Notwithstanding the global significance of the country's biological resources, their
irrational use and over-exploitation continues at an alarming rate. Over the last century, it
has been estimated that Argentina lost more than two thirds of its original forest cover.
Deforestation continues unabated; the current loss rate is estimated to be 160,000 hectares
per year. The Chaco is the forest ecoregion most at risk and, together with the Yungas,
accounts for about half of the current deforestation in Argentina. The loss of non-
forested habitat is also significant. This is particularly true in the Pampas ecoregion,
where conversion of grasslands to extensive livestock production has reduced this natural
ecosystem to only one percent of its original size. Similarly, it is estimated that more than
one third of the Patagonian Steppe is severely eroded due to overgrazing by sheep and
cattle, an issue of increasing concern in many of the country's other open habitats. At the
species level, available information appears to support a similar pattern of irreversible loss.
For example, in a recent study on the country's biodiversity species, 22 percent of
Argentina's 2,355 vertebrate species were considered threatened or endangered.
5.    While the existing system of protected areas is extensive in comparison to other
countries in the Latin America region, a recent National Parks Administration (APN)
analysis estimated that less than 21 percent of the total area under protection is adequately
managed, 30 percent is under some form of management, and almost 50 percent (mostly
under the jurisdiction of provincial or municipal authorities) receives very little or no
management support. Moreover, the existing National Protected Areas System (NPAS)
does not equitably represent many of the country's ecoregions considered to be of
intemational significance in terms of their biodiversity. Examples of poorly represented
ecoregions are the Pampas (0.2 percent of the original extent of the ecoregion is currently
protected within the NPAS) and the Dry Chaco (0.5 percent protected).
Legal Framework and National Initiatives
6.    The National Park Law (Regimen Legal de los Parques Nacionales, Monumentos
Naturalesy Reservas Nacionales - Mensaje y Ley Organica) No. 22.351 of 1981,
provides the legal basis for establishing and managing protected areas (PAs) in Argentina.
This law defines the management objectives and characteristics to be used to classify PAs
into one of several conservation classes as described in Annex B. Land, water and
biological resources designated as national protected areas can be declared on the basis of
scientific importance, education, and the enjoyment of present and future generations.
Each protected area must be officially designated with its own individual national law.
7.    The Government of Argentina (GOA) has long demonstrated a commitment to
protecting biodiversity. For example, the country is a signatory to a host of international
conventions, including the Agreement on Wetlands of International Importance
(RAMSAR, 1971); the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species
(CITES, 1973); the Convention for Conservation of Migratory Species (1979); and the
Convention on Biological Diversity (1992). More recently, the Government hosted the
Third Meeting of the Conference of the Parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity in



3
November 1996. In 1994 GOA began initial consultations with technical specialists within
and outside government agencies to determine priorities for a national biodiversity
strategy and a national protected area network. In September 1996 GOA received a
UNDP-administered GEF grant to finalize the national biodiversity strategy, including
support for a process of full consultation and participation of all stakeholders. Key
elements of the strategy have already been identified and have been incorporated into the
design of the proposed Biodiversity Conservation Project (BCP). These elements
include:(i) strengthening and extending the protected area system; (ii) increasing national
and local capacity in natural resource management, both in forested and non-forested
areas; and (iii) promoting greater public participation in natural resource management.
Project Origin
8.    Argentina faces a number of constraints in addressing environmental conservation
issues. In particular, constraints on public spending have severely restricted government
resources available for new investments in protected areas. Efficient management of the
country's natural resources is also hampered by poor coordination between different levels
of government, deficiencies in the policy and legal framework, and lack of technical
expertise and established mechanisms for public participation and consultation.
Recognizing these opportunities and weaknesses, the Government has proposed an
integrated program which is composed of an IBRD-financed Native Forests and
Protected Areas Project and a Global Environmental Facility (GEF)-financed Biodiversity
Conservation Project (BCP). Specifically, the IBRD-financed Native Forests and
Protected Areas Project (Loan 4085-AR) would pursue these issues by enhancing the
policy, legal and regulatory framework governing native forests, by addressing information
constraints to the sustainable use of native forests and conservation of biodiversity, and by
supporting the modernization of APN as a national parks management entity. GEF
support of the proposed Biodiversity Conservation Project would complement these
objectives by making possible the formulation of an integrated and balanced approach to
improved conservation of natural habitats containing biodiversity of global significance.
9.    In brief, the associated Native Forest and Protected Areas Project (NFPA)
comprises three components: (a) Protected Areas of National Importance, (b) Generation
and Dissemination of Research and Information, and (c) Project Implementation. Under
the Protected Areas of National Importance component, the GOA would assume the
costs associated with the preparation of a plan to modernize APN as well as finance
specific infrastructure developments and strengthening of management in four selected
parks in Patagonia, including the strengthening of APN's regional technical office.
Under the Generation and Dissemination of Research and Information component, the
project would: (a) reform the policy, legal and regulatory framework affecting native
forests; (b) implement a national inventory of native forests, and establish and operate a
related database; and (c) conduct applied research and studies to facilitate the improved
management and conservation of native forests and protected areas. Furthermore, the
project would strengthen the capacity of the Forestry Directorate of SRNyDS (DRFN)
and APN to manage and coordinate project implementation by establishing a Project



4
Implementation Unit which would assist the managers of DRFN and APN in implementing
the project. The total cost of the NFPA project-including the loan amount of US$19.5
million as well as the GOA counterpart funding of about US$10.5 million-is US$30.0
million. Through the BCP, the GOA is requesting additional assistance from the GEF to
cover the incremental costs associated with the creation and management of several
priority protected areas which will bring long-term protection to parts of threatened and
poorly represented ecoregions of global importance.
10.   The initial project concept was justified in the Forestry Sector Review (Report
No. 11833-AR, 1993). The GEF-funded activities were initially identified as part of the
preparation process for the associated Native Forests and Protected Areas Project. A
GEF-PDF Block B Grant for US$289,000 was approved by the GEF Secretariat in
February 1996 and detailed preparation work was initiated later that year. The
Biodiversity Conservation Project was approved by the GEF Council in March 1997
during the January 1997 Intersession, and entered the GEF work program. The key
processing events are outlined in Schedule C.
2. THE PROJECT
PROJECT OBJECTIVES
11.   The general goal of the project is to conserve biodiversity of global importance;
the specific objectives are to: (a) expand and diversify the existing NPAS to include
several of the country's most globally significant but inadequately protected ecoregions,
and (b) create the conditions for their sustainable management through investments in
institutional strengthening, refined mechanisms of consultation and participation, and
improved biodiversity information management. As such, the project would comprise
three components: (a) Protected Areas; (b) Biodiversity Information Management; and
(c) Management, Monitoring and Evaluation.
PROJECT DESCRIPTION
12.   Protected Areas Component ( US$20.3 million). As noted previously, although
Argentina's network of protected areas is extensive, it does not equitably represent many
of the country's ecological systems. Some of the poorly represented ecoregions in the
NPAS are considered to be of global significance in terms of biological diversity. The
selection of candidate areas proposed for inclusion under the project was based on the
following criteria: (a) their global importance for biodiversity conservation; (b) the degree
of threat to the ecoregion; and (c) a complex of factors related to investment feasibility
(e.g., provincial interest, cost of land purchase, support of local communities, and other
institutional considerations; see Annex A for more detail on the selection methodology).
This component would consist of three sub-components: (a) the establishment and
consolidation of new protected areas in sites of global biodiversity importance, (b)
sustainable development activities in PA buffer zones, and (c) activities to enhance public



5
participation in park planning and management (see Annex B for a detailed description and
costing of this Component).
13.   Under the Establishment and Consolidation of Protected Areas sub-component,
five new national protected areas in poorly represented ecosystems of recognized global
importance would receive support under the project. These proposed areas are: (a) Area
Protegido Los Venados (this area in San Luis Province is the largest remaining remnant of
relatively intact Pampas); (b) Area Protegido San Guillermo (in San Juan Province, the
southernmost extension of the Andean Puna); (c) Area Protegido Copo (in Santiago del
Estero Province, one of the last pristine areas of Semiarid Chaco in Argentina); (d) Area
Protegido Quebrada del Condorito (in C6rdoba Province, an area including a part of the
C6rdoba Montane Savannas, an ecoregion endemic to Argentina); and (e) Area Protegido
Monte Le6n (in Santa Cruz Province, an area of Patagonian Steppe and littoral and
wetland habitat). A team of local and international biodiversity experts have confirmed the
significance of these sites in terms of their global biodiversity importance. The special
characteristics of these proposed areas are summarized in Annex B.
14.   The project would support the establishment of a National Park at each of these
selected site, for which the management strategy will be based on a policy of strict
protection, but with provisions for the possibility of low-impact visits. Following the
completion of legal establishment and land acquisition, livestock would be gradually
eliminated from the parks and park rangers would be hired to manage visitor use and to
control access, poaching and other types of illegal activity. These rangers would also
conduct basic inventory and monitoring activities, paying special attention to key indicator
species. Moreover, the project would develop partnerships with the local scientific
community to monitor the effects of park management on flora and fauna. As such, the
project would finance: (a) technical assistance for boundary demarcation, drafting of
legal documents, preparation and implementation of operational plans, implementation of
environmental assessments and other specialized studies and activities associated with the
establishment and management of these areas; (b) limited equipment; and (c) small works.
Works to be financed under the project would include the construction of observation
points, interpretive trails, fencing, administrative offices and park ranger residences, and
road repair. In most cases, provincial and/or national reserves associated with the "core"
national parks will also be created. GEF support of US$7.0 million is proposed to
finance incremental costs of this sub-component. GOA would provide counterpart
funding of about US$9.9 million, most of which would be for the purchase of land.
15.   Under the Sustainable Development Activities in Buffer Zones sub-component,
the project would support improved community land use practices through pilot projects,
studies, and support to extension activities. Pilot activities would consist of financing a
variety of small activities (e.g., the testing of improved land management models,
recovery of degraded natural grasslands, fire management, and the implementation of
complementary biodiversity studies) that would contribute directly to the sustainable use
and conservation of biodiversity in PA buffer zones. This component would also support
awareness-building activities aimed at local communities living in and around the parks,
thereby helping to increase local knowledge of, and support for, the parks themselves. In



6
most cases, funding for this sub-component would be made available on a competitive,
cost-sharing basis to NGOs, universities, and government agencies working in
collaboration with local landowners or rural communities. GEF funding of US$1.0 million
is proposed to cover the incremental costs of this sub-component. The GOA, beneficiaries
and partner institutions through matching grants would provide an additional estimated
US$0.5 million in counterpart funding.
16.   Public Participation Subcomponent. As an essential part of project preparation,
an extensive stakeholder participation and consultation process was implemented with
representatives of federal and provincial institutions, NGOs, rural families, local farmers,
community organizations, and universities. This sub-component would play a central role
to ensure the broadest possible public participation in the creation, protection and
management of each protected area. This would be done through the implementation of a
Participation Plan (PP--Annex B) and a Mitigation Plan (NW--Annex E) for the people
who could otherwise be adversely affected by park establishment. Social mitigation costs
will include training for alternative employment, employment in park management
activities, and improved housing and living conditions for the people who would continue
to live in the parks. GEF funding of about US$0.8 million is proposed to cover the
incremental costs of this sub-component. The GOA would provide US$1.1 million,
including US$0.9 million for the Mitigation Plan. Details on the MN can be found in
Annex E.
17.   Biodiversitv Information Management Comnonent (US$654,000). The ability
to access and exchange information on Argentina's globally important biodiversity is an
essential tool for their effective management and protection. The objective of this
component is to provide decision makers, national as well as international, with ready
access to relevant information for making informed decisions relating to conservation and
sustainable use of biodiversity. This would be achieved by putting into place an internet-
based biodiversity network to ensure national and global accessibility to Argentine
biodiversity information. An IDB-supported Environmental Institutional Development
Program is currently supporting the creation in Argentina of an internet-based national
environmental information network (SINAIA). Within the context of this national
environmental network, it is proposed that this component support the development of a
biodiversity information system. This component would finance the development of
prototype nodes within APN and provide the training and standards needed to extend the
network nationally and internationally. The project would finance system development,
limited hardware acquisition, and reconfiguration of existing databases (APN and other
major databases). A major thrust of the component is a training sub-component to ensure
the sustainability of the first -node within this emerging network and thus the sustainability
of a freer flow of biodiversity information both nationally and internationally. This sub-
component would consist of: (a) promotion of the Biodiversity Information System (BIS)
at the national level; (b) development of the BIS software; (c) adaptation of existing data
bases to the BIS; and (d) capacity building and training. The development of this
biodiversity network will be closely coordinated with the data bases being structured and
created under the IBRD-supported project (i.e., database on native forests). GEF support
of US$0.5 million is proposed to finance the incremental costs of this sub-component.



7
18.   Management. Monitoring, and Evaluation ComDonent (US$650,000). This
component would finance technical assistance, equipment and incremental operational
costs needed to strengthen the capacity of the implementing agencies to manage the
overall program. It would also support scientifically sound monitoring of biodiversity at
globally significant PA sites. GEF support of US$0.5 million is proposed to finance the
incremental costs of activities under this component.
3. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
19.   Total project costs are estimated at US$21.9 million, of which 94 percent would
support establishment and management of protected areas (including their buffer areas), 3
percent for biodiversity information, and 3 percent for management, monitoring and
evaluation. The proposed financing plan for the GEF project would comprise: a GEF
grant of US$10.1 million to finance the incremental costs of activities that contribute to
the achievement of global biodiversity objectives, US$11.5 million in counterpart funds or
in-kind contribution provided by GOA and/or beneficiaries, and US$0.3 million PDF for
project preparation. The estimated costs and financing plan of the proposed project are
shown in Schedule A, Tables 1 and 2. Retroactive financing of eligible expenditures made
after negotiations would be permitted for an aggregate value up to 10 percent of the grant
amount. The amounts and methods of procurement and disbursement and the proposed
disbursement schedule are shown in Schedule B. The incremental costs analysis and
justification for the GEF grant are provided in Annex F.
PROCUREMENT
20.   During negotiations, agreement was reached that: (a) the procurement plan would
be included in the Project Implementation Manual (para. 58 (c)); and (b) the procurement
of goods, works and services financed under the project would be undertaken in
accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits
(January 1995, revised January and August 1996) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of
Consultants (January 1997), using standard documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for
procurement of goods and works under National Competitive Bidding (NCB); and
Standard Letters of Invitation (SLOI) and standard forms of contract for consultant
services (para. 58 (e)). Details on procurement arrangement are presented in Table B. 1 of
Schedule B and are summarized below:
21.   Works: The procurement of works would consist of the rehabilitation of about
157.5 km of existing roads, the construction of about 4,785 m2 of small buildings (park
guard houses, visitor centers, control points, volunteer housing, mountain refuges), the
construction of 46 km of fence, and the construction of about 40 trails/observation points.
Construction and road works would be dispersed in remote locations and are difficult to
package for International Competitive Bidding (ICB). Contracts for road work estimated



8
to cost a total of US$0.8 million would, to the extent possible, be bulked into packages
valued at not less than US$350,000 and awarded on the basis of National Competitive
Bidding (NCB). All other construction and rehabilitation works above US$350,000
would be awarded on the basis of NCB and all other construction and rehabilitation
contracts below US$350,000 would be procured using lump-sum, fixed-price contracts,
awarded on the basis of three price quotations. During negotiations, agreement was
reached that all bidding documents and contracts for road works under the Protected
Areas Component would incorporate environmental procedures acceptable to the Bank, to
include, inter alia: (i) the applicable environmental and natural resource legislation and
regulations; (ii) explicit prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines for work
crews, especially for work in sensitive areas; (iii) procedures for proper selection and
management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel extraction along rivers, and other sources of
construction material, and eventual rehabilitation of affected areas through soil
replacement and revegetation; (iv) procedures for selection of camp sites, management of
camp wastes, and guidelines for camp dismantling and abandonment; (v) procedures for
proper disposal of excavated earth and spoil material to avoid contaminating streams or
causing other unnecessary damage; and (vi) procedures for proper disposal of waste from
construction machinery and equipment (para.57 (f)). During negotiations, agreement was
also reached that the environmental procedures would be included in the draft Project
Implementation Manual, which would be agreed at negotiations (para. 58 (c)). Also during
negotiations, agreement was reached that prior to the commencement of civil works to be
financed in any of the selected protected areas, APN would: (i) secure legal title to all
lands for such new protected area; (ii) management plan for that PA, which would be in
accordance with the Bank's guidelines on Natural Habitats; and (iii) obtain Bank's
approval of the relevant environmental studies for civil works (para. 58 (d)).
22.   Goods: The size of the contracts involved in the procurement of goods would be
such that they could not be grouped into packages large enough to justify ICB.
Therefore, the following procurement procedures would be used. To the extent possible,
contracts for goods (mainly vehicles) would be bulked into packages valued at not less
than US$100,000 and awarded on the basis of NCB, up to an aggregate amount of
US$700,000. Contracts for equipment (e.g., computers and software, communications
equipment, vehicles, and office, audio visual, and training equipment) valued at less than
US$100,000, would be awarded on the basis of shopping procedures acceptable to the
Bank. The use of shopping procedures for these goods is justified because of their
standard specifications and availability from more than one source. All procurement using
these shopping procedures would not exceed an aggregate amount of US$0.8 million.
Contracts for the procurement of vehicles, technical equipment, and computer hardware
and software would be awarded to agents or vendors with appropriate after-sales services,
maintenance facilities and spare-parts supplies. All vehicles and motorcycles procured
would include a four-year service contract.
23.   Consulting Services. Consulting services, which would cost about US$3.2 million
in total, would include environmental analyses and other specialized studies associated
with the establishment and management of the PAs. Technical assistance, which would



9
cost about US$2.1 million in consultant fees, would include: (a) development of a
biodiversity database; (b) implementation of the participation plan, including the costs of
the consultative commissions; (c) preparation of legal documents for the establishment of
PAs; (d) boundary demarcation and mapping; (e) monitoring and evaluation studies; (f)
environmental/biodiversity studies; and (g) preparation and implementation of operational
plans. Training, which would cost about US$0.6 million in consultant fees, would include
the provision of on-the-job training as well as local short courses and seminars in database
management, participatory park management, and conflict resolution. Project
management, which would cost about US$0.5 million in consultant fees, would include the
consultant services required for the PU to assist with project implementation. During
negotiations, agreement was reached that the TORs of all consultants would include the
obligation that they carry out their work on the basis, inter alia, of the Bank's Operational
Policy (OP 4.04) on Natural Habitats and Operational Directive (O.D. 4.01) on
Environmental Assessment, which would be incorporated into the Project Implementation
Manual (para. 58 (a));
24.   Buffer-Zone Grants. During negotiations, agreement was reached that Buffer Zone
biodiversity subprojects contracts, estimated to cost up to an aggregate amount of US$1.3
million (includes US$0.4 million of beneficiary counterpart funding), would be procured
following the selection and approval process described in the Attachment to Annex B
(para. 58 (b)).
25.   Land. Some 244,000 ha of land will be purchased by APN, from counterpart
fimds, for the establishment of the new protected areas. The total cost of this land
purchase is estimated at about US$6.5 million; the appropriate GOA land procurement
procedures will be followed.
26.   Bank Review. During negotiations, agreement was reached that, regarding
procurement, the process of Bank review outlined here would be followed (para. 58 (g)).
All procedures, documents, Terms of Reference (TORs), bid evaluations, and contract
awards would be subject to prior review by the Bank for: (a) procurement of works under
NCB; (b) contracts under small works (i.e., three quotations) procedures where contracts
are over US$150,000; (c) procurement of goods under NCB; and (d) procurement of
consulting services costing US$50,000 equivalent or more for firms and US$30,000
equivalent or more for individuals. In addition, the first five Buffer zone subproject
contracts, and thereafter all such contracts greater than US$100,000 equivalent, would be
subject to prior review by the Bank. These prior review arrangements will result in prior
review by the Bank of approximately 50 percent of all Bank-financed contracts by value.
This low level of prior review is acceptable in light of the procurement audit arrangements
outlined in para. 31. The Bank would review on an ex-post sample basis all other
contracts awarded under shopping procedures; the sample size would aim to ensure that at
least one contract in 20 would be examined. For research and study contracts costing less
than US$100,000 equivalent, a copy of all signed contracts and related financial and
technical audits and evaluations would be sent to the Bank, and at least 20 percent would
be subjected to ex-post review. For consulting services costing less than US$50,000



10
equivalent for firms and less than US$30,000 equivalent for individuals, contracts would
be signed based on a model contract and terms of reference previously agreed with the
Bank. During negotiations, agreement was reached that the draft TORs for consultants,
and a SLOI and standard form of contract, would be included in the draft Project
Implementation Manual, which would be agreed at negotiations (para. 58 (c)) and
finalized, with draft TORs, before effectiveness (para. 59).
DISBURSEMENT
27.   Grant proceeds would be disbursed over eight years, in line with the standard
disbursement profile for Bank-supported projects in Argentina. Therefore the project is
expected to be completed by December 31, 2005; the closing date would be June 30,
2006. The allocation of the proposed loan and the disbursement percentages are presented
in Table 2 of Schedule B. A Special Account for GEF grant disbursements would be
established in the Banco de la Naci6n Argentina with an authorized allocation of
US$1,000,000 equivalent. The initial deposit in the Special Account would be
US$500,000 equivalent; the full authorized allocation would be deposited once the
amount of grant disbursements reaches US$2.5 million equivalent. The Special Account
should be used for all payments of less than 20 percent of the Authorized Allocation.
Applications for replenishment of the Special Account should be submitted on a monthly
basis or more frequently if the amount withdrawn from the Special Account exceeds one-
third of its value. Disbursements for all contracts below the prior review limit would be
made on the basis of Statements of Expenditure (SOE). The relevant documentation in
support of SOE would be retained by APN, and would be made available to the
appropriate auditors and Bank review missions. All other expenditures would be fully
documented.
4. PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION
28.   Overall responsibility for project implementation would rest with APN, and in
particular with the National Coordinator appointed by APN. At the national level, the
project would be implemented by APN with administrative and technical assistance from a
Project Unit (PU), which would be coordinated with the Project Implementation Unit
(PIU) of the associated Native Forests and Protected Areas Project. The establishment of
the PU and the appointment of a technical manager and an accountant on terms and
conditions acceptable to the Bank, would be a condition of effectiveness of the proposed
grant (para. 59).
29.   At the level of individual protected areas, the project will promote innovative
management strategies to ensure cooperation between different stakeholders and institutions.
The management structure would place a strong emphasis on institutional collaboration at
both the national and provincial levels and would, in particular, encourage strong
representation and participation from NGOs, private interests, and other stakeholders
often unrecognized in the management of Argentina's protected areas. The generic



11
structure of the park-level management units required to achieve the aforementioned
collaboration will consist of the creation of Consultative Commissions (CCs) in each
park. The CCs would provide a formal mechanism for stakeholders to participate in the
planning and decision-making process of park management, thus reducing the potential for
conflict.
AccouNTS AND AUDITING
30.   Under the overall direction of the manager of APN, the PU would maintain
separate project accounts and records for each project component and sub-component and
prepare Statements of Expenditures (SOEs). Supporting documents provided by the
various entities concerned would be maintained by the PU and made available to visiting
Bank missions and independent auditors, who could make field visits to entities concerned
for the purpose of the overall audit. A standard chart of accounts would be prepared for
the project.
31.   Project accounts, including the Special Account and SOEs, would be audited
annually in accordance with appropriate auditing principles and practices. Agreement was
also reached during negotiations that the Borrower would hire independent auditors
acceptable to the Bank, and that certified copies of their audits would be submitted to the
Bank no later than six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 58 (i)). The audit
TORs will be included in the draft Project Implementation Manual (para. 58 (c)). TORs
for procurement reviews will also be provided for in the Implementation Manual, which
will ask the consultant to: (i) certify that procurement had been carried out using bidding
documents agreed with the Bank; (ii) certify that procurement documents presented to the
Bank for prior review were representative; and (iii) carry out a physical review of
procurement actions taken under the project.
32.   During negotiations, agreement was reached that APN would present to the Bank
for review and comment, no later than June 30 each year, the draft POA for the project for
the following calendar year (para. 58 (j)). During negotiations, agreement was also
reached that at the end of each year APN would produce a Progress Report for the
project, and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report, for submission to the
Bank; these would be provided to the Bank not later than January 31 and July 31,
respectively (para. 58 (k)). The Progress Reports would provide the basic information
and data required for supervision missions and the Mid-Term Review.
MONITORING AND EVALUATION
33.   The responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation, a task inseparable from
effective project management, would rest with the APN national coordinator, who would
be assisted in completing this task by the Technical Manager. Specific responsibilities will
be detailed in the draft Project Implementation Manual (para. 58 (c)). During negotiations
agreement was also reached on the project's monitoring indicators and plan (para. 58) as
outlined in Annex D.



12
34.   Periodic field assessments have been scheduled and budgeted under the Project's
Management, Monitoring, and Evaluation Component for each of the protected areas.
Reporting requirements would be designed to assist with the submission to the Bank of
annual and semi-annual progress reports, the Mid-Term Review, and the ex-post
evaluation of the project, namely, the Implementation Completion Report (ICR). Project
performance indicators and measures of project impact would guide possible mid-course
adjustments. During negotiations, agreement was reached that a Mid-Term Review would
be carried out by November 2000 (Para. 58 (1)), focusing in particular on progress being
made in the implementation of the participation plan (PP) and MP and in the legal transfer
of land to APN for the establishment of the protected areas. During the Mid-Term
Review, a sustainability plan would be designed to ensure GOA's continued support to the
MP after project completion. The project's supervision plan is outlined in Annex'I.
5. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
RATIONALE FOR BANK AND GEF INVOLVEMENT
35.   Dialogue on the Bank's country assistance objectives and strategy for dealing with
native forests, other wildlands, and the protected areas system, began in 1992, leading to a
Forestry Sector Review (Report No. 1 1 833-AR, dated April 26, 1993) and to the
identification of the proposed project. This sector work concluded that the Bank can be
of great assistance to the government in helping it to develop and to implement an
appropriate state role in the conservation and management of natural habitats. The
proposed solutions to the issues that confront Argentine biodiversity and protected areas
are fully supportive of the Bank's natural habitat, environmental, and sector policies.
36.   The proposed project is also fully consistent with the Country Assistance Strategy
(CAS), which was discussed by the Board of Executive Directors on May 4, 1995. The
CAS highlights three broad objectives: (a) consolidating structural reform; (b) reducing
poverty and strengthening social services; and (c) rebuilding infrastructure (including
addressing environment issues). The proposed project would be the Bank's first GEF-
funded project aimed at improving the conservation of biodiversity of global importance
in Argentina. It would provide a vehicle for the Bank to pursue CAS objective (c) above
by improving environmental management and protection.
37.   In particular, the Project supports the in situ conservation and sustainable use of
biodiversity, a key objective of the Convention on Biological Diversity. It is consistent
with the GEF Operational Strategy for Biodiversity and with all four GEF Biodiversity
Operational Programs. The proposed national parks for GEF assistance would protect
arid and semi-arid ecosystems (the Pampas, the Puna, and the Patagonian Steppes); forest
ecosystems (C6rdoba montane savannas and the Chaco); mountain ecosystems (the
Puna), and coastal, marine, and freshwater ecosystems (littoral and wetland Patagonian
habitats). The project areas have been identified as national (and regional) priorities in
previous conservation planning exercises, and strengthening and extending the nation's



13
protected areas system has been identified as a key element for the Biodiversity Strategy
under preparation. The project is consistent with the Conferences of the Parties (COP)
guidance on conservation and sustainable use of vulnerable ecosystems and species;
capacity building, including human resource development and institutional strengthening;
and innovative measures to conserve biodiversity, including government-private
partnerships for land management. Furthermore, the Biodiversity Information
Management component will contribute to the Argentine National Information
Management responsibilities as defined in the Convention on Biological Diversity.
38.   Links to other GEF Projects. The Government of Argentina (represented by
SRNyDS) has received a UNDP-administered GEF enabling activities grant for the
completion of a National Biodiversity Conservation and Sustainable Use Strategy. The
Strategy will detail recommendations on policy formulation, application of appropriate
economic instruments, environmental education, and the importance of public
participation and consensus building in developing approaches to the sustainable use of
biodiversity. The objectives and approach of the proposed project are compatible with
these measures, and focus on priority sites identified during the first years of strategy
preparation (1994-95). Because APN would assist SRNyDS in the drafting of the
Strategy, close coordination between the World Bank-implemented and UNDP-
implemented projects will be facilitated. Moreover, efforts will be monitored to ensure full
consistency between strategy and actions.
39.   GEF has also supported the Patagonia Coastal Zone Management Plan Project,
which was executed by the Fundacion Patagonia Natural (FPN) and administered by
UNDP. The primary objective of this US$2.8 million technical assistance project was to
develop a Coastal Zone Management Plan for the Province of Patagonia. The plan
prepared under the project specifically recommends that priority be given to better
protection of the Monte Leon Reserve in Santa Cruz Province, as is proposed under this
Biodiversity Conservation Project. Since the completion of the Patagonia CZM project,
the Bank and UNDP have been coordinating efforts to prepare a Phase II program that
would continue the participatory process initiated by FPN and take corrective action to
address some of the problems identified in the CZM plan. The program under preparation
would comprise: (i) a UNDP/GEF Patagonia CZM for Biodiversity Conservation Project
(US$5.2 million), including the development and consolidation of legal and institutional
frameworks, establishment of a network of terrestrial and marine protected areas with
their corresponding management plans, incorporation of biodiversity conservation
principles into coastal and marine sectoral development planning, the design of a
Patagonia Conservation Trust Fund with corresponding economic instruments for
capitalization, and an information dissemination network; and (ii) a World Bank-financed
Pollution Management Project (about US$18 million), and its associated World
Bank/GEF Coastal Contamination Prevention and Control Project (estimated at US$5
million), which would address land-based sources of contamination, threats from
petroleum and shipping, and unsustainable exploitation of fishing stocks. The UNDP/
Bank collaboration has helped to avoid overlap and to maximize complementarity between
the BCP, the Phase II Patagonia CZM, and the proposed Coastal Contamination
Prevention and Control Project.



14
SOCiAL ASSESSMENT AND BENEFICIARY PARTICIPATION
40.   All families and communities in the core areas and a cross section of communities
in the buffer zone areas were consulted during project preparation. In all but one of the
proposed protected areas (Monte Le6n'), interviews and surveys were implemented along
with workshops to assess the interest and conditions for establishing new protected
areas. These workshops, led by APN staff and specialist consultants, included participation
from local NGOs, provincial authorities, federal agencies such as the National Institute of
Agricultural Research (INTA), universities, and local community groups. Also during
preparation, key stakeholders, the nature and magnitude of potential conflicts, possible
mitigation measures, and likely mechanisms to facilitate future stakeholder participation
were identified for each of the proposed protected areas. Additional details on the process
and results of the methodology used during preparation can be found in the Social
Assessment and Mitigation Plan Annex (Annex E). The information gathered by the
Social Assessment was used to designing the Mitigation Plan. The Social Assessment also
determined that none of the proposed new protected areas is on lands occupied or claimed
by indigenous peoples.
41.   These initial findings provided valuable input into the preparation of the project's
Participation Plan (PP, see Annex B). The project will finance the incremental costs of
implementing elements of the PP, which includes: (i) creation of Consultative
Commissions (CCs) in each protected area; (ii) contracting a full-time social assessment
and participation specialist; (iii) development of site-specific participation plans; (iv)
training in a variety of areas related to protected area management, sustainable resource
use, ecotourism development, participatory planning with key stakeholders; (v) studies
and surveys in support of the implementation of the PP, (vi) monitoring the
implementation of the Mitigation Plan to be carried out in core areas of Condorito, Copo
and Los Venados Protected Areas, and (vii) monitoring and evaluation of the social and
economic impacts of park management, investments, and sustainable development
activities over time. Specific activities proposed under this Plan are detailed in Annex B.
THE MITIGATION PLAN
42.   During the project preparation phase, a team of local specialists undertook a
detailed socio-economic analysis of families and communities living in the proposed
protected area sites and the buffer zones around those sites. While five studies were
undertaken, APN and the local consultants focused their efforts on the core protected
areas where people live and economic activities take place: Condorito, Copo and Los
Venados. Among the principal objectives of the studies were to determine: (i) the number
of people living on land to be declared a protected area, (ii) how they earn their livelihood,
and (iii) the social-economic impacts of protected area creation and management. The
team was also charged with evaluating whether resettlement of families currently living on
I During preparation it was determined that no individuals were living in either the Park or the buffer
zone areas.



15
the sites of future national parks was a viable or desirable option or whether other
management options existed that would permit them to remain in the same area. Based on
that analysis, the team, in consultation with those families living within the confines of the
new national parks, have worked on the basis that the people now living in the park could
be incorporated into the management structure of the new protected areas and that
resettlement would not, in principle, be needed. This decision is consistent with
prevailing Bank policy as described in OD 4.30, and is the preferred policy option for
APN. In order to prevent the negative social and economic impacts of park establishment,
APN has prepared a detailed Mitigation Plan (Mi) which will be agreed at negotiations
(para. 58 (m) ) for each of the above mentioned areas.
43.   The major goal of the MP is to reduce the impact of park creation on those
families and individuals who will be allowed to remain in the park. This impact includes
loss of employment and other amenities provided by the employer. The categories which
make up the MP are: (a) Infrastructure Improvements; (b) Employee Compensation; and
(c) Extension Activities. Employee Compensation refers to APN's plan to hire workers as
park guards and firefighters and to provide training for other park management related
jobs. In addition, in the new parks where people are currently cutting timber for firewood
or where some of their firewood needs are provided by the landlord, APN will provide
wood or cover the costs for families to purchase gas or kerosene. APN would also
provide technical assistance to help families and individuals maintain or improve their
standard of living. Additional details on the specific activities and costs for the families
living in each park can be found in Annex E. This Plan will be fillly described in the
Project Implementation Manual.
PROJECT SUSTAINABILITY
44.   Sustainability of project benefits over the long term will be insured through: (a) the
institutional modernization of APN, which will serve to increase that institution's financial
sustainability, and hence its ability to provide continued institutional and financial support
to the newly created protected areas; (b) the reform of the policy, legal and regulatory
framework that affects native forests, along with the research-generated information
supported by the NFPA project; (c) the strengthening of project management capabilities
of both SRNyDS and APN; and (d) the initiatives to ensure local participation in all
aspects of project design and implementation, which will help to ensure local benefits and
hence interest in the success of the proposed activities. Moreover, the annual recurrent
costs after project completion would be manageable (i.e., about 3 percent of APN's
budget) and is consistent with the expressed commitment of APN.
LESSONS FROM BANK-WIDE OPERATIONS
45.   The design of the proposed GEF project has been based on GEF-related
experience from Argentina and on the larger information base derived from other relevant
projects supported under the GEF Pilot Phase and other related environmental protection



16
projects in Latin America. The only completed GEF-financed project in Argentina is the
previously mentioned Patagonia Coastal Zone Management Plan Project (CZMP). The
main lessons derived from the CZMP project include: (a) the need to build on a strong,
established organizational base; (b) project preparation and implementation should be
carried out to the maximum degree possible through the use of local experts; and (c) the
education of decision makers and the population generally on the role of and need to
conserve natural habitats is vital to develop support for managing protected areas
sustainably.
46.   The key lessons derived from ongoing GEF-funded biodiversity projects elsewhere
in Latin America support the need to: (a) expand the protected areas system to ensure the
conservation of representative samples of global biodiversity; (b) facilitate direct
biodiversity conservation activities by communities or groups of people who have a vital
interest in conservation because their livelihoods depend on biological resources andlor
their quality of life depends significantly on use and existence values of biodiversity; (c)
establish realistic goals based on the existing capacity of counterpart agencies, avoiding
overly complex projects; (d) involve local NGOs from the beginning of project design; (e)
develop management capacity and establish a project implementation unit as soon as
possible to facilitate disbursement; (f) plan for sufficient supervision time, taking into
consideration the complexity of these types of projects; and (g) focus on field-level park
personnel to improve morale and management effectiveness.
47.   These lessons are also generally corroborated in the November 1995 World Bank
report, Mainstrearning Biodiversity in Development: a World Bank Assistance Strategy for
Implementing the Convention on Biological Diversity, and by the 1996 Bank report "GEF
Pilot Phase Portfolio Project Implementation Review" which support the need for: (a)
independent professional management of financial accounts; (b) more creative cooperation
among implementing agencies and other global organizations working in the field of
biodiversity; (c) provision for long preparation time required to achieve regional
collaboration and build local ownership; (d) addressing land tenure issues and
strengthening the legal framework which could constrain the effectiveness of management
plans; (e) ensuring effective mechanisms for flow of funds to reserves; (f) participation by
local communities in pilot productive activities in buffer zones; and (g) ensuring early on
that the host implementing agency understands Bank procedures and guidelines. The
design of the BCP has fully taken into account the recommendations detailed in these
reports.
48.   External STAP Review. An expert from the STAP roster reviewed the Initial
Executive Project Summary (IEPS) in February 1995 and the revised project brief in
October 1996 . In the review of the IEPS, the expert generally supported the project,
concluding that the concepts of the sub-components were appropriate and technically
feasible, and that the project provided an excellent opportunity for GEF investments on
behalf of globally significant biodiversity. The expert agreed that the proposed project
comprised the necessary elements for a cohesive program for biodiversity conservation.
The expert suggested, however, that the social and political challenges faced by the project
were not adequately identified and assessed in the initial project document, particularly



17
with regard to indigenous peoples' territorial rights and interactions with pre-existing
small farmer settlements and private ranches. These concerns were addressed during
project preparation. As recommended by the expert: (a) a social scientist played an
important role on the project design team, focusing on the non-biological aspects of the
project; (b) the preparation team assisted the GOA in assessing options for integrating
buffer zone residents into park management; (c) the project design includes training for
park guards in "people skills" such as conflict resolution, facilitation skills, and public
relations; and (d) environmental education on park issues would extend to urban areas as
well as to areas in the immediate vicinity of the protected areas. In addition, the network
structure for the Biodiversity Information Management System has been designed to
facilitate policy decisions related to land use planning, and project funding will allow for
possible linkages with major databases outside Argentina in order to expedite
identification and exchange of information on a global scale.
49.   In the October 1996 review of the revised project brief, the STAP reviewer was
satisfied that the earlier comments had been taken into account, that the relationship
between the components had been clearly integrated, and that that new document
promised a more realistic and feasible project. The reviewer pointed out that the project
could in fact be innovative in Argentina by obtaining stakeholders involvement in the
sustainable conservation of biodiversity.
ENVIRONMENTAL ASPECTS
50.   Under the mandate established in Law No 22.35 1 and resolution No. 16/94, APN
is responsible for environmental review and assessment of interventions in any protected
area under its jurisdiction, including the construction and maintenance of public services
and tourist infrastructure. Accordingly, agreement was reached at negotiations that, prior
to APN commencing the implementation of any construction under this project, the
relevant environmental impact analysis would be approved by the Bank (para. 58 (d)). The
project is classified by the World Bank in Environmental Assessment Category "B"
because infrastructure developments in protected areas are small and because of the small
number (i.e., about 70) of individuals that will be directly affected by park creation.
PROJECT BENEFITS
51.   The most direct and quantifiable benefit of the project will be the creation and
sustained management of five new protected areas conserving biodiversity resources of
global importance. Similarly, the project will provide the support required to establish the
country's first biodiversity information network, creating a fundamental tool required to
assess the existing situation and monitor change in both project and other protected areas
and resources over time. The project is also expected to have significant positive
impacts in supporting innovative approaches to biodiversity conservation through
emphasizing collaborative approaches to protected area management between the public
and private and NGO sectors, increased public participation, support for future protected



18
area creation, and the promotion of new sustainable land uses in buffer zones, thus
reducing threats to protected areas.
52.   The GEF will be funding only those activities that are considered not to generate
direct national economic benefits; therefore an economic analysis is not required. There
will be some local benefits generated by the buffer-zone sustainable development
activities, such as improved pasture management, but these cannot be quantified at this
time because the competitive selection process is yet to be implemented. Under the
selection criteria, beneficiaries of the sustainable development activities would be required
to cover the costs of direct benefits. Those families and individuals who will participate in
the activities under the MP will also be direct beneficiaries of the project.
PROJECT RISKS
53.   The major issue faced during project design was the need to move quickly to
mobilize resources to protect key areas of biodiversity importance which are under
imminent threat from agricultural, mining, and commercial forestry interests. However,
unlike some countries in Latin America in which similar GEF investments are being made,
country-wide agricultural or settlement policies are not a significant factor in contributing
to habitat conversion. Rather, in a country with a relatively long tradition of creating
national parks, the issues that need to be addressed are related to financial and institutional
constraints to efficient management of the country's protected areas. Thus, the main
activities to be undertaken under the project involve the provision of funds and technical
assistance for the establishment and consolidation of new national parks and associated
provincial reserves. The attitudes and actions of local stakeholders would determine the
long-term sustainability of the protected areas supported under the project, and failure to
fully consider stakeholders' interests is a risk. The project's emphasis on consultation and
participation with local communities and other stakeholders, an innovative approach for
APN, is expected to significantly reduce this risk.
54.   A second major risk relates to the involvement and support of provincial
governments. All the areas included in this project were selected in part because of strong
provincial support. However, conservation has not been a high priority for provincial
governments due to severe financial constraints. This risk is partially mitigated by the
proposed establishment of a federally-managed national park at the core of each protected
area and the proposed training and buffer zone activities which over time should help to
establish substantial local support for these new parks. In some cases, the project would
also provide support through shared resources administered and managed by APN (e.g.,
patrol vehicles which would cover both the national park and provincial reserve of a
project-supported PA).
55.   During preparation, significant attention was devoted to ensuring that the people
currently living in the parks will be dealt with fairly and that they not lose their capacity to
support themselves. In terms of the World Bank's Operational Directive 4.30 on
Involuntary Resettlement, no one will need to be resettled because of the establishment



19
of the parks. Those who will be affected include a small number of landowners (all of
whom are absentee landowners mostly living in Buenos Aires) and 10 of their workers
(including family members) in the Area Protegido Los Venados, 36 individuals (seven
families) in the Area Protegido Quebrada del Condorito, and 24 inhabitants (five families)
in the Area Protegido Copo. During preparation, it was determined that APN's standard
land purchase procedures are fair and equitable under Argentine law. In compliance with
Bank policy, APN has prepared a Mitigation Plan to ensure that the workers living on
lands to be purchased are able to maintain an equivalent or better lifestyle, mainly through
employment training and opportunities in park management and protection activities.
APN's considerable experience with land purchasing carried out over the last 60 years in
other parks has been non-controversial and successful. These land purchase and
mitigation arrangements are in compliance with OD 4.30 (Para. 58 (m)). Details on the
UP can be found in Annex E.
56.   A park-specific risk associated with the Area Protegido San Guillermo involves
existing exploratory mineral rights (cateos) in the buffer zone areas contiguous to the
national park. A recent revision of the mining code (Ley Nacional No. 24.585/95)
requires the preparation of an environmental impact study before any mining activity is
approved. Along with the required environmental study, the law also provides for the
preparation of any necessary mitigation measures. Moreover, the protected areas
conditionality in the ongoing Mining Development Technical Assistance Project (Loan
3927-AR), could be used as leverage if needed to protect the GEF's proposed investments
in the PA under the Biodiversity project. Specifically, the Loan Agreement for the mining
TA project requires the Borrower to: (i) ensure that no permits are issued for mining
activities at any location that may affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of the
Bank, the national protected areas (Section 3.10 (b); and (ii) prohibit any mining permits
within Provincial Protected Areas (including the San Guillermo Provincial Reserve/Buffer
Zone) with narrowly-defined exceptions subject to the Bank's approval (Section 5.01 (e)).
57.   It is of concern that local people, including provincial officials, have a voice and
play an active role in the planning and management of these new protected areas. This
concern has been addressed by the provisions of the participation activities (which includes
the creation of the Consultative Commissions and provides environmental and conflict
resolution training) and the establishment of a funding mechanism to allow local people
and scientists to participate in the development of sustainable development activities in the
areas adjacent to the newly created parks.
AGREEMENTS REACHED
58.   The following agreements were reached at negotiations:
(a)   the TORs of all consultants would include the obligation that they carry out
their work on the basis, inter alia, of the Bank's Operational Policy (OP
4.04) on Natural Habitats and Operational Directive (O.D. 4.01) on
Environmental Assessment, which would be incorporated into the Project
Implementation Manual (para. 23);



20
(b)   in awarding sustainable development activity contracts, APN would follow
the selection criteria, approval process and form of contract outlined in the
Attachment to Annex B (para 24);
(c)   selection criteria, approval process and a model form of contract for
awarding sustainable development activity contracts, the mechanism for
selecting members of the consultative commissions, the consultative
process to be followed prior to approval of a management plan for
protected areas, the draft TORs for consultants, a standard letter of
invitation and forms of contract, the TORs and the allocation of
responsibility for project monitoring and evaluation, environmental manual,
Bank Operational Policy (O.P. 4.04) on Natural Habitats, Bank
Operational Directive (O.D. 4.01) on Environmental Assessment, the audit
TORs, and the draft procurement plan would be included in the draft
Project Implementation Manual (paras. 20, 21, 26, 31, 33);
(d)   prior to the commencement of civil works to be financed in any of the
new protected areas, APN would have: (i) legal title to all lands for such
new protected area; (ii) an approved management plan for that PA, which
would be in accordance with the Bank's guidelines on Natural Habitats;
(iii) Bank's approval of the relevant environmental studies for civil works;
and (iv) Bank's approval of the park-specific Mitigation Plan (para 21, 50);
(e)   the procurement of goods, works and services financed under the project
would be undertaken in accordance with Bank Guidelines for Procurement
under 1BRD Loans and IDA Credits (January 1995, revised January 1996
and August 1996) and Bank Guidelines for the Use of Consultants (January
1997), using standard documents, satisfactory to the Bank, for
procurement of goods and works under National Competitive Bidding
(NCB); and standard letters of invitation and forms of contract for
consultant services (para. 20);
(f)   all bidding documents and contracts for road works would incorporate an
environmental manual acceptable to the Bank, said manual to include, inter
alia: (i) the applicable environmental and natural resource legislation and
regulations; (ii) explicit prohibitions and environmental behavior guidelines
for work crews, especially for work in sensitive areas; (iii) procedures for
proper selection and management of quarries, borrow pits, gravel
extraction along rivers, and other sources of construction material, and
eventual rehabilitation of affected areas through soil replacement and
revegetation; (iv) procedures for selection of camp sites, management of
camp wastes, and guidelines for camp dismantling and abandonment; (v)
procedures for proper disposal of excavated earth and spoil material to
avoid contaminating streams or causing other unnecessary damage; and (vi)
procedures for proper disposal of waste from construction machinery and
equipment (para. 21);



21
(g)   regarding procurement, the process of Bank review outlined in para. 26
would be followed;
(h)   agreement on the Key Performance Indicators (Table D-7, Annex D) and
the Supervision Plan (Annex I), which includes a Mid-Term Review (para.
33);
(i)   the Borrower would hire independent auditors acceptable to the Bank, and
certified copies of their audits would be submitted to the Bank no later than
six months after the end of each fiscal year (para. 31);
(j)    APN would present to the Bank for review and comment, no later than
June 30 of each year, its draft POA for the project for the following
calendar year (para. 32);
(k)   at the end of each fiscal year, APN would produce a Progress Report for
the project, and in the middle of each year an Interim Progress Report, for
submission to the Bank; these would be provided to the Bank no later than
January 31 and July 31, respectively (para. 32);
(1)    a Mid-Term Review would be carried out by November 2000, focusing in
particular on progress being made in the implementation of the
Participation and Mitigation Plans (including the design of a sustainability
plan), and in obtaining the legal transfer of land for the establishment of the
new protected areas (para. 34), and
(m)   the Mitigation Plan (paras. 42, 55).
59.   The establishment of the PU and the appointment of a Technical Manager on
terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, and the completion of the Project
Implementation Manual, with draft TORs, would be conditions of effectiveness of the
proposed grant (paras. 26 and 28).



22
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE A: PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING
Table A. 1. Project Costs by Component and Financing
(US$ Million)
Components                 GEF        Govt.      Benefi-     Total
ciaries
Protected Areas                        8.3         10.4         0.4       19.1
(a) Establishment and Consolidation   (6.7)       (9.2)                  15.9
(b) Sustainable Development Activities  (0.9)     (0.1)        (0.4)      1.4
(c) Participation and Training        (0.7)       (1.1)                    1.8
Biodiversity Information Management    0.5          0.1                    0.6
Management, Monitoring & Evaluation    0.5          0.1                    0.6
Base Costs                             9.3         10.6         0.4       20.3
Contingencies
(a) Physical                          0.3           0.1                   0.4
(b) Price                             0.5           0.4                   0.9
Subtotal                              10.1         11.1         0.4       21.6
GEF--PDF                              0.3                                 0.3
Total Project Cost                    10.4         11.1         0.4       21.9



23                          Schedule A
Table A.2. Local and Foreign Project Costs by Component and Financing
Local      Foreign      Total
---------- US$ million ---------------
Protected Areas                           16.7         2.4        19.1
Establishment and Consolidation        (13.9)       (2.0)      (15.9)
Buffer-Zone. Activities                (1.2)        (0.2)       (1.4)
Public Participation Activities         (1.6)       (0.2)       (1.8)
Biodiversity Information Management        0.36        0.27        0.63
Management, Monitoring & Evaluation        0.58        0.03        0.61
Total Base Costs                          17.64        2.70       20.34
Contingencies:
Physical                                 0.30        0.10        0.40
Price                                    0.75        0.10        0.85
Subtotal Project Costs                    18.69        2.90       21.59
GEF--PDF                                               0.29        0.29
Total Project Costs                       18.69        3.19       21.88
Financiny Plan
GEF                                                               10.1
Government                                                        11.1
Beneficiaries                                                      0.4
PDF                                                                0.3
Total                                                             21.9



24
SCHEDULE B: PROCUREMENT AND DISBURSEMENT ARRANGEMENTS
Table B. 1: Summary Of Proposed Procurement Arrangements
(US$ Million) a'
Project Element                      Procurement                 TOTAL
ICBUb/  NCR-    Other   N.G.F         _
I.Civil Works
1. I Civil Works                          0.5      2.5-!c               3.0
(0.4)    (2.3)               (2.7)
1.2 Roads and Trails                      0.4      0.4                 0.8
(0.3)    (0.3)               (0.6)
2.Goods
2.1 Vehicles                              0.7                           0.7
(0.6)                        (0.6)
2.2 Equipment                                      0.8-d'               0.8
(0.7)               (0.7)
3 .Consulting Servicesl
3.1 Technical Assistance                          1.4                  1.4
(1.4)               (1.4)
3.2 Environmental Studies                         0.2                  0.2
(0.2)               (0.2)
3.3 Monitoring and Evaluationl'                   0.5                  0.5
(0.5)               (0.5)
3.4 Training                                      0.6                  0.6
(0.5)               (0.5)
3.5 Project Management                            0.5       0.1        0.6
(0.5)               (0.5)
4.Other Expenditures
4.1 Operating Costs hI                             2.0                  2.0
(1.6)               (1.6)
4.2 Buffer-Zone Grants'1                           0.9        0.4       1.3
(0.8)               (0.8)
4.3 Land Purchase                                            6.5        6.5
4.4 Salaries and Related Expenses"/              I            3.2       3.2
Total                              1.6       9.8      10.2       21.6
(1.3)    (8.8)               (10.1)
Figures in parentheses are the amounts to be financed by the Grant.
a/ Totals include taxes and contingencies; _/ ICB-Intemational Competitive Bidding; NCB-National
Competitive Bidding; cg/ Lump sum, fixed price contracts awarded on the basis of 3 quotations;
d/ Shopping procedures;_e/ Not GEF-financed;
f/ According to Consultants Guidelines: Consultant Qual. (approx. US$0.2 m), Individuals (approx.
US$2.8 m), and Fixed Budget (approx. US$0.2 m); g/ Includes fees, travel, and other task related costs.
hi Operating costs= vehicle operating costs, building maintenance, utilities, translation and printing
services, and office materials and supplies.
it Mostly lump-sum consultant contracts, including fees and associated travel, materials and services.
j/ APN Park Guards and support staff and their direct operating costs.



25                                    Schedule B
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Table B.2: Allocation of Grant Proceeds
Allocation                 Percent of
(Expressed                Expenditures
Category                                     in US$                       to be
Equivalent)              Financed by GEF
(1) Establishment of New Protected Areas
(a) Works                                                        3,158,013             88
(b) Goods                                                        1,115,012             82
(c) Consultant Services                                          1,329,500            100
(d) Operating Costs                                              1,371,122             82
(2) Sustainable Development Activities
(a) Consultant Services                                            105,000             100
(b) Buffer Zone Grants                                             742,590             88
(d) Operating Costs                                                 84,870             82
(3) Participation
(a) Consultant Services                                            262,500             100
(b) Training Programs                                             441,000              88
(c) Operating Costs                                                 23,370             82
(4) Biodiversity Information Management
(a) Goods                                                          101,926             82
(b) Consultant Services                                            261,150            100
(c) Training Programs                                               73,480             88
(d) Operating Costs                                                 36,203             82
(5) Project Implementation Unit
(a) Goods                                                           13,530             82
(b) Consultant Services                                            460,000             100
(c) Operating Costs                                                 28,823              82
(6) Unallocated                                                    507,840
Total                                                     [   10,115,929 T



26                                   Schedule B
Summary of Disbursement Arrangements
Estimated Schedule of GEF Grant Disbursements:
I3BRD FY          1998    1999   2000    2001    2002    2003    2004    2005
--------------------------US$ millions--------------------------
Annual             0.2     0.5     1.7     1.7    2.8      2.4     0.5     0.3
Cumulative         0.2     0.7     2.4    4.1      6.9     9.3     9.8    10.1



27
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
SCHEDULE C: TIMETABLE OF KEY PROCESSING EVENTS
1. Time Taken to Prepare:           12 months
2. Prepared By:                    APN, Bank, FAO/CP
3. PDF Approved                    February 1996
4. First Bank Mssion:              June 1996
5. GEF Council Approval            March 1997
6. Pre-Appraisal Mission:          April 1997
7. Appraisal Mission:              June/July 1997
8. Date of Negotiations:           July 1997
9. CEO Endorsement of Final Project   August 1997
Document
10. Planned Board Date:            October 1997
11. List of Relevant PCRs and PARs    No PCRs or PARs exist for Biodiversity
Conservation projects in the LAC region.
Lessons learned are derived from Bank studies
on sectoral experience and peer reviews with
the ESSD network.



28
Schedule D: Status of Bank Group Operations
Status of Bank Group Operations in Argentina
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits in the Operations Portfolio
Difference
Original Amount in US$ Millions                            Between expected
Loan or    Fiscal                                                                                                                                    and actual
Project ID    Credit No.   Year                 Borrower                       Purpose               IBRD           IDA        Cancellations   Undisbursed   Disbursements a/
Numbe of Closed Loncredits: 53
Activ Loons
AR-PE-5s968     L28540          1987   SEGBA                             SEGBA V                           276.00         0.00               0.00           67.07                  67.07
AR-PE-400       L32970          1991   GOVT OF ARGENTINA  INA           AG SERVCEShlNST DEV                 33.50         0.00               0.00            3.31                  2.11
AR-PE-5977      L32810          1991   ARGENTINEREPUBLIC                WR SUPPLY II                       100.00         0.00               0.00           64.84                 60.18
AR-PE4005       L32800          1991   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            PROVINC DEV PROJ                   200.00         000                o.00           43.71                 43.71
AR-PE.4034      L34600          1992   GOVERNMENT                       TAX ADMIN 11                        20.00         0.00               0.00            2.13                  2.13
AR-PE-6003      L36110          1993   GOVT OF ARGENTINA  INA           RDMAINT&REHAB SCT                  340.00         0.00               0.00          143.04                 113.80
AR-PE-6051      L35210          1993   ARGENTINA                        FLOOD REHABILITATION               170.00         000                0.00            4.28                  4.28
AR-PE-6036      L35200          1993   GOVERNMENT                        YACYRETA II                       300.00         0.00               0.00            3.28                   3.28
AR-PE-602       L37100          1994   MIN OF ECONOMY                   CAPITALMKTTA                         8.50         0.00               0.00            5.10                  4.36
AR-PE-025       L36430          1994   GOVT OF ARGENTINA  INA           MTNAL CHILD HLTH & N               100.00         0.00               0.00           44.07                  23.57
AR-PE-6O0S     L38770           1995   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               PROV DEVT 11                       225.00         0.00               0.00          220.03                  23.03
AR-PE46060     L38600           1995   GOVT OFARGENTINA                 MUNICDEVTII                        210.00         0.00               0.00          197.30                  -3.04
AR-PE-5992      L37940          1995   GOVT OF ARGENTINA  INA            SECONDARY EDT                     190.00         0.00               0.00          167.60                 110.70
AR-PE-456s7    L40040           1996   REP. OF ARGRNTINA                HINSURANCE TA                       25.00         000                0.00           15,04                   -.16
AR-PE40909    140030            1996   REP. OF ARGENTINA                I INSURANCE REFORM                 100.00         0.00               0.00          10000                   0.00
AR-PE-6057     L39710           1996   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                SECNDARY ED 2                      115.50         0.00               0.00          112.50                 27.90
AR-PE-38883    L39600           1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            ENTEXPORT DV.                       38.50         0.00               0.00           33.04                 22.88
AR-PE-37049    L39580           1996   GOVTOFARGENTINA                  PUB.INV.STRENGTHG                   16.00         0.00               0.00           15.50                  5.90
AR-PE-35495    L39570          1996   SEC.OF SOC.DEVIT (OFFICE          SOCIAL PROTECTION                  152.00         0.00               0.00           20.83                  10.59
AR-PE4040      L39480           1996   GOVERNMENT                       FORESTRY/DV                         16.00         0.00               0.00           15.11                   .71
AR-PE46030     L39310           1996   REPUB OF ARGENTINA               PROVCL HLTH SCTRDEV                101.40         0.00              0o.0            95.36                 24.36
AR-PE-6055     L39270           1996   GOVT. OF ARGENTINA                MNING SCTR DEVT                    30.00         0.00               000            17.00                  -1.30
AR-PE40904    L39260            1996   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            BANKREFORM                         500.00         0.00               0.00          166.00                 166.00
AR-PE-34091    L39210           1996   REP OF ARGENTINA                 HIGHER ED REFORM                   165.00         0.00               0.00          153.05                 66.05
AR-PE4A926     I41950           1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               SOC.PROTECT.2                      200.00         0.00               0.00          200.00                  16.67
AR-PE-43418    L41680           1997   REPUBLIC OFARG                   AIDS PREV.&STD CTRL                 15.00         0.00               0.00           15.00                   1.25
AR-PE-6059     L41640           1997   ARGENTINE REPUBLIC               MIL.CHD.HTEL2                      100.00         0.00               0.00          100.00                  0.00
AR-PE-39584    141630           1997   GOVT OF ARGENTINA                B.AURB.TSP                         200.00         0.00               0.00          200.00                 000
ARPE.6010      I41500          1997    GOA                              PROVAGDEVTI                        125.00         0.00               0.00          125.00                   130
AR-PE46s21    L41310            1997   GOVT.OFARG                       PENSION TA                          20.00         0.00               0.00           17.50                   -15
AR-PE-6052     L41170           1997   GOVTOFARGENTINA                  FLOODPROTECTION                    200.00         0.00               0.00          200.00                   134
AR-PE-44445    L41160           1997   REPUBLIC OF ARGENTINA            PROV.PENSIONI                      300.00         0.00               0.00           7500                   0.00
AR4E-5980      140930           1997   GOVTOFARGENTINA                  PROV ROADS                         300.00         0.00               0.00          300.00                  16.00
AR-PE-40S0o    L40850           1997   GOA                              NFORESTIPROTC                       19.50         0.00               0.00           19.13                   -.31
ARPE-51694    L42220           1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFMSJUAN)                          0.00         0.00               0.00            0.00                  0.00
Generated by the Operations Information System (OIS) on September 9, 1997



Schedule D
29
AR-PE4006       L42210          1998   MIN. OF ECONOMY                    P.RFM(TUCUMAN)                     100.00         0.00               0.00          100.00                   0.00
AR-PE-51693    L42190           1998   GOVERNMENT                        P.RFM(SALTA)                         75.00         0.00               0.00           75.00                   0.00
AR-PE-51695    L42180           1998   GOVERNMENT                         P.RFM(R.NEGRO)                      75.00         0,00               0.00           75.00                   0.00
AR-PE-6041      L42120          1998   GOVERNMENT                         SMALL FARMER DV.                    75.00         0.00               0.00           75.00                   0.00
Total                                                                                                      5,236.90         0.00               0.00         3,285.84
Active Loans         Closed Loans             1018
Total Disbursed (DBRD and IDA):                        1,951.06               6,721.58               8,672.64
of which has been repaid:                            166.55                2,915.76               3,082.31
Total now held by IBRD and IDA:                        5,070.35               3,807.46               8,877.81
Amount sold                                               0.00                  12.79                  12.79
Ofwhich repaid                                           0.00                  12.79                  12.79
Total Undisbursed    :                                 3,285.84                  1.64                3,287.48
a   Intended disbisements to date mins actual disbursements to date as projected at appraisal.
b.  Rating of 1-4: seeOD 13.05. AnnexD2. PreparationoflImplementation Sumnay (Form 590). Followingthe FY94 Armual Review of Portfolio perfonrance (ARPP),aletterbasedsystemwillbe used (HS = highly Satisfactory, S =
satisfactory, U = satisfactory, HU = highly unsatisfactory): see proposed Inprovements in Project and Portfolio Performn3ce Rating Methodology (SecM94-901), August 23, 1994.
o.  Folowig heFY94ARPP, 'mplementationProgress' wil berepotdhere.
Gen_rat by the Operations Information System (OIS) on September 9, 1997



-30
SCHEDULE E: ARGENTINA A AT GLANCE
Latin   Upper-
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                        America  middle.
rgentina   & Carib.  Income    Developmentdlamond-
Population mid-1996 (milons)                        35.1      485      479
GNP per capita 1996 (USS)                          8.410     3,710    4,540              Life expectancy
GNP 1996 (biflions USS)                            295.0    1,799    2,173
Average annual growth, 1990-96
Population (%)                                       1.3       1.7     1.5
Laborforce (%)                                       2.0       2.3     1.8                                      Grplun
2.0  2.3   1.6      per                           pnmary
Most rcent estiat (latest year avaiabs  since 1989)                             capita          ,enroUment
Poverty: headcount hdex (% of populaon)              26
Urban population (% of totalpopulaton)               88        74       73
Life expectancy at birth (years)                     73        69       69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 i. births)               22        37       35              Access to safe water
ChDd malnutrition (% of childken under 5)            22        37        ..
Access to safe water (% of population)               64        80       86
lliteracy(%ofpopulWatonage s+)                        4        13       13
Gross primary enrollment (% ofschoolage population)  111      110      107               Aroentina
Male                                                                                   U Upper-niddle4ncome group
Female                                              ..        ..      ..   j
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1976    1985      1996    1996
Economic ratnkl
GDP (bilions USS)                          52.4    88.4    280.8   300.5
Gross domestic investment/GDP              294      17.6      18.3    18.5
Exports of goods and sernessGDP             5.8    11.7        8.5     9.0             Openness of economy
Gross domestic savingslGDP                 29.3    23.1       18.4    18.1
Gross national savings/GDP                 28.4    16.6       17.5    17.2 
Current account balancedGDP                -2.5    -1.1       -0.9    -1.3
Interest paymentsWGDP                       0.9      5.0      2.1      2.3     Savings                     Investment
Total debtWGOP                             14.7    57.6       32.0    33.2
Total debt service/exports                 44.7    60.1       47.4    46.7
Present value of debtlGDP                    ..       ..      29.5                           V
Present value of debtSexports                ..       ..    332.1
Indebtedness
1976-6  19s6-96    1996      1996  1997406
(average annusl groAnh)fins
GDP                                0.6      2.9    -4.6        4.4     5.0
GNP per capita                     -1.8     2.0    -6.4        2.8     3.9               Upper-middeincome group
Exports of goods and sefvibes      5.1      7.6    26.4       7.4      8.0
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1976    1985      1995    1999
(% ofGDP)                                  1                                   Growth mtes of output and Investmnent(%)
Agriculture                                 6.6      7.6       7.4     7.1      40
Industry                                   50.1    39.3       36.0    36.2      30
Manufacturing                            38.2    29.7         .20
Services                                   43.3    53.1       56.6    56.7   1 0,            _ 5
t04"   91   92   93   94   '        9
Private consumption                        58.1       ..      72.3    73.3    *20
General government consumption             12.6       ..       9.4     8.5
Imports of goods and services               6.0      6.3       8.5     9.3   [                GOI      GDP
1976-86  1986-96     1995    1996
(avwage annual growth)                                                         Growth nrtes of exports and Imports (%)
Agriculture                                 1.6      1.5       2.3     0.3    sao
Industry                                   -1.5      2.7      -8.5      4.9            r o
Manufacutuing                             -1.6     0.9
Servics                                     2.2      3.3      -3.0     4.6      40
Private consumption                           ..      ..      -8.6     5.7
Genral govemnt consumption                    ..      ..      -6.6    -5.4
Gross domestic investment                  -3.5      5.7    -11.9      5.4   ,2 0            Q
Imports of goods and services               2.4    14.5    -14.0    10.0
Gross national product                     -0.3      3.4      -5.1     4.0                   Exports  -0-Imports
Note: 1996 data are prelimiry estimates. Figures in italis are for years other than thoe spectred.
The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. In date are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Schedule E
31
Argentina
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Don,eatlc prices                           1975    1985      1995    1996   1nflan
(X change)                                 .                                    2 x  
ConmeIr prices                            182.6   672.3        3.4     0.1   i 2,000
Impliit GDOP deflator                     198.2   618.2        4.5     2.5    I.
1.0
Goveme nt financs
N Of GDP)                                                                        o_
Curent revenue                               ..       ..      16.7    16.5             9n   92   93   94  9e s
Cunwnt budget balance                         .       ,,      -0.2    -1-1   IGpo. C
Overdl surplus/dWci..                                  .      -1.1    -2.4 !
TRADE
197S    1rSs      1"S      1996
(mdWons USS)                                                                    Export and anport levels (mill. USS)
Totd exporls (fob)                        2,961    8,396    20,964   23,774    26s00
Food                                        ..      ..    1,969    2,203
Meat                                                       1582    1,955       ,o..
Manufack.es                                               10,836   12,004
Total inports (co)                        3,947    3,814    20,120   23,733
Food                                        ..      ..       80       8o
Fuel and enrwgy0                                                      s 
Capita goods                                .        *     4,746    5,647 
Exportpe idex (1987=100)                      .                        124
importprimceldex(1987=100)                    ..      ..      115      120                  oExpos   .Impwt
Termsoftrede(1987=100)                        ..      ..      102      103
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
1975    1955      1995    19"
(moons USs|                                                                     Curnnt account balance to GDP tio (%)
Expot of goods and serves                 3,498   10,039    23,889   27,076     2
Imports of goods and services             4,324    5,285    23,826   27,900
Resourc blance                             -26    4,754        63    -824       1
Not hcome                                  -466   -5,706    -2,941   -3,523    0 I].
Notcurrentransfhn                             6       0       432      334         o    r    92  t3  |  |
Current account balance,
before officia cpita tranfers           -1,286    -952    -2,446  -4,013    -2
Fhiandng Itms (net)                         208    Z200      2,515     231    43
Cheno  in net reserves                    1,078   -1,248       409    3,782    .4H
Resev  incudng gold (mill. USS)             848    4,703    15,992   19,774
Conveaon rate (JocbUSS)                 3.7E-10  6.oE-05       1.0      1.0
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1975    1986      1"S    11"6
(mons USS)                                                                     Compositon of total debt, 1995 (mill, US$)
Totl debt outstanding and disbursed       7,723   50,946    89,719   99,701
IBRI                                      341     700      4,913    5,372               G       A
IDA                                         0       0         0        0               10170   4913    C
6131
Totaldebtservice                          1,603    6,209     9,732   14,529                                  D
IBRt)                                      43     114       565      608
IDA                                         0       0         0        0
Compoetn of e                                                                                               1sc f
Offitlgrants                                0       6        36
Ofihiaedoms                                59     217      1,411       *\                              /
Pfivataredlrs                            -111    2.350     5,674       ..               '
Forein diect hwesten                        0     919      1,319       ..F
PorWiof equlty                              0       0       211        *Q
Wbdd Bank pogmrm
CommmenXt                                   0       0      2,272     946      A - IBRD                    . -as
DIsbursements                              19     144       941    1,077      B-mDA    0- Otd'ermithatrnA   F-PFlvat
Principalrepsynmet                         17      68       259      282      C-IMF                     G-ShtWtrm
Netfbws.  1                                        75       682      795   1
Intes payment                              26      46       306      326
Net   htrn                               -25      30       376      469
Development Economi                                                                                            8/28A7



I
I



PART H: TECHNICAL ANNEXES



32
ANNEx A: BIODIVERSITY ASSESSMENT
Prioritization of Sites from a Global Biodiversity Perspective
A. Background
1.    The Global Environment Facility's (GEF) mandate is to finance the incremental
costs of protecting biodiversity of global importance. This implied the need to prioritize
and rank different types of ecoregions or sites, and perhaps different types of biodiversity,
as to their global importance. Establishing these priorities required a ranking of the relative
importance of biological criteria such as richness, rarity, threat, distinctiveness,
representativeness, and function. This biological criteria was then balanced against social
and economic criteria, taking into account the range of conservation actions realistically
available to the user of the rankings as well as a number of investment feasibility criteria.
2.    The project preparation team took Annex 1 to the Convention on Biological
Diversity (CBD) as its starting point in the prioritization exercise. However, in practice, it
was found that the biodiversity criteria listed in Annex 1 were not sufficiently detailed to
provide definitive guidance on the setting of priorities for biodiversity. Consequently, a
methodology was developed, based on the CBD framework, to reach a final decision on
site selection.
B. AvDroach Used in this Proiect
3.    Several Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales (APN) studies have addressed the
question of national biodiversity priorities and, to varying degrees, these have also
addressed global priorities (Burkhart et. al., 1994; APN, 1994; Burkhart, 1995; G6mez et.
al., 1996). A recent report published by the World Bank and the World Wildlife Fund
(WWF) analyzed the question of global biodiversity priorities in all of Latin America
(Dinerstein et al., 1995). Moreover, carried out in close collaboration with APN and with
other Argentine biodiversity experts, a study on prioritizing sites for this project, from a
global and national viewpoint, was carried out as part of preparation activities (Bucher,
1996).
4.    Taking into account the general guidance of the GEF, the studies cited above, and
the fact that the Argentina Biodiversity Conservation Project (ABCP) is essentially a
protected areas initiative, an approach was developed emphasizing degrees of protection
and of threat for prioritizing ecoregions at a global level. Once the high-priority
ecoregions were identified, national biodiversity priorities and investment feasibility
criteria provided much of the basis for the identification of specific sites (Figure A-1). This
approach is believed to be consistent with the GEF Operational Strategy, and reflects



33                              Annex A
national opinion on the relative importance of different criteria. Specifically, it consisted of
three phases:
(a)   Phase I: The 18 ecoregions of Argentina were prioritized as to their global
importance;
(b)   Phase II: After selecting a more manageable subset of nine ecoregions, a
list of sites that could benefit from potential protection under the project
were identified from each ecoregion. Biological criteria, at both a global
and national level, were used to select sites of outstanding site-specific
biological characteristics; and
(c)   Phase III: Finally, the list of candidate sites was passed through a set of
filters designed to take into account investment and implementation
feasibility and potential for sustainability.
C. Phase I MethodoloLv and Results
Choice of Ecoregion Classification
5.    While various ecoregion level maps are available for Argentina, the classification
of a recent World Bank/WWF report (Dinerstein et al., 1995) was used in this selection
process because of its complete set of data from a regional perspective. This classification
of ecoregions is roughly consistent with most other Argentine classification systems. For
the purposes of this exercise, a distinction was made between the southern half of the
Chaco Savannas (essentially the Argentine Semi-arid Chaco) and the Chaco Savannas of
Paraguay and Bolivia. This division better represents the conservation status of the
Argentine Semi-arid Chaco as the northern Chaco Savannas are much better protected (in
Bolivia at least) and under relatively less threat.
6.    A few ecoregions, as defined for Argentina in Dinerstein et al. (1995), were not
considered in this exercise. These were:
*  the Brazilian Auracaria Forests because it is almost entirely restricted to
Brazil and barely occurs in Argentina (the extent in Argentina is actually much
less than shown in Dinerstein et al. (1995)).
*  the Uruguayan Savannas because it is almost entirely restricted to Uruguay
and Brazil.
*  the Patagonian Grasslands because, in deference to the views of most
Argentine biogeographers (e.g., Bucher, 1996; APN maps), this ecoregion is
not separable from the Patagonian Steppe.



34                                      Annex A
Figure A-1. Methodological Approach for Prioritizing Sites
PHASE 1: Identify
High Priority
Ecoregions
Criteria for ecoregions:
*Degree of Protection
*Degree of Threat
Criteria for site selection:
*Protected status would reduce threats  PSE 1: Identify
-Ecologically viable                      ndIdentes
*Natural habitat relatively pristine  r  Candidate Sites
Outstanding biological characteristics
Feasibility criteria for site sdection:
Cost
-Provincial support                 PHASE III: Identify
-Landowner support                     Project Sites
*Degree of preparedness
Project Sites
7.      Finally, an additional ecoregion, not included in Dinerstein et al. (1995) because it
is a non-terrestrial unit, was also included in this analysis. Although divided and named in
various ways by Argentine biogeographers, this additional region is referred to here as the
Littoral/Marine ecoregion. It consists of the littoral (shoreline) habitats of the entire coast
of Argentina, including associated coastal wetlands and offshore marine habitats. The 16
ecoregions (see Map 1) used as a starting point in this exercise were (names in parentheses
are the most commonly used equivalents in Argentina):
*   Andean Yungas (Yungas)
*   Brazilian Interior Atlantic Forests (Selva Paranaense)
*   Valdivian Forests (Subantdrtica)
*    Subpolar Nothofagus Forests (Subantartica)
*    Semi-arid Chaco (Chaco OccidentaI)
*   Humid Chaco (Chaco Oriental)
*   C6rdoba Montane Savannas (Chaco Serrano)
* Argentine Monte (Monte)
*   Argentina Espinal (Espinal)
*   Pampas (Pampa)



35                                Annex A
*   Parana Flooded Savannas (Delta y Islas del Parand)
*   Central Andean Puna (Puna y Altoandino)
*   Central Andean Dry Puna (Puna y Altoandino)
* Southern Andean Steppe (Estepa Patagonica)
* Patagonian Steppe (Estepa Patag6nica)
*   Litoral/Marine (Oceanica Uruguayo-Bonaerense/Ocetnica Patag6nica)
Methodology for Prioritizing Ecoregions and Results
8.    In the context of the ABCP, it was considered appropriate to accord considerable
importance to the degree of protection as well as to the degree of threat associated with
each ecoregion (in both cases, the ecoregions were evaluated over their entire area and not
just in their Argentine portion). This approach is less complex than that of Dinerstein et al.
(1995), yet the final results are similar.1 Figure A-2 presents the protection and threat
values of these two parameters for the 16 Argentine ecoregions.
9.     The degree of protection values were taken directly from Dinerstein, et al. (1995);
see that source for full details of how the values were determined. The "degree of threat"
values are the sum of all the values used in that book to determine the Snapshot
Conservation Status, minus the Degree of Protection Value (i.e., threat is measured by
taking into consideration habitat loss, presence of habitat blocks, fragmentation and
degradation, and degree of conversion). All values were taken unchanged from Dinerstein
et al. (1995), as they were in substantive agreement with the opinion of Argentine experts.
The values for the Parana Flooded Savannas and the Littoral/Marine ecoregion were
estimated by APN experts, since no data for this ecoregion were included in Dinerstein et
al. (1995). Similarly, the values for the Semi-arid Chaco of Argentina were estimated by
APN experts and by Bucher (1996) since, as defined here, this ecoregion is substantially
different from the original Chaco Savannas.
lRegional Conservation Priority values, from Class I (highest priority) to Class IV (lowest priority), were
calculated in the report of Dinerstein et al. (1995) for all of the ecoregions in Argentina. Nine of the 18
ecoregions were classed as Priority I; four of the proposed sites under this project fall in a Class I
ecoregion. Quebrada del Condorito is an area that falls within the Class IV C6rdoba Montane Savannas
ecoregion, but it should be noted that the Condorito site also harbors a biologically unique mix of
ecotones with higher priority ecoregion types such as the Yungas, the Pampas, and the Semi-arid Chaco.



36                                     Annex A
Figure A.2. Prioritization of Argentine Ecoregions from a Global
Perspective
Darker shading indicates
High  60                                                        po~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~orer protection and
pro n an  ahiieher threats. Selected
squares arecoregions (in black) are
.he ninconsidered highest priority
for consideration under
At    Brzla  neirAlni   oet
~~~ ~~GEF project
That   Paaona0Sep
30-                                Cordoba Montane Savannas
*~~tanw~v Central Andean Dry Puna
LOW      20  -."..                                                     ..
10 -niatlin
0
0     1      2      3      4      5     6      7      8      9     10
High  -4-   Degree of Protection        Low
10.    The darker shading on Figure A-2 indicates a relatively poorer degree of
protection and a higher level of threat. The selected higher priority ecoregions (the black
squares) are those that fall in the darker areas of the graph. From a global point of view,
the nine ecoregions selected using these criteria represent the most important candidates
for consideration under this project. These were:
*   Pampas
* Brazilian Interior Atlantic Forests
* Semi-arid Chaco
* Patagonian Steppe
* Argentine Espinal
*   Humnid Chaco
*   C6rdoba Montane Savannas
*   Littoral/Marine Habitats
* Central Andean Dry Puna



37                               Annex A
D. Phase H Methodology and Results
11.   The objective of Phase II of this analysis was to identify biologically interesting
candidate sites from each of the high priority ecoregions identified in Phase I. Additionally,
several freshwater wetland sites were included in the list of candidate sites since the
ecoregion approach excluded such areas. Criteria used to identify the list of candidate sites
were the following:
(a)    area of relatively pristine natural habitat, representative of the ecoregion in
which it is located;
J
(b)    area of sufficient size to be considered ecologically viable and large enough
to ensure conservation of ecological processes over the long term;
(c)   in the event that many potential sites were identified in an ecoregion, higher
consideration was given to those that were biologically most interesting
(relatively high species diversity, local center of endemism, or some other
outstanding biological characteristics); and
(d)   area under such inmuinent threat that protection would help ensure the
long-term ecological viability of the site.
12.   The list of sites was identified by APN experts, through a series of workshops and
meetings in Buenos Aires and elsewhere (Bucher, 1996). The potential wetland sites were
those identified by the Argentine office of the NGO Wetlands for the Americas using
criteria developed for the Ramsar Convention (Frazier, 1996). Thirty-two sites were
identified as a result of this exercise. Only cursory information is provided here on most
sites (Table A-1); complete descriptions for these sites can be found in Bucher (1996), a
copy of which is available in Project Files (Annex J).
E. Phase Im Methodologv and Results
13.   During the final phase of the prioritization exercise, the 32 candidate sites were
subjected to a series of filters to determine the interest of including them in the proposed
GEF project. It should be noted that at this point in the exercise, all sites were considered
to be of global biodiversity interest because they are located in the Argentine ecoregions
of the highest global interest (Phase I) and they are among the biologically most
interesting sites in their respective ecoregions (Phase II).
14.   During the Phase III prioritization of sites, criteria related to feasibility of the
investment were used in selecting a short list of project sites. Rather than a prioritization
ranking, the final selection was obtained by eliminating sites that did not meet minimal
feasibility criteria. Failure to satisfy any one of these thresholds meant that, at least within
the context of this particular GEF project, preparing a major protected area investment in
the area was not realistic. Table A-I shows rejected sites and the corresponding minimal
criteria they failed to meet (indicated by an X in that column). The criteria used were the
following:



38                             Annex A
(a)   Cost: The GEF investment cannot include land purchase costs. Since only
limited funds are available to APN for land purchase, this criterion led to
the rejection of sites with unreasonably high land purchase costs;
(b)   State of negotiations with the province: The protected area system in
Argentina is a complex mix of federal and provincial protected areas of
varying status. Generally, the creation of a new protected area in Argentina
is dependent on the support of the provincial government concerned. This
may involve legislative support for passing a law to cede the land in
question to the federal government or support for effective management in
areas under its own management. APN ranked the state of negotiations
with the concerned provinces in order to judge whether provincial support
was likely to be sufficient, through the life of the project and thereafter, to
attain key conservation objectives. Wetland sites in Tierra del Fuego (Costa
Atlantica de Tierra del Fuego) and C6rdoba (Mar Chiquita), proposed for
support in an early 1995 proposal to the GEF, were eliminated for lack of
provincial interest;
(c)   Local support: Some measure of support from local landowners and
communities was deemed essential. In the absence of such support,
expropriation procedures, where needed, could result in additional costs
and involuntary resettlement disputes. In some cases, the lack of local
community support could compromise the long-term sustainability of a
proposed protected area; and
(d)   Degree of preparedness: This five-year GEF project is expected to begin
disbursements in early 1998, hence there is a relatively small window of
time available for preparing and implementing investments. With this time
constraint in mind, a minimal preparedness criterion was established
whereby some sites were eliminated because they faced lengthy
administrative and legal steps for preparing an investment.
15.   After applying these selection criteria (Table A-1), five sites were selected for
investments under the GEF Project. Those five selected sites are: (a) Area Protegido Los
Venados (San Luis), (b) Area Protegido San Guillermo (San Juan), (c) Area Protegido
Copo (Santiago del Estero), (d) Area Protegido Quebrada del Condorito (Cordoba), and
(e) Area Protegido Monte Le6n (Santa Cruz). These selected areas are described in
greater detail in Annex B and in Bucher (1996).
16.   A few highly-rated sites were narrowly excluded only because of an insufficient
degree of preparedness. Two sites that were just barely excluded from inclusion in the
project were: (a) Puerto Peninsula, Missiones, in the Brazilian Interior Atlantic Forests
ecoregion (Selva Paranaense); and (b) Los Cardones, Salta, in the Central Andean Dry
Puna (Prepuna). These sites could be considered for a Phase II project, based of course
on a positive implementation experience with the project and satisfactory evaluation by the
independent experts.



39                            Annex A
References
Bucher, E. 1996. Proyecto GEF de Conservaci6n de la Biodiversidad en Argentina:
Identificaci6n y Priorizaci6n de Ecoregiones y Sitios de Importancia Global.
Report submitted to FAO, December, 1996. C6rdoba, Argentina.
Burkhart, R. et al. 1994. El Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas de la
Argentina. Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales. Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Burkhart, R. 1995. Degree of Threats and Protection, from a Global Perspective, of
Argentine Ecoregions. Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales (unpublished notes).
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Dinerstein, E., D. M. Olson, D. J. Graham, A. L. Webster, S. A. Primm, M. P.
Bookbinder, and G. Ledec. 1995. An Evaluation of the Conservation Status of the
Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America and the Caribbean. The World Bank (in
collaboration with the World Wildlife Fund). Washington, D.C.
Frazier, S. 1996. Visi6n General de los Sitios Ramsar en el Mundo. Wetlands
International, Publ. No. 39.
Global Environment Facility (GEF). 1996. Operational Strategy of the Global
Environment Facility. Global Environmental Facility. Washington, D.C.
G6mez, D. A., M. Babarskas, and A. Flores. 1996. Prioridades para el Establecimiento de
Nuevas Areas Nacionales Protegidas a Ser Incluidas en el Proyecto GEF.
Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales. Buenos Aires, Argentina.
Johnson, Nels C. 1995. Biodiversity in the Balance: Approaches to Setting Georgraphic
Conservation Priorities. Biodiversity Support Program. Washington, D.C.
Krapovickas, S., D. G6mez, M. Babarskas, and E. Haene. 1994. Analisis de Prioridades
Biogeograficas para la Ampliaci6n del Sistema de Areas Protegidas Nacionales en
Argentina. Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales, Informe de Avance. Buenos
Aires, Argentina.



40                                       Annex A
Table A.1. Principal Characteristics and Feasibility Analysis of Candidate Sites Identified During Phase II
Feasibility Criteriaa
Site Name                    Size                        Biological Characteristics                   Cost      Negot.         Local        Prepar-
(ha)                                                                             with Prov.     Support        edness
PAMPAS (PA MPA)
1. Los Venados (Pastizal Pampeano), San  130,000     Large area of relatively pristine dry Pampas; populations of the
Luis                                                 endangered Pampas Deer sub-species (Ozotoceros bezoarticus celer)
2. Rio Salado area, Buenos Aires      N/A            One of most pristine remaining areas of humnid pampa habitat;   X          X
seasonally flooded
3. Sierra de la Ventana, Buenos Aires  NIA           Small area relatively protected in Prav. Reserve Ernesto Torniquis;        X
area of upland pampa habitat; relict populations of guanaco
BRAZILIAN INTERIOR ATLANTIC FORESTS (SEL VA PARANAENSE)
4. Puerto Peninsula, Misiones (expansion    17,600   Property of the Army; protection would extend and constitute a buffer                                   X
of Iguazui National Park)                            to the adjacent Iguazui National Park
5. Yaboti, Misiones                   240,000        Largest relatively contiguous area of this ecoregion type in Argentina;  X                             X
privately owned and currently a biosphere reserve but not adequately
protected
SEMI-ARID CHACO (CHACO
OCCIDENTAL)
6. Copo, Santiago del Estero          115,000        One of the largest areas of pristine Chaco in Argentina; complete
range of representative communities; good populations of vulnerable
large mammnals such as jaguars, giant armadillo, etc.
7. Reserva Natural Formosa (expansion),    38,000    Extension to existing reserve of 10,000 ha (only existing national         X
Formosa                                              park in Semi-arid Chaco) would guarantee viability of original
reserve
8. El Rey (expansion), Salta/Jujuy    240,000        Extension to existmg park would incorporate many Yungas/Chaco                                          X
ecotones and establish a corridor with the now isolated Calilegua
National Park
9. La Piramide, Chaco                 N/A            Excellent state of conservation of Chaco-type quebrachal forests; rich    X
fauna and flora
10. Salto Forestal property near Joaquin  380,000    Previously sustainably managed for wood production; area largely  X                                    x
Gonz4lez, Salta                                      still well conserved; typical Chaco habitats



41                                      Annex A
Feasibility Criteria'
Site Name                    Sizea                       Biological Characteristics                   Cost      Negot.         Local        Prepar-
(ha)                                                                             with Prov.     Support         edness
PATAGONIAN STEPPE (ESTEPA PATAGWNICA)
11. Bosques Petrificados (expansion),  50,000        Extension to a Natural Monument; good sample of Patagonian Steppe  X                                    X
Santa Cruz                                           habitat; outstanding fossil beds
ARGENTINE ESPINAL (ESPINAL)
12. Luro, La Pampa                    N/A            Relatively protected as provincial park; good representative of            X                            X
Caldenes sub-ecoregion type; mosaic with Monte habitats
13. Montiel region, Entre-Rios        N/A            Good state of conservation despite extensive caftle raising;    X
representative Espinal habitats and communities
14. Loma (and Laguna) del Cristal, Santa    N/A      Combination of wetlands, woodlands and grasslands; relatively little  X
Fe                                                   affected by present cattle raising activities
15. Lihue Calel (expansion), La Pampa  12,500        Good representative of espinal habitat; distinctive brackish wetlands  X                                X
(salitrales)
HUMID CHACO (CHACO ORIENTAL)
16. Laguna El Palmar                  5,500          Mix of upland chaco habitat with seasonally flooded wetlands; only  X                                   X
marginally affected by cattle raising; very rich in fauna
17. Rio Vermejo area (Mesopotamia     200,000        Mix of Humid Chaco, Semi-Arid Chaco, wetlands, and gallery forest  X                                    X
Chaquena), Chaco                                     habitats; borders a well protected indigenous reserve
18. Parque Nacional Chaco (expansion),               Privately owned mix of well preserved forests, wetlands, and natural  X                  X
Chaco                                                grasslands
CORDOBA MONTANE SAVANNAS (CHACO SERRANO)
19. Quebrada del Condorito, Cordoba   181,000        Only serious candidate to become the first protected area in the
C6rdoba Montane Savannas; unique extra-Andean population of
Andean Condor, some endemics in this isolated massif
20. Talampaya Prov. Reserve, La Rioja  215,000       Part of this area is biogeographically linked to this ecoregion; also  X                                X
mcludes monte and pre-puna habitats



42                                       Annex A
Feasibility Criteria'
Site Name                    Sizea                        Biological Characteristics                   Cost       Negot.         Local        Prepar-
(ha)                                                                              with Prov.      Support        edness
CENTRAL ANDEAN DRY PUNA (PUNA/ALTOANDINO)
21. Laguna de los Pozuelos, Jujuy      100,000        Biosphere Reserve and Ramsar site; puna habitat surrounding                 X             X
wetland very important for migratory birds (such as three species of
flamingos)
22. San Guillermo, San Juan            860,000        Most southerly extension of Puna in Argentuua; large populations of
camelids (vicufias and guanacos)
23. Laguna Vilama, Jujuy               8,000          Similar to nearby Pozuelos site in biological characteristics; good         X             X
populations of vicufla, rheas, etc.; in addition to puna habitats,
includes an important wetland that seasonally is used by tens of
thousands of flamingos
24. Los Cardones, Salta                65,000         Good mixture of puna habitats, including stands of giant cacti  X                                        x
(cardones), Trichocereus pasacana
FRESHWATER WETLANDS
(HUMEDALES)
25. Mar Chiquita, C6rdoba              200,000        Brackish wetland internationally important for migratory birds;  X          X                            X
surrounding espinal and dry chaco habitats; threatened by
contamination and canal construction
26. Laguna Llancanelo, Mendoza         40,000         Ramsar site; good representation of monte and steppe habitats               X
27. Ibera (provincial reserve), Corientes    1,200,000  Wetland complex of wetland and chaco habitats; very rich in fauna:  X                   X
alligators, Pantanal deer, various felines, etc.
LITORAJAI  HABITATS (OCEANICA
URUGUAYO-BONAERENSE & OCEAAICA PATAG)NICA)
28. Bahia Policarpo, Tierra del Fuego  25,000         Well preserved littoral and steppe habitats, areas of subantarctic          X                            x
Nothofagus forests, and important wetlands
29. Monte Leon, Santa Cruz             11,000         Well conserved Patagonian Steppe habitat and also outstanding
littoral and marine habitats would be protected at this site; regionally
unportant colonies of penguins and sea lions
30. Albufera Mar Chiquita, Buenos Aires    30,000    Ecologically interesting coastal lagoon; important for migratory birds      X                             x
31. Costa Atlantica de Tierra del Fuego,  About 200 kn  Hemispheric site of the Western Hemisphere Shorebird Reserve             X
Tierra del Fuego                       of coastline   Network; coastal wetlands of outstanding imnportance
32. Punta Rasa, Buenos Aires           615           Inportant for migratory shorebirds                                          x                             x
a. An "X' in a feasibility column indicates that the site was judged to not satisfy the minimal feasibility criterion (see text for more details). Under Size, "N/A" is
indicated for the site when a general area or region or interest has been identified rather than a clearly definable site.



43
ANNEX B: PROTECTED AREAS AND ASSOCIATED SUPPORT COMPONENT
(US$ 19.1 million Base Costs2)
A. Rationale and Obiective
1.    Argentina's early management of its PAs could be characterized as "traditional" in
that emphasis was placed on direct protection by APN staff, with little if any public
participation. As evidence grew that this approach was no longer effective in addressing
threats undermining the integrity of PAs, APN initiated a new approach beginning in 1985
with the creation of Local Assessment Commissions (comisiones asesoras locales) with
the objective of increasing local public and private participation in the PA management
process. More recently, public participation and transparency in the management process
has been increasingly integrated into the development of management and visitor plans and
environmental impact assessments. The Argentina Biodiversity Conservation Project
(ABCP) provides an opportunity to reinforce these earlier efforts and contribute to the
development of new participatory approaches to help ensure long-term conservation of
protected areas. As such, the project will support: (i) the creation of five national parks to
protect unique ecosystems, and the biodiversity they contain; (ii) the promotion of
sustainable development activities in the provincial reserves and areas of influence around
the PA core zones; and (iii) the incorporation of stakeholders from the private and non-
governmental sectors in planning and decision-making activities, especially at the local
level.
B. Component Description
2.    The Protected Areas Component consists of three sub-components, namely: (i)
creation and consolidation of new protected areas, (ii) sustainable development activities
in the PAs' buffer zones, and (iii) public participation.
Sub-component 1: Creation and Consolidation of Protected Areas
3.    The ABCP will create five national protected areas in Argentina (See Map 1 for
their location). These are: (a) Area Protegido Los Venados (APLV); (b) the Area
Protegido San Guillermo (APSG); (c) the Area Protegido Copo (APC); (d) Area
Protegido Quebrada del Condorito (APQC); and (e) Area Protegido Monte Le6n
(APML). Each of these sites represents an area of high biological and ecological value of
global significance. All are threatened by one or more potential resource-use conflicts, and
all represent high priority conservation sites at both the national (APN) and provincial
levels (see Annex A for more detail on site selection). In the following discussion, the use
2 Base Costs are costs without price or physical contingencies.



44                             Annex B
of the term protected area (PA) as applied to these five sites implies an integrated
conservation unit consisting of a national park (core zone) and its associated buffer area
consisting of a national and/or provincial reserve.
4.    Area Protegido Los Venados (APLV). According to APN's own studies, the
pampas grasslands are the nation's most threatened biome because of conversion for
agricultural and grazing uses. The APN estimates that of the country's original 500,000
square kilometers of pampas, less than 0.2 percent remains in pristine condition, mostly in
isolated patches. Because this area is virtually absent from the current national system of
protected areas, APN has made it the agency's highest priority for project support.
5.    The pampas grasslands ecosystem is also important as habitat for one of
Argentina's most endangered species, the pampas deer (Ozotocerus bezoarticus), the
protection of which is a global priority. The proposed protected area is home to the most
important of the three remnant populations of the pampas sub-species of the deer, the
others being in the provinces of Buenos Aires and Corrientes. Until recently, the San Luis
Province population exists only because of the efforts of private, local land managers to
restrict access to their property and to control poaching. However, there is now a new
provincial law in place which provides additional protection to the deer. The major threats
to the remaining examples of this once vast ecoregion are:
(a)   Changing land use patterns. Economic pressures are contributing to
changes in ownership and land use patterns in the parnpas grasslands. Areas
that were formerly characterized by large land holdings that sustained
traditional grazing pressures are rapidly being transformed into smaller
ownership units characterized by increasing grazing pressure and
conversion to agricultural uses; both contributing to the contraction of the
ecoregion and loss of critical habitat of the pampas deer population;
(b)   Introduction of exotic grasses. To support more intensive grazing, many
owners have introduced exotic grasses, some species of which provide.
good forage for cattle but out-compete the native species. These exotic
grasses do not favor the continued existence of the pampas deer nor the
thousands of other distinctive and endemic species of plant and animals
characteristic of these habitats; and
(c)   Poaching of the pampas deer. While hunting is outlawed in San Luis
Province, the lack of enforcement has permitted considerable pressure on
this endangered species.
6.    This proposed PA is located in San Luis Province and represents one of the few
areas of natural grasslands remaining in the country. The APLV will consist of a core
national park area of approximately 30,000 ha, one of the only remaining pristine
grassland areas in the pampas. The park will be surrounded by national and provincial
reserves measuring approximately 30,000 and 70,000 ha respectively, plus an additional
45,000 ha in the form of an existing private reserve managed iLy a national NGO



45                            Annex B
(Fundaci6n de Vida Silvestre- FVSA). At present, this area is entirely privately owned.
Existing control measures consist of infrequent visits from the provincial flora and fauna
inspectors, while INTA technicians provide technical advice to the local agricultural
community. However, a recent agreement has been signed between the President of the
Nation and the Governor of San Luis Province which outlines the necessary steps leading
to the creation of new protected area.
7.    The proposed management activities to be supported in the APLV will differ
according to category of protection. These are:
(a)   National park. The management strategy will be based on a policy of strict
protection, but will make provision for the possibility of low-impact visits.
Following the completion of land acquisition, cattle would be gradually
eliminated from the park. Park rangers would be hired and would patrol the
area to control access, poaching and other types of illegal activity, and
manage visitor use. These rangers would conduct basic inventory and
monitoring activities, paying special attention to the condition of the
pristine grasslands and the number and distribution of the pampas deer. The
project would develop partnerships with the local scientific community to
monitor the effects of park management on the pampas deer and to monitor
the incidence of grassland fire in the core area; and a
(b)   National and provincial reserve. The reserve would be managed as a buffer
zone for the core area, with management objectives emphasizing the
control of productive activities through implementation of restrictions on
use established through mutual agreement between APN and provincial
authorities. Permitted activities would include visitor use such as picnicking
and camping. Grazing would continue in the reserve, but would be
managed under APN guidelines, which would be developed in cooperation
with INTA and others in the scientific community. Other likely activities to
be supported in the reserve would include: (i) the provision of technical
assistance aimed at reducing fertilizer and pesticide use, (ii) the promotion
of micro-enterprises to serve visitor needs, and (iii) efforts to enhance
environmental consciousness. APN and the province will establish
cooperative mechanisms to ensure that local residents understand the
importance of eliminating activities detrimental to conservation objectives.
8.    Of the total 175,000 ha representing the proposed PA, only the approximately
30,000 ha designated as the national park would be purchased by APN. Currently, there
are two families living within the park's boundaries. Under the project, APN will allow
these families to remain and will begin to assist them at the time the land changes hands.
This assistance is detailed in the Mitigation Plan (MP) in Annex E. The remaining land
outside the core area would remain under private ownership, subject to restrictions
established by APN and relevant provincial institutions.



46                             Annex B
9.   Area Protegido San Guillermo (APSG). The proposed Area Protegido San
Guillermo (APSG), located in San Juan Province, was originally established as a
provincial reserve in 1972. Because of its large population of vicufia (Vicugna vicugna),
an endangered species, and guanacos (Lama guanicoe), a threatened species, UNESCO
declared this a biosphere reserve in 1984. The most important ecosystem of the APSG is
the Andean puna, which reaches its southernmost extension in the proposed PA. The
Argentine section of the puna is characterized by sparse rainfall, relatively low
temperatures, extreme daily temperature change (more than 30 degrees Celsius in some
cases), and high winds. The reserve contains high mountain valleys and deep canyons,
with permanent snow fields in its northernmost extension of the interior mountain ranges.
Recently, important archaeological sites, including traces of pre-Spanish Inca, were
discovered in the proposed area.
10.   The APN considers the Andean puna to be under-represented in the national park
system, and a recent study characterized the APSG as both nationally and regionally
significant due to the high degree of biodiversity and endemic species associated with the
southernmost extension of the puna. The San Guillermo site is thought to contain up to 50
percent of the remaining Argentine population of vicufias, and it is only one of two places
in Argentina where vicufia and guanaco inhabit the same range. A recent study concluded
that San Guillermo, because of the difficulty of access and the protection that it has been
afforded due to its status as a provincial and biosphere reserve, is perhaps the least altered
example of the puna in the Andean region. The most significant threats to the proposed
PA are:
(a)   Poaching of vicufia and guanaco. Illegal hunting is widespread in the
proposed area. Poachers enter on horseback and easily escape detection
because of the vast distances and the lack of effective protection; and
(b)   Potential mining conflicts. There is some gold mining exploration in the
area; an activity allowed under claims filed by these entities with the
provincial Sub-Secretaria de Mineria. While the proposed national park
appears to have little mining potential and is encumbered with only a few
claims and prospecting activity, rights which will shortly expire, the buffer
and multiple use zones do have claims. Among other institutional
safeguards, the recently approved national mining law (Ley Nacional No.
24.585/95) requires the preparation of an environmental impact study,
which must be accompanied by appropriate mitigation measures.
11.   The proposed PA of some 834,000 ha will consist of a national park of
approximately 170,000 ha, a provincial reserve of 294,000 ha, and a multiple use zone of
370,000 ha on the northern, western, and southern sides of the park. The proposed area
which has been proposed as a national park has already been ceded to the Nation (Ley
Provincial No. 6.788/97). The degree of protection of the existing reserve has varied over
time, depending on the availability of provincial resources to support patrol and control
activities. At present, protection appears to be almost non-existent.



47                              Annex B
12.   Management activities supported under the project will be compatible with the
following designated zone management categories. These are:
(a)   National park. Emphasis will be placed on the protection of the natural and
cultural resources within the 170,000-ha core area. These would include
strict control of major access points, roving patrols within the core area,
prohibition of agricultural, grazing, and mining activities, control of
poaching, basic inventory and monitoring activities, management of visitor
use, and launching of necessary planning activities with the participation of
appropriate interest groups. Mining activities would also be strictly
prohibited in this area. The core zone could serve as a baseline to monitor
impacts of human activities in the two designated reserves;
(b)   Buffer zone. The province will manage the 294,000-ha provincial reserve
primarily as a buffer to provide additional protection to the proposed
national park. The current agreement between the Governor and the
President of the Nation commits the province to limit development
activities in this zone to those which would represent no threat to the core
zone. The law ceding the jurisdiction of the land for the national park also
stipulates that mining processing would not be allowed. In this area,
characterized by a limited human presence, the project would support
sustainable land use practices; and
(c)   Multiple use zone. Activities in the 370,000-ha multiple use zone will be
managed by the Province. While due to the local phyisography no rivers
flow from the zone into the core area, any potential mining operations
would nevertheless require the development of an environmental mitigation
plan as stipulated in the mining code (see below).
13.   Its is also important to note the protected areas conditionality in the ongoing
Mining Development Technical Assistance Project (Loan 3927-AR), which the Bank
could use as leverage if needed to protect the GEF's proposed investments in the
Biosphere Reserve under the Biodiversity project. Specifically, the Loan Agreement for
the mining TA project requires the Borrower to: (i) ensure that no permits are issued for
mining activities at any location that may affect materially and adversely, in the opinion of
the Bank, the national Protected areas (Section 3.10 (b); and (ii) prohibit any mining
permits within Provincial Protected Areas (including the San Guillermo Provincial
Reserve/Buffer Zone) with narrowly-defined exceptions subject to the Bank's approval
(Section 5.01 (e)).
14.   Area Protegido Copo (APC). The proposed PA, protecting a portion of the
semiarid Chaco and located in the Province of Santiago de Estero, corresponds to the
Copo Provincial Reserve created in 1968. Since very little of this ecosystem exists in its
pristine state, a 1995 study concluded that its protection was one of the highest regional



48                               Annex B
priorities for the conservation of the biodiversity of the continent3. Rare and endangered
species characteristic of this ecosystem include: the jaguar (Panthera onca), a species of
peccary (Parachoerus wagneri), the giant anteater (Myrmecophaga tridactyla), and the
giant armadillo (Priodontes giganteus). The semiarid Chaco also contains some 200-3 00
species of birds and numerous reptiles. Past efforts to protect this highly vulnerable
ecosystem (e.g., the Reserva Natural Formosa) have been insufficient to guarantee
conservation of large tracts of this habitat.
15.   For the last several decades, this ecoregion has been degraded by human pressure
on its forest resources, which were initially used in the production of tannin and railroad
ties and more recently, for fence posts and charcoal. At the same time, forest resources
were undergoing additional pressure due to the conversion of forested area to agricultural
and grazing lands. The most significant threats to the proposed APC are:
(a)   Poaching. Wildlife poaching has been on the increase since petroleum
exploration roads were constructed in the late 1 980s;
(b)   Poor forest management. The access roads have also facilitated the
uncontrolled cutting and extraction of forest products, in particular
firewood and charcoal;
(c)    Grazing and agricultural activities: The magnitude and significance of these
activities, which are beginning to affect the peripheral areas of the
proposed PA, have not been well studied and are not fully understood.
However, if these activities continue unabated in the reserve area, there is a
risk that the ecological value of the buffer zone will be undermined and
hence may pose a threat to the core area itself, and
(d)   Unattended fires. APN reports an increased incidence of uncontrolled fires
in the region, which are primarily started by local people to maintain and
clear new lands for agricultural production.
16.   The project will support the establishment of a PA consisting of a total area of
approximately 180,000 ha. The core area would measure 114,250 ha and will consist of a
national park and reserve. Under the project, APN will allow five families currently
occupying these lands in the core area to remain, and will provide them with assistance to
improve their standard of living through the provision of technical assistance for agro-
forestry and improved housing. APN will also hire family members to work as park guards
and firefighters. This assistance is detailed in the Mitigation Plan in Annex E. In addition,
the province would create a provincial reserve of approximately 65,000 ha around the
southern and western edges of this core area, which would serve as a buffer zone. The
following management activities would be supported by the project:
3See Dinerstein et al., 1995. A Conservation Assessment of the Terrestrial Ecoregions of Latin America
and the Caribbean (World Bank/World Wildlife Fund, 1995).



49                             Annex B
(a)   National park. APN would manage the core area as a national park, with
traditional objectives of protection and control, emphasizing the prevention
of wood extraction, illegal hunting, and cattle grazing. These management
activities would include extended daily patrols to control human access and
prevent illegal activities within the core zone. APN would also be
responsible for monitoring activities to determine the health of the
ecosystem and the number and distribution of the endangered species in the
project area. APN would be further responsible for the preparation of
management plans and annual operation plans that would consider such
topics as project zoning, visitor use, community participation, institutional
coordination, and public information and environmental education.
Through its work in the core zone, APN would develop technical
cooperation with provincial governments and private sector organizations.
The core area would be internally zoned to include a small national reserve
which would be managed by APN under its national policies; and
(b)   Provincial reserve. In the provincial reserve, the project would focus on
sustainable use, such as restoration and recovery of native forests, remnant
species management, improved forest and grazing management, bee
keeping, and ecotourism. To convince local people of the importance of
these conservation activities, APN would initiate public information and
environmental education programs oriented to people who live in or
around the provincial reserve.
17.   Under the current proposal, the eastern and northern borders of the core area may
not be adequately buffered, suggesting that a larger protected area would likely be a
necessity in the future. In recognition of this concern, APN has recently initiated a series
of field activities in the relevant areas to better understand the existing situation. APN
intends to hold discussions with provincial authorities in the neighboring Chaco Province
as the next step to this eventual expansion.
18.   Area Profegido Quebrada del Condorito (APOC). The proposed PA would
protect important features of the landscape known as the Pampa de Achala, and would
consist of a national park and provincial reserve situated in the Sierras of C6rdoba. This
section of the Sierras is geographically complex, featuring major watersheds feeding
agricultural areas. These watersheds have formed major canyons which include the
quebradas of El Condorito, Batan, del Sur, Corralejo, and Yatdn. The PA is in the middle
of the distinctive C6rdoba Montane Savannas ecoregion and is bounded by the Andean
highlands (northwest), the Chaco (northeast), the Pampas (southeast), and by the Cuyo
and Patagonia (southwest), which makes it a unique transition zone for flora and fauna
from all these regions. Despite the PA's relatively small size, one can find within its stark
landscape a unique mix of plant and animal life that are typical of other regions of
Argentina but that thrive here due to its central location.
19.   The major threat to the proposed PA is poor land management practices.
Specifically, years of overgrazing, deforestation and indiscriminate burning have caused



50                              Annex B
major environmental problems in the project area. There is evidence of serious erosion,
destruction of riparian habitat, and degradation of vegetation cover.
20.   The total area of the APQC is an estimated 183,000 ha, consisting of a core
national park measuring approximately 37,000 ha and a provincial reserve measuring
146,000 ha. The management activities that will be supported under the component are:
(a)   National park. Meeting the objective of conserving globally important
biodiversity requires that the vast majority of the land within the proposed
boundaries passes into public ownership, thus removing the possibility of
poor land management by private owners. Once under public ownership,
the park could be used for public purposes, such as camping and hiking. It
could also be used as an outdoor laboratory for environmental education,
and use as a research site to study vegetation succession and species
reintroduction. Moreover, the proposed park would be used to help forge a
new community consensus on the importance of preserving and protecting
the area's biodiversity; and
(b)   Provincial reserve. While the objective of preserving biodiversity would be
central to the management of the provincial reserve, the priority
management goal would be to integrate protection and production
objectives into traditional land use activities. Land would remain under
private ownership and property owners would receive training, technical
and financial support for the introduction of sustainable agriculture and
grazing. These landowners and other local community members with direct
interest in the reserve would be invited to play substantive roles in the
planning and decision-making processes related to resource management.
21.   The core area was declared a national park in 1996 (Ley Provincial 8486; Ley de
la Naci6n 24749/96). As a result, the land comprising the national park is now under
national jurisdiction. Nevertheless, the land is still held in private hands and APN will need
to begin the required legal process to formally acquire the 37,000 ha core area. Access to
the protected area is controlled by private owners who currently permit some recreational
use. Although grazing use has diminished due to reduced carrying capacity, most of the
area is still grazed. Currently, there are eight families living within the park's boundaries.
Under the project, APN will allow these families to remain and will assist them when their
current work for landowners ceases. This assistance is detailed in the MP.
22.   Area Protegido Monte Le6n (APML). The proposed APML PA is designed to
protect Patagonian coastal wildlife and avian populations--which are some of the least
protected in Argentina-- in the province of Santa Cruz. The project area is typical of the
zone, with the steppes of the Patagonian plains sweeping down to the steep cliffs of the
shoreline, ending in the rocky beaches typical of the southern Argentine coast. The
coastline cliffs have been sculpted over the centuries by the action of the sea and by the
runoff from the steppes, leaving a series of canyons, grottos, and caves. The importance



51                              Annex B
given locally to the ecosystem has been underscored by the recent creation of a provincial
reserve.
23.   Central to the proposal to create the new PA is the preservation and protection of
several important species that inhabit the protected area. The proposed area contains
important penguin (Spheniscus magellanicus), cormorant and tern nesting areas, and a
breeding ground for a species of sea lion (Otariaflavescens). Because of the relative
isolation of the project area, the distribution and stability of the populations of these
species are not well understood. Substantial inventory and species monitoring work
remains to be done.
24.   The major threats to the PA are:
(a)   Illegal guano mining. The protected area is home to at least two large
populations of nesting birds. The guano produced is collected for fertilizer,
and these incursions into the PA disturb the birds during their nesting
period, thus potentially causing seasonal reproductive failures; and
(b)   Uncontrolled visitor use. Currently visitor use is permitted in the southern
end of the proposed PA but, because of resource constraints, there is
inadequate control of visitor movement, which leads to the disturbance of
the wildlife.
25.   The proposed PA will consist of a combined national park and reserve of
approximately 7,000 ha. The seaward boundary has yet to be defined, but could extend
out about three miles from shore. The national park designation would include the areas at
the extreme ends of the proposed reserve, closest to the major wildlife population areas.
These two sites would be connected by a national reserve. To avoid conflicts with
traditional grazing uses, an agreement has been reached whereby, over a period limited to
30 years, APN would allow the existing two landowners to use winter pastures near the
ocean, which are free from snow during the cold weather months.
26.   The project would support the following management activities:
(a)   National park. The principal management objective of the proposed
national park would be to protect and preserve globally significant
biodiversity contained within the project boundaries. An important step to
achieve this objective would be to establish the national park as a
conservation model for the provinces that contain Patagonian coastal
wildlife. Provincial conservation officials could use the park as a source of
technical and management information to build their own conservation and
visitor management programs. The park would also serve to stimulate
scientific research on ecosystems that are not well understood, especially
for wildlife populations that have fluctuated considerably over time; and



52                             Annex B
(b)   National reserve. The purpose of the national reserve would be to control
visitor activities while still allowing local landowners access to winter
pastures.
27.   Unlike the other four PAs to be supported under this program, the APML core
area will not be buffered by a provincial reserve; rather it will be protected by private lands
through which access is limited. These lands are currently grazed by livestock, and this use
presents little threat to the most important biological resources of the proposed park.
Management and Implementation of the Sub-component.
28.   Implementation of New Parks. The proposed phasing for the implementation of
the sub-component reflects a compromise between APN's capacity to manage the creation
and development of multiple parks and meeting expectations in provincial capitals and in
local communities. The schedule takes into account that two parks have already been
legally created (San Guillermo and Condorito) and are therefore most appropriate for the
first investments under the project. APN proposes to implement the protected area
projects in the following sequence: (a) Areas Protegido San Guillermo and Quebrada del
Condorito would be developed in project year 1; (b) Areas Protegido Los Venados and
Monte Le6n would be developed in project year 2; and (c) Area Protegido Copo would be
developed starting in project year 3. For the three areas scheduled for project support in
years 2 and 3, provision has nevertheless been made to establish a minimal institutional
presence in year 1, together with the necessary basic support (e.g., park guard residences,
vehicles, and communication system), to facilitate essential management and control
functions.
29.   Following the legal creation of each park, APN will follow a logical sequence of
steps in the implementation of activities leading to the establishment of an effective
management regime. These steps are outlined in the following table.



53                                  Annex B
Table B-1. Proposed Sequence of Steps leading to the Establishment of an Effective PA
Management Regime
Steps                                         Priority Actions
Establish an institutional structure for basic protection  1. Assign personnel and minimum equipment
of the PA                                      2. Organize a vigilance and control program
3. Provide basic infrastructure and equipment to implement
l___________________________________________  _program
Develop community relations                    1. Resolve problems of displaced people
2. Begin to identify interest groups
3. Identify potential members of the comisi6n consultiva
4. Begin environmental education program
Implement the planning process to be used for  1. Review available information and design studies to collect
preparation of the initial management plans and  additional information
annual operating plans (POAs)                  2. Involve the groups and institutions which will participate in
the process
Analyze the most serious resource threats and the  1. Quantify the threats in terms of seriousness and immediacy
most critical social problems                  2. Conduct the necessary social inventories and interviews to
understand the relationship between the park and the local
communities
Identify and develop public visitation opportunities  1. Develop means of access and trails
2. Provide basic interpretation infrastructure
Design social and environmental mitigation plans  1. Design MPs
(tMPs)                                         2. Assign the necessary specialists to effectively monitor the
MPs
3. Publicize results
4. Evaluate and periodically modify MPs
Support the project-financed sustainable use activities   1. Stimulate community interest in proposing sustainable
development projects and programs
2. Fine tune the procedures to be followed by the comisi6n
consultiva
3. Schedule the necessary meetings for the approval process
Establish the long-range PA planning process   1. Establish the working groups
2. Identify and access any necessary assistance (e.g., from the
Delegaci6n Tecnica Regional)
3. Involve appropriate interest groups
4. Design the communication channels
5. Consult with the comisiones consultivas
Execute long-range biodiversity monitoring programs   1. Select indicator species
2. Design the programs to be used
3. Enter into collaborative agreements with scientific
community.
4. Budget for the activity
Prepare the public information program         1. Determine the information to be disseminated
2. Determine audience
3. Design the appropriate media and implement program
30.   Environmental Reviews. Under the mandate established in Law No 22.351 and
resolution No. 16/94, APN requires that an environmental assessment be carried out for



54                                    Annex B
every investment in protected areas under its jurisdiction, including the construction and
maintenance of public services and tourist infrastructure. The requirements and
administrative procedures are outlined in APN's Reglamento para la Evaluaci6n del
Impacto Ambiental en Areas de la Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales, a copy of
which is available in the Project Files.
31.    Each investment is screened and a decision is made on whether it requires: (i) a full
Estudio de Impacto Ambiental (EIA), required for investments that are approximately
equivalent to what the Bank would classify as an "A" category investment; (ii) a less
detailed Informe de Impacto Ambiental (IIA), approximately equivalent to what the Bank
would classify as a "B" category project with potentially significant impacts; and (iii) an
Informe Medioambiental (IMA) for investments with very minor environmental impacts.
The Reglamento outlines the required content for each of these reports; that content is
consistent with World Bank requirements as outlined in the Operational Directive 4.01 on
Environmental Assessment.
32.    Under current administrative arrangements, the EIA, IIA or IMA will be prepared
by APN staff or by consultants. The products of each of the analyses are submitted to the
APN central directorate prior to taking a decision on the investments. In the case of an
EIA, the Directorate appoints an evaluation commission composed of recognized experts
to assist with the review. Following this external review, public consultation is solicited
through notices in national and local newspapers prior to final authorization.
33.    Under the project, most of the investments involve small works and repair to
existing roads only and therefore would require either an HA or an JIMA. The total
estimated costs for environmental reviews is US$150,000 and have been itemized in Table
B-2 and included in project costs in Table B-4.
Table B-2. Estimated Level of Effort and Costs for Environment Review
US$'0oo)
Protected Area                                         Number of Studies   Estimated Level  Estimated Costs
per Environmental   of Effort (p/m)  (USS,OOO)'
Category
Type of Development Activities  EIA  IIA  IMA
Area Protegido Los  Rehabilitation of roads and houses; construction  4  -    5             25
Venados           of offices, houses, trails, and lookouts and other
small works
A rea Protegido San  Rehabilitation of roads, offices, and houses;  3  -      8             40
Guillermo          construction of offices, houses, trails, and other
small works
Area Protegido Copo    Rehabilitation of roads and construction of  -  5  -   6             30
houses, research center, trails and provision of
4Estimated person-month costs consists of salary @US$3,500 per month, local travel@US$350 per trip,
and per diem @ US$90.



55                                                 Annex B
basic services
Area Protegido           Rehabilitation of roads and construction of       -      3        1             4                  20
Quebrada del             houses, garages, reception center, trails and
Condorito                provision of basic services
Area Protegido Monte    Rehabilitation of roads and construction of        -       6       -             7                   35
Le6n                     houses, offices, research certer and trails
Totals                                                                                          30                 150
Cost Estimates of Sub-Component 1
34.   Investments for the five PAs have been estimated on a basis that provides the
minimum support required to protect and manage each park, as itemized in Table B-3.
The estimated costs for the sub-component are provided in Table B-4.



56                               Annex B
Table B-3. Major Investments to be Supported under the ABCP.
Protected Area
Investment              Los         San        Copo      Quebrada    Monte
Venados    Guillermo    (APC)         del        Le6n
(APLV)      (APSG)                 Condori to   (APML)
_______         ______     ~(APQC)
Civil Works
Offices (new and             360 rn2     470 in2      420 rn     460 mi2      250m2
renovations)5
Housing (new and             400 M2      380 m2       360 M2     500 M2
renovations)6 '
Refuiges/Patrol Cabins       -            80 rn2      -          120 in2      190 
Visitor Rest Houses          -            80 m2       180 in2    -
Equipment Sheds                    -                  -          100 M2
Control Posts                45 i2                               40 m2
Camping Sites                            -                       30 m2
Road and Trails
Interpretative Trails        1 (15 km)   1 (7 km)     1 (10 kin)  1 (9.1 km)   1 (1 km)
Road Repairs                 1 (25 km)   1 (100 km)  1 (10 km)  1 (2.5 km)   1 (20
Other Small Infrastructure                           _                       _ _X
Fencing                      1 (16 kIn)   -           1 (30 km) -            _
Observation Points           1           -            -         -             3
Corrals                                  -            2         -             _
Garages                                  2            1         -             1
Installation Services                   1-            - 
Vehicles                                                   _
Trucks                            1_     -            -          -            I
Pick-ups                     3            2           3          3            3
Jeeps                                     3           -          -
Motorcycles                  1            1           2          1            1
Horses                       8           16           8          10           3
Boats                               1_-                          -            I
Equipment                                                             :                 l
Tractors                     1                        1          1                      l
Mobile Homes                             2            1          1            _
Computers                    2           2            1          2            1
Communications               1           2 -          1          1            1
In some cases these structures include combined interpretation and/or reception centers.
6
Housing for superintendents and parkguards.



57                            Annex B
Fire Protection Equipment  1         -           1                     1
| Interpretative Equipment  1         2           2         2           1
Audio-visual Equipment     1         -           2         2           1
Garage/Workshop Equipment  -                                           1



58                            Annex B
Table B-4. Base Costs for the Creation PA Sub-component (US$'000)
Input Description                 GEF    GOA       Total
Land Purchase, consisting of a total of 244,000 ha at an  -  6,454   6,454
average cost of US$26.45/ ha.
Civil Works, consisting of a total of 4,785 m2 at an  2,362    287    2,649
average cost of US$490/m2 and 13 small park
infrastructure works (worksheds, fencing, etc.) at an
average cost of US$22,470/structure)
Road Rehabilitation of 157.5 km at an average cost of US$  562  118    680
3,952./km and 42.1 km of park trails at and average cost
of US$ 1,368/km.
Vehicles (14 pick-ups at US$ 33,000/pu; 6 motorcycles at  573  121    694
average cost of US$ 6,080; 45 horses at average cost of
S$400/horse; 1 truck at US$45,000; 3 jeeps at
US$40,000/jeep; and I inflatable boat at US$ 12,000).,
Other machinery and equipment                     500      106    606
Locally contracted consultants: 103 p/m at US$3,500 for    361  -  361
preparation of legal documents to establish PAs, boundary
demarcation and mapping, and the preparation and
implementation of PA operational plans and other activities
to support PA creation and management.
Locally recruited consultants for EIA Studies: 30 p/m at    150    150
US$5,000 (including fees and expenses).
Locally recruited consultants for engineering design of  322       322
small construction works: 92 p/m at US$3,500
Locally recruited consultants (including task costs) for  497      497
special projects and studies, incorporating local scientific
and community groups in park management and
monitoring activities (this would include biodiversity
baseline studies and threat analyses): 142 p/m at
US$3,500.                                                      .
Contracted Personnel, consisting of intendentes (204 p/m    -  1,784   1,784
at US$2,500/month), parkguards (492 p/m at
US$1,800/month), baqueanos (204 p/m at
US$600/month) and administrative personnel (222 p/m at
US$1,200/month).
Operation and Maintenance, including materials and  1,381    290    1,671
supplies and related services (e.g., office cleaning and
printing costs); vehicle operational costs for 1,246 million
km at .40/km (US$498,400); maintenance of vehicles,
buildings, and roads (US$244,000); APN per diem for
3,450 days at US$90 per day and 2,580 days at US$45 per
day (US$426,000); public services (US$220,400) and
other expenses (US$282,000).



59                             Annex B
Total Base Costs                                   6,708    9,160   15,868 
Sub-Component 2: Buffer Zone Biodiversity Activities
35.   The creation of new protected areas is necessary but alone is not a sufficient
condition to ensure the long-term conservation of the country's biodiversity. Past
experiences in Argentina and elsewhere have demonstrated that the failure to elicit
community interest and support for the PA can undermine the achievement of
conservation objectives. To achieve the project's objectives, APN must strengthen the
linkages between the protected areas and local social and economic development. One
way to promote this is to work with communities to establish stable and compatible
production systems on lands immediately outside the core areas of the PAs (i.e., buffer
zones). While the threats to core areas from buffer zone activities in Argentina are
generally considered to be less serious than those in other countries, small scale
investments with communities living in buffer zones should help enlist community support
for and participation in protected area management. At the same time, through increased
community involvement, APN will receive valuable input into the design of strategies that
address both biodiversity conservation and local development.
36.   Under this sub-component, APN and its counterpart institutions will undertake
activities designed to identify and test sustainable land use practices in areas adjacent to
the project's core national parks. Specifically, resources would be made available to
support activities intended to identify and promote changes in land use in reserve areas
leading to stable, sustained economic development compatible with conservation
objectives. Activities supported under this sub-component can be broadly divided into
three categories: studies, pilot natural resources activities, and extension activities
emphasizing environmental education and information dissemination (examples of the type
of activities that could be supported under the project are presented in the Implementation
Manual). While sub-component support would be made available to communities in buffer
zones of all project PAs, in light of the greater degree of threat to biodiversity resources of
Los Venados, Copo, and Quebrada del Condorito PAs, most activities will likely be
concentrated in these three buffer zones.
37.   Following the implementation of a PA-specific public awareness campaign
presenting the overall project context and basic principles of conservation and sustainable
development, APN will be responsible for disseminating the relevant information to the
public, specifying the objectives and procedures of the sub-component. Proposals would
be submitted on a competitive basis and evaluated and approved using the foliowing
general criteria: (i) degree to which the proposed activity contributes to biodiversity
conservation objectives, (ii) technical soundness and quality, (iii) economic/financial
viability, (iv) arguments of sustainability, (v) community support for the proposal, (vi)
level of co-financing; and (vii) capacity to successfully implement the proposal. The buffer
zone activities are designed to have positive environmental impacts and any potential
adverse impacts would be screened out during the selection process.



60                                               Annex B
38.      Proposal submission would be open to all interested parties including NGOs,
research institutions, and farmers, the latter probably in associative arrangements. The
PA's respective comision consultiva (see below) will have the responsibility to initially
evaluate the proposals following the established evaluation and selection criteria (see
Attachment to this annex). Recommended proposals will be forwarded to APN for further
evaluation; final approval would require the written agreement of the APN, the APN
national project director and project technical manager. Following approval, a contract
would be signed between APN and the successful bidder. The APN, through the Project
Unit (PU), would monitor each contract and make payments as warranted (see Annex D
for more details). Compliance would be audited by a consultant acceptable to the Bank.
The provinces will play an important role in project selection through their participation in
the comisi6n consultivas (CCs), and also participate in the supervision of sub-component
activities under the responsibility of APN.
39.       The Social Assessment Specialist (SAS), which will be cost-shared with the public
participation sub-component (see below), will assist the PU in implementing this sub-
component. The estimated costs for the sub-component are provided in Table B-5.
Table B-5. Base Costs for the Buffer Zone Activities Sub-component (US$'000)
Input Description                       GEF    GOA    Beneficiaries    Total
I .................................... .......................  ....................   ...........I..........   ...... .... .  ...............................   .................
One half-time, national                   105                                             105
consultant specialist in
social assessment and public
participation for 5 years at
US$42,000/year.
I............... ...... ..... ........ .............. ...... ...................... ....................... ............. ......... .................... .........
| Buffer zone activities                743         82           400                     1,225
consisting of an estimated
42 pilot activities at
US$17,000/each and
extension activities in four
PA at a cost estimated at
US$103,420 per year.
l........I............................    .....................   ......................   ............................................  .............................l
lOperation and Maintenance   85                      19                                   104
consisting of an estimated
50 trips at US$300/trip and
150 days of per diem at
US$90.00 per day and other
expenses of US$75,000.
l .....................    .......................  ......          .....................................   ............................. 
Total Base Costs                        933 .... ... . 101........... 4,00                1,434



61                             Annex B
Sub-Comnonent 3: Public Particination (Public Particination Plan)
40.   Promoting active public participation in the planning and management of protected
areas is increasingly recognized as a critical factor in building a successful conservation
strategy. During the project preparation phase, APN undertook a Social Assessment (SA),
which involved the collection of primary data through interviews and surveys of key
stakeholders in both core areas and buffer zones (Annex E). These data served as an input
into the preparation of a Public Participation Plan (PP). The PP, which is summarized here
and detailed in the Project Implementation Manual, identifies the participatory
methodology and process and activities to be supported under this sub-component.
Activities which will be implemented under this sub-component in core areas will also be
complementary to and in support of the activities specified in the Mitigation Plan (MP)
which can be found in Annex E.
41.   The project will support the development of an initial participatory approach and
set of activities, which will be finalized during the consultation and public participation
process. This process will be demand-driven and will be based on the concept of
interactive participation, by which people participate in joint analyses, development of
action plans and formation or strengthening of local institutions. The process would seek
to take account of multiple points of view, and would employ systematic and structured
learning experiences for the participants. Local people may thus have input in local
decisions concerning the PA and how best to use available resources, thus building
ownership of the established structures and practices. The participation process would
consist of five elements: (a) contracting of a Social Assessment Specialist (cost shared
with the previous sub-component); (b) creation of consultative commissions; (c)
development of PA-specific participation plans (SPP); (d) training; and (e) implementation
and supervision of the MP.
42.   Social Assessment Specialist (SAS). A social assessment specialist would be hired
to manage this sub-component and to facilitate the transfer of experiences gained from the
public participation process beyond project boundaries, thus contributing to the
strengthening of APN and other institutions responsible for protected areas management.
The SAS would operate from the PU and would report directly to the project technical
manager. Since the SAS would also be responsible for activities in buffer zone areas and
neighboring communities, as well as act as the resource person within APN regarding
participation issues, the costs would be shared with that sub-component. The TORs for
the SAS are in the Implementation Manual.
43.   Comision Consultiva (Consultative Commissions). A comision consultiva (CC)
will be established during the creation of each new park to represent the interests of local
stakeholders in park operations. As such, the primary objectives of the CCs will be two-
fold: (a) to facilitate the development and implementation of a common, integrated
management strategy for their respective protected area; and (b) to provide an institutional
mechanism to ensure that active public consultation and participation occurs in the
management of each PA.



62                              Annex B
44.   Each CC will encourage public participation in the planning of field activities and
in providing feedback on the execution of these activities. This will occur primarily
through public involvement in: (a) identification of common, long-term management
objectives; (b) providing inputs into the preparation of draft annual operating plans
(POAs) for each of the project's respective protected areas (completed POAs will be
made available to the CC for information); (c) provision of relevant technical information
to the respective park and reserve managers; (d) identification of priorities and promotion
of trans-boundary collaborative activities in each PA; (e) selection and evaluation of field
activities which support innovative sustainable land use practices in the PA buffer zones;
and (f) resolution of conflicts. The specific mechanisms to facilitate public input would
occur through: (a) individual members of the commission serving in a liaison role between
relevant public agencies and other stakeholders with jurisdiction or resource use interests
in the buffer zone, and (b) general public meetings to be held throughout the life of the
project. The TORs for the CC are included in the project Implementation Manual.
45.   The composition of the CCs will represent a cross-section of the principal
stakeholders in each PA. In addition to the three representatives from APN and the
provincial and municipal government, each CC will have up to four and no less than two
additional members representing universities, NGOs, local group associations, and
relevant public institutions. The CCs will meet on a regular basis to review
accomplishments, identify and respond to issues, and ensure that overall project objectives
are achieved. The CC members will initially meet bi-monthly in the PA's first year and on
a quarterly basis thereafter. The chairperson of each comisi6n will be selected by all the
CC members on an annual basis. The operating costs for the CCs have been costed under
the project's Protected Area's component.
46.   Following the creation of a new park, APN, with the participation of the SAS, will
organize a 2-3 day orientation workshop. These orientation workshops are intended to
introduce CC members and park personnel to the process of interactive participation,
adaptive planning, and tools for identifying and resolving potential conflicts. The
workshop would also serve to define the procedures that would be used for collaborative
action in the elaboration of POAs, evaluation of proposals submitted for support under the
buffer zone activities sub-component, and other activities which will be specified in the
implementation manual. At the end of the first year, technical personnel from APN and the
PU would organize an evaluation workshop to monitor and evaluate the capacity of CCs
for park management and to reorient the approach if needed.
47.   PA-Specific Participation Plan. The objectives of the PA-Specific Participation
Plan (SPP) are to: (i) collect, analyze, and apply relevant social information to project-
supported activities; (ii) monitor and evaluate the social and economic impacts of park
management plans, investments and associated sustainable development activities over
time; and (iii) monitor the effectiveness of the MP for project-affected populations
(PAPs).
48.   To accomplish these objectives, the SAS would design a SPP for each PA through
a consultative process between APN represented by the intendente, the respective CC, and



63                             Annex B
other stakeholders. Specifically, the SPP would establish the framework and procedures
that would: (i) involve stakeholders in advising APN on the design of the park operational
plans (POAs); (ii) help ensure that the provisional management plan is acceptable to
stakeholders; (iii) identify areas of interaction between people and the proposed PAs and
map out potential conflicts; (iv) develop the means to mitigate negative impacts to ensure
commitment to sustainable development; (v) gather, analyze, and use operationally
relevant social information, such as data on gender and high-risk groups (elderly people,
women heads of households, landless, etc.); (vi) define a framework for ongoing
participation during implementation, monitoring and evaluation; and (vii) assess the social
impact of park management plans and associated eco-development projects over time.
49.   A variety of social assessment methods would be used to achieve these objectives,
including stakeholder workshops, consultations, and Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA)
techniques. The development and implementation of the SPPs would initially be the
responsibility of the SAS, but this would eventually pass to the PA stateholders through
the respective CCs.
50.   Training. This cooperative approach to protected area management will require
that APN managers and their local counterparts develop new participatory management
skills and abilities. Training to be supported under the project would address: (a) the need
for independence and self-sufficiency at the level of rangers and administrators at the DTR
and park level; (b) community participation in the planning and decision-making process;
(c) conflict resolution and mechanisms for integrating the results of public meetings into
park plans and activities; (d) training of APN staff, NGOs, community leaders and other
stakeholders in the development of innovative conservation agreements for areas
containing both public and private land; and (e) training of school teachers to transfer the
message of conservation to school groups in the vicinity of the PAs.
Mitigation Plan
51.   The major goal of the MP is to minimize the negative impacts of park creation on
those families and individuals who will be allowed to remain in the park. This includes loss
of employment and loss of other amenities provided by the employer. The categories
which make up the MP are: (a) improved housing/sanitation; (b) employee compensation;
and (c) extension activities. Improved housing/sanitation include: housing improvement
including renovations, and solar panels for electricity and materials to assist families in
cattle raising during a transition period of five years. Employee Compensation refers to
APN's plan to hire workers as park guards and firefighters and to provide training for
other park management related jobs. In addition, in the new parks, where inhabitants are
currently cutting timber for firewood or where some of their firewood needs are provided
by the landlord, APN will provide wood or cover the costs for farnilies to purchase gas or
kerosene. Extension activities refers to a variety of support provided by APN to assist
families and individuals in changing their production practices to meet household food and
energy requirements. The costs for implementing this plan are estimated at about
US$823,000, and are detailed in Annex E and costed in Table B-6. Additional details on



64                             Annex B
the specific activities and costs for the families residing in each park can be found in the
Project Implementation Manual.
52.   The estimated costs for the sub-component are provided in Table B-6.
Table B-6. Base Costs for the Public Participation Sub-component (US$'000)
Input Description                     GEF        GOA      Total
One, half-time, national consultant    105                 105
specialist in social assessment and public
participation for 5 years at
US$42,000/year)
Social evaluation activities consisting of  113  12       125
workshops, consultations, and SPPs
estimated to total 100 events at an average
cost of US$1,250.
Public participation activities, consisting of  45  5      50
a total of 40 workshops at US$1,250.
Training activities, consisting of a total of   441  49   490
76 short courses at an average cost of
US$6,447.
Travel costs, consisting of an estimated 50   24  5       29
trips at US$300/trip and 150 days of per
diem at US$90. per day.
Trips and visits and other costs for the         135       135
Consultative Commissions ($135,000).
Salaries for the baquenos and fire brigades      823      823
and other costs associated with support
under the Project's Mitigation Plan (see
Annex E for detailed costs).
Total Costs                           728      |O1,029   1,757



65                               Annex B
Attachment
Implementation of the Sub-Component: Buffer Zone Biodiversity Activities
Selection Criteria and Approval Process
1.    The objective of the sub-component is to support sustainable development
activities in the vicinity of the protected areas (PAs) created under the ABCP.7 These
activities would be specifically designed to reduce threats to the globally-important
biodiversity. The process which APN would follow in selecting, approving and financing
biodiversity protection sub-project activities is outlined in this Attachment.
2.    The implementation of this sub-component would be planned, managed and
supervised by APN through the PU, with the advice of the comisi6n consultiva for the
respective protected area. While APN would have the freedom to take the initiative and to
suggest a short list of possible activities regarded as high priority, the choice of specific
activities to be supported under this sub-component will be based on a competitive system
to access the latest thinking in Argentina and elsewhere on how best to respond to the
challenges of the conservation of biodiversity. This competitive system would provide all
interested parties with an equal opportunity to submit proposals and compete for funding,
while leaving APN the responsibility to allocate and monitor the distribution of funds.
3.    Each PA comisi6n consultiva will have the responsibility to complete an initial
evaluation of the proposals according to the following criteria: (a) the proposed activity is
a priority within the overall list of priority biodiversity conservation activities; (b)
compliance with institutional selection criteria (see Implementation Manual); (c) expected
outputs; (d) technical and economic feasibility; (e) degree of local community involvement
in all phases of the project (i.e., planning, implementation and evaluation); (f) degree to
which the proposal provides for local public access to information and technology; (g)
degree to which it can be replicated and developed to include a larger area of impact; (h)
degree to which it will promote local economic development and discourage emigration;
(i) effectiveness in targeting intended direct/indirect beneficiaries; (j) level and duration of
matching funds (minimum of 30% of the total); and (k) likely sustainability after
completion.
4.    The approval process for proposals would follow the following steps in each of the
protected areas:
7 Due to the greater degree of threat to biodiversity resources in the buffer zones of the Los Venados,
Copo, and Condorito PAs, most activities supported under this sub-component will likely be concentrated
in these three protected areas.



66                              Annex B
(a)   APN will place advertisements in the local and national press. Specific
guidelines regarding project objectives, proposal requirements and
submission procedures will be printed and made available on request;
(b)   interested parties, including researchers, educational institutions, NGOs,
farmers, etc., will, if needed, consult with the members of the relevant
comisi6n consultiva for clarification of the rules, and to obtain a positive or
negative response to their preliminary proposals, following the
aforementioned advertisements;
(c)   assuming a positive response to the inquiry and/or preliminary proposal, a
detailed proposal would be prepared and submitted to the relevant
comision consultiva. Each proposal will need to consist of the following
sections: (i) proposal objectives; (ii) description of task; (iii) methodology;
(iv) a plan for completing the proposed program; (v) a chronogram of
implementation; (vi) names of participants and/or researchers as
appropriate, including their qualification and experience; and (vii) budget,
and, in cases where farmer participation is involved, proof of land
ownership (or other land occupancy rights);
(d)   the CC would complete an initial evaluation of each proposal applying the
previously listed criteria. On the basis of the evaluation, the committee
would prepare and forward their written recommendation together with the
proposal (including those recommended for rejection) to APN for fiirther
consideration;
(e)   proposals received and approved by APN would require the written
agreement of APN, the national project coordinator, and technical
manager. A contract would then be prepared and signed between the APN
and the parties involved with the project proposal attached as part of the
contract. The contract would explicitly include: (i) the project objectives;
(ii) expected outputs; (iii) description of task; (iv) methodology; (v) names
of principal participants; (vi) chronogram of implementation; (vii) total
costs, including matching funds; and (viii) schedule of payments by all
parties, including APN. The contract's specifics would be prepared by the
PU;
(f)    APN, through the PU and the office of the intendente, would be
responsible for the monitoring of project activities, and make periodic
payments according to the schedule stipulated in the contract;
(g)   principal participants (i.e., researchers, NGO consultants) would submit
final written reports, listing achievements and failures and any departures
from the contract;



67                             Annex B
(h)   APN would recruit independent financial and technical auditors to audit
compliance and evaluate results under each contract in order to ensure the
integrity of the process; and
(i)    APN would make final payment under the contract, or take other
appropriate action, depending on the outcome of the financial and technical
audit and evaluation /of the results.
5.    Proposal submissions will be received during the second and fourth quarters of
each year for a period of two months, respectively.



68
ANNEx C: BIODIVERSITY INFORMATION MANAGEMENT COMPONENT
(US$621,600 Base Costs)
A. Background
1.    With the support of a loan from the Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), the
Govermnent of Argentina is developing a national environmental network called the
Sistema Nacional de Informaci6n Ambiental (SINAIA). The network is to be Internet-
based and will promote common data standards and sharing of environmental data
between diverse users and organizations. Development of software and data standards was
just beginning in late 1996, and it can be expected that the network will become functional
within one or two years. Equipment acquisition and investments in connectivity are
focused on the provinces which are expected to each have functional provincial nodes by
the completion of the IDB project.
2.    The backbone of the SINAIA will be very useful, in the sense that it will generally
facilitate data exchange, but additional investments are necessary to ensure a functional
biodiversity network. For example, special data standards and protocols need to be
developed for species-level databases, ecoregion level data must be accessible from
currently widely distributed databases, and there are special monitoring and reporting
requirements associated with Argentina's adherence to the Convention on Biological
Diversity.
3 .    A wealth of information is available on Argentine biodiversity, but it is widely
distributed among many national and international organizations. The challenge is to
organize a network of biodiversity data providers and users who could make data and
information available on the Internet through an integrated information system. Such a
network needs to become functional quickly to capture the tremendous value of currently
underused data, but great care must also be taken to ensure compatibility with existing and
planned international networks and developing internal networks, such as the SINAIA.
4.    As part of preparatory activities for the SINAIA, the Secretariat of Natural
Resources and Sustainable Development (SRNyDS) has conducted extensive surveys on
existing environmental databases in Argentina. Information collected by them specifically
on biodiversity databases will be used under this project to help develop a truly national
network. Some examples of major data holdings are those of APN (discussed below); a
database with about 2000 records or data sets on rare or vulnerable species held by the
Fundacion para la Conservaci6n de Especiesy del Medio Ambiente (FUCEMA);
extensive data on the Patagonian Region held by Fundaci6n Patagonica; extensive
holdings of various museums such as the Museo Argentino de Ciencias Naturales and the
Museo de la Plata; ornithological data of the Fundaci6n Miguel Lillo in Tucuman and the
Sociedad Ornitol6gica del Plata; and many databases held by universities. Of special note
are the databases on native forests and biodiversity to be created within the SRNyDS and



69                             Annex C
financed under the associated Bank-financed Native Forests and Protected Areas Project.
Internationally, to provide just a few examples, holdings of the World Conservation
Monitoring Center, the World Bank, and Bird Life International all include significant data
on Argentine biodiversity.
5.    Because APN has been in existence for many decades and has a central role in the
management and coordination of the country's protected area networks, the data holdings
of APN are likely the single most important source of biodiversity data in Argentina.
Presently, APN data holdings on the Patagonia Region (based in Bariloche) are the most
developed and include extensive tabular and Geographic Information System (GIS) data,
which covers the entire country. A fairly extensive database, managed by APN in Buenos
Aires, also exists on the protected area network. Most APN biodiversity holdings,
however, are still on paper or in need of considerable work to become generally accessible
and usable. A biodiversity network in Argentina must first be built around these important
holdings. Moreover, from the point of view of decision-making affecting the
conservation of globally important biodiversity, APN is also probably the most important
potential user of such a network.
6.    It is therefore proposed that the GEF project develop a national biodiversity
information network with pilot nodes8 within APN. Through the Biodiversity Information
Management Component, described in this annex, APN will become the first important
host of a network that would provide universal access to internationally important APN
holdings. The project will also provide training for non-APN data providers and users,
while it also promotes the establishment of other nodes and the bringing on line of other
major databases in the country. The ultimate objective of the component is to create a
functioning biodiversity network that will eventually merge seamlessly into the SINAIA,
and will include all major biodiversity providers and users in the country.
B. Overview of Component
Component Objectives
7.    The main objective of this component is to develop a Biodiversity Information
System (BIS) to facilitate the flow of biodiversity data and information, both within
Argentina and internationally. The BIS will enable the creation, analysis, and application of
biodiversity data and information to meet the needs of decision-makers and a wide variety
of potential users. Under this project, prototype nodes of the BIS will be developed at
APN, while the creation of other Argentine nodes will also be promoted. Potential users
at APN include staff at the central office, park headquarters (intendencias) and regional
technical offices (delegaciones tecnicas), as well as the general public. The BIS is
s In a distributed internet-based information network there are a potentially unlimited number of access
points-essentially any computer with access to the Internet data is physically stored in only a very
few particularly powerful computers called servers. A "node" is a server, or group of servers, with
large amounts of stored and organized data and that typically provides network-wide access to
software for retrieving and manipulating data.



70                             Annex C
intended to eventually fuse with the SINAIA as already described. To accomplish these
objectives, the project will support the following activities:
(a)    promote the BIS at the national level;
(b)   develop the BIS;
(c)   adapt major existing data bases to the BIS; and
(d)   ensure sustainability through capacity building and training of interested
users.
Overview of Biodiversity Information System (BIS)
8.    Traditionally, in Argentina, information systems have been centralized, with access
limited to only a few individuals and institutions. The emergence of the Internet and the
World Wide Web (WWW) has enabled individuals and institutions greater access to
information around the world, while it has also initiated a process of information
decentralization. However, when information dissemination and decentralization occurs in
an ad hoc fashion, users encounter major difficulties in locating specific data. The BIS will
provide capabilities for overcoming this problem while maintaining the benefits of
distributed information dissemination. While the BIS will appear to the user as a unified,
integrated system, it will be geographically distributed among various nodes.
9.    The BIS will allow for data search through a catalog system and for browsing of
selected databases. It will include textual, tabular, and cartographic information, as well
as abstracts, bibliographical data, and other types of data and information, including GIS
data. Any computer in the world with Internet access (even if only e-mail) will be able to
use the BIS and retrieve information. The information system will be designed using
available software packages and international standards, to the extent that these are
available, and it will be open-ended to facilitate incorporation of additional data and
information from other institutions.
10.   The BIS initially will include fully developed nodes at the central office of APN in
Buenos Aires, at the Patagonia Regional Technical Delegation in Bariloche, at the
Northeast Regional Technical Delegation in Salta, and at the Northeast Technical
Delegation in Iguazu. The network of BIS nodes that would be created under this project
will be the forerunner of a more extensive network that will be fully developed in the near
future. These four nodes will be Internet providers of data and information. On-site
personnel will identify data sources and develop collaborative agreements with other data
sources as needed, while bearing the responsibility to maintain their own metadata9. Data
handling, in the form of acquisition, conditioning, archiving, and data product
development, will mainly be the responsibility of local experts.
9Metadata is structured information that describes a dataset.



71                           Annex C
11.   Each node will consist of one or more Internet servers, the number depending on
the amount of information being dissemninated and the service offered. Nodes generally
have additional workstations for data development and other node administration tasks, as
well as peripheral devices for scanning, storage, and back-ups. The Internet provides the
connectivity between individual nodes and users. Thus, active nodes need a minimum of a
64-kb Internet link. The means of providing connectivity of these nodes to the Internet
will be determined in the future. Options include using existing providers at APN or
relying on external Internet service providers.
12.   The software required at each node will depend on the specialized service to be
offered by that node. The concept that each node will have specialized functions is a
critical feature of the BIS because it will allow the nodes to provide the most appropriate
function given their content and mission. As such, modules will be available for a variety
of computer system configurations to ensure a match with existing systems. The modular
approach of the BIS encourages diversity and customization, and at the same time
provides mechanisms for seamless integration and ease of implementation.
C. Detailed Description and Costs
Promotion of the BIS
13.   Design Confirmation. Changes in information technology and its use in Argentina
are occurring constantly. Consequently, it is important that an evaluation of this
component be carried out by a consultant at the very beginning of the project. The
consultant will advise on the restructuring of the component, taking into account changes
in the status of information system technology within the country. This will be done in
conjunction with a coordination workshop (see below) which will provide
recommendations concerning system function and the status of connectivity, hardware,
and software at the nodes. The cost for this task is US$15,000, which includes
honoraria, travel and per diem for an internationally recruited consultant (Draft Terms of
Reference are in the Implementation Manual).
14.   Coordination Workshop. An organizational workshop will be held at the very
beginning of the project to promote and coordinate participation of major information
holders and users, with particular attention to non-APN stakeholders. During this
workshop, a technical ad hoc working group will review the system design and
implementation plan. The consultant hired to carry out the design confirmation should
participate in this workshop and take into account recommendations that emerge from it.
The cost for this task is US$10,000 for about three months of a locally recruited
consultant.
15.   Evaluation Workshop. After the BIS prototype has been developed and is
operational (third year), a workshop will take place to evaluate the BIS and its contents,
and to provide further recommendations on how to proceed with the development of the
system. At this point, it must be ensured that the system is ready to be integrated with the
SINAIA and integrated with other initiatives, such as those of provincial protected areas,



72                             Annex C
universities, NGOs, and research institutions. The estimated cost for this task is
US$5,000 for a locally recruited consultant.
Creation of the BIS
16.   System Design. The entry point of the BIS, which will be designed early in the
first year of the project, will be a home page in the World Wide Web. The home page, to
be created under this project at an APN node, will be user friendly and will allow the user
to search for and access biodiversity data, both within as well as outside APN. The home
page would provide links to a catalog and to biodiversity datasets that will reside in
servers at APN and elsewhere. This task will be carried out with support from a
consultant, consulting firm or NGO recruited internationally at a cost of US$20,000, and
by locally recruited experts at a cost of US$24,500.
17.   Development of Software for Internet Access to BIS. Many options will be
provided for data access through the Internet. These will include WWW access as well as
e-mail access to data. The system will allow for on-line interactive access to APN data
and documentation about data'0. Data query and display functions will allow a user to
construct a query of a database. The database could be a simple tabular file, a relational
database, or a text file. The query terrns would be appropriate to the database content and
structure. Based on the user's query, a report would be generated and displayed to the
user. In some instances, in addition to or instead of tabular reports, a graphic report or
visualization would be available. Spatial data will be displayed in maps, allowing the user
to interactively build maps with features and GIS data layers of interest. A metadata
management tool--including guidelines for metadata and guide preparation--will be
developed which will allow the data provider to structure and automatically enter
metadata into a searchable metadata database.
18.   The: BIS will support several methods for accessing information. This will include
capabilities to: (i) query tabular and textual data sets and retrieve tabular reports and
graphs interactively; (ii) query and map georeferenced data interactively; (iii) search
bibliographical datasets by author and topic; (iv) search (freetext and indexed) metadata
databases in selected nodes through a World Wide Web user interface; and (v) spatially
search metadata databases. The map search system will allow the user to find information
on any given area in Argentina by interactively selecting the area of interest in a World
Wide Web user interface. This service requires the metadata to be georeferenced.
19.   Information that cannot be accessed interactively on-line will be available through
ordering systems, and in some instances, customized extractions will be available. The
information system will be implemented in a fashion that takes into account the
telecommunications infrastructure of Argentina. For example, e-mail interfaces to on-line
systems will be provided, enabling users to access some resources via e-mail.
Some datasets can be of restricted access, available for example only within APN.



73                            Annex C
20.   This system software development will be implemented during the first 18 months
of the project by an internationally recruited consultant in coordination with trained APN
personnel, at an estimated cost of US$70,000.
Adaptation of Major Databases to the BIS
21.   Modernization of APN datasets for on-line access. Under this activity, data will be
restructured to make them available over the Internet and through the BIS. This process
may involve: (i) developing electronic data; (ii) developing a data model and relational
tables for a Relational Database Management System (RDBMS); (iii) georeferencing data
in a Geographical Information System; (iv) integrating datasets; and (v) other activities
needed to make datasets available through the system. It is estimated that, after the first
year, the prototype will access 5-10 tabular and textual datasets and 5-10 GIS layers,
depending on the degree of complexity of the datasets involved.
22.   This activity will be carried out by a locally recruited consultant at an estimated
cost of US$120,000, in coordination with an internationally recruited consultant at an
estimated cost of US$55,500. APN staff will work with these consultants as a way to
ensure capacity building and sustainability. A cost of US$20,000 has also been budgeted
for purchasing images and other data development costs.
23.   Documentation of datasets. There are two kinds of documentation: one, called
metadata, is part of a catalog system that should be structured in a way that it enables a
user to determine whether or not the data may be of relevance to the application of
interest. The second kind, referred to as guides, enables the proper use of data by
providing more extensive descriptions on how data were collected and derived.
24.   There are numerous metadata standards that specify how datasets are structured
and the type of information they will contain. In general, metadata is textual information
that provides the basis upon which a data catalog can be constructed. The level of detail
provided by the metadata should be sufficient to enable a user to determine whether or not
the data may contain information of relevance to the specific need. The information
resource must be readily and easily accessible from some source and all metadata records
must be georeferenced.
25.   The metadata standards chosen for the BIS would be consistent with the nature of
the data and with the system that will manage and query the metadata. Use of existing
systems for metadata management and access will be a major consideration when choosing
the standard. The metadata contents will be developed from existing data documentation
and structured and entered into the catalog by the holders of the data, when possible.
26.   Guides are hypertext" documents that provide users with important information
related to a dataset. Each accessible dataset will have a guide associated with it. The
information in the guide will help the user to determine whether the data have the required
Text coded to link to other sources of information/data.



74                            Annex C
resolution or accuracy. It will also describe how data were collected or derived, as well as
describe any peculiarities associated with a given dataset or any information that could be
of interest to the user of the data. The development of the data guide is estimated to cost
US$65,100 for a locally recruited consultant over a period of three years.
27.   Information Management for the GEF Biodiversity Strategy Project. The
SRNyDS-implemented GEF Biodiversity Strategy Project, to be carried out in 1997, will
be generating vast amounts of biodiversity information. Under this component, the most
important information generated from that strategy will be made available through the
BIS. This activity will be carried out during the first year by a locally recruited consultant,
at an estimated cost of US$11,500.
Capacity Building
28.   The objective of this activity is to help establish an effective and sustainable
information system through the provision of the following training:
(a)   Data provider training. Data provider training will be conducted in three
stages: (i) to insure the sustainability of the BIS, APN staff will obtain
approximately three months of on-the-job, on site training by the
consultants contracted to develop the system. It is expected that these APN
staff will each spend three months receiving on-the-job training; (ii) during
the third year of the project, an internationally recruited consultant will
provide two 1-week data provider training sessions to non-APN
information management stakeholders on subjects such as participation in
the BIS, interactive WWW applications, and metadata development; and
(iii) Bariloche staff will train others on methods for map production. The
respective budget for these training activities would be: (i) five round trips
(US$2,000 each) from Buenos Aires to the internationally recruited
consultant site (US$10,000) plus US$25,000 for subsistence; (ii)
approximately 5.8 months of internationally recruited consultants
(US$58,000); and (iii) three trips to Bariloche (US$1,050) and three
months of subsistence (US$8,100).
(b)   User training. During the third year of the project, a national consultant
will be contracted to provide ten one-day training sessions on the use of the
BIS and other internet resources for APN and non-APN users of the
system. Those trained in (a) above, could help with this training. About
US$10,500 has been budgeted for about 3 months of a locally recruited
consultant.
Hardware and Software Needs
29.   This prototype BIS activity will support the acquisition of the hardware and
software necessary to implement the network at APN. As mentioned in the background
section, four nodes, with a main function of providing data over the Internet, will be



75                            Annex C
developed. These nodes are referred to here as Data Provider Nodes and the software at
each node depends on the service to be offered by that node. In general, a node will
consist of four categories of equipment:
(a)   Servers. A node will consist of at least one server, depending on the
variety and scale of node activities. Likewise, the hard disk capacity of the
server will depend on the node activity. A data back-up system will be
provided with each server. Database software and specialty software such
as GIS are optional and depend on the function of the node;
(b)   Workstations. The node administration staff will need workstations and
personal productivity software to develop metadata and other data and
information resources and for related tasks. The quantity and configuration
of these workstations will vary depending on the expected function;
(c)   Peripherals. Printers will be required for developing hard copy output and
scanners are required for digitizing text and graphics. A black and white
scanner with a page feeder is best for scanning text, but a color scanner is
required for capturing images; and
(d)   Networking. All the computers in the node will be on a local area network
and have Internet connectivity at a minimum of 64-kb. Nodes that provide
remote access to either users or staff will need a modem pool with a
remote access server.
30.   Sample Kit For Data Provider Nodes. The equipment and software suggested here
may not be needed at all nodes, and will depend on the equipment already available at each
individual node. The kit consists of: (i) a Pentium Pro 200 Mhz (64 MB Memory, 4.3 GB
drive, 17 in. monitor); (ii) a printer; (iii) a scanner; (iv) a network adapter card; (v)
software (Windows NT Operating System, Oracle, Microsoft Word, IDRISI, ArcView,
etc.); (vi) a backup tape unit; (vii) 2 workstations; and (viii) a digitizer. The estimated
cost per kit is US $18,000 per node; the total cost is US$72,000, plus US$21,000 for
system upgrades and maintenance. Equipment acquisitions will take place during the first
year.
D. Implementation ArranLfements
31.   A prototype system, including the BIS home page, will be developed early in the
first year of the project. At the end of 18 months, one of the nodes will host a catalog
system and provide access to selected tabular biodiversity datasets, while another node
will be set up with a map server and will provide access to GIS layers. During the second
and third years of the project, emphasis will be placed on making biodiversity data sets
available, including non-APN holdings. By the end of the third year, a fully functional
operating system will be in place with a core set of biodiversity data. Throughout the life
of the project, new biodiversity data and information will be made available to the system.



76                           Annex C
32.   The system development will be carried out by an internationally recruited
consultant with participation from APN staff. This participation is important since APN
will be expected to maintain the system after initial development.
,4



77                             Annex C
Table C-1. Base Costs for the Biodiversity Information Management Component
(US$'000)
Input Description                                  GEF      GOA   TOTAL
Equipment                                            113.0    -         113.0
Internationally recruited consultants for a total of 20.3 p/m
at US$10,000 per month, which includes all expenses
except domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos  160.0    -       160.0
Aires.
Locally recruited consultants for 68.9 p/m at US$3,500 per
month, which includes all expenses except domestic travel
and subsistence outside place of residence..         101.1    -         101.1
Training                                              83.5    -          83.5
APN Personnel (System Analyst)                        -      120.0      120.0
Domestic travel and subsistence outside Buenos Aires for
internationally recruited consultants and outside place of
residence for locally recruited consultants calculated at the
rate of about US$300 per trip and US$90 per diem.     44.0    -          44.0
Total Base Costs                                  510.6    120       621.6



78
ANNEX D: MANAGEMENT, MONITORING AND EVALUATION COMPONENT
(US$609,650 Base Costs)
A. Proiect Management
Project Unit
1.    To ensure the efficient implementation of the project, a Project Unit (PU) will be
established within APN. The PU's primary responsibilities will be to: (a) coordinate the
activities identified in the project implementation manual; (b) cooperate with APN's
Direccion de Administraci6n in the monitoring, control, and accounting of the project
funds; (c) supervise the management of the project's special account to be administered by
the Direcci6n de Administraci6n; (d) prepare the disbursement requests in compliance
with Bank policies; (e) ensure that the project's purchase of goods and services comply
with norms and procedures acceptable to the Bank; (f) prepare the necessary
documentation required for Bank auditing purposes; (g) maintain routine communications
with the intendentes of the new protected areas and through them the comisiones
consultivas; (h) verify the work of the comisiones consultivas; (i) monitor and regularly
inform the comisiones consultivas on the status of disbursements for their respective
protected areas; (j) monitor the project as per the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
described below; (k) monitor the implementation of the MP; (1) prepare annual project
work plans and give guidance to intendentes in the preparation of PA-specific POAs; and
(m) prepare other technical reports including the mid-term and final project evaluations.
2.    The PU will consist of a full-time technical manager and a full-time accountant and
administrative assistant. The technical manager will be the project's contact point for
international organizations as well as with the national government and the participating
provincial governments. This core group will be reinforced by the contracting of
consultants on an "as-needed" basis to assist with procurement, monitoring and
evaluation, and the completion of a mid-term project review. In addition, a full-time Social
Assessment Specialist supported under the project will be based out of this office (this has
been costed under the project's Protected Area's Component; see Annex B).
3.    It is proposed that the PU be established directly within the APN under the Board
of Directors and report to the President, who would designate the appropriate APN
directorate to coordinate the PU activities with other APN offices. Adequate office space
will be provided by APN as a counterpart contribution.
Project Management at the Field Level
4.    To ensure that the project achieves its proposed objectives, there will be a need to
develop an innovative management structure for each PA. In recognition that the
biological and ecological boundaries of each PA cross multiple administrative jurisdictions,
the proposed management structure places a strong emphasis on institutional collaboration
at both the national and provincial levels. Moreover, in light of the diversity of interests



79                           Annex D
among stakeholders which could be affected by the conservation efforts, the proposed
management structure would also encourage strong representation and participation from
non-governmental organizations, private interests and other local groups (see Annexes B
and E for more detail).
5.   In recent years, APN has increasingly involved the public in the planning and
management of protected areas (e.g., through the development of visitor plans, public
participation in the development of EIAs, and solicitation of the views of NGOs in the
preparation of management plans). Nevertheless, APN recognizes that a great deal
remains to be done to encourage public participation in the planning and management of
protected areas.
6.    At the field level, the generic PA management structure for the new parks will be
based on the creation of a multi-institutional consultative commission (comision
consultiva). The structure and role of the CCs are discussed in detail in Annex B.
Costs for the Component
7.    The estimated cost for the Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
component is US$ 610,000 (Table D-1).
Table D-1. Base Costs for the PU (US$'000)
Input Description                                  GEF      GOA   TOTAL
PU personnel consisting of a FT technical manager (US$    390  72   462
54,000 x 5 years), a FT accountant (US$ 20,000/year x 5
years), and a FT administrative assistant (US$ 18,000 x 5
years).
Domestic travel (30 trips) and subsistence outside place of  35     35
residence for project staff (270 days), calculated at the rate
of US$ 90/day for per diem and US$ 350/trip.                                  l
Technical Assistance (20 p/m) allocated for procurement    70       70
(4 p/m), monitoring and evaluation (8 p/m), and mid-term
project evaluation (8 p/m) calculated at the rate of US $
3,500/p/m.                                                                    l
Equipment                                           15               15
Operating costs for the PU                                  28      28
Total Base Costs                                 510      100    610
B. Monitoring and Evaluation Plan and Indicators
8.    The Project's Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E) plan is based on the
establishment and monitoring of key input/output and impact indicators. Table D-2
presents a summary of the M&E plan presented by project component including the
projected timing of outputs. This is followed by Table D-3, which identifies key



80                             Annex D
input/output indicators also presented by project component/sub-component. Table D-4
identifies key impact indicators presented by project objective and timing of impact
assessment. Finally, Table D-5 identifies the main reporting documents, timing, and
institutional responsibility with regard to M&E reporting.
9.    A distinction needs to be made between: (a) the Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
(M&E) for the overall project, including specific monitoring and reporting activities
funded here under this component; and (b) monitoring activities to be carried out within
each of the PAs of the project. The latter are funded as part of park management activities
and include collection of baseline information and biological monitoring. Similarly, PA-
specific social assessment and monitoring will be addressed through the development of
participation plans, as called for under the project's Participation Plan (PP--see Annex B
for more detail on PA-specific activities). Some of the data which will be collected as part
of PA-specific activities will be used as input to the M&E plan.
10.   Institutional responsibilities for the implementation of the M&E plan are: (a) APN
will have overall responsibility for M&E Plan implementation, supervision of specific
studies, assisting intendentes with PA-specific monitoring activities, the mid-term and final
project reviews, and the final preparation of PA-specific POAs and project progress
reports; (b) the project's PU will assist APN in M&E Plan implementation, in contracting
studies, incorporation of data from the specific PAs, and in the preparation of all project
reports. M&E institutional responsibilities are specified in greater detail in the project's
Implementation Manual.



81                                           Annex D
Table D-2. Summary of Monitoring and Evaluation Plan
Develop-                 Inputs                     Outputs                Timing of              Outcomes and Impacts
ment            Resources providedfor         Goods and services          Outputs           Results achieved through provision ofgoods
Objectives             project activities       produced by the project                                       and services
Start   Finish
Protected Areas
Component
D.O. 1. Increase    * Support for legal steps for  Five newly created national  12/97  12/02     Five effectively managed and protected
protection of    park creation                 parks and reserves                               national parks and reserves
non-represented    * Land purchase in four of the  Demarcation of PAs     12/97      12/02       Protection of globally important biodiversity
biodiversity in    five PAs                     Management plans          12/98      12/02       Expansion and diversification of Argentina's
ecological        Park personnel contracted    implemented                                      national protected area system
regions of global   - Preparation of management
significance     plans
Construction of new and
rehabilitation of existing park
infrastructure
D.O. 2. Promote    Contracting of SA specialist    - Demonstrable examples of   12/98  12/02     More sustainable use of biodiversity in buffer
sustainable land  Conduction of public         sustainable land use                             zones
use practices in    awareness campaigns        practices                                         Increased community support for protected
areas adjacent to    Pilot projects                                                             areas and biodiversity conservation
protected areas
D.O. 3. Increase  Contracting of SA specialist  Increased institutional   3/98      03/03       * Broaden and diversify public support for
public           (same person as above)        capacity in APN to promote                       protected areas
participation in  Creation of CCs              public participation in                           Reduced social conflicts associated with
the creation and  Establishment of specific    protected areas activities                       protected area management decisions
protection of    participation plans            Establishment of PA-      6/98      6/02         Increased national/provincial coordination
each protected    Stakeholder workshops        specific socio-economic                          and cooperation
area                                           baseline and monitoring                           Reduced extemal threats to proteted areas
programs
- Public participation    6/98       6/01
consultative mechanism
* Household improvements,
Mitigate the      The mitigation plan and      employee compensation and   3/98     12/02        Negative social impacts mitigated and
negative social    associated resources        sustainable activities                           quality of life of affected families improved
impacts
associated with
park
establishment
BIS Component
D.O. 4. Increase  BIS system design (including  Development of BIS        1/98      3/00         Increase national and intemational exchange
access to        workshops)                     Establishment of prototype   3/98   3/99        of biodiversity information
biodiversity data    Purchase of computer      nodes in APN headquarters                         Provide foundation for the development of a
hardware                     and 4 DTRs                                       more extensive BIS network
Software development         Increased BIS management  3/98      3(01         Provide increased capability to monitor status
* Database re-configuration  capacity of APN and non-                         of globally important biodiversity resources
Technical assistance and    APN information                                   Facilitate informed decision-making
training                     managemnent stakeholders                          Support the implementation ofthe Argentina
biodiversity strategy
Project
Management       Establish a project unit     Increased efficiency in   12/97      12/02       Project objectives are achieved in a timely
and M&E        Key staff hired              project implementation                           and cost-efficient manner
Component                                   funding disbursement and
control



82                                           Annex D
Table D-3. Key Input/Output Indicators
KEY                                                 YEAR                                      SOURCE
INPUT                                 I1         2    |   3        4       5                     OF
INDICATORS                                    (Percent or Number Comolete-)DATA
A. Protcted Areas Comnponent
1. Establishment/Consolidation of PAs
Approval and signing of national park laws1 (no.)      2         2                                  Legal Oistuments
Land purchase comnpleted                               2          1          1                      Admtinistrative records and legal
instruments
Identification and placement of Intendentes (no.)      1         2          2                       Adnistrative records, interviews
Demarcation (kIn)                                     TBD
Management plans completed (no.)                                 1          2        2              Administrative records
installed building infrastuscture (in)                654        1,160      1,606    902    304    Administrative records
PA-specific Monitoring Plans (no.)                    1          3          1                       Administrative records
2. Buffer Zone Activities
Person/years social assessment specialist2 (no.)       I          I          I        I      I      Administrative records; interview
Public awareness campaigns completed (no.)             1         2          2                       APN annual and semi-anmual repotts; field
interviews
Pilot activity proposals approved (no.)                2         5          5         5      5      Administrative records
Pilot activities completed (no.)                                 2          5         5      5      APN anmual and semi-annual reports; field
verification
3. Public Partidnation
Meetings of comisrones consukivas (no.)                24        32         28        20     20    APN annual and semi-annual reports; field
interviews
PA-specific participation plans (no.)                  1         2          2                       APN annual and semi-amnual reports; field
verification
Stakeholder workshops held (no.)                       5         5          5         5      5      APN annual and semi-annual reorts; field
interviews
Training programs presented (no.)                      4         18        18        18     18    APN annual and semi-annual repotts;
interviews
Mitigation Plan
Home improvements (no.)                                 2         5          4       4      2      Administrative records; APN annual and
semi-annual reports; field verification
Person months contracted (no.)                        265        265        265      265    265    Administrative records; APN annual and
semi-annual reports; field verification
Firewood delivered (tons)                             168        168        168      168    168    Administrative records; APN anual and
snemi-anmual reports; field verification
Sub-projects approved in core areas (%)                10         30         60      100           Administrative records; APN annual and
____________________________I__ _semi-annual reports; field verification
B. BIS Coenponent
Information system design completed (o)                50        100                               APN annual and semi-annual reports;
product reviewed
Workshops completed (no.)                             I                     I                      APN annual and semi-annual reports; field
interviews
Home Page completed (OA)                               50         100                              APN annual and semi-annual reports;
system tested
Major databases reconfigured (no.)                               2          3        3
Trained APN personnel (no.)                                      8          40                      APN annual and semi-annual reports;
interviews
Trained APN and non-APN users (no.)                                         200                     APN annual and semi-annual reports;
interviews
Hardware/software procured ()                         50         100              I              I Administrative records; field verification
C. Project Managment M&E Component
Project unit staffed (%)                               100                                          Administrative records; interviews
PU equipment procured (O)                              25         100                               Administrative records
Monitoring programs in place ()                                 25         50        100           APN annual and Semi-anmual reports
Mid-term review completed (%)                                    25         100                     Product received and reviewed
tmNational legislation creating PN Condorito has aleady been signed and so is not included inthe indicator targets.
2To be cost-shared between sub-components 2 and 3 of Protected Areas Comnponent.



83                                            Annex D
Table D-4. Key Impact Indicators
KEY                                  TIMING OF                       SOURCE OF DATA AND MEANS
IMPACT                                  IMPACTS                       OF MEASURING PERFORMANCE
INDICATORS                                                                          INDICATORS
Start    Finih
D.O. 1. Increased protection of biodiversity In ecological regions
of global significance
Effective manaunent ofnew PAs
* Increased provincial preence in provincial rserves around  NA  02        * Consultant contcted at begmning of Year 5 to revew APN and
project federal PAs                                                        provincal records and conduct interviews to asuerta  significant
delopment.
Fewer dishurbances and incursions into PAs (illegal resource    98  02     Review of Intendenca-generaed paol lo, incident repot, mondly
harvesting such as poaching deforestation, etc.)                           and annual reporb and intrviemw with pak rang   and local inhabitants.
Increased protection of key indicator species
* Stable populations of key indicator species, to be chosen in  9S  02      Baseline established prior to end of first year foliowing creation of each
year 1 of project (e.g., sea lions, giant anteaters, native pampas         PA and re-sesed in PY 5 by coHlaborstive resach agremt with
grasses, etc.)                                                             universities and other scentific orpnization.
D.O. 2. Promotion of sustainable use of biodiversity in area
adjacent to protected areas
* Adoption of suinable land use practices by non-project  00      02       - Consultant contracted at beginning of PY 5 to conduct field mvey of
participants measured through changes in existng land use                  adoption of new land use practices basd on technologi genated andtor
patterns                                                                   disseminated during LOP.
D.O. 3. Increase of public participation in the creation and
protection of each protected area
Development of local public groups and activities which  NA     02        Intendente records and local intrw
support PA objectives
* Majority of members of CCs satisfied with degree of    98      02        . Review of APN records and survey utionnaire of member
participation in the CCs                                                   organizations.
Creation of CCs in other national and provincial PAs.   NA      02        * Review of APN records and surey questionie cfrdevant provincal
PA institutions.
MitIgation Plan
* Income levels of affected families restored/improved.  98      02         Household surveys and beneficiary a n
* Social organization of affected families maintained/improved.   98  02   -Household surveys and beneficiay as
Affected populations satisfied with effectiveness of mitigation
measures.                                                98      02         Household surveys and benefiiry a    e
D.O. 4. Increase acces to biodiveraity data
* Number of non-APN log-ons to system (to provide or access    98  02      * Assessment of BIS activity records.
data) increasing throughout life of project
- Development of a more extensive BIS determined through the   NA  02      * Assessment of BIS activity records and survey of node creatorm
creation and integration of additional information nodes



84                            Annex D
Table D-5. Monitoring and Evaluation Reports
Report            Timing                     Responsibility
Technical Reports     Periodic       Consultants/contractors to submit to PU/APN
Semi-annual Progress    1/3 1/yy                       APN
Reports
Annual Progress Reports    7/3 l/yy                      APN
PA-specific POAs      6/98-6/21                       APN
Project POA (draft)    EOFY'                           APN
(previous)
PA-specific Management    2002/03                        APN
Plans
Financial Audits     EOFY + 6                 Independent Auditors
months
Mid-term Review        6/2000                         WB
Implementation Completion    6/2003                       WB
Report
lEOFY = End of Fiscal Year



85
ANNEX E: SOCIAL ASSESSMENT AND MITIGATION PLAN
A. Back2round
Introduction
1.    The goal of the proposed GEF project is to conserve biodiversity of global
importance. To achieve this goal, one of the principal outputs will be the creation of five
new protected areas (PAs): (a) Area Protegido Los Venados (APLV), located in the
Province of San Luis; (b) Area Protegido San Guillermo (APSG), located in the Province
of San Juan; (c) Area Protegido Copo (APC) found in the Province of Santiago del
Estero; (d) Area Protegido Quebrada del Condorito (APQC) in C6rdoba Province; and
(e) Area Protegido Monte Le6n (APML) located on the Patagonian coastline of Santa
Cruz Province. Because three of these protected areas--Los Venados, El Copo, and El
Quebrada del Condorito-- have people living within the boundaries of the proposed PAs
and in their respective buffer zones, a full social assessment (SA) was completed during
project preparation. The information contained in this annex presents, in summary form,
the results of the SA. The original study documents can be found in the Project Files.
2.    Objectives of the Social Assessment. The principal objectives of the SA were to:
(a) evaluate the social and economic conditions and attitudes of people living within the
areas of the proposed three PAs; (b) identify the potential social and economic impacts
associated with park creation; (c) identify priority needs for affected families and
communities; (d) identify and analyze alternative mitigation measures in conformity with
GOA and Bank requirements; (e) evaluate options that may exist to increase public
participation in the park management and decision making process; and (f) prepare Public
Participation (PP) and Mitigation Plans (NP).
3.     Social Assessment Methodology. Between January 1997 and April 1997, an
interdisciplinary team carried out the SA which involved: (a) a review of relevant studies
and documents; (b) an initial identification and subsequent analysis of potential
stakeholders and social issues in the three proposed PAs; (c) consultations, in-depth
interviews and household surveys of families and communities living in the proposed
PAsM2; (d) informal workshops between APN staff, the local social assessment consultant
and potential stakeholders; and (e) meetings with officials from the provincial ministries
and technical staff from the Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA).
Household surveys were conducted in both the core areas and adjacent buffer zones in all
of the proposed PAs with the exception of APSG and APML. In the latter two PAs,
survey activities were limited to the buffer zone because of the absence of inhabitants in
12  Since the precise park limits are not yet known, the social assessment focused on the population
living in the proposed core areas and corresponding buffer zones (see maps of the proposed core
areas with the inhabitants identified). If and when modifications to the proposed park boundaries
occur, it would be necessary to update the social assessment as well as the resulting mitigation plan
to include the population living in the new park areas.



86                              Annex E
the core area. Similarly, because of the absence of inhabitants in the APML PA, no
formal survey was required (see below for more detail).
4.    All heads of households were interviewed in the three populated core areas.
During the course of the interviews the SA team collected data on the households'
survival strategies, including employment and income levels, as well as socio-
demographic, organizational and cultural characteristics of these families. This
information, in turn, was used to evaluate the proposed project's impact on these
households and determine whether resettlement was a necessary and viable option. This
information also provided valuable input into the design of the Buffer Zone Activities and
Public Participation and Training sub-components (see Annex B) and the NIitigation Plan
(Annex E-Attachment 1). In the case of the Buffer Zone subcomponent, because of the
spatial distribution of the population and the number of individuals involved, only a sample
of the total population was surveyed. Copies of the survey can be found in the project file.
B. Social Structure. Employment and Income in Core Areas and Buffer Zones
5.    The major stakeholders identified in the three PAs were large landowners,
agricultural workers, poor small farmers, public institutions (both at the national and
provincial levels), NGOs, and universities. No indigenous people live in these areas.
Findings for each of these core areas and for the buffer zones are detailed below.
Area Protegido Los Venados
6.    Core Area. In the APLV the landowner is an absentee entrepreneur who lives in
Buenos Aires. He employs a full-time agricultural engineer and contracts outside technical
assistance to run his extensive farm operation. Living in the core area are 10 people
comprised of two families and three individuals, all of whom work for this absentee
landowner. The basic source of livelihood is wage labor. The farm workers' average
monthly wage income is US$ 270. Non-monetary income of these families, including
subsistence agricultural production consumed by the family and other amenities provided
by the landowner (e.g., social security, cooking gas and food) is estimated to be worth
approximately US$ 105 per month per family. Social relations between these families and
the landowner are primarily contractual and ties among these families are mainly through
their work.
7.    Based on the responses obtained during the SA, the owner appears willing to sell
the land to the APN and remove any cattle from the core area. Similarly, information
derived from household interviews indicated that farm laborers are willing to change their
occupation provided they receive the required training, are offered alternative
employment, and receive wages commensurate with the duties of the new employment.
Additional details on activities to be supported can be found in the MP (see Attachment
1).
8.    Buffer Zone. The buffer zone is occupied by 25 people comprising four families
and nine individuals. A total of 16 people were interviewed. Similar to the core area, most



87                             Annex E
of the wage earners work as employees of large cattle ranches. The average monthly wage
is about $270. Most families have electricity, use gas or kerosene for cooking, and use
firewood to heat their homes in the winter. Family units tend to be quite isolated from
each other and horseback is the major means of transportation. There are no farmer
cooperatives or associations in the area. Those interviewed believe that the creation of the
park will have little effect on their daily lives.
9.    A number of governmental agencies, universities, and NGOs have a presence in
the area. In addition to APN and the provincial government, the most important are the:
Instituto Nacional de Tecnologia Agropecuaria (INTA), Ministerio de Industria,
Turismo, Mineriay Produccin, Direcci6n de Medio Ambiente, and the University of
San Luis. The area also has a fairly strong environmental NGO presence, including the
Fundaci6n Vida Silvestre Argentina, the Asociaci6n Conservacionista Equilibrio Vital
and the Asociacion Mercedina Ecol6gica. INTA staff were instrumental in the design and
creation of the proposed PA and would likely continue to play an important role during
project implementation.
Area Protegido San Guillermo
10.   Core and Buffer Zone. There is no population in the core or buffer zones of San
Guillermo. To assess the potential social impacts in the area of influence of the park
(nearby human settlements), interviews of key individuals in the Iglesia Department and
analysis of secondary data generated by the Social Research Institute of the National
University of San Juan, INDEC and APN were undertaken. Additional information was
provided by the Provincial government of San Juan and the Fundaci6n Ambientalista
Sanjuanina, a local NGO.
11.   Approximately 2,000 people live in 14 communities in the Iglesia Department, and
most are located at a distance of 50 km or more from the San Guillermo core area (only
one family lives as close as 10 km). The Department's population density is less than one
person per square kilometer. The major economic activities include: small-scale farming
and animal raising, handicrafts, small scale mining and, more recently, tourism. In the
towns, some individuals are employed in a variety of public sector jobs and in small
businesses. Because of the isolated location and arid conditions, agriculture has a low
level of productivity and profitability. Textile production is the major activity of the
handicraft sector, and is an important cultural and economic activity for women. The
exploitation of minerals-- primarily calcium sulfate, copper sulfate, sodium sulfate and
lead--also provides sporadic employment. The Cura Valley is a site for exploration of
gold, copper and iron, however, most mine workers are brought in from other regions of
Argentina.
12.   The SA team interviewed a broad cross section of stakeholders including large and
small farmers, the handicraft association, small-scale agro-industry, local tourism
businesses, municipal government and journalists. Of the people interviewed during the
SA, most were generally pleased to know that the existing Reserve will become a national
park and expressed a desire to be kept informed. Moreover, most people felt that the new



88                             Annex E
park would have a positive impact on their families and hoped that the expected increase
in tourism and its related employment opportunities would serve to keep young people
from migrating outside of the area.
Area Protegido Copo
13.   Core Area. While there are no landowners in Copo, there are currently 24 people,
comprising five families, living on land in the core area. Unlike the other PAs, this land
belongs to the Province of Santiago del Estero ( i.e., tierra fiscal) and the government
considers these people to be occupants. Most of these individuals colonized the area more
than 60 years ago and survive by raising livestock and cutting timber. Although the
families have no legal land titles, the provincial government has granted them certain
rights. The SA substantiated previous accounts that there are no large landowners in the
core area and the inhabitants of Copo are very poor.
14.   Information collected during the interview process suggests that these individuals
are willing to change their occupations provided they receive the required training, are
offered alternative employment, and receive wages commensurate with the duties of their
new employment. Additional details on activities to be supported can be found in the MP.
15.   Buffer Zone. Forty persons comprising 12 families reside in the buffer zone. Two
of these families have title to land which they acquired under the 1980 Colonization Plan.
The rest are intrusos (squatters) who occupy land without title but expect to receive title
under a Provincial land titling plan. Employment and income is based on relatively small-
scale livestock production. In some areas cotton production has become important.
Throughout the buffer zone, timber cutting is important as a source of income and as a
source of domestic energy. There are no formal producer cooperatives or associations in
the area.
16.   A number of governmental agencies, universities, and non-governmental
institutions have a presence in the area. In addition to APN and the provincial government,
other institutions include the University of Salta and the University of Santiago del Estero.
The communities which fall under the administrative jurisdiction of the Municipality of
Guanacos have both social and economic relations with those individuals residing in the
core area. The two key NGOs working in the area--ECOGEO and FUNDAPAZ --have
extensive experience working with small farmers in the design and implementation of
natural resource management programs.
Area Protegido Quebrada del Condorito
17.   Core Area. There are eight absentee landowners in the Condorito core area who
manage their lands through foremen. On the existing land holdings, there are eight families
comprising 36 people. Of these, 10 are wage workers who live with their families and
have contractual arrangements with their respective landowners. Estimated average
monthly income is US$ 270 per worker/month. In addition these families participate in
some subsistence agricultural production and receive fringe benefits and other amenities



89                             Annex E
(e.g., social security, grazing rights, firewood and food) which in total are estimated to be
worth about US$ 100 per month. The results of the SA indicate most of these families
have lived in the area all their lives and are closely linked to local communities. Families
place great value on education and are keen that their children achieve a high level of
education. All children attend rural schools in or near the PAs, where they are provided
with lunch and in some cases health care.
18.   During the SA process, the aforementioned land owners expressed their
willingness to sell their land to the APN and remove all cattle. Similarly, while the families
and individuals living in the core area said they would prefer to stay in the area rather than
to be resettled, they were willing to change their occupations provided they receive the
required training, are offered alternative employment, and receive wages commensurate
with the duties of the new employment. Additional details on activities to be supported
can be found in the MP.
19.   Buffer Zone. There are currently 144 families living in the Condorito buffer zone.
Of these, 17 family heads of household were interviewed during the SA. Based on the
results, it appears most of the families live on their own private, titled lands. Formal
employment is limited primarily to public sector positions such as teachers and general
school workers, provincial television station workers, and road maintenance crews. Other
sources of subsistence/income include: the raising of livestock for their own consumption
and/or for sale in nearby small towns, growing vegetables, and the use of forest resources
for firewood and home construction. During January and February some tourism-related
work is also possible. The average monthly salary is estimated to be US$ 250 (teachers'
salaries are considerably higher).
20.   The families interviewed expressed concern over the impact of park creation on
their production activities. Many of these families have close relations with the families
living in the park and are worried about how those people will be affected. They also
expressed concern over the restrictions on future grazing and cutting of trees in the park.
21.   A number of provincial governmental agencies, universities, and non-governmental
institutions have a presence in the area. The most important are: Ministerio de Producci6n
y Trabajo, Ministerio de Saludy Medio Ambiente, INTA, the Nacional University of
C6rdoba, and Fundaci6n Condor. The data seem to suggest that relative to the families in
the core area, families in the buffer zone have more experience dealing with formal
institutions.
Area Proftegido Monte Le6n
22.   Core and Buffer Zone. Due primarily to the fact that in the proposed core and
buffer zones there are only two large estancias that have only two permanent workers,
the approach used by the SA team was abbreviated and consisted of interviews with the
landowners and/or estancia foremen and with specialists from the Fundaci6n Patagonia
Natural, a local NGO. This information was complemented by an analysis of secondary



90                             Annex E
information from government agencies and from the Universidad Nacional de la
Patagonia Austral.
23.   The area around the site of the proposed park is sparsely populated--largely limited
to individuals working on neighboring estancias outside of the proposed PA. Economic
activity in the nearest town Puerto Santa Cruz, which is about 40 km from the core area,
is dominated by the fisheries sector. The natural beauty of the area has also begun to
attract tourists. Increased tourism however, could pose a threat to the environment of the
area if not managed properly. With this in mind, project activities will be focused on
environmental education and the controlled promotion of ecotourism.
C. Social and Economic Impacts of Park Creation
24.   Most of the social impacts brought about by the creation of the national parks will
be associated with the purchase of the land and concomitant termination of existing
employment agreements between landowners and workers. Specifically these impacts will
consist of loss of: (a) wage income; (b) other benefits provided by the landlord; and (c)
income and subsistence benefits associated with changes in livelihood systems brought
about by restrictions to the use of these lands (e.g., prohibitions on animal grazing and
timber cutting). Table E-1 provides a summary description of the socio-economic impacts
of park creation on populations living in core areas and buffer zones.
25.   Total monthly incomes (including benefits) have been estimated on an individual or
family basis in the three core areas (Tables E-2 to E-4). These figures were used as a basis
to assess two options: (a) resettlement, and (b) provision of alternative employment and
income which would allow project-affected families to remain in the core areas. Based on
the resulting analysis it was concluded that losses and associated mitigation costs would be
substantially greater if the families were to be resettled since this would require the
provision of housing and land for cattle raising. As the data indicate, under the second
option the proposed mitigation measures would, in most cases, result in a substantial
increase over existing income levels (in approximately 30% of the cases these increases
would exceed 100%). Details of these measures are provided in the MP.



91
Table E-1: Potential Socio-Economic Impacts on People in Proposed Core Areas and Buffer Zones
Protected Area       Threats to Population    Threats to Population in    Sustainable Pilot Activities    Support through Extension
l________________________      in Core Area             Buffer Zones                                                   Activities
Los Venados (APLV)        Elimination of wages   Gradual elimination of     *Recovery of degraded natural   *Sustainable rangeland management
and other benefits such   traditional systems of  grasslands and Wildlife.        *Wildlife conservation
as social security     extensive livestock raising    *Sustainable soil and water  *Fire management.
payment, cooking gas,                             management practices.           *Agrotourism/Ecotounsm.
and food.                                         *Wildlife management and        *Formation of environmental
breeding to produce meat, leather   production Co-ops.
Gradual elimination of                            and feathers.                   *Environmental education programs
traditional systems of                            *Small-scale plantings of natives  for primary schools, agriculture
extensive livestock                               tree and shrub species (Prosopis)   schools and university students of the
raising.                                                                         region.
San Guillemo (APSG)       No people reside in core  No people reside in buffer    *Womens' traditional handicraft    *Informal education program.
area                   zone                       programs                        *Environmental education program
*Restoration of degraded areas,  targeted at the local community
*programs to increase     *Revegetation with native species,   *Ecotourismn
ecotourism opportunities  medicinal herbs and shrubs.
will be implemented in     *Camelids breeding program
communities located in the   *Non conventional energy
Iglesias Department                                                                        I



92                                    Annex E
Table E-1: Socio-Economic Affects of Park Creation on Populations in Core Akeas and Buffer Zones (continued)
Protected Area     Threats to Population in Core Area     Threats to          Sustainable Pilot Activities    Support through Extension
Population in                                               Activities
Buffer Zones
Copo (APC)             Gradual elimination of traditional  Gradual elirnination   * Native forest restoration and  *Forest management training
systems of extensive livestock    of traditional       sustainable management program.  *Environmental education
raising.                          systems of extensive  *Agroforestry management program   programs targeted at neighboring
livestock raising.  *Development of alternative forest    conunurities.
Gradual implementation of                              products programn.
restrictions on cutting timber    Gradual
implementation of
restrictions on
cutting timber    _                                 __l
Quebrada del Condorio   Elimination of wages and other   Gradual elimination   *Recovery and management of     *Sustainable natural resource
(APQC)                 benefits such as social security   of use of park land    degraded grasslands programs.  management training program.
payment, cooking gas, and food.   for cattle grazing   *Fire management                 *Community Center
and the elimination   *Reintroduction of camelids for  strengthening plan.
Loss of access to firewood        of use of other park   leather, meat and wool production.  *Ecotourism
resources such as   *Fuelwood plantations with native  *Environmental education
Gradual elimination of traditional    firewood and timber  species (maiten, prosopis, tabaquillo)  program targeted at the local
systems of extensive livestock    for housing         and exotic (sauce rnimbre, acacias,    community and local schools.
raising.                          construction        other species).
*Aquaculture to supply restaurants
Over time the       and other tourism services.
elimination of      *Local crafts
traditional livestock   *Ecotourism development
raising systems
Reduced income
from changes in
livestock production
system



93                                  Annex E
Table E-1: Socio-Economic Affects of Park Creation on Populations in Core Areas and Buffer Zones (continued)
Protected Area     Threats to Population in Core Area   Threats to         Sustainable Pilot Activities   Support through Extension
Population in                                             Activities
Buffer Zones                                                                 l
Monte Leon (APML)     No negative impacts are expected as   No negative impacts  Programs to increase ecotourism  Programs to increase ecotourism
there are no people living in the core  are expected over    opportunities will be implemented   opportunities will be
area.                           the people residing   in the buffer zone             implemented in the buffer zone
in the buffer zone                                                               .



94
Table E-2: With and Without Project Comparative Analysis of Incomes for People Living
in the Parks' Core Areas
Average Annual Family Income With and Without Project
(US$)
Park Core Area   Income without   Income with    Percentage
project       project       increase
Los Venados              7,542         8,300            10
Copo                  4,435         8,160            84
Condorito               6,423        8,550            33
D. The Legal Framework for Mitigation of Impacts in National Parks
26.   The 1981 National Park's Law No. 22.351 and the subsequent Decrees No.
2148/90, 2149/90 and 453/94 prohibit the presence of human settlements in national parks
and monuments with the exception of those cases which are necessary for the management
and control of the PA (e.g., park guards and firefighters). Customarily, APN has allowed
the people living in the PAs to remain there and has integrated them in the rehabilitation
programs (e.g., LosAlerces and Lanin National Parks). Therefore, within the legal
framework, exceptional circumstances, such as those presented in the proposed new
protected areas, may be accommodated in a manner that would abide by the legal norms.
27.   The development of the Project's MP was guided primarily by APN's
resettlement-rehabilitation policies (and the World Bank's Operation Directive 4.30). In
the design of the MP, the plan allows for a flexible, demand-driven approach based
primarily on the improvement of existing physical infrastructure and provision for income-
generating activities and welfare restitution for project-affected populations. Involuntary
resettlement will therefore, in principle, be avoided, taking advantage of all viable
alternative project designs.



95                             Annex E
ATTACHMENT 1
THE MITIGATION PLAN
Background/Rationale
1.    During the project preparation phase, a team of local specialists undertook a
detailed socio-economic analysis (SA) of families and communities living in the five
proposed protected area sites. A summary of the methodology and principal findings can
be found in the Social Assessment Summary (Annex E).
2.    The main objectives of the SA were to determine: (i) the number of people living
on lands which will be reclassified as protected areas (PAs) under the project, (ii) sources
of livelihood, and (iii) the social-economic impacts of PA creation and management. The
team was also charged with evaluating and recommending whether resettlement would be
required or if other management options are viable to permit existing inhabitants to remain
where they are. Based on the results of the SA, the team, in consultation with those
families living within the core areas of the proposed PAs, local authorities, and APN staff,
prepared a Mitigation Plan (MP) which addresses the socio-economic impacts associated
with park creation. While the SA covered all five proposed PAs and their respective buffer
zones, populations which may be adversely affected by the project were found in only
three parks (Area Protegido Los Venados, Area Protegido Copo, Area Protegido
Quebrada del Condorito ). This affected group subsequently became the focus for the
development of the MP's proposed mitigation measures.
3.    Based on the results and recommendations of the SA and taking into consideration
existing APN policies, it appears that no families or individuals will need to be resettled
and a Mitigation Plan has been designed on this basis. This is consistent with prevailing
Bank guidelines (O.D. 4.30, described in the project implementation manual), which
provides that resettlement should be avoided or minimized where possible. In order to
prevent the negative social and economic impacts of park establishment and to support the
integration of human populations into park management, APN has prepared a framework
for mitigation and specific mitigation measures for each of the three parks.. The MP is
summarized below and is detailed in the Project Implementation Manual. In the unlikely
event that families or individuals would need to be resettled in the future, Bank policy
guidelines on resettlement, as set forth in OD 4.30, will be followed.
Mitigation Plan
4.    The SA provided the data required for the preparation of a general framework for:
(a) mitigating the negative social and economic consequences associated with the creation
of the Pas; and (b) integrating local inhabitants into the park management and decision-
making process. The specific mitigation measures proposed in the MP will apply only to



96                               Annex E
those families and individuals who lived and worked on the land in the new national parks
as of March 31, 1997.
5.    The major mitigation measure categories comprising the mitigation framework
are: (a) Infrastructure Improvements, (b) Employee Compensation'3, and (c) Extension
Activifies and Production Support. Specific mitigation measures were designed for each of
the three parks. However, as the park boundaries are still under revision, the MP may
require some adjustments in the future. To ensure that appropriate mitigation measures are
in place, APN will obtain the Bank's approval of the specific MP for each of the parks
before the execution of works. A description of the MP and budget presented by park can
be found in Tables 1-5.
Area Protegido Los Venados
6.    Infrastructure Improvements. The mitigation measures proposed include the
provision of materials for the improvement of six houses, including the installation of
bathroom accessories such as toilets and sinks as well as the improvement or construction
of a new house for the family currently living in the "casco " of the hacienda.
7.    Employee Com ensation. People living in the core area will be hired as either
assistant park guards (baqueanos), firefighters, or other categories of park personnel for a
total employee compensation of US$249,000. The hiring of the baqueanos will begin in
Year 1.
8.    Over the life of the project (LOP), the total cost of these mitigation measures is
estimated at US$ 274,000.
Area Protegido Copo
9.    Infastructure ImDrovements. The proposed mitigation measures consist of the
installation of five solar panels for electricity generation and the construction of five water
tanks.
10.   Emplovee Compensation. People living in the core area will be hired as either
assistant park guards (baqueanos), firefighters, or other categories of park personnel for a
total employee compensation of US$204,000.(see Table 3).
11.   Extension Activities and Production Support. Families and individuals will receive
support and the required inputs for the improvement of native forests and sustainable
agro-forestry production.
13 Employee compensation measures include three different types of contractual arrangements: (i) Full
time park guards hired by APN; (ii) Part time firefighters hired by APN and (iii) Part time workers
hired by private contractors. All employees hired by APN will receive social security benefits. In the
case of type (iii), private contractors will be required by APN through the bidding documents to hire
individuals living in the core park areas for a total of 260 person/month over five years, at a monthly
salary of US$ 600.



97                            Annex E
12.   Over the LOP, the total cost of these mitigation measures is estimated at US$
285,250.
Area Protegido del Quebrada Condorito
13.  Infrastructure Improvements. The proposed mitigation measures consist of
materials for the renovation of six houses. In the case of one family which will leave the
park area voluntarily and relocate nearby in the buffer zone, APN will cover the costs of
completing construction of the house and provide materials for raising of animals.
14.   Employee Compensation. People living in the core area will be hired as either
assistant park guards (baqueanos), firefighters, or other categories of park personnel for a
total employee compensation of US$342,000. In addition, APN will provide all families
with firewood as compensation for the wood that was previously provided by the
landowner.
15.   Extension Activities and Production Support. Extension activities and production
support materials (e.g., fencing) will be provided to all individuals and families to assist
them in maintaining a limited number of cattle for a transition period, not to exceed five
years.
16.   The total cost of these mitigation measures is estimated at US$ 322,770.
17.   The total costs of the MP, estimated at some US$ 994,020 are detailed in Tables
1-5 and in the Project Cost Tables (Annex H). Implementation of the MP will be the direct
responsibility of APN. When required, convenios will be prepared with other
organizations, including national government agencies, provincial government agencies,
NGOs and the private sector. In cases in which APN will hire people living in the PAs to
serve as baqueanos or other park-related employment, standard employee contracts will
be prepared. Of the total cost associated with the mitigation plan, US$ 823,000 will be
financed by the GOA. Incremental costs (US$ 171,000) of the MP, derived from the
works required for the establishment of the park areas, will be financed by GEF.
18.  In addition to these mitigation measures, it should be noted that project-affected
populations can also participate fully in the complementary activities developed under the
Project's Buffer Zone Biodiversity Activities and Public Participation sub-components.
Specifically, through training and targeted education programs in participatory planning,
sustainable resource management, and ecotourism development and management, PA
inhabitants will have an opportunity to make a valuable contribution to the park's
management and at the same time be involved in decisions that directly affect their daily
lives. Participation in these activities will also be available to families and communities
living in the buffer zones of the three parks (see Annex B for more detail).



98                                 Annex E
Table 1 Summary of Employee Compensation by Park and
Type of Contract (Ful/Part Time)
Los Venados       El Copo        Condorito       Total
Full time
Months (pm)            180              240             360           780
Salaries (US$)      108,000          144,000         216,000       468,000
Part time    _
Months (pm)            235               100            210           545
Salaries (US$)       141,000          60,000         126,000       327,000
Total I
Months (pm)             415              340            570          1,325
Salaries (US$)       249,000          204,000        342,000       795,000
Table 2: Mitigation Activities. Timetable and Costs for Area Protegido Los Venados.
MITIGATION PROGRAM                 TYPE OF ACTIVITY           TIMETABLE            COSTS
g _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1  |2 13 14  5|
House (6) improvements (install  x   125,000
latrines)                       
IWages                           lxlx Ix  lrx 1        $2495,000 2
Table 3: Mitigation Activities Timetable and Costs for Area Protegido Copo
MITIGATION PROGRAM                 TYPE OF ACTIVITY         1TIMETABLE             COSTS
*  infrastructure               House improvements (5), water tanks I    I       $22,500 t
_  and solar panels                       I
* Income Sources               [Baqueanos and Firefighters.     l   x ]x lix rx x$204,000
'si'   E K 
Improvement of native forests   Extension and production support       x x   x  $10,000
In i sod u     $20,000.
Sustainable agro-forestry       Extension and production support  x x x  x x  $180,5000
S  x E   a  x  x  $18,750 -
sai I1,



99                                Annex E
Table 4: Mitigation Activities. Timetable and Costs for Area Protegido del Quebrada
Condorito
MITIGATION PROGRAM        |       TYPE OF ACTIVITY         | TIMETABLE |          COSTS
Improvement of housing and other                                                $19,000.rvemrit1)
infrastructure.                J
. , t~~~~~~~~~~~~~.   .  ...  .:.  -.  .:.   .  .:--l__-
Subtotal                                                                              $19,000
E E E iQI2 
Wages                                                             x  x x x x $342,000
Provision of firewood                                             x  x x x x $ 43,600
$345,600
; uEU. ......
Support to sustainable livestock  Technical assistance extension and   x  x x x x $ 30,170
production during a five year   production inputs.                x  x x
transition Period.
Table 5. Estimated Costs for the Mitigation Plan (US$'00)
Input Description                          GEF        GOA          Total
Infrastructure for 18 houses (i.e. housing improvement, installation of      51.50         51.50
water tanks and solar panels).
Employee Compensation (13 baqueanos at $ 7200 per year and 545              639.00        639.00
person/month at US$ 600 per month)
Transportation of Firewood (6200 km @.05 cts/km)                             43.6           43.6
Sustainable Use Activities                                                   88.9          88.9
Extension and Production Support
House improvement in Los Venados (i.e. construction of one house)  15                       15
Funds for hiring people living in core areas as part time workers (through
private contractors) 14                                         156                        156
Total Base Costs                                             171          823          994.5
14 260 person/month at a monthly salary of US$ 600 (US$ 156,000) that will be hired by private
contractors to carry out required park works.



100
ANNEx F: INSTITUTIONAL ANALYSIS
Protected Areas in Argentina
1     Argentina has a long history of conservation, dating back to 1903. In that year, the
pioneering conservationist, Francisco P. Moreno, donated 7,500 hectares (ha) in an area
near Bariloche to the government, with the promise that the land would be used for the
enjoyment of all the Argentine people. This donation was the basis for what eventually
became the country's flagship national park, Nahuel Huapi. In 1934, the agency that
manages the system, Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales (APN) was created (at the
time it was called La Comision de Parques Nacionales). The APN has since become a
semni-autonomous agency under the Secretaria de Estado de Recursos Naturalesy
Desarrollo Sustentable (SRNyDS).
2.    The existing system of national protected areas consists of 31 parks and reserves
of various classifications (Table F-1) covering 3.02 million hectares. In addition, there are
197 provincial parks and reserves, covering approximately 11 million ha, or 4.5 percent of
the surface area of the country. Provincial parks and reserves include those under the
jurisdiction of provincial governments, municipal governments, national universities, under
private ownership, or a mixture of two or more of these entities. Only 123 of the 197
provincial parks and reserves are actually administered exclusively by provincial
government bodies. Of the remainder, 28 are in private ownership, 19 are administered by
municipal governments, 9 are administered by the ICyT (Instituto Nacional de
Capacitaci6n y Tecnologia), 3 by provincial universities, and 15 are under a mix of two or
more of these groups. While the creation of these non-federal parks has served to
publicize the importance of protection of the nation's biological diversity, most all are in
need of effective management.
National Protected Area Administration
3.    Structure. The lead agency responsible for managing the country's national
protected areas is the Administraci6n de Parques Nacionales (APN), a semi-autonomous
agency within the Secretaria de Estado de Recursos Naturales y Desarrollo Sustentable
(SRNyDS). Under the recent reorganization of the Nation's public sector, associated with
the Second Reform of the State, APN is headed by a Board of Directors (Directorio)
which consists of a president, a vice president, and four representatives from SRNyDS, the
Secretariat of Tourism, and the Ministries of Defense and Interior, respectively. In the
recent 1997 reorganization of APN, under this Board there are two national directorates
and one coordination directorate: the Direccion Nacional de Conservaci6n de Areas
Protegidas, the Direcci6n Nacional del Interior, and the Direcci6n General de
Coordinaci6n Administrativa:



101                           Annex F
Table F- 1. Protected Area Classification and Management Objectives in Argentina
Protected Area Categories   Management Objectives
National or Provincial Parks Conservation of natural habitat, prohibiting virtually all
economic activities with the exception of tourism.
Strict Nature Reserves   Conservation of significant habitat and/or species. No
economic activity is allowed.
Natural Monuments        Conservation of unique natural areas - public use is permitted,
although severe restrictions are in place to protect biological
systems.
Natural Reserves          Conservation of critical habitat for one or more species of
recognized national importance - public use is permitted,
although restrictions are placed on most uses.
Protected Landscapes      Conservation of areas of natural or cultural significance,
including landscapes modified by past human land uses -
management actions are designed to sustain the existing
landscape conditions.
Resource Reserves        Conservation of natural areas which have been subject to
limited previous scientific investigation - only traditional low-
impact land uses by local populations are permitted.
Natural/Cultural Reserves   Conservation of areas with important natural or cultural
significance, particularly areas inhabited by indigenous or
aboriginal communities - management plans are based on
agreements drawn between the traditional communities and
APN
Multiple Use Reserves    Conservation of areas which have experienced some
degradation through human land use - management plans are
based on sustainable land use practices aimed at restoring
ecosystem functions.
Biosphere Reserves       These reserves are designed to include a strict protected core
zone surrounded by a multiple use reserve. Biosphere reserves
are designated by the Man and the Biosphere Program of
UNESCO.
World Heritage Sites     Conservation of areas of exceptional world values, including
geological, biological or cultural principles. These sites are also
designated by UNESCO



102                            Annex F
(a)   Direcci6n Nacional del Interior (DNI) whose principal function is to
supervise APN operations and ensure they are in compliance with the
institution's mandate and policies. Under the DNI there is one directorate
(Direcci6n de Coordinaci6n Operativa) responsible for the planning of
monitoring and control systems and combating fires in the Nation's parks
and reserves. Administratively, APN's 13 intendencias also report directly
to the DNI;
(b)   Direcci6n Nacional de Conservaci6n de Areas Protegidas (DNCAP)
responsible for planning, programming, and formulation of conservation
policies and strategies, including public use of the nation's PAs. This
national directorate is also responsible for protection, management,
sustainable use, research, interpretation, recreation and monitoring
activities. Under the DNCAP there are two directorates: (i) Conservaci6n
y Manejo, responsible for the management and conservation of the
country's protected ecosystems; and (ii) Interpretaci6n y Extension
Ambiental, responsible for interpretation, extension activities, and public
relations; and
(c)   Direcci6n General de Coordinaci6n Administrativa (DGCA), responsible
for coordination of APN's budgetary process including the preparation of
the annual budget and supervising and controlling its implementation,
personnel administration and training, and public works and concession
policies. Under the DGCA there are four directorates: (i) Administraci6n,
Recursos Humanos y Capacitaci6n, Obras e Inversiones Ptiblicas, and
Aprovechamiento de Recursos.
4.    At the field level and under DNI's Direcci6n de Intendencias de los Parques, there
are 13 intendencias responsible for the operational management of one or more of the
national protected areas, including relations with provincial and municipal governments.
Typically, the administrative structure of an intendencia consists of three functional units
responsible for administration, works and infrastructure maintenance, and conservation
management and control. In addition, under DNCAP, there are four delegaciones tecnicas
regionales (DTRs) whose primary responsibilities are to provide technical support to
intendencias in their region in the preparation of conservation plans, programs, and
projects; resource management issues; research; and information exchange. The DTRs are
located in Iguazu (Northeastern), Salta (Northwestern), Buenos Aires (Central) and San
Carlos de Bariloche (Patagonia).
5.    Personnel. Argentina's national public personnel system makes a distinction
between two types of permanent APN personnel: administrative (Sistema Nacional de la
Profesi6n Administrativa) and park guards (Cuerpo Nacional de Guardaparques). Park
guards, responsible for the day-to-day management of the parks, provide the full range of
management and protection functions such as nature interpretation, visitor safety, and
park security, including armed anti-poaching patrols. In addition, there are a number of



103                           Annex F
non-permanent categories of employees, namely: contractors (contractados), volunteers,
and interns (becarios).
6.    APN staff currently totals about 684, of which 216 are park guards. As a result of
the previously mentioned reorganization of APN, there will be a significant increase in
both park guards and administrative staff to support a larger presence in both existing and
newly created parks (Table F-2). Compensation and career development opportunities will
be important issues for retaining park guards and creating a more professional park
management staff.
Table F-2. Projected Increase in APN Personnel
Category                      1997     1998 (est)  1999 (est)
Executive Appointment               7          7          7
Park Guards                       216        320        358
Technical Staff (SINAPA)           60         70         70
Intendencias (SINAPA)             205        326        340
Administration (SINAPA)            75         74         74
Becarios                          121        121        121
Total                             684        918        970
7.    Park Revenues. Table F-3 shows APN's self-generated revenues and treasury
transfers over the last six years in 1995 dollars. The self-generated revenues have grown
significantly over the past five years (about 19 percent per year). In 1994, the most recent
year for which accurate information is available, APN's self-generated revenue, excluding
exceptional one-time only sources of income such as sales of assets, was estimated to be
US$3.9 million. In that year, one park alone, Iguazu, accounted for approximately 45
percent of total income. The four Patagonian parks proposed for inclusion in the GEF
associated Natural Forests and Protected Areas (NFPA) Project loan accounted for an
additional 44 percent of the revenue generated in that year.
Table F-3. APN's Total Income (in 1995 US$)
Year       Own Revenue  From Treasury  Total
1990        336,000       4,922,000     5,258,000
1991        1,906,000     6,738,000     8,644,000
1992        2,998,000     7,446,000     10,444,000
1993        5,253,000    14,430,000     19,683,000
1994        5,196,000    16,771,000    21,967,000
1995        8,671,000    15,238,000    23,909,000
1996 (est)  13,500,000    14,500,000   28,000,000
1997 (est)  15,000,000    15,000,000    30,000,000



104                           Annex F
8.    Entrance fees, which are charged in only 11 national parks, make up about 42
percent of APN's self-generated revenue. Depending on the park, other important sources
of park revenue include: rental of park properties (9 percent); permits for fishing, hunting
and boating (2 percent); pasture fees; royalties associated with forest exploitation in
reserves; and licensing of tourist guides and other concessionaires.
9.    Operating Budget. Budget cuts suffered by APN during the 1980s and early 1990s
combined to limit the Agency's ability to maintain the equipment and infrastructure needed
to carry out its mandate to manage existing protected areas. The initially promised 1995
budget of US$27.8 million was a significant increase over the 1994 budget of US$22
million. However, because of new austerity measures demanded of all public institutions,
the 1995 budget was later reduced to about US$24 million. Of the total 1994 budget
allocation, 56 percent covered salaries of permanent staff, a relatively low proportion in
comparison with.other Latin American park systems.
10.   APN's 1996 projected budget is US$28 million, which has been allocated to the
budgetary categories presented in Table F-4. It is noteworthy that the US$6.5 million
allocated for land purchase is not fungible because it comes from a special fund
earmarked exclusively for this purpose and funded by sales of assets.
Table F-4. APN's 1996 Estimated Budget
Category                  Budget Amount
(US$)
Salaries                  14,500,000
Works                      3,000,000
Equipment                  2,400,000
Land Purchase              4,500,000
Operations                3,600,000
Total                     28,000,000
11.   Currently, it is estimated that about 52 percent of the budget is financed by the
national treasury, with the remaining 48 percent coming from internally generated funds.
This compares with 94 percent financing from the treasury in 1990. The current policy is
that treasury funds are used exclusively to cover salaries and benefits of park staff, and
that self-generated revenues are used to cover everything else, including investments (and
in the case of a Bank loan, the counterpart funding). These park-generated revenues are
deposited in an APN account with the Banco de la Naci6n in Buenos Aires. Park
operating expenses are then managed through this account by a system of rotating funds
and petty cash.
12.   Budgeting and Accounting Systems. With the promulgation of the State Reform
Law (Ley Reforma del Estado Nacional) No. 23,696 of 1989, and the Law of Ministries
(Ley Nacional de Ministerios) No. 24,190 of 1993, the Agency moved from the
Secretariat of Agriculture to the SRNyAH. As part of this transition process, APN has



105                           Annex F
carried out, and continues to make, major changes in its financial and administrative
management systems. As mandated by the Public Sector Financial Administration and
Systems Control Reform Law (Ley Reforma de la Administraci6n Financiera y de los
Sistemas de Control del Sector Publico Nacional) No. 24,156 of 1992, APN is
responsible for administering a financial system in compliance with national standards.
13.   The national financial administration system for public sector institutions, which
has now been adopted by APN, is comprised of standardized budgetary, accounting,
auditing, public credit, and treasury systems. The Ministerio de Economia y Obras y
Servicios Puiblicos is responsible for the control of these systems, and has prepared
procedural manuals and computer programs to standardize the operations across
institutions. The new system, controlled by the Oficina Nacional de Presupuesto and
detailed in a series of standardized operational manuals, now requires the preparation of
Annual Operating Plans (POAs), which in the case of APN, is based on the POAs
prepared at the level of the intendencia. While this budgeting system is now in place in
APN's central office, the intendencias are still in the process of obtaining necessary
software, manuals, and training. In the interim, the current manual system seems to be
working satisfactorily.
14.   In 1994, the Constitutional Reform Law (Ley Reforma del Constituci6n) mandated
that all national public sector institutions adopt a double system of accounting. This
consisted of the establishment of an: (a) internal auditing unit UnidadAuditorio Internal
(UAI) in each agency under the control of the Sindicatura General de la Naci6n (SGN),
which is directly responsible to the Office of the President; and (b) external auditing
authority under the control of the Auditoria General de la Naci6n, which depends on the
National Congress.
15.   This system (Sistema Integrado de Informaci6n Financiera; SIDIF)15, s now
operational at the APN headquarters, but has yet to be installed in the field offices due to
the lack of the required equipment, software, modems and operational manuals. As
required by law, APN set up a UAI in 1993 for internal auditing of all accounts as well as
for technical and legal operations. The UAI, which is composed of three lawyers, three
accountants and an engineer, operates on the basis of an Operational Manual, which was
issued by the SGN, to which the UAI must send periodic reports.
16.   The UAI's 1995 audit of APN identified the following problems that need to be
resolved: (i) lack of an inventory of concession obligations; (ii) lack of information on the
payments and other obligations of concessionaires (and, hence, the failure to collect all
fees); (iii) lack of interaction across APN on methods of concession contracting; (iv) lack
of clarity regarding responsibility for concession and permit management; and (v) a
general lack of planning.
17.   The national treasury system, which is coordinated by the Tesoreria General de la
Naci6n, is moving towards the required centralization of all public sector revenues and
15 This system was developed under the World Bank Public Sector Reform Loan (Ln. 3362-AR).



106                            Annex F
expenses through the establishment of a single account (caja unica). This centralization is
expected to be completed by the end of 1997, and will result in the elimination of all
individual agency accounts including those of APN. This wili significantly reduce the level
of autonomy of decentralized agencies like APN in that they will no longer have the
freedom to manage their own self-generated revenues.
18.   APN Policy Priorities in New Protected Areas. The APN has identified three key
priority areas for both existing and any new PAs created under its jurisdiction: (i)
improved management measures, (ii) training and institutional strengthening for APN
staff, and (iii) increasing the number of PAs in order to strengthen the conservation value
of the overall system. Priorities within individual protected areas include the following:
(a)   provide adequate infrastructure to enable park staff to fulfill their tasks,
with particular emphasis on improved physical facilities, and the
maintenance and repair of vehicles;
(b)   increase the number of vehicles available to support park patrol and
enforcement operations;
(c)   increase training opportunities in environmental education for park staff,
(d)   increase the number of interpretive centers for visitors; and
(e)   delimit park boundaries.
19.   The APN has also identified the need to improve the management capability of
participating institutions, particularly provincial agencies and NGOs, in order to help
facilitate coordination and cooperation and promote a more integrated approach to the
management of protected areas.
Provincial Protected Area Administration
20.   Many of Argentina's provinces can claim a long history in the designation of PAs.
The first protected area under provincial jurisdiction was established in Tucuman in 1930.
In 1986 the APN began negotiations with all the country's provinces to form a national
protected areas system (NPAS). The purpose of this effort was to identify and where
appropriate, consolidate the protected areas throughout the country. Additionally,
negotiations were designed to promote partnerships between APN and provincial
governments in the administration and management of protected areas, particularly where
joint management could enhance the biological and ecological objectives of the
conservation designation. The APN currently is in various stages of formalizing these
agreements with 15 provinces, including San Luis, San Juan, and Santiago del Estero.
21.   Many of the provincial governments appear to be committed to identifying
important areas for conservation and completing the legal and institutional steps necessary
to establish provincial protected areas. Environmental and ecological concerns have been
highlighted in both San Luis and San Juan Provinces, and restructuring efforts in both



107                           Annex F
provinces demonstrate a strong commitment to providing the administrative framework at
the ministerial level to establish clear environmental management and conservation
programs.
22.   The achievement of these objectives is likely to be constrained by scarce human
resources. For example, there appear to be few provincial governments in Argentina with
the technical capabilities or infrastructure to carry out effective biodiversity conservation
initiatives on the ground. Moreover, the agencies responsible for protected area
administration and management in virtually all of the provinces are severely under-funded.
Many provinces do not have even a single employee with professional training in park
management or biological conservation. In those few cases with employees responsible for
provincial protected area control and enforcement, there is often little basic logistical
support, such as transportation and communication facilities, to carry out assigned tasks.
It will be essential under this project to provide resources to the provinces to cover at least
the incremental costs associated with the GEF project before any effective activity will be
supported.
Legal Process Leading to the Establishment of New Protected Areas
23.   The 1981 National Park's Law No. 22.351 (Regimen Legal de los Parques
Nacionales, Monumentos Naturales y Reservas Nacionales - Mensaje y Ley Organica)
established the current legal basis for the creation and management of Argentina's
protected areas (PAs) and provided the basic framework for their classification into one of
several management categories (Table F-1). To create a new federal PA in provincial
territory, the previously cited legislation requires that a priori, the dominion and
jurisdiction over the land in question be ceded to the Nation. The key steps are:
(a)   a formal agreement is signed between the provincial govermment and APN
representing the President of the Republic (Poder Ejecutivo Nacional).
This agreement recognizes the importance of creating a national protected
area in territory under provincial jurisdiction and defines the obligations of
both signatories;
(b)   the provincial govermment passes a law which cedes jurisdiction over the
concemed lands to the Nation; and
(c)   the national govermment, in tum, passes a law that accepts jurisdiction over
the proposed protected area. This law also defines the management
category of the area, the national institution responsible for managing the
PA including its specific obligations, and provides for the additional
operation and maintenance costs associated with the management of the
PA. The law has to be approved by the President of the Republic (Poder
Ejecutivo Nacional).
24.   This legal process concludes with the transfer of the property from the province to
APN as specified in the registration of the relevant cadastral survey.



108                            Annex F
25.   Where the lands are in private hands, APN provides financial compensation to the
landowner at a value determined through an independent appraisal. This process requires
an official evaluation, which goes to the National Tax Court (Tribunal de Tasaciones de
la Naci6n) and to the land owners. Using this evaluation as a basis, APN, in most cases,
negotiates a price directly with the landowner, which is generally the same price stipulated
by the official evaluation. On average, this process requires approximately one year to
complete but can take longer depending on the number and nature of conflicts involved in
the transfer. In the case of national reserves, the lands remain in private ownership but are
subject to restrictions based on an approved management plan.
26.   While the administrative procedures for PA designation differ among provinces,
generally, protected areas are established by the provincial legislature following the
drafting and passage of a law that defines the legal boundaries and describes the proposed
uses and jurisdiction for the area. Many provinces are now using the same classification
system as APN for designating specific protected areas, and some provinces, such as San
Luis, are conducting systematic reviews of all existing and proposed protected areas in
order to reevaluate the classifications.
27.   The APN maintains a small legal staff in Buenos Aires to facilitate and monitor
these legal processes. In addition, some intendencias of individual parks also have legal
experts on their staffs.



109
ANNEx G: INCREMENTAL COSTS AND GLOBAL ENVIRONMENTAL BENEFITS
A. Context and Broad Development Goals
1.    Over-exploitation of Argentina's biological resources is proceeding at an alarming rate.
In the last century, it is estimated that Argentina has lost more than two thirds of its original
forest cover; the existing loss rate is estimated at 160,000 hectares per year. The loss of non-
forested habitat is also significant, due to land conversion for agricultural purposes; in addition,
erosion in some areas is increasing, attributable primarily to overgrazing by sheep and cattle.
While the existing system of protected areas is extensive in comparison to other countries in
Latin America, a recent National Parks Administration (APN) analysis estimated that less than
21 percent of the total area under protection is acceptably managed. Moreover, the existing
National Protected Areas System (NPAS) does not equitably represent many of the country's
ecoregions considered to be of international significance in terms of their biodiversity.
2.    The GOA recognizes the importance of the country's biological endowment and the
need to conserve and use these natural resources in a sustainable manner. To assist GOA
evaluate development options and priorities, APN, in collaboration with other public sector
agencies, the academic community, NGOs, and the private sector, is in the process of
formulating a national biodiversity strategy with UNDP/GEF support. Although the details of
the strategy remain to be elaborated, key elements already emerging include the need to:
strengthen and extend the protected area system; increase national and local capacity in natural
resource management (in both forested and non-forested areas); and promote greater public
participation in sustainable natural resource management. The Baseline Scenario and GEF
Alternative have been developed within this evolving policy context.
B. Baseline Scenario
3.    Under the Baseline Scenario, it is expected that the GOA would begin to implement
the priorities identified in the National Biodiversity Strategy. Within that framework, priority
would be given to activities that generate national economic benefits deriving from sustainable
use of the country's native forest resources and modem management of its protected areas
system. Efforts to expand the NPAS to include under-represented, globally significant areas
would also be initiated. This Baseline Scenario would translate into two primary operational
programs/emphases: Native Forests, including (a) development of an incentive and regulatory
framework to encourage sustainable use of native forest resources (US$ 1.0 million); (b)
development of the information tools (inventories, database, etc.) to facilitate sustainable
management of the native forest resource over the long term (US$ 8.5 million); and (c) applied
research on improved management and conservation of native forests (US$ 5.6 million); and
Protected Areas, including (d) modernization and strengthening of APN's system for man-
aging the NPAS (US$ 3.4 million); (e) investments in selected national parks capable of
attracting national and international tourism (US$ 11.6 million); and (f) initial expansion of the



110                              Annex G
NPAS to include sites of global significance (US$ 11.1 million). The combined cost of this
Native Forests/Protected Areas Baseline Scenario is estimatedat US$ 41.2 million.
4.    Implementation of the Baseline Scenario would permit GOA to address native forest
management issues in a comprehensive and coherent manner, building partnerships with the
private sector and in the provinces. Improvement in the management of the protected areas
system, development of visitor infrastructure at selected sites, and formulation of tourism
strategies would increase opportunities for cost-recovery and revenue-earning activities in local
communities without threatening ecosystem stability. The expansion of the NPAS to five
under-represented ecosystems (Andean Puna, Pampas grasslands, semi-arid Chaco, Cordoba
montane savannas, Patagonian Steppe) would lay the basis for conservation and protection of
globally significant biodiversity in Argentina. However, implementation of the Baseline
Scenario would only cover basic establishment costs at these new parks (land acquisition,
compensation arrangements, and a minimal staff presence), and would not be sufficient to
assure the institutional/management capacity and full public participation which is necessary
for effective, long-term conservation.
C. Global Environmental Obiective
5.    The global environmental objective of the GEF Alternative would be to ensure the
effective, long-term conservation of biodiversity of global importance in four categories of
ecosystems in Argentina: arid and semi-arid ecosystems (the Pampas, the Puna, and the
Patagonian Steppes); forest ecosystems (C6rdoba montane savannas and the Chaco);
mountain ecosystems (the Puna), and coastal, marine, and freshwater ecosystems (Patagonian
Steppe and littoral and wetland Patagonian habitats). The sites selected for protection are
characterized by high endemism, pristine habitats, and in some cases, existence of threats from
alternative economic development. Populations of threatened mammals (Pampas Deer, Jaguar,
Giant Anteater, Giant Armadillo, pinnipeds, camelids) and birds (condors, seabirds) are
considered outstanding and of global significance (see Annex 2).
D. GEF Alternative
6.    Under the GEF Alternative, the GOA would be able to undertake an ambitious
program encompassing both national and global benefits. The GEF alternative would comprise
the already described Baseline Scenario (i.e., native forest management, modernization of the
NPAS, establishment of new sites), as well as an expanded conservation and sustainable use
program to promote the integrity and long-term conservation of the selected ecoregions of
global interest. Activities included under the two primary operational programs would be
modified as follows to achieve the global objective of protecting these unique biological
resources: Native Forest (activities same as Baseline, cost: US$15.1 million); Protected
Areas: (a) modernization and strengthening of APN's system for managing the NPAS (US$
3.4 million); i";) In ents in selected national parks capable of attracting national and
international tourism (activities same as Baseline, cost: US$11.6 million); (c) investments in
selected parks of global significance (US$ 21.6 million); this would include establishment costs
(as per the Baseline Scenario) as well as sustainable management arrangements, buffer zone
activities, public participation, training, and monitoring and evaluation (M&E); and (d) creation



111                             Annex G
of a national biodiversity network (US$0.7 million). The cost of the GEF Alternative is
estimated at US$51.7 million.
7.    Implementation of the GEF Altemative would make possible activities and programs
that would not have been possible under the Baseline Scenario, thus covering important gaps
that would otherwise threaten the integrity of the proposed protected areas. While both the
Baseline Scenario and the GEF Altemative would expand and diversify the country's existing
NPAS by including intemationally-significant ecoregions, only the latter option would ensure
their long-term conservation and protection through strengthened on-site management,
outreach to and involvement of local communities and local governments, and development of
viable approaches to natural resource use in park buffer zones. The creation of a national
biodiversity network would facilitate informed decision-making and permit improved
monitoring of impacts and trends over the long-term.
E. Incremental Costs
8.    The difference between the cost of the Baseline Scenario (US$ 41.2 million) and the
GEF Alternative (US$ 51.7 million) is estimated at US$10.5 million. Of this amount, it is
estimated that about US$400,000 would generate national benefits, mainly from investments in
sustainable productive activities in the buffer zones of the protected areas, which would not
have taken place under the Baseline Scenario. Because the beneficiaries would cover the cost
associated with achieving these additional national benefits, the incremental cost of achieving
global environmental benefits (protecting unique biodiversity in five selected parks) under the
GEF Altemative is estimated at US$10.1 million.



112
ANNEX H: PROJECT COSTS
Argentina
SXODOVERS1TY C7NS6RVATrom PR0J5c-
xpeditures Accounts by Coats  - Totals lIeludirg Coutiagamets
(USS)
Manaqerent.
Proceee.1d Alre                               Monitoring
astabil isment                                 Information       and
Ok WeN       Sustainable                    MPGSflee           -- ZXA3ALS.g...
Protected    Dev.leptnc                      tnt0mNaon    Proj ect
Ar.'s       AetivGLi*J    PSXiGAZGG   ISvU              'Ud           sal
S. 2Dv-Wtt Costs
A. Land /a
1. Land Purchase                                 6,534,473                                             -             -  6,S34,473
S. Wotks
1. CiVil WorXs                                   2,685.9s                                -            - i,6ss,95l
2. 6Omd *nd Trai1.                               783,636.S                                                           *  783.636.S
3.  Otner     Works                                          _____m____                   - .  ..                          -71l   4
Subtotal Works                                       3.805.321                                -                         -  3.605,321
C. aood.
1. Maclinery and Equipmeent                      69S.S4.S                                     129,121.3    l6,706.3  841.392.0
2. Venicie                                                                --2------ ----  .             .            *  7  -12 -
Subtotal Goods                                       1.417.888                                    129,121.3    16,706.3  ;,563.716
D. Ser.tcem /b
1. !nvirovencal Studies                          158,362.2                               -                           -  15.362.2
2. Training                                               -               *      S1S.0S2.7    36,970.9                  605,023.C
3. otner Technical Assistant                  1. 2sd..  2 0                 .   22..OdL.62 1:067.. SB o     489Z970 8 LI-UA2L
subtotal  Sr_ ces.2.LA8                                              * 1.11     .I Lj.1.   9   35,SSA9   4 89-9 .70 .2L     1.98L a
Total invessst Costs                                    13.184.130       111,931.1       81S.113.9   483.67s.2   506,677.1 :5.101.527
rs. sacurs-ac Costs
A. Butter Zone ActIvities                                            867,899.3                             - -67.S99.3
C. Beneftciary Cou-trpare                                     -      415.945.5                                          -  415.545.5
0. Social lmpact Mitlgation Plan APN /c                                              874,591.9                              874 591.9
E. APN Contracted Personnel                          1,124,291                                . *  25.719.2    76,695.0  :.126,705
F. Operating                                         i.SoX0452       110.289.5        30,369.6    44.701.9    37.435.1  1.724.248
G. Materials and Supplies                            137,356.1                *                                             137.356.1
H. Ottice Operations - APN                                    -                                                 29,304.0   29,304.0
;. Consultative Coumisaxons Operating Costs                   -                     144.13.5              -            -  144,813.5
X. Services Contracting                         .. 166..-------------                           ----7-. 1.5j                        ? 7
Total Recurrent Coats                                  ,,L29L.I          1-3,3-7t        1-.L0477S   17 0421.     1 4LJ14 0 J    8fi 902
Total PROJICT COSTS                                      16.913.667       1,505,66S       1,8649809   654.096.3   6501111- :.1586 ,429
rTxas                                                   2.432.240       115.393.1       619.468.0   124.109.1    64.315.0  3 255.5SS
Foreign  achange                                        2.214.450       19S.464.9       17S.493.6   279.137.1    37.013.6  2,901,559
\a Land cot,. including measurent and titling,
\b Includinig  Fees, perdlem, travel and ocher Ca&S  related expenses.
\c Including: Fire Brigat- (ex pooladoresl and faqueanos Salaries and ether expensss.
Thu Jun 26 15:23:24 1997
Argentina
sZOZVCRSZTV CONSPRVAtrON PROJECT
Project Cent su- try
I C     Total
logo7                                roreoan -st.l    Foreign  Br.aseAA
1. astaolasnment ot New Protected Areas         13.861,052  2.006.64d ll..;i.a$U  A4.;        ii.i      i '  -;430               3
3. Sustainable Oevelpmsttt Activities  1247.860  15,1130.0  1.413.600  1,247,680  185,720.0  1.433.600             13         7
Subtot1 ProtCton Ara                                119.057.810 16.699.752 2.35SOSa 19.057.810                                     12        94
1.  Information   Sysvamte                       _.L,_,1UL   26,l     6..LLLAgLA   IS9 770 L.f _.2ALaiLAJ ..2LLZ         A.....,...  ....,..0..
Subtctal Itot         aastem55,70.   256,030.0  621,0oo.0  355,770.0  266,030.0  621,800.0                                       43         3
C. Uaas wwt. xootoring &ad 4a              z 2s8 3l__a                           _      o;  20 
1. ProJ eCt Unit 1S Z231.a 199'1..
Subtotal x"adagmat. UOBkitOtiUq and Evaluation  "I:0240    441  ....0...   409-650.a  72 22..                    .LU               13 ....LO
Total 5A5ZL1381 COSTS                  ~~~~~~~~17,   'I.74    3,558.518 20.Z89.260 17.610.742  2.6S8.518 09 920         1         0
PhysI CSZl ContinenTiea02,380.2  103,258.8  406,239.0  312,980.2  103,258.6  4 06,23 9 .0                                           25         3
Price Contxnqencieo                                ,1iZ,7..    JLI2.2                           Z.2.Z..  2...LI.29 -.--.-                  LO
Total pRLo.fCT COSTS                                 L166SO391.65  21.388.429 16.686.870  1.901.119218.49                             3       10
Thu Jun 36 15:33w20 1997



113                                                    Annex H
Arqenclna
30173VlRS fTY CONSERVATION P20.ECIr
Tadle 1L05. PROTRC=T  AREA STAaL5SH04ST & MASAGEMENT   Los Venados
Detallad Costs
(USS)
3. InvestmeAt Costs
A. Cora de Tierrzs
ComYpra d- TL rra                                           3.402.000            -                                  3.402.000
D. Obtas Civllas
Construccion I Puesto de control                              22.SS3.4           -          *                        22.553.4
Construccion I V%vIonda la                                    40,095.0                      -                        40,09S.0
Refacez0n Vxviendas /b                                                -          - 13..208.0           .1 19.208.0
Construccion Centro de invosltqaczdn/vivienda tC                      -              94.10".5                        94688.5
Conscruccion Oficlo&lVivlenda y Centro de Recepcl6n /d                *4_        -             ------ .--             t4-a4 
Subtotal Obras C1vllS                                           62.648.4            - 108.95.0            *            371.633.4
C. Cam9.ao y S.aderos
Roparacxon de Caoos                                                   -             322.138.5                       322.138.5
Senderos Interprcativos                                     .--------                             -          -       * 7   A
Subtotal Camsaos y SXoBs                                                 *  17.130.2 332.133.5                          339 26C.7
n.  last*lactoa*
Alanorado                                                            *          -  20.tl6.S                      *  20.616.
Torres do vigil.ancxa                                                 ...                               ----------a
Subtotal Znatalac1lo                                                     *   2,855.0  23.6i6.9             *             23,471.9
S.  aqulmras  y Zqutpoa
Tractor                                                               *          - 2.633.9                           91''5 3.8
Kit de Compucacion                                             3.896..1              4.097.6           *              7.995.S
Kit de MueobIs                                                 3,341.3               7.024.5   7.202.6           3-7.568.4
KIt de CorUn%CsCXOn /-                                         5. '5' - 5                   *                     .   6,682.5
Potocoptadora                                                         *                * 404 .9        *              1,404.9
Teltones/Pax                                                    891.0                  936.6          -          -   1.827.6
KIlt Audiovisual /t                                                   .          -   7,024. S         *              7.024.S
Pansles InterprOtaci6n                                                .          .   7.024.5                      *   7.024.5
Ipaplewntos Agricolas /9                                                             ' "                             9.3"'0
EquIpos para Inendieos C n                                                1.42S.4                      *          *    1.425.4
HstaClones Noter or 091dctas                                                     * 1.756.1*                          . 1.75C.31
Squipos de Ca-pana /I                                          1.559.3           * 1,639.1         640.3          *   4.038.6
Crupas Solares                                                 4      c   .4 *.. .429.- 4              *.*.*s..4.4
Subtotal Xaquaa.ag1  y iqIal1o                                   20.361.6   7,535.5 301.287.0   8.04.0                * 337.347.5
r. V"ableos
Camlonscas                                                    33,412.5           *  70.245.1                 -      103,6S7.6
Maots Todo Terrno*                                                                   4.789.4                          4,789.4
Subtotal V.hluloa                                                3 5032.5   1.660.8  7S.034.5                         * i 11.727.S
0. Astsoeoa,a TACslCa
Programs co AsZstencxa Trcnica Local&                                     3,634.1  14.914.S  I5.302.3  IS.692.4  49.543,3
Programs de Asisctncia TcnLca Haclonal*   3.634.1   3.728.6   l.82S.6   3.923.1  3S.111.4
Program& de Coopersci6n Inscjtucloznj Local                  14.175.0  14.536.6  14.914.5  35.302.3  lS.692.4  74.620.7
Programs de Cooperscatn Inscituctonal Nclonial                            9,0S5.3   9.321.6   9,563.9   9.807.7  37,778.8
smtudoo/xnCorr. de IPacto AmLbs ntal / 3                                         *.10.C53.2   S.465.1   S.604.4  21.722.7
Astfconci  OokslaciOn Tfcnica Regional APN /k t...1L  ..4.L..1. . LJ2.J. k1S S.L 41c                            4. 6.L9JA     e
Subtotal ksistan%ea TIises ,                                        7"D     t          .c 4h. 7  ia . 449  644 7614  66-4iL3. - 62-L76h2
Total ZAwspe_at costs                                                3.537.781  74,608.6 896.604.8  72.,04.4  66.412.4 4,648.215
U_. RaeNrsxot Costs
A. P-rge=Al Coatertce A
Intencenceot                                                             15.571.0  3:.936.2  32.750.6  33.577.4 113.835.2
Guardapacrqu                                                  21.870.0  22.422.3  4S. 986.I  47.160.8  48.35l.S 385.792.7
Addnistracivo                                                         *'  ^_              v4*   '          5      -4   1 
Subtcotal Porsoao4  Cootratade Ard                               21.870.0  52.941.5  93.253.7  3S5631.7  38.046.1 361,742.9
5. MOrYllda
NOvylidad venlaulos                                            8.100.0  16.611.1  2S.558.1  26.216.1  26,881.l :0J.366.3
Viaucoa APN                                                    1.622.5   2,242.5   1.450.3   3,539.2  31628.9  14,683.5
V1lAtcoZ APN                                                   2.278.1   4,671.9   4.792.1   4.9135.5   9040.2  21.697.9
Otros ViaticOw    -                                                    .  7.1.2  . *2  2.L1 ,-25A1        467  ,5 4O-74-9
Subtotal e os.lda                                                12.200.6  35.298.6  49.876.6  42.928.8  44,017.8 180.322.6
C. Oporsolds Mantsaela to    S*mvLtros
Msfian m    ,ent0 de Vej%iculos                                       -                         5.461.7   5.600.2  11.061.9
Manc. Edit. 3Inta1. Casunoc y  qIsOpoI                                               8,S19.4   8.736.7   9.960.4  26.21S.4
Tel6fono                                                       2,430.0   4 ,93.3 2     3.1. 6 2      243.2   5 37S.2  23 144,4
Lux. Gas y AVua                                                2.025,0   6,22 9.2  13..649.2  3.0.923.4  31.:200.5  41,0272
Papoloria y UtLies                                             4,SSC.3   6,229.2   6.389.5   6S554.0   6,720.3  10.449.2
Material T6Cftco  1                                           .. ..3..J              1 ,.. .7 . * 4   *..38i5 ...58.   ..2.
Subtotal Operacda. SaeatMLa      to Y suIlastros                 3.0.530.0  18.996.9  32.267.1  38.s59.4  39.537.6 139.8931.
w<saCEOU oe  rJaCkon                               2.3S1.3   2.595.5   ;.i62.3    .730.d   : .Z00.:  i.J.320.0
Serv&czos de LJmpasts                                          I a22-C   1 717, e..9,L L    :   ,, 6 ,, '    0482 j-2 *7 4
Subtt al S61y42oso Coeer-c   eJ                                            4          .. a-629 6     .ALL       . 4..L  ....3c36L .77 4
Total,  OCXrZTt Costs                                               .4..14 4 *j._.1._2  :-  L-n1 A 1U. 749 *19S0449-3  3 ...L6 0
TOtslX                                                               ) 3.SC6.73       8 laa8.80o.6 1.076.41.9 258sSS3.7 25C6.62.3 5.366.751
\a Construccion do uns vlven*a para Guaroaparqus.
\b RetaCcion de 1s vvenodas pacr  un GCardansrqUs y para cuaCro   aqueanos.
\c Conscrucelon de otcft ma y  xvlxnda5 pra lox grupo de invoenCZaCxOn.
\d Con#cruccCon do oticina CenCra do* Ftc,pc,Ln y vivienda parS 1 e nl ndeente on Villa Mrcedes.
\e IncluyO d baso y C%nCo radios siviles.
\f XnCluye- camera do video. camera totoqrAt1Ca. TV. video re9sqtradora. recroproYaeccor y proy ctor de diapOdeitvas.
\q oCluy-: rascra. nfVeladara. y acrts boerraxontas.
\h IncluVY: acoplado. tanquo da  aqua y b_&.
\1  lncluye: caras. Dolsas do do0rmr. moenlsT.e etc..
\)  C*tudc e xntnoZm  80 &Mpa&co 4Olentcs  do la* inversiones gxnanczadas par el GET.
\k UicluyQ V1alos y VIAticoC pCr 30 dtas.
\1 LnC3.Uye: bibiloqratia, jmAqon*s s,o,lLtarlas. sottware. ete..
7tMU Jun 26 1537:43 1997



114                                                    Annex H
sOODIVERSMTY CONsSRvA':ZN oPRWECT
Table 102. PROTECTED AREA ESTABLIS3HO? & MA04AGS 4EI    - San Qu.1ler1 o
Detaileds Co.ts
(USS1
S. 2a   tant Coat,
C-a U. zla.E .
CrMra de Tierras                                               189935I.5                            -    --L,3J7.5
S. Ob-a. Ccivil.
COnsteruCodOn Vzv%endas /a                                       74.144      6 6.744.4                                 101.588.4
Can truccl4n Of:c.i/a/Centro RecePocn e InterpretaciO  /lb 155925.0                 -                               - 10.925.0
RUe :OaO.  Viviena..  .n0eflte  c4                                                                                     49. *".0
Cn.trucl.on VlV.endeOfic2na /d                                 269,527.5            -                               * 2C9.527.5
ConOCrucC26n Alb.rque Vigitances /e                                         7 7.5 .0                                    77.S$8.0
Retac:oin De:.cameentoas   :o  /t                                       - l e_ 't*-                       -           .. 17  7
Subtotal Oba. C1i-L                                                050.192.  16.2.;wC.7                                   718.2S9.2
C. Cesigo  Y 3odee
ReparaclOn oe CaMAo. /9                                        155S925.0  68.520.8                  -               -24.448.8
Seubsdro  lnz:erpr.alvoa  /h                                            .           ' 4 1.
Subtotal Ca. P   r*eo                                             155.925.0  *i S1                                      . *32.439.9
U. a1slta4lcia
C-lpon ParV  MaquLdaw y Vehieulos /l                                        3'.544"4                                   36.544"4
G lpn pars  aqruLnda  y Vehiculog /*  74.230. 8                                                                        74 230.9
=zatcawotostlO  maY1... /k                                     ______  ...4L,h-4                     -       -------  Z42L.1
subtotal Im4t4cJ.sm.&i                                                       145.02S C                                   145 035.6
U. iaquLamzt.. y squioeg
7Ill de Co.Putac6om                                              7796.3 '                                                7*".'
Kit OS PJelo,I*s                                                23 345.0   6.850 8 3 1.2.3 S                        *3 72C.0
Kit d: Co mania.l.n /1' , .S 0                                                                                      *  13.2S.
PoTocopladora                                                     L,316.5           -          --                   *    .336.5
Tel.tono.Fa.                                                        391.0           .                                     891.0
KIc 2nstruOancal T6cnico                                        ' .117.11S1* 7.5
Kit AudlovYsual /s ,62.8    S950.8                                                                       -             12,523.1
Panel.. Interprecacl6n                                           6.S62.5   S.C50.4                                  -  11,23.3
ZeaciLonee Metereokctas                                                                                                 1 . :712.7  .   *   1.7l2.7
IqiULpo de Ca,aAfA de Alta MontaAa  /n                                       4.110.S   4.214.7   2.082.1*  L1.20C.2
Grupes Solar.s                                                  12.028,5            -                                  12.025.
Tanquf para Cobouechle /0                                              -   5.709.0                                     S 709.
rupeo Slectroqeno 6 Kva.                                                     4.557.2           -         -              4.567.2
S  Mrram1.encae para 'ratilr y Vehiculos /p                               .        9            .             ___
Subtotal Ua qu).aa.aaa   V y Sl yApa                                73 284.   5;.778 6   7.727.0   2 SS1.L             1*7 472.4
'. Veloul
Caaon ta                                                        23.412.5  14 253 9             *67464.4
J.Zep 6 PLtl0n4e                                                          .24.559.4            .                      1-24,559.4
: o0o 4 Rued.                                                                       -  14900.5                          L4.900.5
Caialloe /q                                                             .           . *c           4  fis_  *       .   c t 6
Subtotal Vebioul.s                                                  33.412.5 1lS.51..5  17.454.8   4,265.2              *014.046.0
a. Aieuadta TAca1                                                                                          .
Proqrau  AlStenCia T6cnica 1.c:al                                7.0o7.5   1.4.6.6  14.9:14.   I5.5 02  1,S692.4  67,033.2
ProqTa-    AsLatencta Te&nzca adaclonal                                       5.651.2   5,592.9    ,736.4   S dC4.C  12.C47.1
Proq9aMA de Cooperacidn Inetxtucional Local                     14.1.7S.0  14.S3.C  14.91.4.5S  1S,02.3  1S,492.4  74.620,7
Proqr  aed  Cooperatoxn Instltuolonal NaClOloal                         .   985.        9:321.4   9041.9   9,407.7  37.778,
eatudao/intoro. de Oeto  Anwiantt     . I                       25,187.5  25.5749   5.326.C                             0,9.0
Aeletene-a a Delegation Tecn/ca is                R....J..;.Lh                    *    17s        *1jj, ,,7,j,9  7' 1I7 t
SUbOsal Asti Ktren. T&m.1c,e                                      4..7LLI _...z..4 I _J.  LA.1       !       .4L ..LU._ 7
Total Z."eet Cost.                                                     1.043.918 47r. a7.4  92.030.7  70.364,2  44.73.1  1.948.83S
1i. Rew,rXit Coost
A. P-wsak Co.tgetado Ant
Intandente,                                                               1I.S.71.0  31,936.2  32,7S0.6  33,S77.4 112,825.2
Guaaparquaee                                                     21,870.0  22,422.2  4S.988.1  47,160.8  48.351.S 10S,792.7
laqueanoe                                                        1.290.0       474.1  15.329.4  15.720.1  16.117.2  61.930.9
AdLLt&trAc&v*                                                           . ;    *^  . . . 11-2     .c 15720       7     5 1 n S2110
SubtQtal WOV26uso   CoOtgat4d0 AM                                   291.60.0  6.,415.6 108.83.0 lll.S.0 114.1643.3 423.673.
MowlIlda4 Vohbcolos                                              7,2S0.0  39. 17S.0  39.337.1  39.324.1  40,321.4 162.647.8
Vialcle  APN        - -                                          2,733.5   S. 060.2   q.S84.3   9.631.0  10 080.4  37,835.7
Vi4ticoe APMA* 4.55',.3    7 :27.8   9.5".'   9.831.0  10.080.4  610.09.8
Otrto  Vat                                                      11    L  S1   .                    9. .2L _I_ oco1 s     . .2CS*  7    C .1 I
SubsetJ I=tlidaa                                                    26.061.6  6d.762.1  0S.56.0  47,344.2  68.9S0.0 289,574.8
C. opegci        teaLIoumto Y SWoLSIstros
Manten5Lminta, d. Vehiculaos c                                                                     8,738.7   8 940.4  17,699.0
Kan"t. Edit . Instal. Camnoc y Equxpo.                                                            s 4.61r.a.  S6,002.3 11.23.49.0
Te. one                                                                 .           - 2555.85  2,621,    2,68e.1   7,845,5
Lu.. Gas y Agua -                                                                       2.129.c   6,4.0  11,200.5  19.884.5
PapdLeri  y Utile.a                                                   3-*                1.19.4   4004.0   6,720.5   C.4S.4490
J-     s OPQpX.Ca*  M"5aaaiAsete     y S-eaLatgoZ .                   ,025.4 :  4.4   1.2100.3 4,1269.6  87,61.1  23,2193.0
D0. S-e8YIiO Cootratee.
Se11CIoe Ce 'stdicon                                             3,531.3    :.S95.S   2,662.3   2.710.   2,800.1  :1,320.0
S- rvto   Ied 1     6. -t*f .                  7                          . ..s  C o. .-  C..
'toe I s-rviceOs CoezG-efs4 .                                                     C142                ii *-4    A7 R48 4 
Total a.euarzint Coltg                                                ..g527.218       ..i  2.LL29 L. 2J.L.529-2 279J73.  2~..~.
Total                                                                   1.103.696 C06.5;.S8 280,7S9.7 336,897.3 344,504.3  .872,363
a COnACruCC%on one vivlen"d   para Uuaroparques en *c  Rodeo.
Sb Conetruceidon  n el RodeO.
\C RetccLOn en eL Rodeo.
\d COfletruccdon en AqUa del GOdO.
Xe Concruceton on Area del Parque.
\t RXtacen dae doe Detacaencoo en e1 Crea del Parque.
\9 Incluye L- conetruccx6n de S bade-n.
Ih IaChhye .eradore-.
\1 CcintruCCion de un qalp0n en *1 Rodeo.
\7 Congtrucclon de un qalp6n en eL Area del Parque.
Xk 00. c.e. rodante. partcel Area del Prque.
\l UIcIuVe a baste  y cinco tadloS SOvIleS.
\m Ifncuye: cAmars ad  video. CaMcra tootoratxca. TV, video reqetradora. retroprzvector y proyector de dlapoetivas.
\n Incluve Carpas. 00l1.4 d-e dOrmIt. oCLlas etC..
\o Inelue SCooPadon.
\p InCluVO: foLdad0ra. comprcor y oCere  hertarrsentae  y eOquls.
\q InCiuve Vou aperoo
\r Letuio . in orme de Impacto ,afmBtenral de  se Invetrslones tinaAde^dae potr el G?.
\5 Incluve Valee y v,ACZsco  pOr J0 al...
\t tInlCuVe: olbliogqrata. maagqneae seteltarae%. eoteware. etC..



115                                                    Annex Hl
610DZvERtS?T  CcmSZR`VATZOM PSOJICT
7a01. 103. - PR0TzC  A.AE.Ao:sTABIsImVrr a HAZ4ArSHINT -Cope
0.0a1L.d Cost.
I. lamcguat Cost:
A. Obra. civil..
Construction VxivnOkas /a                          110,261.3          .                                    1,6.
Rfta0CCL6n VIvienda lb                               21,.2S0.4         -                                      2150.4
COn ttIuccl6n oflcxOaJVivxanda /0                              92.504,4  42.2,72,7                         1134.677.0
Centra d. Recepc&6i a IfttezrpatacL6n /d                     12.23.39.2                                    123.229.2
Construction de Albarqu* para Inve.cIqaderOas ...,  9.2,..L4,L4                          -                   2...5. JLAL
2'bahtota  obtad iinCIles                             2131 512.16 308.347 9  42,172.7                         482,032.2
S. Caaao. y ssadares,
ReparatiOn de Cafilnos                                          22.840.                   2                 2.840.3
Sendaroa Zfl2erpretattVOa,                                    ...-   Z      ,                              .LLA=.ZL.J2. 
SubADaca.  Caa*i.a y S.adaces                                      14.26040                      -              4.260.4
AlaabraOe                                                   - 7 27 6.                                        7,8.
Caballri as                                                      2:.2*4.0'                                   121.24.
CAlponag Para maqruinas y Vehiculca                                                                         as8.S.2Z.SSO.3
S. tOa, Iaa.            twasoa                          L6.706.1  64.530.8                                     *5.227.0
0. maqulaa:Laa V squlpon
Traczor                                                                -   2,682.8                          S 2.603.8
Kit de Computationm                                              2,996.3          -                           .996.)
010 0. NuebIca                       6.6*2.5   6,850~~~~~~I. .8   7,024.5                   20.87
Plaoccp:aoora                                              .1.404.9                                         2..404.9
?oalaonos/ Pax                                                     9%3.4                                     1391364
OiL Audi.ovisual If                                         -   6,50.8   7,024.5                               $  ..75.3
PA0el49 IAt*rPretAC16n                                           6,950,)   1,024.S                          U.81.85.
toplamentoo AqrlCoalA  /9                                              -   0366.0                        - 9,366.0
Iqlopo Pat& Lncendlo.                                                  -   5853.6                            5.S3.M
Ulqulpo Para Teanaporce d6 Aqua /h                                          3.S22.3                          I .SS.2.3
.Stationa. m*erqeOioqo,caS                                       1.7Z2.2.                                    1.72.2.7
BIqupos de Caspaha /a.-                                            799.2   1.639.2.   1.650.6                4.1216.9
Grupos Solar.s                                        4.009.S   4.12.0.5                                      .1.20.0
arUPes ulaccroqeno. I Eva                          ,-j,,,j    1  17-                                ---        -e  
Iubtanal MaqI.aaIsA y 8q.aaO.S                         18.712. 0  2334S4.6  9S.532.2   1.6*0.8               149.379.S
Caia&n.ca.                                                     168507.8  25.122.5                          10.630.3
mIot o                                               ____    9.342.0               .                         9,342.0
subtotal Valcaule.                                                 79.52.0.5  16.82S.4                        112.6.36.0
VAL4tQA2AZ  745.1ca
Proqramsa de ASLatencla T4Cn&Ca Local                       .  24.526.6  2.4.t14.S  IS.302.3  2.5.692.4  60,44S.7
Programw d  Aslatancaa 7*Cnica Nacloaal                         S.494.2   S,592.9   S. 738.4   5,864.6  22.667.1
ProqraIaa Ga COOParacios, inacxcucLon.aJ  Local             .14,534.6  14,914.5  15,302.2  15.6924  40,445.7
PrOqrawA de CooparaciOn IntatlCuClon&  Waacoftai                9,005.3   9,321.6   9,543.9   9.5Q7.7  37,778.6
IAtudxO  intorw. de InOACto Affb%ental IA                       15,S74.9  1S.979.1   S.465.2.               17,019.6
subtatal AeLateacid, t6*5.10,                           10.2.L 1I  41L..2.    -   7' 2'  t..-A7JL.  ....ZL    .02 Z.tkQ
Totx al V.a2t costs                                       177,560.1 61,3S083.6 2S2.033.5  70.2*7.6   4.,731.1 1.269.767
:2. Itecu*tao  Comnea
A. laxal Contgetadd, SE
intaimanta                                                                10.968.2.  32.7S0,6  32,577.4  62.296.2.
Guardaparquaa21s7.   44,444.6  45.988.1  47,160.8  48,351.5 208S1.0.
Adsuatcrativo -                                    __________J .                     L1.flL2. .L.JLL    41L.3U..A
Subtotal 861500*2. Castratado A"9                       21,870.0  44,644.6  77.2*S.6  95,631.7  98.04.2.33.67.
S. 0*tikLdaC
NoYlLi"da  Voneticuo                                            13,286.9  20.446,5  20.972,8  21,504.9  76.21.3.1
Viatixcoa Arm                                                    2,802.1   5,750.6   5,898.6   6.046.2  20,500.6
VIAtoCOs SUN                                                     4,671.9   9.584.3   9.631,0  10.080,4  24,167.6
Subtotal 10Y112.da                                                 32,537.0  47.657,5  44,960.5  46,0.1JI.  172,456.1
C. OParac6z, Uaat.almeaso V 81n2a.at,,a
Nantenlulenco de VSftlculos                                                            S. 5461.7   5.600.2  11.061,9
'.anc,.EdGf. 1061.8. C.o.nos V tq,.spoa                                     9..6,19.4   8,728.7   6,960.4  26,218.4
?61*t00no                                                       2,491.7   2,555.8    2,621.6    2.688.1  10,3S7.2
Lu:. Gsa Y Aqua                                                 Z.2076.4   4,389.5  10,922.4  11,200.5  30,569.7
PapaerLeca v Ut&lee.                                            1,114,6   4,389.S   4,554.0   6,720.3  22.778 4
Subtotal 09evacot6o  lastaLaoLmag  V 3.1*Latroa          .02S.0   ),759.0  2S,984.1  36,484.0  37,409.S 111.641,6
0. saovieLde contatteado
SaIvtIClO  06Witten                                   2,531.2   2,595.5   2,6462.3   2.720,8   2.800.2.  12.220,0
S rvi %o  da _Liole:ak                                      -     -6- ...,LI..Z,...l53L-  S..,.L.LSL  ...,4UL2 ..1.94A.1
SMbzotaL SarYlcics Ceattatadow e3  1   4-fi-    6-9- ..2.hL,   ...JL.   la 969.1
Total Iaaz!t oaa-W.2,1aI 1LZflA2L   A2l.   .L*l. ,"L
TotaL                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~203,946.4 6964,86.4 409,6S56.7 255,972.2 255,1;36.1 1,821.441
.8 Conatrucclon de Vviatnca. Para lan  d GeeuatGaparqNaa  y PACa un eaquesno.
\b RetacczCn de uoa vlvlgnd& Para gaqueaneo
\c Incluy*i "a -vivInd  aeL. zaltanonta,  fcunaL a4M"ISnAtracVa 05 AIM onl Papo.a  lo, IeGuanacow  1/Wma tiC51a on area 1ruclo..
%d CanCro 0 as,Rception a Intarpretaciam APVN/UrovlnClA on Uapoa d6 Loa Guanacom.
-a CaSA Andante Para cuatro pergonas.
.0  nc2luva: Camlara de video. camera tCcIQrAgXCA. TV, Video raqiatraoora.  ceraryector y prayactor de d,.apcA&cxvaa.
%q Locluye, rastra, fllvqkaders, y. ecria ftqrr*ja.ncaa.
'n ZZciCuya, acoplado. t*nqua d. atUa V baifl.
.i tftciuyO: carPaS. noiees! 89 dOLu. aecnaisa stc..
.2 Zncluya log aporoa
\4t IS5.Gio a ingOtm   do I-WactO a.b,acCAL da L41                 9,aaoa.0naens,ci a por aL GKV.
\I IncluVO Vial** Y VI&iCOM, par 30 dlaa.
a tOCdUye. bx0l&oqra9ia. imaganms saaltarxat6,M mattwgera  etc..



116                                                    Annex H
Arqencmaa
B100IVERSITY CONSERVATWON PI8OJ0CT
Tao.L  1024. PROTECTED AREA I6STA8L SkCMEf 4 MANAEMENT   Monte Leon
Dclor Cal. 7dn          Otnee
:.ievenatCoststca
COepra d: Tite '                                           77,3.2SI.-    -                                        77. 253. 8
S. Ohas.  Civtl..
COfl8tOUCC3OIn do vVIVenas. la                                        97.072.S  79.659,5-                        176,732.0
COnastrceClIn de omvmendas lb                                     -135.901.5             -                       211.901.S
Construccoon O01c1?a Admsnsstracvs Ic                             -   6,228.5           -                        36,318.5
Construction centro ae Rec.pc%0n e EncarpretcicO. /d              --149.3821.S                                   149,361.5
COns3rCO7016n deo esatacs8ntoa /e                                  --123.003L6                                   122.003.6
Canstrucci.o. d. 8eequ.rao /9                                                    41__929_____4____ .J929Z.L
SUh6.tatl 0bt.s Ci,tla.                                                 2 69.290.5 295,9S4.4                        665.244.9
C. Casatae y Sasdesru
leparsesO6n de Camlao.                                                          11   6                            1,4.
Senderos InterpreateriveS                                           ....2.Lt4-                        --------_____t
subtotal C.soA  y Send5=.                                             -    ,8.   ,7113-19.425.3
0. 0e.stalllze .a
Stelagore. Protedoes /9                                          -              21,088.4           --21.0SS.4
Conscruccx6n Galata-/h                                                           46,856.5           -46,856.5
Perforae6n y sorm.. de aqua /i                                   -               9,99.9                       - 8,199.9
9,aesrjorics do Gas /                                                             S'  LJ.12                     ...LAl..3.
86*606.  1 osalaeomaes                                                -               1.998.9                     -8,9.
KIt do COnpVucarson                                         3,898.1.                     .                           89,
KIt de Mumbles5                                             3,341.3  10,276.3  13.536,8   7,202.6                 31,356.8
Kit de Comniucaci6b, /k                                     6,683.5           ..                                   6,683.5
PotOcCotadora                                               1,336.S                                                1.336.S
Telgtonoa, Fax                                                891.0                      .                            91.0
Xit AUd&Oavlrsul /1 I                                                                                      7,024.55702.
Pennes. Lnzazpretaci6n                                                        - 7,026.5                            754
sqsopoa par& Incanxos In                                                         3.11233-                         3-S11.3
844SCIGnes MnerecI69tcoa                                         -               1752 1                            .756.1
Crupom  Solar..                                                               .  1.8S.8I 16.58
Ge.arsdor.. de 21*CtrlCldad   6 Kv IV.                                           468. 0           .. 4*.
Aeroqeneraderes in                                                               l8,732.0                         18,732.0
HarramLencam  psr&  Tailor                                        .  ______   ,            , 1i  -____     --------____-
86*6.6.1 v.qusarLas 3' 8qSA9oa                                18,149.4  10,278.2  79.494.0    .203.6                111 122.2
P. Ve6AcuIos
Canumtnat.                                                 33,413.5  14,353.9  35.1223.5S                        103 788 9
Canton asso Kilos                                                 -.47,894.4                        .47,894.4
Mota, T0d0 Terr.no                                                .               4,789.4                      - 4,789.4
C8ak2lo.                                                                          1. 3277.3                        1,2 77. 2
Comon con 2 Mocor.. Fuera de Bacda                       _____                   12,,72f,.a                     1J2..771 8
S6*606a1 VeAculo.                                             33,413.S  34.253,9 101,955.1                          169.521.7
Program. as AaLsOAnCla T8cnlc. Local                                   1,'.68.3  11,185.9  1,1.476.7  11,769.3  41,700.1
Pro               mes a..c   8nc  NaCIona4                            7.268,3   2,728.6   3,825.6   2,933.1  18,74S.6
Programs l Ae CooprCLln O#n!ttCloa  Lcl14,538.6  14.914,S  IS0.302.3  1S.692,4  60.445,7
ProgrAa. de Cooparaczos  OnstituoO,oa3l N6ationa.l                     9.085,3   9,221.8   9.563,9   9,807.7  37,779.6
Zudo/ingormea de Impact* BAbtental /0                             IS15,74.9  15,379.8  10,930.23               42,484.9
Aeautde1ncXa DeIaqaciOn T6cnxcs xs910041 APm /p                       14..U...L3fi ..1.LJ9J4-. ....L.,02.. ..IS,.92L4  60-44-lZ
Suttal, Aslat.acia ?8caica                                          .68 2,L9ZJ.LI     4  9  6640- ..6I98ALL9 26i1-60
TtanSe  ta.ewmat Coats                                           126.815.6 384,374.5 846.488,7  '3,603.6  56,884.9 1,.488.167
A. l.taa..1 Costratmda A"3
MIOndont.                                                            IS15571.0  21,936.2  32,750.6  33,577.4 Z13.835,2
GUardao&Mqe                                               21.870,0  23,422.3  22,994.1  47,160.8  48.351,S 162,798.7
sequeanos                                                   7,290,0   7.474,1   -.664.7  23,580.4  24,17S.7  70.104,9
86b*ta6.3  Pteasel Coatratado A"S                             29.160,0  52.941,5  77.924,2  119.213.2,12.18 401,459.7
MoVtjlLdad vehio.ulgoa                                     6.480,0  13,289.9  20,446.5  20,97.3.  2I,504.9  82,693.1
Vletlana APSE                                                          2.803,1   Z,87S.3   4,915.5   6.048,2  146,642.2
VilattCO, APSE                                                           934.4   1.9.16.9   3,933.4   4,033.2  10,815.9
86ttIOIIA                                               6,460.0  28,799.5  37,314.8  35,078.8  40.0S2,8 150,725.9
C. Opealowd Kmsataonaato 3' 3-m.alatzo
MeAtanIMLneantde Vefticulca                                       .                           ,461,7   3,600.2  11,081,9
Meat. Edit. Instal. C-Lxasoo  y gqu&pog                                                                11,200.5  11.200.8
Tel6tono                                                    2,430.0    2,417      2,505.9   2,3.            81 1,8.2
Luz. GAS y AqUa                                             3,0307.5    ,1239'.2   9,584.13   981,01.   10,'080.4  08,76.4
PComLerla l  Il.~3,.                                                                                               115
Matarmei 7Tkn2co Iq                                               . I~t  I   -'-197-                 ________ 4  91
S"  t.6.  Op.rao&6. *aatinta4asto y S6mhalatros                6.986,3  13,392.7  16,912.2  :2,829,8  29,569.2  89,710.2,
SeeVlcto I    e  98db .6  2,590.5   2,663.3   -.730.I                                                              7,966.6
S.rvctog de Lzomoslz                                        -81S        717 1   - 0 '6   -,,9.4.8I1.,     4 3,.L.i.  .Z,..119
Subastal Urrewtlas COetratadoa                                 1-l22-..   6 ....L.2Lf ....112...  1QS95-  i...p.3,i.,..  35...LlZL..
Ttal a' Ree'..t Coats                                             44-44   R 1j  466  1   40 SR4iL, o.2si  190.,71L.  ' 19-0 8   52 67.12.L2.
506A1                                                             171,364.4 48S,841.1 9387,.073 . 0264,320.0 256,793.1 Z,163.292
-A WO8acfl1CCliO  de la -~VeftLoA P&r  .1 Latecomnta y' Un 12urdaparque. en santacru
.6 CnatrUCCIan de18 05,/ends para un Guardapsrque y un Sacquoano en Monte Leon.
\C Qonat6rUCCi6n d: ofCIna de APSE en Sabra CrUz.
\d Coeatzisccscn de1 Centro de Recepemon a Interprocscifn en Monte Leon,
5. QMwsrvruccxOn d. de. Oeetacoawncc~ Una en Pica GUebrado 3' otro en Monte Leon.
%C On MOnte Lekon,
39 Dee en PICO quebrAso y sn0 an6 Monte loon.
.1 an Monte Lon
%I On Monte Leon
\38 IncIsuVe 3 bases y cuatro radios mcnetles.
.1 Zcluye. Camara de osOeo, cAsara ctoorA0mca, ?V. video registr&dora, remroproyector 3' proyector de dlapogicivas.
3mIncIsve  sepmL nntos pare: luiciL concra snceendlog.
.n6 tncluYc hac=ter   y mrre.
No ltacudLo a ISOtrn Ge IfflVaCtO a0018ntal de Lao %nvesrionSes t.naOsClada8 per el CR7.
.p Lncluve V&aies y ViAticoa par 30 d,,..
q tncluYe,  'ouora  i--.a a.st....... .. et..... et..



117                                                   Annex H
Arcrentina
sZoDXVWRSOTY CONSERVATION PROJECT
rable 1l0. PROTECTED AREA ESTABLISHMENT 5 MANAGZI4EN7T  Qurada Condoritos
D0Cetll4 Costa
(USS 
-r.Is 7  netud.rnp Ce-..",no ereie
I. Xa. -.oet Costs
A.  a   Puronag.
L.and Purcnasa                                      2.865.161                      .          -            2,6S.861
3. CivIl Work
Repair )touinq /5                                  U148,752.5  29.053.2            -                       177.105.7
Repair Ado.a OffIce lb                                          36.316.5           -          -             36.316.5
Ine-rC retrtion CenCer Repair /c                               '65.369-8                                    65.369t.
R-c-aren Center Reab                                         -   5.3'9-                       -             65.369.C
Rep:ir Reuges  e                                     4S2,5sa.7                                           * 42.500.7
warehouse Rehab /f                                              36.316.5                                    36  .6.5
Control Post Constructlon /g                         14,166.9                            .         -        1416  9
CaDaLce satnroome ConstruCtlon                               .        5 e  _____a a_- __le__
Subtotal Civil Wor: s                                  205.420.1 243.320.8                                    446,740.8
C. los  --- rralss
Road Rehab                                                   -  31.405,4           *                        31.405.4
Interpretive Trails                                          -    .S6S.1                                    8*565.1
Access Trall                                                                                            1. 19272 2
subtotal goads ad Trails                                        -  58.242.7                      -          * 56.242.7
D. Machinary and XqUlip t
Cmpucer Hardware                                      3.8S9.1   3,996.3            -          *              7,.94.4
Furniture                                            10,023.8   6.850.C            -          *             16.S74.5
C   nicetIon 8equipnt lh                              6,682.S                                               S6,682.5
Photocoixer                                           1,1236. S         *          *                         1.336.5
Talepnones/Pax                                          891.0           -91.0
Audiovisual Kxt /I                                    6,612.5   6.850.8 *                                   13.532.3
Panelas Interpresacifn                                6,682.5   6,850.8                                     13.533.3
Flr* FI.ohcinc Equip /I                                      *   3,425.4           -                             -   3425.4
meteoroloqxcal Staticons                              1.670.6                                                1.670 .6
Soar Ppanes                                                  -   6,850.6   7,024.5                          1.37'753
Generator  15kv1 /k                                          -  13.701.C           -          -             13,701.6
Generacor (3 kvl                                             -   4,110.5                                -   4,110.5
Tractor i.ith toollI                                      = * SLA.1L.2                                   *  60..C1C 
Subettal _achInry en  Sq%pM"t                           37,867.5 11.1S2.0   7,024.5                          15- .044.0
8. vehcles
Ptek-ups                                             33.412.5  68.507.8                                    101.920.3
motorcycles                                                  ,   4,671.0                                     4 671.0
Horses                                                2S_           07   e_ -_-_-_*  e .
Subtotal Vehicles                                       3S.437.S  75,254.7            -                       110.692.2
P. Techncal AssItance
Local Technicaj Assistance                            7,087.5  14.536.6  14.914.5  15,302.3  15.692.4  67.533.2
National Technical Assistance                                *   5,451.2   S,592.9   5.738.4   5.884.6  22.667.1
Programs ae CooperacxOn Instttucion&I Local /1   14,175.0  14,536.6  L4.914.S  1S.302.3  15,692.4  74.620.7
Programs de Cooperacton Instituctonai 9acional                   9.085.3   9.321.6   9.583.9   9,607.7  37.778.6
gnviromaetal Analyses /m                              5,062.5   5,191.6   5.326.6   5.46S.1              -  21.045.S
AsiteAcia a Delegact6n T*cn&ca Reiconal APW /n   *.f4.   . A       S.l1..SLC  14-.l.RS _..  1g .' ..L_S_ . *   .6    fl1 *
Subtotal Technical AsasCa                              ..ts8 9  6.  .   17.J   64.984 fi C, L674. 2 ..62.7C   29Ji4 .19
Total ln-sc,w,, Costs                                       3.174.47S 553.308.0  72.009.1  66.674.2  62,769.S 3.929.236
Ut. Racurrast Costs
P. P-resc  CoctZrata4  AM
Intendants                                                   -  31.142.1  31.936.2  32.750.6  33,577.4 129.406.3
Guaraaparque                                         21.C70.0  44.844.6  45.988.1  47.160.8  48.51.5 20S.21S.0
AnLnstracxvo                                                 .  14 94B-2   1S-324  .'7^16*  1 7    S 62-1  o
Subtotal P-rsmael Coatrasade AM                         21.870,0  90.934.8  93.25,7  95,631.7  98,046.1 399.736.3
U. tremsprtatlondpaedim,
Transportation                                        *.100.0  24.916.6  25,558.1  26.216.1  26.61.1 111.671.9
Perdiem                                               2,733.6   4,671.9   5,750.6   5.696.6   6.048.2  2.5103.0
Viaticos APN                                          1.C22.5   3,737.5   3.833.7   3.932.4   4,032.2  17.358.3
Other Perdiea                                        11  - Pj3   .1.771 *   4.LtL    .    L oen  2t   -1* SA.7i  48 .L 1-L
Subtotal SreannPrtatlon/Werdias                         24,138.0  45.099.1  43.193.2  44.305.1  4S.4295    0 202,164.5
C. Matersils and Sumplies
VehiCle MAinCenance                                                                * . 4.   5,461,7   5,600.2  11,061.9
intenance Bld.. Squipt.. etc.                                         -  10,549.2  10.923,4  11,200.5  32.773.0
Telephone                                             2.430,0   2.491.7   2,555.8   2.621.6   2.688.1  12,787.2
UtiLitio-                                             2,025.0   6.229.2  10.649.2  L0.923.4  i1.200.S  4L.027.2
Suppl es                                              1.518.8   3,114.6   3.194.8   3.277.0   3,360.1  14.46S5.2
TechnicaL material /o                                 I SIR-& .      e.7iL   1-.7 ...63J1 S*14 . .. ..*
Subtotal Materials as  Supplies                           7,492.5  13.39a2.7  2a.646.4  34.4S.5  1.729.4 120.106.5
D. Contracted servies-
Sdltorxal Services                                    2.531.3   2.595.5   2,662.3   2.730.6   2,S00.1  13.320.0
Cleanine                                                 2      __7 ee         7Se-6   e 89  .    6-0e8-2   1  57 4
Subtotal Contract"d Services                             4.3,3-8   ; 2,1 o        4 I.i e     . .    2j.  ..8-1   . .L O77 4
Total Recurcent costs                         C                        l8  *- 4 4 S 19        .I 411..    B        is~4 7
Total                                                        3,232.l29 709,067.6 245,5153 2150,086.0 250,622.5 4.657 621
\a RotacciOn de Is vivenda para *1 Intencence. tres Guardaparques y cres Saqueanos.
\b Retaccx6n de oficina de APN  n *1 Hotel el Condor.
\c Rftaccl6n del Centro de lnterpretaci6n en at Hotel el Condor.
\d Retacc%6n de ot rcina   V vvenda para el qrupo 0o cr-abal  nacienal r provincial en el Hotel e1 Condor.
\e lacluye doe retuqosa de 60 m2.
\f RetaCeidn de un caller en el Hotel el Condor,
\g Incluye dos puescos de 20 m2.
\h InCluYe 3 Cases y cilco radcios avIles.
\x Incluye       r cA cr - 4e vxdeo. cAnera ,fotoer&eiCa  TV, video reqgstraoora, retroproyector y proyactor de dLapositVas.
\j tnCluye acoplado. tanque de aqua y Doon,
\X PAra Hotel el Condor.
\1 Coetos de loc curIos y taller*e.
\m 1atudic e Intozme de IPactco aeoiental de Ias inversienes fznanciacas par el GET.
\n incluye Via,es v V%lticom por 30 di&s,
\o Zncluy: b'zs4ograstIa-  s96gene  lateoltarias. sottware. etc..
Thu Jun 26 IS 3712 S1997



118                                                     Annex H
ArQentlna
8ZCo0VEVSTTY CONSERVATION PROJECr
Procuzanr  Arranq-c&
(USS)
P-rr,cnrr:n,  '4etheti
Licxr.acLon
Loca',                   Contratacifn
h-1mr, oeaz^                                       .... I .-cAl  3  w.1L-L3
Na&tonal Come.ctxive Biddingq            722.323.8                              -                            -   7223.8
(130.018.3)                                                              130 01.3
Not GE? PInanc-                                                  -   415.549.                  -  9.709,B87    0.12S.432
(9,709.8871   9.709,887
International Compotxtxve Sldding
OteAr                                              -   7,542.65S                -   3,.19S.018               -  10.740,673
Total                                     722.323.8    7.542.655    4J.5.S45.5        3.198.018    9.709,S87    .l.S88.429
(130.018.3,  11.144.447)                    (72.C02.8d  19,709.8871  I11.056,9SS)
NOce:  !qUres in parentnesis are cne refnective amounts tinance  by APN
Thu Jun .6 17:00 26 1997
Argentina
8IOOXVzRS?t'r CCHNSRVArZON PROIICT
Prolact C _.nts by year
WIzS$)
Tht-1s Ine,,p,    Cprnrtr^^:ncia
A. Ptrotectd Areas
1. vtIebl%antIent ot Now Protected Areas         ,3298,012  2,q86,284  2.999.424  1.365.830  1.364.118 16.913.667
2. Sustainabl* Oevelopment Actlvitxes            463,218.8  373.356.3  316.224.4  204.20$.S  148.6S7.S  1.50S.161
). Participation                                 401.1a *  *      00                     - 07' -'   11   7        c64-3a_
Subtotaol  Protected  Area                           9,164,614  3.666.142  3,619.540  1.905.082  1.85,.343 20,284.222
is. Iotoretion "049a"t
1. Intoreation System                            341Jj7 9               . ..7.1-7  9te.A4    17  179.1 .II L .ga  6c..4.a,1
Sbt0otal Is OrMatiouu Kaaqe.t                        345S.47.S  155,711.7   96.149.5   37.879.1   18.684.S  654,096.3
C. Uaaasat   Neottoriq ad  in.&lwatbae
1. ProuCet UnLt                                  136        .. .f 117J367  1....2.4- .. * 1.242  I.. 94q4 9      -111
Subtotal  oaUqo*eut. NoULtartng ead Ztaluatlon  136-n 1L         1 5  17616-7 1..I- .4-7 1.1-.44-2  12S 944L   9   5C. -111-1
Total P8OJ=r COSTS         -                          9,646,413  13939,991  3.937,244   2.064,B05  1,999.977 21.588.429
Thu Jun 26 15:23:27 1997



119                                                     Annex H
ArgeOtOfla
HlOIVBRStTY CON1S9VA7TION Plt.ISCT
tpets46tors &eeoauta by PIraacidr
3US$?
________                          ________________ _   ll                , P or    t dxcl.   outlia  C
AoiounL, ,.              krnun;         '       -        ~ Amunoj AfulL              _            1^c         I8iAaL Tt
I. 1n..ta.t Cost*
A. Land I.
1. Land Purchase                               6,5J4.43         I00 0             -           -                      -  6.634.413          3D.3           -  6.534.413
9. SarAh
I  Civii Works                                 322,314.1          12 0  2.363.637          0880                          2,665951          12.4 536,94S.1  1,S26.691 3223114.1
2  RoaJ and Ttailn                             141,S0.6          to 0  642,582. 2         52 0                      -  7d1,6)69            3.6 156,617.6  454,61C.1 112 40, 1
13  ccher works                         .          1,i2_2Q    _         215JLIj .,.i .A .                             -  35J.23.i        .L  fi  iJQ1.6  -S2IJI.-2 _l11.S6L1
Subtotal Work#                                    523,600 7          13)    3.282.520         86 2                      -  5.8t.321           17.6 70,671.1  2164?,074  666157.55
C  Good
1. HA,hine ry a-r  Equiprent                   IS1,450 6          IS 0  689.941.?          80                            1 -  98l 1S2.0     3.9 420.572 9  235,112.9 15.1S06.2
2. Verhcles                                   _11U..2X-           385 9      _5223L9  _    20 _                      - 122A.3231.  .._           I*LO64A.Q  -QA.4I1.5 35..L1L.2
Subtot*l Goods                                     281,468 8         18 0  3.262,247          d2 0                       -  1,563.216           7.2 181,641.0  431,057.4 344,01715
D. Slvlcea /b
1. Enviromenttal SC4,lies                                -           -  358,362.2         10GO            -          - 58,162 2             0,7           -  15S3622               -
2. taining                                      12.60) 8          12 0  532.620 8          86.0           -              605.021 6          2.8 120,894 3  41.29 . l  64,832.0
3  Othe  rtechnical Asstsant                       n21.6.I   ...J.9 5  ____ ____  . .1 9  -..si).32 .L1 2L                                                 12 .A 15Ji.  -13.W2L2
3Subto3t  S1c  vi                         c.il _2. i.o115..i5                                 2    __21.1 ___                .isa.Qh         ..   3.2Lf       a _1.2I2zJ21 ..2 LI.
Totgl Zoveststat Costs                                 7,412,345          49 1  7,699,182          50.9           -          - 35,1OI,527          70.0 1,861.1l3  12,241,)28 99,863. 7
it. 04Cur.,t Costs
A. Bufftt  Zone ACt3vLt es                         104,147.9         12 0  761,751 4           88.0                -        867,899 3           4 0 111,431 1  603,338 2  91.129 4
C. Beneticiary Courtepaxt                                   -                        -            - 415.SS 5       100 0  415,646 S            I'S           - 1S,S4.SS
0. Social lmpact t?ltigation Plan APri /C          874,591 9        100 0            -            -          -           -   174,591.9          4.1              367,498.4 507,093 5
9  APO Contracted Ftesonnel                        2,126,705        100.0                         -          -           -  2,126.70S          9S S424,954.S  425,721.S 1,216.021
F  Operating       '                               310,364.6         1t 0  1,413.681          92 0           -              1,724.248           I.0 3D61)37  3  1.000.53S 319,3;i.5
G. MIaetials and Supplies                           24,724.1         is 0  11.26)2.0          62 0                          117,116.1           0.I  27,416 0   79,701.7  10,21t41
H, Ottice Operecioni - APN                          29.304 0        100 0            -            _                      -   2,3106.0           0.1   S,SS642   17,002.S   6,466.9
I  Consultative Commissions operating Costs  144,8131.              100 0            -           *                          144,813 5           0.1  28,926.1   84,026.5  31,869.0
K. Services Contracting                            J14251A       -11.A   A23"222  2.* Lt __.                                                          2L2        _jLfL.   _j.L&lL_
Total secutcot Coate                                   -643.Q   ,,,.           2  -12ih2if                                                               1 S.I.141.1 ,.. .  55 42   .-11 .la ,2Z   J.SU..15    . 12 1
tot&I Dleb.rease.t                                     11,056,955          51.2 10,115.929          46.9 435,54S.5          1.9 21,508,829         100.0 2,901,559 15,3319285 1,356,565
\a Land cost  inrluding  easu  nt and titling.
\b Including. Pees, perdiam. travel and other tLSk %ette' d eVpenseI.
\c 3ne3uding; fire Brigatc  lex pobladoresl and Saquesnos Sibrtea and other expenses.
Thu Jun 26 IS ll Sl 99g7



120                                                  Annex H
Argentina
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
LocallForelgnfTaxes by Financiers
(USS)                                                           APN                          GEF                    Beneflclarlos                    Total
Amount           %          Amount            %         Amount            '          Amount            %
I  Foreign                                          459.734 9        204       2,441,824.6        796                            -     2,901,559 5         14 2
II. Local (Excl. Taxes)                           7.241i634 9        47 1      7,674,104 2        50.2      415.545 5          2.7    15,331,284 6         71 0
fIl. Taxes                                        3,355,5850        100.0                                             -                3.355,585.0         14.7
Total Project                                       11,056,9548         51.1    10,115,928.8         4689       415,545.5         1.9    21588429.11         100.0
Ar9.rit Ino
BIODrJIVS1SZt COiSB6'VA71ON iilavJU
C~ms~ooa*nt bt tianteL.s
|,_ Altoun _~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~LOA
A, tVateted Ax^os
I, eSt &biohbfeatt  Ne. protexctd Arolb  9,562,718         56S's  IS30,S3S        41 5          --1   1   S                     4322st41   6   7      3   4
2. sustainable Development Activities    126,C00.0          S 2  SSCIIS9          i4.2 415,545 5        27 s  11 SC5 6S         7. 0  95,646c S  I194 007 liS  312.
3, pkxtSctZcion                     t                      u91 Sil.l               llLtfii21   1_11 -                           &.lfit.^X  _     f      i 61J Jff2,liU'fisA
Subtotal Ptot*ete3 Areas                     10,773,767       S} l  9 09t,910        *44 e *45545 S         2.0 20.284,122        94,0 2,5Se.409 14,5311712 3,167,101
lotarebtion i1^1al"t
t. Itonaration Systca                      167,443 9       25 6  S866 Ss2t         74.                        6  *G4,0SS 3      3 0 2791137.1  2so,eso 0 124,103 1
C b*2s*** t, lonitortags #a4 19,alttau
Total ibi bvC*swt                             ll OSi.955       S1. 14.11S.929S-2.9 415 $45. S                1.  21 SS<U42%       IWOQ 2.91159 1i5,131,1s 13,15S.SG
Thu Ou  6I  3  1t9



121                                      Annex H
Argentina
BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION PROJECT
Financed by Years
(US$)                                                        Totals Including Contingencies
1998        1999        2000         2001        2002         Total      Incremental Annual Recurrent
APN Financed                         7,232.0064    946,121.9  1,107,302.9    886,8152    884,708.4  11,056.9548           800,00000
GEF Financed                         2,252.405.6  .2,869,269.1  2,744,715.4  1,134,2680   1.115,2706   10,115,928.7           -
Benefitiary Financed                   162,000 0    124.599.0    85,225 7    43,720 8           -     415,545 5               -
Total                                   9,646,412.0  3,939,990.0  3.937,244.0  2,064.804.0  1,999.979.0  21,588,429.0       800.000Ai0



122
ANNEx I: SUPERVISION PLAN
Approx   Activity                            Skill Requirements          Staff
Dates                                                                    Input
.                                                     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~(SW)I
12/1997   Project Launch                    - Task Manager                  5
Review Annual Work Plan (POA)
PU establishment
Review Implementation Manual      - PA Specialist                 2
._______ Legal aspects of park establishment   -Lawyer/Social Scientist      2
6/1998    Review Procurement procedures     - Task Manager                  5
Review SOEs, especially for
consultant travel costs
Review Info system development    - Info system specialist        2
Review POA & Procurement          - Procurement specialist        1
Review Park Proposals
- Works & EIAs                 - PA Specialist                 2
- Selection Criteria bufferzone
- CC establishment             - Social scientist              2
- Monitoring Activities
- Participation Plans
- Mitigation Plans                                                ll
12/1998   Review Accounting system          - Task Manager                   5
Technical asst of Park Development   - Park Specialist            3
Field visits
Review Participation Plan
Review Bufferzone Proposals
Review SOEs/Audit
Procurement review
6/1999    Discuss Progress Report           - Task Manager                  5
Review draft management plans     - Info Tech Specialist          3
Review Information System Dev.
Procurement Review
Review POA
12/1999   Review Legal Aspects of PAs       - Task Manager                   5
Review Compensation Program       - Lawyer                        1
Procurement review/record keeping                                 2
Park Dev Plans                    -PA Speialist
Review Environmental Assessment
Review SOEs/Audit
Review TOR for Mid-term Review
6/2000    Discuss Mn-Term Review and agree  - Task Manager                  5
on adjustments in Project
Review SOEs/Procurement           - Park Specialist               3
Review Monitoring & Evaluation    - Social Scientist              3
Review CC operation
Review Participation Plan
Review Training Program
l_____ Review POA



123                                     Annex I
Approx.   Activity                           Skill Requirements            Staff
Dates                                                                      Input
(SW)
12/2000    Field visits to Review:          - Task Manager                    6
- Operation of Bufferzone Act.
- Park Developments            - Info Specialist                 2
- Monitoring Activities
Biodiversity Info System
Review SOEs/Audit
Review Procurement
Discuss Progress Report
6/2001    Review Park Developments          - Task Manager                    6
Review Bufferzone Programs       - P.A. Specialist                 2
Attend CC meetings
Review POA
Discuss Annual Review
12/2001   Review Park Infrastructure work   - Task Manager                    5
Review field activities           - Park Specialist                 3
Review Monitoring program         - Economist                       2
Procurement Review
Review SOEs/Audit
Discuss Annual Review
l_____ TORs for BCR_
6/2002    Discuss project evaluation/BCR    -Task Manager                     4
Final field review               -PA Specialist                     3
Review Information System         - Information Specialist          3
Economic Analysis                -Economist                         3
12/2002   Write ICR                         -Task Manager                    10
TOTAL SW                       105
Supervision Reguirements by IBRD FY
(SWsl
I BRD FY    |  1998        1999       2000        2001       2002       2003       Total
Field            14         12         14         12          17         10         79
Bank             7          4          5          4          6           _          26
Total SW        21          16         19         16         23          10         105



124
ANNEx J: SELECTED DOCUMENTS AND DATA IN PROJECT FILES
Produced by APN. Buenos Aires
1.    Manual de Implementaci6n del Proyecto. mayo 1997.
2.    Social Assessment. abril, 1997.
3.    El Sistema Nacional de Areas Naturales Protegidas de la Argentina; Diagn6stico
de su Patrimonio Natural y su Desarrollo Institucional. Administarci6n de Parques
Nacionales. Buenos Aires, Argentina, January 1994. 129 p.
4.    Reglamento para la Evaluaci6n Impacto Ambiental en Areas de la Administraci6n
de Parques Nacionales, APN, 1994. 10 p.
5.    Otero, Adriena, 1996. Tourism Demand for National Park Services. Study for
APN.
6.    Preprojecto de Consolidacion y Desarrollo de Area Naturales Protegidas en La
Argentina. Por Roberto Ronchieto, Consultor, y Pablo Canivari, Humadales para Las
Americas, January 14, 1995.
7.    Proyecto de Conservacion de la Biodiversidad en Argentina: Project Brief APN,
septiembre de 1996
8.    Domecq, Susana, enero 1997. Actividades de Uso Sustentable para la
Conservacion de la Biodiversidad en Zonas de Amortiguarniento de los Parques
Nacionales. 72 p.
9.    Krapovickas, S., et al. 1994. Analisis de Prioridades Biogeograficas para la
Ampliaci6n del Sistema de Areas Protegidas Nacionales en al Argentina. APN.
10.   Gomez, et al., 96: Prioridades para el establecimiento de nuevas areas nacionales
protegidas a ser incluidas en el Proyecto GEF
11.   Bosso, et al. 92: Sistemas provinciales de areas naturales protegidas: modelo para
su diseno.
12.   Ley 22,351 of 1980. Regime Legal de los Parques Nacionales. Argentina.
13.   Sanchez, E., Oct. 96: Antecedentes, El Proyecto, and Arreglos Institucionales (San
Guillermo).



125                             Annex J
14.  INTA, 1995: Conservaci6n del venado de las pampas y el Pastizal pampeano en la
Provincia de San Luis.
15.   APN, 1996: Propuesta de creaci6n de un area protegida nacional como parte de la
actual Reserva Natural Copo.
16.   APN/G, 1996. Sistema de Areas Naturales Protegidas de la Provincia de San Juan
(Republica Argentina). De la Provincia de San Juan/Fundacion Ambientalista Sanjuanina.
Produced by NGOs and Others
17.   Situaci6n Ambiental de la Argentina; Recomendaciones y Prioridades de Acci6n.
Boletin T6cnico No 14, ISSN 0327-6937. Buenos Aires, May 1993. Fundaci6n Vida
Silvestre Argentina. 69 p.
18.   Perfil Ambiental de la Argentina. Simposio Argentina, January 23, 1994. Union
Mundial para la Naturaleza. Buenos Aires, 1994. 50 p.
19.   Fundaci6n Vida Silvestre. 1986. Plan de Investigaci6n del Litoral Maritimo de la
Provincia de Santa Cruz.
20.   Gandini & Frere, 96: Lista de Especies que Reproducen o Utilizan el Area de
Monte Le6n como Area de Paso.
21.   Harris, 96: Patagonian Coastal Zone Management Plan Protected Areas on the
Coast: Background and Summary of Future Objectives.
22.   Perez, F., P. Sutton, and A. Vila. 1995. Aves y Mamiferos Marinos de Santa Cruz:
Recopilaci6n de los Relevamientos Realizados entre 1986 y 1994.
23.   CNPPA, 1995. Criterios para Selecci6n de Areas Protegidas Costeras y Marinas
(Litoral Argentina).
24.   Subsecretaria de Ciencia y TecnologialMinisterio de Cultura y Educacion, 1981.
La Reserva Provincial San Guillermo y sus Asociaciones Ambientales.
25.   Provincia de Santiago del Estero et. al., 1994. Inventario Forestal de la Provincia
de Saniago del Estero, Departamentos Copo y Alberdi.
26.   Secretaria de Recursos Naturales y Ambiente Humano, 1996. Estrategia Nacional
de Biodiversidad: Plan de Accion e Informe a la Convencion de Diversidad Biologica.



126                            Annex J
Produced by FAO/CP. Rome
27.   Bucher, E.H., J. M. Chani, D. Gomez and M. Babarskas, December 1996.
Identificacion y Priorizacion de Ecoregiones y Sitios de Importancia Global. 80 p.
Produced by the World Bank
28.   ARGENTINA: Forestry Sector Review. Report No. 11833-AR, April 26, 1993.
Agriculture Operations Division, Country Department IV.
29.   ARGENTINA: Biodiversity Conservation Project. Proposal for Project
Development Funds (PDF), Block B Grant. Global Environment Facility. GEF-PPA No.
28464.
30.   ARGENTINA: Biodiversity Conservation Project. Global Environment Facility--
Project Information Document. Project ID Number: AR-GE-39787. May 28, 1996.
31.   ARGENTINA: Biodiversity Conservation Project--Proposal for Review.
Submitted to the GEF Secretariat for the January 1997 Intersessional Work Program on
January 17, 1997.
32.   Ledec et. al., 1997. Critical Natural Habitats in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Volume 1: Southern Cone. The World Bank/Agriconsulting SpA, and the World
Conservation Monitoring Centre.



IBRD 28753
'-<  0'S  60'g                                             50 '                        40 '
/ f            /          <   X             /    \  S  ARGENTINA
(   9I j   _             2   A              C BIODIVERSITY CONSERVATION
PROJECT (GEF)
ECOREGIONS AND PROPOSED
P E R U                     --                                     NEW PROTECTED AREAS
Lima
t.+~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n
)          L osr *; sOPO5Ef iQW LANE-
A C:T F tj~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~cO~B MOTAE SANAS;
A~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~PMA
"A~ ~ ~~~TN
L                                                          OAR ASo SE WqS
44;~~~~~~~- EA4EW~IN~E~A~
.-~ E.     5                                                                       E Oh-,  -E- irrsSEWi,,.-.-.ARD0.. 4 CH   CSOO   -'" -'
,  ,  ,   ,  ,, t   .                                             ,          in
i~~~~~~~~~~~ x, E. .  s-L'i ; :i
.'. ii M E SEPTEMBER 1997



