Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028372
Global Environment Facility
Trust Fund Grant Agreement
(Biodiversity Conservation Project)
between
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility
Dated May 18, 1998
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF028372
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 18, 1998, between ARGENTINE REPUBLIC (the Recipient) 
and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) 
acting as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant 
funds provided to the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the 
Page  2
GEF.
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of the 
Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the global 
environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable economic 
development;
(B)
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements are continued in place 
on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994, of the Executive Directors of the 
Bank establishing the GEF Trust Fund;
(C)
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as the feasibility and priority of the Project 
described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement, has requested assistance from the resources of the 
GEF Trust Fund in the financing of the Project, and the Bank has determined that such assistance 
would be in accordance with the provisions of Resolution No. 94-2 referred to above; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant to the Recipient upon the terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to Loan 
and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank, dated January 1, 1985, with the modifications set forth 
in paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions) constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement:
(i)
Article I;
(ii)
Sections 2.01 (1), (2), (3), (4), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), (15), (18) and 
(20), 2.02 and 2.03;
(iii)
Section 3.01;
(iv)
Section 4.01 and the first sentence of Section 4.09;
(v)
Article V;
(vi)
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (a), (c), (d), (e), (f), (i) and (k), 6.03, 6.04 and 6.06;
(vii)
Section 8.01 (b);
Page  3
(viii)
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09;
(ix)
Sections 10.01, 10.03 and 10.04; 
(x)
Article XI; and
(xi)
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.03 and 12.04.
(b)
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows:
(i)
a new paragraph shall be added to the end of Section 2.01 to read as 
follows: “the term “Special Drawing Rights” and the symbol “SDR” 
mean special drawing rights as valued by the International Monetary 
Fund in accordance with its Articles of Agreement”;
(ii)
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other than 
in Sections 2.01 (8) and 6.02 (f) thereof and the last use of such term 
in Section 5.01 thereof, means the Bank acting as an implementing 
agency of the GEF, except that in Section 6.02, the term “Bank” shall 
also include the Bank acting in its own capacity;
(iii)
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, means 
the Recipient;
(iv)
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means this Agreement;
(v)
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant;
(vi)
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account;
(vii)
the second sentence of Section 5.01 is modified to read: “Except as the 
Bank and the Borrower shall otherwise agree, no withdrawals shall be 
made: (a) on account of expenditures in the territories of any country 
which is not a member of the Bank or for goods produced in, or 
services supplied from, such territories; or (b) for the purpose of any 
payment to persons or entities, or for any import of goods, if such 
payment or import, to the knowledge of the Bank, is prohibited by a 
decision of the United Nations Security Council taken under Chapter 
VII of the Charter of the United Nations.”; 
(viii)
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph (i) in Section 6.02 of 
the General Conditions, as follows: “(j) an extraordinary situation 
shall have arisen in which any further disbursement under the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant would exceed the resources available for 
disbursement from the GEF.”; and
Page  4
(ix)
Section 6.03 is modified to read as follows: “Cancellation by the Bank.  
If: (a) the right of the Borrower to make withdrawals from the Loan 
Account shall have been suspended with respect to any amount of the 
Loan for a continuous period of thirty days; or (b) at any time, the 
Bank determines, after consultation with the Borrower, that an amount 
of the Loan will not be required to finance the Project’s costs to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan; or (c) at any time, the Bank 
determines, with respect to any contract to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, that corrupt or fraudulent practices were 
engaged in by representatives of the Borrower or of a beneficiary of 
the Loan during the procurement or the execution of such contract, 
without the Borrower having taken timely and appropriate action 
satisfactory to the Bank to remedy the situation, and establishes the 
amount of expenditures in respect of such contract which would 
otherwise have been eligible for financing out of the proceeds of the 
loan; or (d) at any time, the Bank determines that the procurement of 
any contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the Loan is 
inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred to in the Loan 
Agreement and establishes the amount of expenditures in respect of 
such contract which would otherwise have been eligible for financing 
out of the proceeds or the Loan; or (e) after the Closing Date, an 
amount of the loan shall remain unwithdrawn from the Loan Account, 
the Bank may, by notice to the Borrower, terminate the right of the 
Borrower to make withdrawals with respect to such amount.  Upon the 
giving of such notice, such amount of the Loan shall be cancelled.”
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise requires, 
the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this Agreement have 
the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following 
meanings:
(a)
“APN” means 
Administración de Parques Nacionales
,
the Borrower’s National 
Parks Administration, created by Law No. 22.351 of the Recipient;
(b)
“Buffer Zones”  means the provincial and national reserves bordering  the New 
Protected Areas (as defined hereinafter); 
(c) 
“Convention on Biological Diversity” means the Convention on Biological 
Diversity dated June 5, 1992 ratified by Law No. 24.375 of the Recipient;
(d) 
“Grants” means grants to be made under Part A.2 of the Project;
(e)
“IIA” means 
Informe de Impacto Ambiental
,
the environmental impact report 
defined in Article 6 (b) of APN’s 
Resolución
 16/94 of May 2, 1994, or such subsequent 
definition as may be acceptable to the Bank; 
Page  5
(f)
“IMA” means 
Informe Medioambiental
,
the environmental report defined in 
Article 6 (c) of APN’s 
Resolución 
16/94 of May 2, 1994, or such subsequent definition as may 
be acceptable to the Bank;
(g)
“Incremental Expenses”  has the meaning set forth in paragraph 2 (a) of 
Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(h)
“management plan”  means a plan adopted by APN for the integrated 
management of any of the New Protected Areas (as defined hereinafter);
(i)
“Monitoring Indicators” means the performance and impact indicators set forth 
in the letter of even date from the Recipient to the Bank; 
(j)
“New Protected Areas” means the parks called  
Los Venados 
(San Luis), 
Copo 
(Santiago del Estero)
,
Quebrada del Condorito (
Córdoba), and 
Monte León 
(Santa Cruz), and the 
biosphere reserve 
San Guillermo 
(San Juan)
,
 to be supported under the Project;
(k)
“Participation Plan” means the plan attached as Annex A to the letter of the 
Recipient to the Bank of even date with this Agreement;
(l)
“Project Implementation Manual” means the implementation manual for the 
Project acceptable to the Bank referred to in Section 3.06 of this Agreement;
(m)
“Project Unit” means the unit for the day-to-day management of the Project 
referred to in Section 3.05 (a)  of this Agreement;
(n)
“Social Mitigation Plan” means the plan attached as Annex B to the letter from 
the Recipient to the Bank of even date with this Agreement;
(o)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Section 2.02 (b) of this 
Agreement; and
(p)
“year” means calendar year.
ARTICLE II
The GEF Trust Fund Grant
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms and 
conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an amount in 
various currencies equivalent to seven million three hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights 
(SDR 7,300,000).
Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from the 
Page  6
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of Grants 
and the reasonable cost of goods, works, services, and Incremental Expenses required for 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant.
(b)
The Recipient may, for the purposes of the Project, open and maintain in dollars 
a
special deposit account in 
Banco de la Nación Argentina
 on terms and conditions satisfactory 
to the Bank, including appropriate protection against set off, seizure or attachment.  Deposits 
into, and payments out of, the Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions 
of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2006 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project as 
set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the Project through 
APN with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative and 
financial practices and the Convention on Biological Diversity and with due regard to ecological 
and environmental factors, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services 
and other resources required for the Project.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Recipient shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for this 
purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Recipient 
on said plan.
Section 3.04. The Recipient, through APN, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Monitoring Indicators, the carrying out of the Project 
Page  7
and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
by June 30 of each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank for its review 
and comment a draft annual work plan and proposed budget for the Project for the following 
year;
(c) 
by July 31 and January 31 of each year of Project execution, furnish to the Bank, 
respectively, an interim progress report and an annual progress report on the execution of the 
Project, said reports to be of such scope and detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested 
and to include the results of the monitoring and evaluation activities performed pursuant to 
paragraph (a) of this Section;
(d)
include in the interim progress report to be furnished to the Bank by July 31, 
2000 pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section, a report on the progress achieved in the carrying 
out of the Project since its beginning focusing, in particular, on the progress being made in the 
implementation of participation plans under Part A.3 of the Project and in the transfer of legal 
title to the Recipient of all lands included in the New Protected Areas, and setting out the 
measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project and the achievement of 
its objectives; and 
(e)
review with the Bank, by November 30, 2000, or such later date as the Bank may 
request, the interim progress report referred to in paragraph (d) of this Section, and, thereafter, 
take all measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement 
of the objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said report and 
the Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.05.  The Recipient shall:
(a)
establish within APN, and thereafter maintain during the execution of the 
Project, a unit for the day-to-day management of the Project with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank; and 
(b)
ensure that the Project Unit is headed at all times during the execution of the 
Project by a full-time technical manager with qualifications and experience acceptable to the 
Bank, and is further staffed with such other personnel with functions, responsibilities, 
qualifications and experience as may be required for the proper implementation of the Project.
Section 3.06. The Recipient, through APN, shall carry out the Project in accordance with 
an implementation manual acceptable to the Bank and, without limitation upon the generality of 
the foregoing, ensure in particular that:
(a)
the terms of reference of all consultants engaged to assist in the carrying out of 
the Project include the obligation to perform the assignment in a manner consistent with the 
policy statement on natural habitats set forth in the Project Implementation Manual; 
Page  8
(b)
all bidding documents and contracts for road and trail construction and repair 
under Part A.1 of the Project shall incorporate the environmental protection provisions set forth 
in the Project Implementation Manual; and
(c)
beneficiaries of the matching grant fund to be established and operated under 
Part A.2 of the Project shall be selected on the basis of the selection criteria and procedures set 
forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
Section 3.07. The Recipient, through APN, shall ensure that, prior to the execution of 
works in any of the New Protected Areas under Part A.1 of the Project:
(a)
the legal transfer to it of full title to all lands for such New Protected Area has 
been accomplished;
(b)
it has approved the initial management plan for such New Protected Area, said 
plan to be consistent with the policy statements on natural habitats, and resettlement set forth in 
the Project Implementation Manual; and 
(c)
it has obtained the Bank’s approval of: (i) the relevant IIA or IMA for such 
works; and (ii) as may be required by the initial management plans referred to in paragraph (b) of 
this Section, the specific participation plan and social mitigation plan (including, if necessary, a 
resettlement plan) for such New Protected Area, prepared on the basis of the Participation Plan 
and the Social Mitigation Plan.
Section 3.08. The Recipient, through APN, shall:
(a)
 carry out Part A.1 of the Project in accordance with: (i) management plans 
(including the initial management plans referred to in Section 3.07 (b) of this Agreement) that are 
consistent with the policy statements on  natural habitats and resettlement set forth in the Project 
Implementation Manual; and (ii) the IIA or IMA (including any mitigation plan set forth in such 
IIA or IMA) approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 3.07 (c) (i) of this Agreement; and
(b)
carry out the specific participation plans, in the New Protected Areas as well as 
in the Buffer Zones, and the social mitigation plans approved by the Bank pursuant to Section 
3.07 (c) (ii) of this Agreement.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Conditions
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain or cause to be maintained records and 
separate accounts adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices the 
operations, resources and expenditures in respect of the Project of the departments or agencies of 
the Recipient responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof.
Page  9
(b)
The Recipient shall:
(i)
have the records and accounts referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
including those for the Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in 
accordance with appropriate auditing principles consistently applied, by 
independent auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than six 
months after the end of each such year, the report of such audit by said 
auditors, of such scope and in such detail as the Bank shall have 
reasonably requested; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning said records and 
accounts and the audit thereof as the Bank shall from time to time 
reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, the Recipient shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Account was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, 
receipts and other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
statements of expenditure submitted during such fiscal year, together 
with the procedures and internal controls involved in their preparation, 
can be relied upon to support the related withdrawals.
ARTICLE V
Effectiveness, Termination
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the GEF Trust Fund Grant within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the 
General Conditions:
(a)
the implementation manual referred to in Section 3.06 (a) of this Agreement has 
Page  10
been finalized and is acceptable to the Bank;
(b)
the Project Unit has been established in accordance with the provisions of 
Section 3.05 (a) of this Agreement and the technical manager referred to in Section 3.05 (b) of 
this Agreement has been employed in accordance with the provisions of said Section; and
(c)
all action has been taken by the Recipient in order to permit the procurement of 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Grant in accordance with the provisions set forth or referred to in this Agreement.
Section 5.02. The date August 18, 1998, is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their obligations 
hereunder.
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Minister of Economy and Public Works and Services of the Recipient 
is designated as representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions.
Section 6.02 The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Recipient:
Ministerio de Economía y
 Obras y Servicios Públicos
Hipólito Yrigoyen 250
Buenos Aires
Argentina
Cable address:
Telex:
MINISTERIO ECONOMIA
121942-AR
Baires
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
Page  11
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
INTBAFRAD
248423 (MCI)
Washington, D.C.
64145 (MCI)
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Buenos 
Aires, Argentina, as of the day and year first above written.
ARGENTINE REPUBLIC
By /s/ Roque Fernández
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
  as an implementing agency of the Global
  Environment Facility
By /s/  Myrna Alexander
Director
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant
1.
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to each 
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Allocated
% of
(Expressed in
Expenditures
Category
SDR Equivalent
)
to be Financed
Page  12
(1)
Part A.1 of the Project:
(a)
Works 2,270,000
88%
(b)
Goods     
800,000
82%
(c)
Consultants’ Services  
960,000
100%
(d)
Incremental Expenses
990,000
82%
(2)
Part A.2 of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ Services
80,000
100%
(b)
Grants
540,000
88% of amounts
disbursed
(c)
Incremental Expenses
60,000
82%
(3)
Part A.3 of the Project:
(a)
Consultants’ Services
190,000
100%
(b)
Training
320,000
88%
(c)
Incremental Expenses
20,000
82%
(4)
Part B of the Project:
(a)
Goods
70,000
82%
(b)
Consultants’ Services
190,000
100%
(c)
Training
50,000
88%
(d)
Incremental Expense
30,000
82%
(5)
Part C of the Project:
(a)
Goods
10,000
82%
(b)
Consultants’ Services
330,000
100%
(c)
Incremental Expenses
20,000
82%
(6)
Unallocated
370,000
TOTAL
7,300,000
Page  13
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “Incremental Expenses” means the following incremental expenses of 
APN for the execution of the Project: vehicle operating costs, building maintenance, utilities, 
translation and printing services, and office materials and supplies; and
(b)
“Training” means the services of trainers (including associated expenses for 
travel, materials and services) for the provision of on-the job training as well as short local 
courses and seminars on database management, participatory park management and conflict 
resolution.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the equivalent of $1,000,000, may be made 
in respect of Categories (4) and (5) on account of payments made for expenditures within the 
twelve months prior to the date of this Agreement but after  July 1, 1997.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be made 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for:
(a)
goods under contracts awarded pursuant to the provisions of Part C.1 of Section I 
of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(b)
works under contracts costing $150,000 equivalent or less awarded pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.2 of Section I of Schedule 3 to this Agreement;
(c)
Grants;
(d)
Training; 
(e)
Incremental Expenses; and
(f)
services of consulting firms under contracts costing less than $50,000 equivalent 
and services of individual consultants under contracts costing less than $30,000 equivalent;
all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.
5.
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the provisions of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank for 
deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal to the amount so used or the 
portion thereof as specified by the Bank.
Page  14
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objectives of the Project are to conserve biodiversity of global importance by 
expanding and diversifying the Recipient’s Protected Areas and to create the conditions for their 
sustainable management.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
:
Protected Areas
1.
New Protected Areas
Establishment and management of the New Protected Areas through, inter alia: boundary 
demarcation; preparation of all necessary legal documentation; preparation and implementation 
of operational plans; preparation of environmental assessments and other specialized studies; 
construction of observation points, interpretive trails, fencing, administrative offices and park 
ranger residences; and road repair. 
2.
Sustainable Development Activities in Buffer Zones
Improvement of community land use practices in the buffer zones of the New Protected 
Areas through the operation of a matching grant fund to finance the carrying out of activities 
(such as testing of improved land management models, acceleration of recovery of degraded 
natural grasslands, fire management, and the carrying out of complementary biodiversity studies 
and public awareness campaigns) that contribute directly to the sustainable use and conservation 
of biodiversity in said buffer zones.
3.
Public Participation and Social Mitigation
Implementation of the participation plans and social mitigation plans approved by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 3.07 (c) of this Agreement.
Part B
:
Biodiversity Information Management
Development and implementation (including training) of an internet-based biodiversity 
network to ensure national and global accessibility to Argentina’s biodiversity information.
Part C
:
Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation
Strengthening the capacity of APN to manage, monitor and evaluate the Project by the 
Page  15
establishment, equipping and operation of the Project Unit.
*  *  *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2005.
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement and Consultants’ Services
Section I
.
Procurement of Good and Works
Part A
:
General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996 (the Guidelines) and the following 
provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
:
National Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods and works shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines.
2.
Works for roads shall, to the extent practicable, be grouped into bid packages estimated 
to cost at least $350,000 equivalent per contract.
3.
In the procurement of goods and works in accordance with the provisions of this Part B, 
standard bidding documents satisfactory to the Bank shall be used.
Part C
:
Other Procedures
1. Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate amount 
not to exceed $800,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of 
shopping procedures acceptable to the Bank in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 
and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
2.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $350,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under 
Page  16
lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three qualified 
domestic contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed 
description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic 
form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award 
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and 
who has the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to prequalify for bidding or to bid for contracts, 
the proposed procurement plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. 
Procurement of all goods and works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement 
plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
The procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall 
apply with respect to: (a) each contract for goods and works to be awarded pursuant to the 
provisions of Part B of this Section I; and (b) each contract for works to be awarded pursuant to 
the provisions of Part C.2 of this Section I and estimated to cost more than $150,000 equivalent.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
:
General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 (the Consultant Guidelines) and 
the following provisions of Section II of this Schedule.
Part B
:
Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
Services for biodiversity database development and training under Part B of the Project 
Page  17
may be procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1 
and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines.
2.
Consultants’ Qualifications
Services for information systems development, environmental and biodiversity 
monitoring studies, and mapping, estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
paragraph 3.7 of the Consultant Guidelines.
3.
Individual Consultants
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this Part B, services for tasks that meet the 
requirements set forth in paragraph 5.01 of the Consultant Guidelines shall be procured under 
contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 
through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
4.
Services under Part A.2 of the Project
Services to assist recipients of Grants shall be procured in accordance with the 
provisions set forth in the Project Implementation Manual.
Part D
:
Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the second subparagraph of paragraph 2 (a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines 
shall apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $30,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after said approval shall have been 
Page  18
given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
SCHEDULE 4
Special Account
1.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (5) set forth in the 
table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(b)
the term “eligible expenditures” means expenditures in respect of the reasonable 
cost of goods, works, services and operating costs required for  the Project and to be financed out 
of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated from time to time to the eligible 
Categories in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
(c)
the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount equivalent to $1,000,000  to 
be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposited into the Special Account 
pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of this Schedule, provided, however, that unless the Bank shall 
otherwise agree, the Authorized Allocation shall be limited to an amount equivalent to $500,000 
until the aggregate amount of withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account  plus the 
total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 
5.02 of the General Conditions shall be equal to or exceed the equivalent of $2,500,000
2.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for eligible expenditures 
in accordance with the provisions of this Schedule.
3.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
duly opened, withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish 
the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank a request or requests for deposit into the  Special Account of an amount or amounts which 
do not exceed the aggregate amount of the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or 
requests, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or amounts as the Recipient shall 
have requested.
(b)
(i)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposits into the Special Account at such intervals 
Page  19
as the Bank shall specify.
(ii)
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to 
paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the payment or payments in respect of 
which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such request, the 
Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount 
as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by 
said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special 
Account for eligible expenditures. All such deposits shall be withdrawn 
by the Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under the 
respective eligible Categories, and in the respective equivalent amounts, 
as shall have been justified by said documents and other evidence.
4.
For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the Recipient shall, 
at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such documents and other 
evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for eligible expenditures.
5.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have determined that all further withdrawals 
should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of Section 2.02 of 
this Agreement;
(b)
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of the records and accounts 
for the Special Account;
(c)
if, at any time, the Bank shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to 
suspend in whole or in part the right of the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions; or
(d)
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the 
eligible Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into 
by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to the Project, shall 
equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of the remaining unwithdrawn 
amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant allocated to the eligible Categories shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient. Such further withdrawals shall 
be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all such amounts 
remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in 
Page  20
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.
(a)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment out of the 
Special Account: (i) was made for an expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to 
paragraph 2 of this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank: (A) provide such additional evidence as the 
Bank may request; or (B) deposit into the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, 
refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof not so 
eligible or justified. Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into 
the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such evidence or made such 
deposit or refund, as the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the 
Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding 
amount.
(c)
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to paragraphs 6 (a), (b) and (c) of this 
Schedule shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent withdrawal or 
for cancellation in accordance with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the 
General Conditions.
