Report No. 882a-GUI`                                                                    FILE   COPY
Appraisal of a
First Highway Project
Guinea
December 5, 1975
Western Africa Projects Department
Highways Division
Not for Public Use
Document of the World Bank
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients
only in the performance of their official duties. Its contents may not
otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization



Currency Equivalents
Currency Unit - Syli
US$1          - 20.46 Syli
Syli 1 million= US$48,878.
System of Weights and Measures: Metric
1 meter (m)              = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)         = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 square kilometer (km2)= 0.386 square mile (sq mi)
1 metric ton (m ton)    = 2,204 pounds (lb)
Fiscal Year
October 1 - September 30
Abbreviations and Acronyms
DPC     - Direction des Ponts et Chaussees
NEF     - Ministry of Fconomy and Finance
MNW     - Ministry of Pablic WTorks, Mining and Geology
MT      - Ministry of Transport
ONRR    - Office National Rail-Route
UNDP    - United Nations Development Programme
vpd     - vehicles per day



GUINE-A
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SU'4ARYY .................................................   i -iii
1.  INTRODUCTION    ................................           1
2.  THE TRANSPORT SECTOR .....................                 I
A.   Economic  Setting  ..............................    I
B.  The Transport System ......      ....................  2
C.  Sector Management .............................       4
3.  HIGHWAYS        ...............................            6
A.   The  Network  ...................................    6
B.  Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic            7
C.  Administration ...........7........                   7
D.  Engineering and Construction.                         8
E. Maintenance.                                           9
4. THE PROJECT .10
A. Description .10
- Rehabilitation and Maintenance .11
- Technical Assistance and Training .12
B. Cost Estimates .12
C. Execution    ..14
D. Procurement .15
E.  Financing and Disbursements.....                     15
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION .16
A. General .16
B. Justification .16
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION   .     .18
This report has been prepared by Messrs. P. Gyamfi (Engineer/Economist),
D. Jovanovic (Economist), and E. Schaefer (Consultant) following an appraisal
mission in May/June 1975.



TABTE OF CONTENTS (Cont'd)
TABLES
1.   Development of Transport Demand, 1965/66-1973/74
2.   Transport Investments Envisaged in 1973/74 - 1977/78 Plan
3.   Development of the Highway Network, 1967-75
4.   Growth of the Vehicle Fleet, 1968-73
5.   Personnel of the Directorate of Roads and Bridges
6.   Design Standards for First Category Roads
7.   Project Roads for Rehabilitation and Maintenance
8.   Technical Assistance Requirements
9.   Rehabilitation and Maintenance Crews and their Equipment
10. Cost Estimate of Imported Materials and Supplies
11. Work Schedule for Rehabilitation and Maintenance
12. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
13. Estimate of Vehicle Operating Costs
14. Sensitivity Analysis
ANNEXES
1.   Draft Terms of Reference for Technical Assistance to DPC for the
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
2.   Summary of Economic Analysis
CHART
New Organization of the Ministry of Public Works, Mining, and
Geology - World Bank 9967
MAP
Guinea - First Highway Project - IBRD 11698R



GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        Guinea's excellent natural resources in the rural sector, mining,
and hydro-electric power, make it potentially one of the richest countries in
West Africa; for agriculture particularly, the predominant sector in the
country's production structure, the broad range of eco-climatic zones provides
the possibility for great diversification. Despite this potential, however,
the economy has stagnated over the past decade, and per capita Gross National
Product (GNP) has declined to a level estimated in 1972 at about US$90. This
situation has resulted partly because the Government placed heavy emphasis on
developing infrastructure, mining, and manufacturing at the expense of agri-
culture. Moreover, poor performance of the modern sector, combined with a
decline in agricultural production, has led to severe balance of payments
difficulties with resulting import restrictions and shortages. Some improve-
ment in the economic situation is expected over the longer term mainly as a
result of developments in the mining sector. However, any lasting solution
would have to include better exploitation of the country's rich agricultural
potential, and an efficient and reliable transport system would be vital to
ensure the success of these efforts.
ii.       The transport system consists of about 13,300 km of roads, about
1,100 km of railroads, two deep-water ports, an international airport and
ten airfields. While the extent of the road and railroad network is generally
adequate for the country's needs, the general condition of infrastructure and
vehicles is poor due to old age and lack of proper maintenance. Government
in its current Five-Year Plan (1973/74-1977/78) has assigned high priority to
maintenance and rehabilitation of the road network, and has asked the Associa-
tion to finance the first phase of this long-term effort.
iii.      The proposed First Highway Project is based on a consultants' Road
Maintenance Study in 1969 financed by the United Nations Development Programme
(UNDP) and updated in February 1975 by two Bank-employed consultants. It
would consist of (a) rehabilitation as needed on 2,491 km of high priority
roads, and initiation of proper maintenance on these roads; (b) repair of
existing equipment and plant, and rehabilitation of workshops; (c) purchase
of highway equipment and spare parts, workshop equipment and tools, parts
for repair of existing equipment and plant, engineering and laboratory equip-
ment, and training material and radio equipment; (d) purchase of materials
and supplies for project operations; and (e) technical assistance to the
Department of Roads and Bridges (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees, DPC) of
the Ministry of Public Works, Mining, and Geology, for implementation of the
rehabilitation and maintenance program as well as preparation of a second
phase of that program, and for training of mechanics and equipment operators.



- ii -
iv.       Total project costs, excluding taxes, are estimated at US$18.6
million, of which US$14 million (76%) in foreign costs. These costs include
estimated price contingencies of 20% for equipment and 30% for materials and
supplies; quantity contingencies are deemed unnecessary because of the program
nature of the project. The proposed Credit will finance all the foreign costs,
and the Government will meet all the local costs of the project, mostly wages.
v.        DPC will be responsible for execution of the project, which will be
carried out by force account with technical assistance provided by consultants
to be selected in agreement with and on terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association. The project is expected to start at the beginning of 1976 with
the engagement of consultants; contracts for the purchase of equipment should
be essentially completed by April 1976, and rehabilitation works by fully-
equipped crews are expected to commence during the third quarter of 1976. In
addition to advising and assisting DPC in execution of the project, the con-
sultants for technical assistance are expected to train a total of 90 mechanics
and 45 operators, and to assist DPC in developing appropriate design standards
for different road categories and in establishing a method of systematic col-
lection of data on the road network, including road inventory, traffic, the
road vehicle fleet, and motor fuel consumption. The project is expected to
be completed within three years.
vi.       Procurement of project goods will be on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines; however, fuel,
spare parts for existing equipment amounting to some US$600,000, and equip-
ment items not exceeding US$20,000 individually or US$100,000 in aggregate,
will be procured on the basis of quotations from local suppliers. DPC will
prepare bid documents assisted by consultants. Bid evaluation for purchase
of equipment will take into consideration not only the bid price, but also
the desirability of standardizing equipment and the availability of after-
sales service and spare parts. Credit proceeds will be disbursed on the
following basis: (i) 100% of the c.i.f. costs of equipment and other imported
supplies and material, and 85% of the cost of imported items purchased locally;
and (ii) 100% of foreign costs for technical assistance.
vii.      The proposed project will help provide the reliable and efficient
road transport necessary to support the Government's program to revitalize
and expand its economy. The rehabilitation and subsequent proper maintenance
of roads will result in cheaper, safer, and more reliable transport to the
productive regions of the country, as well as defer the need for road recon-
struction. The project has a benefit/cost ratio of 4.6 discounted at 12%; this
corresponds to an economic return which exceeds 100%. A major portion of the
project benefits, in the form of training for mechanics and operators, delay in
reconstruction investments, and savings in vehicle operating costs to the state-
owned transport agencies, will accrue to the Government. Most of the remaining
benefits are expected to be eventually passed on to consumers and producers,
after initial accrual to private transporters.



- iii -
viii.     The economic analysis assumes that all the project objectives will
be attained; otherwise, a reduction in benefits could be expected. A crucial
issue therefore, is whether, in spite of Government's awareness of the im-
portance of these objectives and its acceptance of them, the project can be
implemented successfully. The determining element in this connection is
the use that will be made of equipment, material, and personnel. Should
these project inputs be diverted to purposes not included in the project
description, there would be a substantial risk that project objectives could
not be met. This issue has therefore been thoroughly discussed with the
Government, and it has provided assurances that the program of works will
be carried out as agreed.
ix.       The proposed project is suitable for a Credit in the amount of
US$14 million to the Government of Guinea on standard IDA terms.






GUINEA
APPRAISAL OF FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      In its efforts to rebound from the steady decline in Guinea's
economy over the past fifteen years, the Government is placing emphasis on
revitalizing the agricultural sector and expanding the exploitation of
forestry and mineral resources. The Association has already initiated
assistance in this respect with a recently approved project for pineapple
development (Credit 569-GUI, US$7 million, 1975), and preparation of live-
stock and rice projects. The success of Government's efforts will depend
partly on rehabilitation and maintenance of the country's badly deteriorated
road network.
1.02      The proposed project will be the Bank Group's first operation in
the transport sector since the Boke Mining Project (Loan 557-GUI, US$64.5
million, 1968) which included financing for a railway line and a port integ-
rated with the mining operations. Preparation of the proposed project
commenced with a 1969 UNDP-financed consultant study on highway maintenance
and on the feasibility of constructing the Kissidougou-N'Zerekore-Liberian
border road. The conclusion was reached that there was an urgent need for
a program to strengthen the maintenance organization. The Government, how-
ever, declined the Bank's offer to assist in financing a maintenance project,
since it accorded higher priority to construction of the Kissidougou-N'Zerekore
road.
1.03      The rapid detoriation of the road network during recent years has
now made the Government aware of the extreme importance of road maintenance.
Its current Five-Year Plan (1973/74-1977/78) includes about US$29 million
for road maintenance and rehabilitation, and in December 1974, the Government
asked the Association to help finance the proposed maintenance project.
1.04      This report is based on a consultants' updating study carried out
in February 1975, and on the findings of an appraisal mission consisting of
Messrs. P. Gyamfi (Engineer/Economist), D. Jovanovic (Economist), and
E. Schaefer (Consultant) which visited Guinea in May/June 1975.
2. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A.   Economic Setting
2.01      Guinea has an area of about 246,000 km2 and a population of about
5 million growing at 2.8% p.a. Bordered by Guinea-Bissau, Senegal and Mali
to the north, Ivory Coast to the east, and Liberia and Sierra Leone to the
south, the country has about 300 km of coastline on the Atlantic Ocean to



-2-
its west (see IBRD Map 11698).  The narrow coastal plain rises to mountainous
highlands to the east and southeast, making road and railway construction
there costly.
2.02      Guinea's excellent natural resources in the rural sector, mining,
and hydroelectric power, make it potentially one of the richest countries
in West Africa. The broad range of eco-climatic zones makes it possible to
produce a variety of agricultural commodities, including food crops such as
rice, cassava, and maize, and export crops such as coffee, pineapple, and
bananas. Mineral deposits include bauxite, of which the country is estimated
to possess nearly half the world's known reserves, or about 4-5 billion tons,
and a high grade of iron ore, est.mated to be over one billion tons.
2.03      Despite this potential, however, economic growth has been slow.
Since Independence in 1958, the Government has placed heavy emphasis on
developing infrastructure, mining, and manufacturing, at the expense of
agriculture, the predominant sector in the country's production structure.
Also, in pursuit of its socialist objectives, the Government has sharply
curtailed the role of the private sector, and increased correspondingly the
share of public agencies and state enterprises. Except for mining in which
foreign companies still own shares, Government has nationalized all activities
in the modern sector including commerce, trade, and transport. Poor perfor-
mance of the modern sector, combined with a decline in the agricultural sector
which is moving rapidly from the market economy to localized subsistence, has
led to severe balance of payments difficulties with resulting import restric-
tions and shortages. These and other adverse developments have been responsible
for the country's economic stagnation; during the period 1967-72, GNP increased
by about 2.5% p.a., but because of the slightly higher increase in population,
per capita GNP decreased slightly reaching about US$90 in 1972.
2.04      No significant change in the current economic stagnation is fore-
seen in the short run, and although mining projects now reaching gestation
and others now being prepared should improve the situation somewhat over the
long term, any lasting solution to the economic problems should include
better exploitation of the country's rich agricultural potential. Restora-
tion and proper maintenance of the road network must be an integral part of
this strategy.
B.   The Transport System
General
2.05      The system consists of about 13,300 km of roads, about 1,100 km
of railroads, two deep-water ports, an international airport, and ten airfields
served by regularly scheduled domestic flights. The extent of the road and
rail network is generally adequate for the country's needs.  However, the
general condition of both infrastructure and vehicles is poor; the road
network has deteriorated badly due to poor maintenance, and the major railway



-3-
line, Conakry to Kankan, built about 70 years ago is in poor condition. More-
over, the shortage of foreign exchange has made impossible adequate repair
and replacement of road vehicles and railway rolling stock.
2.06      Statistics on road and rail traffic indicate that the decline in
the economy, especially in the agricultural sector, has been reflected in
stagnating transport demand (Table 1). State-operated road and rail trans-
port, amounting to more than half of total traffic, declined steadily toward
the end of the 60's, and was about 46,000 tons in 1973/74.  Although current
transport demand is low, it is expected to pick up with some revitalization
of economic activity now beginning to appear. For domestic transport, roads
are the predominant mode, carrying over 70% of inter-urban freight and passen-
ger traffic; preservation of the road network is therefore of great importance.
Highways
2.07      Details of the highway system and its administration, as well as
the characteristics of road traffic, are given in Chapter 3.
Railways
2.08      The railway system comprises four lines; the main line Conakry-
Kankan (660 km) which runs parallel to the road, and three enclave lines
connected with mining operations: the Conakry-Kindia (135 km), the Kamsar-
Sangaredi (136 km), and the Fria railway (145 km).  Both freight and passen-
ger traffic on the main line have declined since 1965 at an average annual
rate of 10% and 4% respectively, due mostly to the drop in agricultural
exports and the progressive shift of the agricultural sector from the market
economy to localized subsistence. Traffic in 1973/74 was only about 27,000
tons of freight and about 472,000 passengers, far from sufficient to make
the railways viable. This slow decline is expected to continue. The
Government agency Office National Rail-Route (ONRR), established in 1971
under the authority of the Ministry of Transport, manages the Conakry-Kankan
railway as well as the road transport of all imported, manufactured, and
exported goods. ONRR is reasonably efficient in its management considering
the poor facilities it has to operate with; since its establishment it has
managed to reduce personnel by some 15% through attrition, and has attempted
to establish a rational tariff system for road and rail transport.
2.09      The railways have operated at a deficit of about US$1 million
p.a. (about 25% of total revenues) for the past five years, despite the
reduction in ONRR's personnel. The poor financial performance stems mostly
from the traffic decline and increasing operating expenditures. The
Government has covered the deficit from the general budget, but its future
plans are still unclear; on the one hand, Government has taken no positive
action for phasing out the railway, but on the other, it has invested little
in the system over the past decade. Under present circumstances, it is
unlikely that funds will be available to improve the parallel road to handle



-4-
all traffic on the Conakry-Kankan corridor, and the railway will therefore
continue to play a useful role.
Ports
2.10      There are two deep-water ports, one at Conakry and the other at
Kamsar. The port of Conakry handles most of the country's export/import
traffic, while Kamsar is basically a mineral port (bauxite) isolated from
the main population and production centers. Traffic at Conakry has been
declining over the past decade at the rate of 4% p.a., amounting in 1973/74
to some 1.4 million tons, about half the port's capacity. As in the case of
the railway, the loss of port traffic is mostly due to the continuing decline
of agricultural exports, but also partly to poor handling facilities which
has driven off some foreign ships. An ongoing UNDP project (US$1.3 million)
is aimed at improving cargo-handling facilities. The new port at Kamsar,
integrated with the Boke mining operations, is functioning efficiently;
about 700,000 tons of bauxite were shipped in 1973/74.
Air Transport
2.11      The air transport network includes an international airport at
Conakry and ten domestic airfields capable of handling DC-3 and DC-4 type
aircraft. The Civil Aviation Agency is in charge of airport construction
and management. Passenger traffic has increased over the past five years
reaching 74,000 in 1973/74; internal air transport plays only a minor role
in freight movement. Most domestic flights operate close to capacity, and
despite delays in take-off times, Air Guinea's domestic operations appear
satisfactory. The company's international service has been temporarily
suspended to permit internal reorganization.
C.   Sector Management
2.12      Overall responsibility for sector management rests with the
Ministry of Economy and Finance (MEF) which discharges its transport sector
functions through the Ministry of Transport for planning, coordination, and
regulation, and through the Ministry of Public Works, Mining and Geology
(MFW) for planning and execution of road construction and maintenance.  For
large projects, usually involving foreign financing, MEF's Division of
Infrastructure plays a dominant role in both the review of project scope and
in project preparation. In such situations, there is an overlap of responsi-
bility between the Infrastructure Division and MPW which results in some
duplication; in general, however, the set-up appears to operate well.
Transport Planning and Investments
2.13      Investment plans for railways, ports, and airports are initiated
by the Ministry of Transport, and those for roads by MPW in the form of



-5-
investment proposals. On the basis of these proposals, the Ministry of
Planning, through its Transport Commission, puts together a draft plan which
is submitted for further review by the Central Committee of the Party, and
finally by the President. The procedure results in a Five-Year Plan which
is at best an intended investment budget. The planned expenditures are
often unrealistically high and can be regarded only as Government's indication
of investment priorities; the actual course of implementation is determined
by the availability of foreign aid for specific items.
2.14      Information on actual investments going on in the transport sector
is not available; however, a rough indication of the Government's intentions
can be inferred from the transport plan. The current plan (1973/74-1977/78)
proposes a total investment in the transport sector of GS 7,907 million
(about US$386 million). It places major emphasis on (i) construction of
selected primary roads and bridges (about 69% of total transport investments);
(ii) improvement of road maintenance through equipment purchases (about
7%) and the purchase of equipment and improvement of facilities for ports,
airports, and the ONRR (Table 2).
2.15      The amount of proposed investments is high in view of the country's
shortage of foreign exchange and the difficulties it has in securing external
aid. Regarding the plan content itself, the priority given to new con-
struction of primary roads is unjustified. Much higher returns would
be derived from minor improvement, rehabilitation and maintenance of the
network as contained in the present project; the Government is in agreement
with these proposals. Feeder road maintenance and construction appear to
have been left out of the plan, since presently the Government gives higher
priority to the rehabilitation and maintenance of main roads.   Feeder roads
should be planned as integral parts of agricultural or forestry projects.
Scarcity of data does not permit an evaluation of investments in the other
modes, but their individual levels are not high enough to warrant much con-
cern. The Government also has a major project under study, not indicated in
the Plan, to construct the Trans-Guinean railway (about 1,200 km long and
estimated to cost about US$1.2 billion) to transport iron-ore and timber
from the Forestry Region, and bauxite from the Tougue-Dabola area to Conakry.
A more economic way of achieving the iron-ore transport from Mount Nimba, how-
ever, might be through neighboring Liberia via the existing iron-ore railway
tprivately owned by the Liberian American Mining Company (LAMCO), for a
distance of about 400 km; the Government is exploring this possibility.
Modal Coordination
2.16      Although no explicit policy of transport coordination exists, the
Ministry of Transport is clearly aware of the relative roles of road and
rail transport, and endeavors to make the best use of existing facilities.
The bulk of goods and passenger transport, including all imports and exports
not tied to the enclave mining operations, is by statute handled by the ONRR
which allocates it between road and rail depending on available capacity,
and subcontracts to the few private transporters during peak periods. Con-



-7-
sidering the poor condition of road and rail infrastructure, ONRR charges
appear reasonable: a uniform rate of about 9d per ton-km, and 44 and 3i per
pass-km for first- and second-class passengers respectively.
Transport Industry
2.17      "For hire" transport is shared between the state-owned enterprises --
the ONRR and Regional Commercial enterprises (60%) -- and numerous private
transporters, mostly with single or at most two vehicles (40%). The share
of the state-owned agencies is increasing rapidly. Government's policy
is clearly to discourage private sector participation, an objective strictly
in line with its overall socio-economic strategy. Because it does not yet
have the capacity to handle all transport, however, the Government still
permits some private participation in the industry, but regulates entry
through vehicle import restrictions. No change in the present situation is
foreseen in the given Government socio-economic development strategy, and
Bank assistance to improve the industry in the short term could therefore
be most beneficial if provided within the framework of the existing system.
This may consist of assistance in instituting a proper pricing policy and
in improving ONRR's management capacity. Dialogue through project supervision
and sector visits will be used to provide this help.
3. HIGHWAYS
A.   The Network
3.01      There are about 13,260 km of classified roads, of which about
1,060 km (or 8%) are asphalt paved. The network is divided into First
Category (national and inter-regional) and Second Category roads. First
Category roads amount to abuot 6,000 km, or 45% of the network, and include
all the paved roads in the country (Table 3). While paved roads are
generally constructed to design standards established by the Department
of Roads and Bridges (Direction des Ponts et Chaussees - DPC), gravel and
earth roads have varying characteristics, usually below DPC standards.
The road system is in bad condition, and is continuing to deteriorate as a
result of years of little or no maintenance. In fact, many roads have
deteriorated to such a degree that it is no longer possible to upkeep them
with normal maintenance forces, and their rehabilitation has become a matter
of first priority.
3.02      During the past nine years, the length of the national network has
increased by only 5%. The increase was not uniform in the four geographic
regions of the country -- it was 12.7% in the Zone Forestiere, 9.3% in Moyenne
Guinee, and 2.8% in Guinee Maritime, and there was an actual decrease of 1.3%
in Haute Guinee. Since 1967 emphasis has been on paving, and the total paved
network has increased nearly five-fold, from about 190 km to 1,060 km in 1975.



-7-
B.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.03      The composition and growth of the vehicle fleet is shown in Table 4.
The fleet size has fluctuated around 8,500 units over 1968-73, declining at
the overall rate of about 1.5% p.a. during the period. The truck fleet has
however decreased at about 9% p.a., in spite of the increase in ONRR's state-
owned fleet. This trent reflects both the decrease in transport demand and
the import restrictions on vehicles and spare parts.
3.04      No regular systematic traffic counting program exists yet in Guinea.
Consultants' counts carried out in 1969 (updated early 1975) show that most
road sections carry low traffic, below 100 vehicles per day (vpd), except the
Conakry-Labe and Conakry-Kissidougou roads which on average carry respectively
400 and 300 vpd. Lack of data, particularly of the development of fuel
consumption, make it difficult to estimate the average growth of road traffic.
However, in light of current Government efforts to expand economic activity
and indications of a start towards this revival, it would not be unreasonable
to forecast a modest traffic growth in the vicinity of 3% p.a. Under the
proposed project, systematic traffic counting and collection of fuel consump-
tion data will be gradually introduced within DPC (para. 3.11).
C.   Administration
3.05      The Ministry of Public Works, Mining and Geology (MPW) was re-
organized in May 1975. Until then, the country was divided into four geo-
graphic regions with a total of 29 subdivisions. It is now divided into
seven zones with 33 subdivisions (See Chart). Each zone has an Inspector
who supervises the activities of the subdivisions within that zone. All
inspectors report to an Inspector General who in turn reports directly to
the Minister. The main task of the subdivision is the maintenance of roads,
and the construction and maintenance of buildings. Each subdivision is
headed by an engineer who has an average of 60 people under him.
3.06      DPC has overall responsibility for the administration, engineering,
construction, and maintenance of the national road system. Instructions
regarding maintenance and rehabilitation are given by the Director of DPC
either to the inspectors of the zones, or directly to the subdivision chiefs.
Although there is some overlapping of responsibility between the Director
and the Inspector General, there are no apparent difficulties of hierarchy
within the Ministry.
3.07      Each subdivision has its own equipment and workshop, or rather
what is left of them. Decay is evident everywhere (paras. 3.15 - 3.16).
In addition to the subdivision crews and their equipment, there are mobile
crews with their own equipment which is usually heavier and geared more for
rehabilitation and improvement works than for maintenance. The mobile crews
operate under the Inspectors' orders, but here again, the Director of DPC
oversees all operations. Their equipment is in the same poor condition as
that of the subdivisions.



3.08      DPC has 2,215 employees, of whom 159 work in the head office in
Conakry; the bulk of the personnel (82%) is distributed among the subdivisions
(Table 5). DPC has 287 mechanics, 190 equipment operators, and 213 drivers,
most of whom have little to do owing to the lack of equipment and tools.
3.09      The Government seems to be much interested in quality education
for young professionals, and the mission met a number of young engineers
educated in different parts of the world.  Much less attention is paid to
the training of skilled labor. Although there are quite a few talented
mechanics in the country, they are mainly self-taught, and their training
in proper equipment maintenance and repair is only sporadic. The almost
total lack of tools and spare parts have caused resignations, even among the
best, and the most rudimentary maintenance procedures are frequently neglected.
A similar situation can be observed with regard to equipment operators. A
training program for mechanics and equipment operators must be considered
just as vital for DPC as the procurement of equipment and tools. The proposed
project includes a provision for training of DPC staff required to implement
the planned road rehabilitation and maintenance program (paras. 4.07-4.08).
D.   Engineering and Construction
3.10      The design standards used for engineering of First Category roads
are shown in Table 6. With the exception of the maximum axle load, standards
are modest and satisfactory considering the low traffic on most of the roads
(para. 3.18). However, the time has come for DPC to establish a policy on
design standards, and to develop, in addition to acceptable standards for
rehabilitation of existing roads, design standards for different categories
of new roads. One of the taks of the technical assistance to be provided
under the proposed project would be to help DPC in the development of such
standards (see Annex 1).
3.11      The engineering group of DPC has sufficient capacity for the
relatively simple preparatory engineering work required for rehabilitation
and minor improvement works. However, with increasing works of improvement
and construction, demands for more extensive engineering will increase, and
DPC should prepare for that time to avoid excessive dependence on foreign
technical assistance. An appropriate starting point would be the collection
of information required to prepare for planning and design such as road
inventories, periodic traffic counts, deflection surveys, and testing of
soils and construction materials. The proposed project provides the necessary
equipment and technical assistance for this purpose. The Government has
provided assurances that such work will be started not later than June 1977,
and will be carried out systematically.
3.12      There is at present little encouragement for the formation of
road construction firms in Guinea.  Improvement and construction works are
carried out either by Government forces with the help of foreign technical
advisors, or by foreign contractors, usually under contractor-financing
arrangements. At present three major road projects (totalling 445 km) are
under construction, namely: (i) Labe-Mali-Lebekere (165 km), by STFG



-9-
(Societe Technico-Financiere de Guinee), a Spanish-Guinean company; (ii)
Kissidougou-Guekedou (90 km), by EJL (Enterprise Jean Lefebvre), a French
company, (iii) Kissidougou-Kankan (190 km), by the Guinean Army with the
assistance of Cuban technical personnel. Considering present Government
policy, as well as the difficulty of importing equipment and materials, there
is little opportunity for development of private domestic construction
firms. The trend most likely will be towards State-controlled organizations
with sufficient autonomy to demonstrate their competence.
E.   Maintenance
3.13      Improvement of the maintenance organization and introduction of
efficient maintenance operations must be considered a matter of high priority
for the Ministry of Public Works. Inadequate funding has led to lack of
equipment and tools, which in turn has hindered personnel in their pro-
ductiveness. DPC expenditures, excluding personnel, were Sylis 60 million
in 1973/74, and the budget for 1974/75 calls for Sylis 40 million. Based
on this budget and on estimated personnel expenditures for the head office
and installations in Conakry and for the subdivisions, the mission estimates
that an average of only US$170/km year is being spent on maintenance. The
inadequacy of these funds becomes even more serious when one considers that
the productivity of personnel is far below normal due to the lack of equipment
and tools. With the proposed project, Government's financial contribution
to maintenance will be limited to personnel expenditures and supply of local
materials which the Government has met in the past, and will continue to in
the future.
3.14      There are only a few pieces of equipment left which are worthwhile
repairing. Subdivision yards are graveyards of cannibalized equipment, and
shops show little or no activity due to the lack of tools and spare parts.
The plants are more often out of work than producing; these include the
aspahalt batch plant, the screening and washing station for lateritic gravel,
and the crushing plant, all within 20-35 km from Conakry..
3.15      The effects of neglected maintenance are visible everywhere.
Roadways and structures have not been preserved as originally constructed
or as subsequently improved. They have deteriorated to a point where many
roads are no longer at an adequate level of traffic serviceability, or in
suitable condition for normal maintenance operations. It is urgent that
extensive rehabilitation works be carried out.
3.16      The Government should start a program for:  (a) rehabilitation
and improvement of high-priority roads; (b) strengthening of the maintenance
organization; (c) introduction of efficient maintenance operations; and (d)
active training of mechanics and equipment operators. Such a program will
have to be long-range, not only because a great amount of work and funds are
needed to put the entire network in suitable condition for routine and
periodic maintenance by departmental forces, but also because it will be a
complicated and difficult task to gradually improved maintenance operations



- 10a -
and procedures to the point where optimum utilization of equipment, facilities,
manpower, and materials is achieved, and efficient control of costs, accounting,
and records is established. It is estimated that such a program will take
from 8 to 10 years. The first phase should concentrate on the most urgent
matters such as rehabilitation of high-priority roads, repair of workshops
and of existing plant and equipment, purchase of most-needed equipment and
materials, and training of mechanics and equipment operators. The proposed
project deals with this first phase of the program which will require execu-
tion over a three-year period. The Association should assist in financing it
with a view to continued participation in future phases of the program if
performance proves satisfactory. Preparation of subsequent phases of the
program, which should concentrate on strengthening DPC's maintenance organi-
zation and improving its operations, will be carried out by the technical
assistance consultants under the proposed project.
3.17      The regulatory provisions for maximum vehicle weight and dimensions
call for a maximum axle load of 10 tons for single axles. Since over 90%
of the network consists of laterite roads, and since there is considerable
rainfall in Guinea (minimum is 2 m in Guinee Forestiere and maximum 4.3 mm
in Guinee Maritime), the axle load for such roads appears excessive. In
addition, enforcement of weight regulations is non-existent for all practical
purposes, and highly overloaded trucks can be seen everywhere. The Government
has recently issued a Decree restricting the use of heavy vehicles on unpaved
roads during rainy periods and reducing the maximum axle load on such roads
during the rainy season to 5 tons, and has agreed to take the necessary
measures to enforce these regulations.
4. THE PROJECT
A.   Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of the implementation of a three-year
program of road rehabilitation and maintenance, including the following:
(a)  rehabilitation as needed on 2,491 km of high priority roads,
and initiation of proper maintenance operations on these
roads;
(b) repair of existing equipment and plant, and rehabilitation
of workshops;
(c) purchase of (1) highway equipment and spare parts, (2)
workshop equipment and tools, (3) parts for repair of
existing equipment and plant, (4) engineering and laboratory
equipment and training material, and (5) radio equipment;



(d) purchase of materials and supplies for the operations
included in the project; and
(e) technical assistance to DPC for (1) implementation of
the proposed rehabilitation and maintenance program, (2)
training of mechanics and equipment operators, and (3) prepara-
tion of a second phase of the rehabilitation and maintenance
program to be executed over 1978/79 - 1980/81.
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
4.02      The 2,491 km of high priority roads selected for immediate re-
habilitation include 1,046 km of asphalt roads (nearly the country's entire
paved network). The balance of 1,445 km are gravel and earth roads, of which
about 1,100 km are located in the east of the country (see Table 7 and Map).
The rehabilitation works included in the program are essentially those
required to reconstruct the selected roads to standards as originally designed
or as subsequently improved. The program specifically excludes improvements
involving heavy earthworks, and the Government provided assurances that such
works will not be undertaken, and that in general, equipment and materials
will not be used for any work outside the range of understanding for the
project unless specifically agreed with the Association (para. 5.07).
4.03      Of the 1,046 km of asphalt paved roads included in the program,
571 km have surface treatment, and the remainder bituminous concrete. Dis-
integration in varying degrees can be observed everywhere, and asphalt patching,
ranging from simple seals to deep patches, will be required for all the paved
roads. Out of the 571 km with asphalt surface treatment, about 300 km, or 53%,
show serious defects and will need rehabilitation. The portion of bituminous
concrete roads which need to be rehabilitated is less, since more attention
has been paid to their maintenance -- 105 km out of 475 km, or 22%, show signs
of distress and will require partial to complete reconstruction of the pave-
ment structure. Some of the major causes of pavement damage include drains
which are improperly located, incorrectly designed, or clogged, and shoulders
which do not provide sufficient lateral support for the pavement structure.
About 500 km of asphalt paved roads need rehabilitation and improvement of
drainage and shoulders.
4.04      The 1,445 km of gravel and earth roads need reshaping, regravelling,
and improvement of drainage. The amount of rehabilitation work to be done
varies, but about 270 km will need heavy rehabilitation including some align-
ment and grade corrections. The criteria for selection of gravel and earth
roads were (1) traffic, (2) economic potential in road's influence area and
its role in Government's development plan, and (3) the necessity for geo-
graphic coordination to prevent long travel distances by road crews.
4.05      It will also be necessary to repair timber and concrete bridges,
and also to reconstruct some short-span structures. A program for this
purpose was developed in February 1975 as part of the consultants' updating



- 12 -
study (para. 1.02 - 1.04). In cases where complete plans of bridges to be
repaired are not available, technical assistance personnel under the proposed
project will help DPC make field surveys and prepare the necessary plans.
4.06      Routine maintenance for the project roads will continue to be
labor-intensive, and will be carried out by subdivision forces. Twenty-one
subdivisions (out of a total of 33, see para. 3.05) will be involved.
Technical Assistance and Training
4.07      The successful programming, engineering and execution of the re-
habilitation works and maintenance operations, as well as of the training
of mechanics and equipment operators, require technical assistance by foreign
experts. The Government has therefore agreed to secure the services of an
international consulting firm. It is estimated that nine experts will be
required, for varying periods over the three-year program, to a total of
264 man-months (Table 8).
4.08      The main training center will be in the Conakry shop where facili-
ties for training already exist. To avoid trainees going through prolonged
absence from home, a second but smaller training center will be opened in
N'Zerekore. The proposed project provides for a one-year training course
for equipment operators, and for two one-year courses for mechanics in both
training centers. It is estimated that in Conakry 40 mechanics can be
trained the first year and 60 the second year, with a probable output of
60 men; in the same shop, 40 operators can be trained during one year, with
an output of about 30 men. In the smaller training center at N'Zerekore,
20 mechanics can be trained the first year and 30 the second year, with a
probable total output of 30 men; in the same shop, 20 operators can be
trained during one year, with an output of about 15 men. The proposed train-
ing courses will produce sufficient mechanics and equipment operators to
cover DPC's most urgent needs. However, this can be considered only the
beginning of personnel training. Skilled labor is in short supply in the
country, and DPC will find it necessary to continue with the development of
skilled mechanics and operators from partially trained personnel, or even
from the ranks of unskilled laborers. One of the first tasks of the technical
assistance experts will be to develop a detailed training program for these
mechanics and operators. The plan and strategy for continuation of the training
effort will be discussed with Government before the end of project execution;
consultants' terms of reference (Annex 1) require them to submit recommendations
on this matter.
B.   Cost Estimates
4.09      The total cost of the project, net of taxes, is estimated at US$18.6
million equivalent, with a foreign exchange cost of US$14.0 million (76%).
Details of cost estimates are given in Tables 9 and 10, and summarized below:



(Million Sylis)--    ----- (US$'000) ------   Foreign as
Local   Foreign   Total    Local   Foreign   Total  % of Total
1) Highway Equipment and
Spare parts (10%)          -       104.06  104.06       -      5,086    5,086       100
2) Shop equipment and
miscellaneous tools        -        16.04   16.04       -         784      784      100
3) Parts for repair of exist-
ing equipment and plant   -         11.46   11.46       -        560       560      100
4) Engineering & laboratory
equipment and training.
materials                  -         8.02    8.02       -         392      392      100
5) Radio Equipment            -         4.58    4.58       -         224      224      100
6) Materials and Supplies  15.34       83.09   98.43      750     4,061    4,811        84
7) Labor (skilled and
unskilled)               75.11        -     75.11   3,671         -      3,671       -
8) Technical Assistance       -        37.81   37.81      100      1,848    1,948      100
Total Basic Cost      90.45    265.06  355.51   4,521    12,955   17,476          73
9) Contingencies (Prices)
Equipment             -       10.30   10.30       -         503       503     100
Materials &          2.01      10.83   12.84       98       529       627       84
Supplies
Total Contingencies   2.01       21.13   23.14       98     1,032    1,130        92
TOTAL               92.46    286.19  378.65    4,619   13,987   18,606          76
(Rounded)                                         (4,600) (14,000) (18,600)



14         
4.10      Cost estimates are based on January 1975 prices and adjusted to
January 1976. Considering the specific nature of the various procurement
items and the program nature of the project, quantity contingencies are not
deemed necessary. Price contingencies have been estimated at 20% for equip-
ment and 30% for materials and supplies on the basis of the following expected
price variations:
1975      1976       1977
Equipment                  12%        12%        -
Materials and Supplies    15%         15%        12%
4.11      The Government indicated at project appraisal that all goods and
services procured for the project will be exempt from all duties, taxes,
fees, or levies. All project estimates have been based on this understanding
which has now been confirmed by the Government.
C.   Execution
4.12      The most effective way to execute the work under the project is
to enable the largely idle DPC crews to carry out the operations by pro-
viding them with equipment, materials and supplies, as well as technical
assistance to modernize procedures and to train personnel. Such operations
will also be the first step in the build-up of competent Government mainte-
nance forces.
4.13      Execution of the project will be the responsibility of DPC, assisted
by consultants. The Government has agreed to employ foreign consultants
selected in agreement with, and on terms and conditions satisfactory to
the Association. The consultants will provide technical assistance for pro-
gramming, engineering, and execution of the rehabilitation works, and for
maintenance operations, and will be in charge of training mechanics and
equipment operators. The consultants will also assist DPC in introducing
and employing a proper accounting method for the project works. Draft terms
of reference for consulting services (shown in Annex 1) have been agreed
with the Government.
4.14      The project is expected to commence at the beginning of 1976, and
to be completed in 36 months. Equipment requirements are consistent with the
work schedule (Table 11). The key technical assistance personnel are expected
to start work in the field in January 1976. Contracts for the purchase of
equipment should be essentially completed by April 1976 (para. 4.19), and
delivery schedules will be determined by the technical assistance team on
the basis of a more detailed work plan and estimated delivery dates proposed
by bidders. Operations of fully-equipped crews are expected to commence
during the third quarter of 1976.



- 15 -
4.15      A basic requisite for the operations under the project is the
rehabilitation and equipping of the workshops in Conakry, Labe, Kankan,
Faranah, and N'Zerekore. Shop equipment and tools, as well as materials
for repair and reconstruction of buildings, will be provided under the pro-
ject, but the Government has agreed to immediately undertake this part of
the project, including disposal of scrapped equipment, clean-up and levelling
of yards, and plans for repair and reconstruction of buildings.
D.   Procurement
4.16      Equipment, spare parts for new equipment, supplies, and materials
amounting to about US$8 million will be procured on the basis of international
competitive bidding in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. As exceptions,
the following items will be procured on the basis of quotations from local
suppliers: (i) fuel about US$2.0 million; (ii) spare parts for existing equipment
amounting to some US$600,000; and (iii) equipment or groups of the same items
of equipment with a value less than US$20,000 but in the aggregate not exceed-
ing US$100,000. In evaluating bids for equipment purchase, the availability
of after-sales service and spare parts will be important considerations. The
above procurement procedures have been agreed with the Government (para. 4.19).
E.   Financing and Disbursements
4.17      The proposed Credit of US$14 million, representing about 76% of total
project costs excluding taxes, will finance all the foreign exchange costs of
the project. The Government has confirmed that it will provide all the local
costs, about US$4.6 million equivalent.
4.18      Credit proceeds will be disbursed on the following basis:
(i)  100% of the c.i.f. costs of equipment and other imported
supplies and materials, and 85% of the cost of imported
items purchased locally; and
(ii) 100% of foreign costs for technical assistance.
Table 12 shows the estimated schedule of disbursements from the Credit
Account based on the expected start and duration of the project as given
in para. 4.14 and in Tables 8 and 11. Any funds remaining in the Credit
Account on completion of the project will be used to finance items related
to the project, or to the next phase of the rehabilitation and maintenance
program as agreed between the Government and the Association.
4.19      The Government is planning to have the technical assistance con-
sultants assist DPC with preparation of bidding and contracting documents for
purchase of goods prior to Board consideration of the proposed project.
Government has already compiled a shortlist of prospective consulting firms,
and has requested the Association's assistance in drafting their terms of
reference (Annex 1). Early engagement of technical assistance experts as



- 16 -
planned will necessitate retroactive financing of about US$150,000; it is
recommended that the Association approve this financing to enable procure-
ment of urgently needed equipment and materials as required for a prompt start
of project operations.
5. ECONOMIC EVALUATION
A.   General
5.01      As mentioned earlier (para. 1.01), the Government is placing
emphasis on revitalizing the agricultural sector and expanding the exploita-
tion of forestry and mineral resources. The success of these efforts will
depend partly on the availability of efficient and reliable transport both
among the widely dispersed population and productive areas, and between these
centers and the Port of Conakry. Roads provide the predominant means for
this transport. The network is however in very poor condition, due to the
huge maintenance backlog built up over the last several years. The highest
priority requirement of the transport sector is therefore the preservation,
by rehabilitation and subsequent regular maintenance, of the road network;
the proposed project is designed to meet this need. Details of the economic
analysis are given in Annex 2.
B.  Justification
5.02      In defining the scope and content of the proposed three-year road
rehabilitation program (Table 7), consideration has been given to the length
of the roads which most urgently need rehabilitation and maintenance, their
traffic, the economic potential in the road's influence area, the necessity
for geographic coordination in execution of works, and the capacity of DPC
to implement the works (paras. 4.02-4.06). The program which covers some
2,491 km of roads (1,046 km paved) will ensure greater transport reliability,
expand the seasonal use of the most important unpaved roads, and reduce
transport costs, all of which are expected to have a positive impact on the
country's development. Other benefits include those associated with the
training of DPC staff, especially mechanics and operators, as well as
delaying the need for costly reconstruction of extensive sections of the
network.
5.03      The estimates of traffic volumes on the roads included in the
program are based on a consultants' updating study carried out in February
1975. Traffic levels on the roads range from 20 vpd to 1,000 vpd, with about
800 km or 35% of total length carrying over 100 vpd (Table 7). The proportion
of heavy vehicles on the roads ranges from 50-90% of total traffic. Traffic
is expected to grow at about 3% p.a. over the life of the project.
5.04      Out of the selected 2,500 km of primary roads, about 1,850 km
are estimated to be in poor condition, and the remainder in fair condition
(Annex 2). These roads are all expected to be back in good condition after



- 17 -
the three-year rehabilitation program. The program is expected to produce
a reduction in vehicle operating costs ranging from about 14 per veh-km
for passenger cars on paved roads, to about 15i per veh-km for heavy vehicles
on gravel roads (Table 13). For all road types and vehicle categories, the
rehabilitation works are expected to result in a weighted average of 26%
savings in vehicle operating costs.
5.05      For the purpose of analyzing the justification of the project, the
cost of the proposed program has been taken to irclude the cost of equipment,
spare parts, materials, technical assistance, and labor. To reflect the dif-
ference between the official domestic prices and actual market prices, local
cost components were shadow priced (Annex 2). The quantifiable benefits in-
cluded in the analysis are (i) the reduction in vehicle operating costs and
avoidance of future increases, and (ii) the savings in delaying the need for
road reconstruction. The economic life of the project has been estimated to
be 10 years, reflecting the estimated economic life of the rehabilitation
works. The stream of costs and benefits is shown in Annex 2. On the basis
of the above inputs, the project has a benefit/cost ratio of 4.6 discounted
at 12%; this corresponds to an economic return which exceeds 100%. The inputs
for estimating the project's returns have been estimated with varying degrees
of accuracy. Because of the general paucity of data and the Association's
lack of experience with road works in Guinea, a high degree of uncertainty
exists in estimating the inputs for the above economic analysis. The sensi-
tivity of the estimated return to variations in these inputs has therefore
been tested. Table 14 shows that even under very pessimistic assumptions,
the proposed project is still well justified,
5.06      A high proportion of the project's benefits, as savings both to the
ONRR and MPW, will accrue to the Government. Private car and truck owners
will also benefit directly from a decrease in vehicle operating costs.
Although immediately following project execution a large part of private
transporters' reduced operating costs is expected to go to them, part of these
savings may be passed on to consumers and passengers as a result of possible
adjustments to tariffs, since some competition exists in the private sector
of the transport industry.
Risks
5.07      The foregoing economic analysis assumes that all the project
objectives defined in para. 4.01 will be attained; otherwise, a reduction in
benefits could be expected. A crucial issue therefore, is whether, in spite
of Government's awareness of the importance of these objectives and its
acceptance of them, the project can be implemented successfully. The
determining element in this connection is the use that will be made of
equipment, material, and personnel. Should these project inputs be diverted
to purposes not included in the project description, there would be a sub-
stantial risk that project objectives could not be met. This issue has



therefore been thoroughlily discussed wl_h .he Government, and it has provided
assurances that the program of works will be carried out as agreed.
6.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND REC0MMENDATION I
6.01      During negotiations on the proposed Credit, agreements were reached
with the Government on the following principal items:
(i)  that not later than June 1977, it will start collecting on a
systematic basis the information required for planning and
design of future road improvements (para. 3.11);
(ii) that it will take the necessary measures to enforce regulations
restricting the use of heavy vehicles on unpaved roads during
rainy periods, and reducing the maximum axle-load on such
roads during the rainy season to 5 tons (paza. 3.17);
(iii)  that equipment and materials purchased under the project will
not be used for heavy earthworks, or for any work outside the
range of understanding of the project unless specifically
agreed with the Association (paras. 4.02 and 5.07);
(iv)  that goods and services procured for the project will be exempt
from all duties, taxes, fees, and levies (para. 4.11);
(v) that consultants for technical assistance will be selected in
agreement with and under terms and conditions acceptable to the
Association (para. 4.13);
(vi)  that it will immediately undertake the necessary preparations
for rehabilitation and equipping of workshops (para. 4.15);
(vii)  all arrangements for procurement of goods under the proposed
project (para. 4.16);
(viii)  that it will provide all the local costs of the project,
amounting to about US$4.6 million equivalent (para. 4.17).
6.02      The proposed project is suitable for a Credit in the amount of
US$14 million to the Government of Guinea on standard IDA terms.
December 5, 1975



Table 1
REPUBIIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Development of Transport Demand, )365/66 - 1973/741Y
3/
1965/66      1971/72      1972/73       1973/74
2/
1  ONRR (total freight)      68.o         390          44.7         46.o
Railroad (in '000 tons)    n.a.         25.0         28.7         27.4'
Road     ( n   *"   n  )    na.        14.0 W        16 4/        18%6
Railroad Passengers      639.0         362.0        420.0        4720o
(in'000)
20 Port of Conakry
Ship Arrivals (units)    626
imports ('000 tons)      550.o         621>3        676o8        671.1
Exports(  I'  n  )    1,182.0         988.9         714.4        685.9
Total                  1,732.0       1,610.2      1,391o2      1,357.0
3. Air Transport
Passengers (in '000)      n.a.          n.".         n.a.          13.7
1/ Data are presented in fiscal years October 1 - September 30.
2/ Office National Rail-Route - State Esterprise
3  Traffic on railroad decreased due to repairs undertaken in that year
4/ Estimates.
Source:  Annual Reports for 1973/74 of ONRR, Office Maritime,and Air Guinea.
Guinea Transport Paper, IBRD July 1974.
July , 1975.



Table 2
HiYUBLIC OF GUINEA
FLTX HIGIU{dAY PROJECT
Tran9port Investments envsa1i ) 3 173/y4Y.-97/?B ?1an
Amount           U3$         3hare
in Mi2lion 8ylin     million   la Percerit
A.  Road Construction (earthworks and paving)
1.  Kamsar-N1ali 400 km                             480o0
2. 'issidougou-1N'Zerekor6-Thuo 400 km           1,100.0
3.  Mlamou-Kankan-3iguiri 550 km                    990.0
4.  Kissidougou-Kankan-IT'Zerekor6                1,160.0
5.  Lab6-Mali-L6bIk-r6  120 km                      24o.O
6.  Iab6-Tougu6-Dabola 250 km,                      550.0
70  Dubreka-Boffa-Boke                              6eO
Total                                 4,976.0          (243.2)       63
B3. >ajor Bridge Construction  (7 bridges)              382.5
h.odernization of the ConalaWr
xpressway                                    109.5           ( 24.l)      .1
C. Road Maintenance Equipment                           578.5          ( 28.2)      7.3
Total                                 6,o46.5          (295,5)    76.4
D.  Government Transport Agencies
Office Mlaritime                                146.7
3ociete Navale                                 102.0
ZTTRAT                                         119.2
TUC                                             282.0
OINRR                                           542.2
Air Guinee                                      282.5
A,viation Civile                                386.3
Total                                 1,860.9          ( 90o9)    23,6
TOTAL TRAI43PORT IIT3i&ST                         7100
jource:  i'epublic of GuLiea 5-year Plan, 197 V3/7L-1977/78.
:Tnin3try o0 rlannin, C onaXTrly
July 1975.



BZUllC OF G0INEA                                            Table 3
FIRST 61Gia I  PltJZCT
Dev4o1o t of 1tr Netyo*   .67-1975
R3GIONS5      SUBDIVISI0NS                    71RS  GATEXY R0AW'                   S3CTlRY L1=3                    T 0 T A L
Paved                       &aarp_N                        I1L]S t0h               
1967          1975        1967         1975                                  1967          1975
Tougue                                         104         159          341           310        445            469
*                               ~Lab               10            39           109         185          368          389         487           613
l[ali                                           185        185           340          284         525           469
ljOYS4rE
Pita                               29          138          291          295           88         433           408
GUINEE
Dalaba                             43            40          80          272          242         312           365
i,amou                5          133            269        151          115           212         389           546
Gaoual                                          227         341         167          150          394           491
KoundgLra                                      1 74        177           321          267         495           444
T 0 T A L           15           294          1246        1569          2219        1942        3480           3805
Dabola                                         156          220           69            5         225           225
[7ouroussa                                      261        345          300          31 2        561            657
Faranah                            200         132         112          445           315         577           627
HLAUTE         Kankan                              10          290         523          469          230         759           763
GUIJEi!E       Siguiri                                        1 95         239          747          576         942           815
Kerouane                                       115         144          307           278        422            422
Dinguiraye                                     166         211          120                       286           211
r o t a 1           0            210          1315         1794        2457         1716        3772           3720
:61im414                                       145         122          533          486         678           60e
l.india            163           163           111         105          203          257         477           525
3UIiZ         For4eariah          10            69           138           79          282          330         430           1478
j.:II L S    0Ont'jr,r                          150           38          38          237                      295           13.
61          136           75          294          310         430           446
Fria                                            60          60          129          229         189           289
33offa                                         151         115          100          135         251           250
3ok6                              56           1 26        172          367          '24         493           552
T o t a l          17;           499           905         766         2165         2071        3243          3336
Kissidougou                       53           223         201          132          190         355           144-
Gueckedou                                       73          75           81          158         1g59          236
ZOSE           :acenta                                        165         130           252         280         417           410
R:SJTTILlZ    DJeyla                                          122         133          1495         607         617           740
b I Zerel:ore                                  130         160          2140         1 97        370           357
Yomou                                          103         110          105          105         213           215
o t a'                           5            326         .12         1305         13,'        2131          2402
TO'iALJ                           1 i         1             a 4292      .9141        ,1  46       7266       1 262S        13263
i.ote:  The aljove division o. the country into 4 regions with 29 subdivisions wias recently changed (may 1975) to 7 zones
w ith t t subdivisions (see Chart j,  j[etwor[: lergths sorresponding to the new subdivisions were not aLvailable at
tlhe tine Of thIe missionls visit.
Jource:   DP0, ,:ay 1 7'
July 1975.



Table4
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHiWFAY PROJECT
Growth of the Vehicle Fleet, 1968-73
units
Annual
1968-1973
Grow-bh
1966      1969      1970       1971     1972                  Rate
,ars              3,509      3,696     4,124      )a,13    4,567  (4,337)  4,312  +3.14%
Pick-ups             906       787       843      1,058    1,160   1,160      872  -1.5%
Trucks             3,558     3,621     3,485      3,385    3,582  (2,995)  2,092  -9.1 %
Buses                174       1BlL      205        227      235   ( 178)    185  +1.2,%
TOTAL           8,17       8288      8,657      8.81            (3.670) 24)2.  -
1/ Estimates.
Source: Ministry of Public Works, Conakry, May 1975; and Guinea Transport Paper
IBRD, July 1974.
July 1975.



Table 5
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Personnel of the Directorate of Roads & Bridges
Conakry      Jubdivisions    Mobile       Total
Units
Engineers                             7               .22            6           35
&ngineer Assistants                  13               4o             9           62
Supervisors, Technicians              8                58            6           72
traftsmen                             5               10             -           15
Accountants                           5               131            5          141
Typists                              26                -             -           26
Mechanics                            43               181           63          287
Drivers                               8              1 58           47          21 3
Equipment Operators                   7              143            40          1 go
Masons                                -               100           27          127
Carpenters                            1                92           13          106
Electricians                          2                 6            4           12
Iron Workers                          -                32            2           3
Plumbers                              -                 2            5            7
Welders                               4                 8            -           12
Blacksmiths                           -                53            -           53
Painters                              -                 7            -            7
Quarry Workers                        -                 9            -            9
Ferrymen                              -              106             -          106
Warehousemen                         18              589            19          626
Watchmen                              8                36            2           46
Messengers                            4                25            -           29
TOTAL             159             1,808          248        2,21 5
Source:  DPC, ~'.ay 1975
July 1975.



-Ta'2e 6
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Design Standards for First Category Roads
Design Speed  .......   ................    80 Km/h
Minimum Horizontal Radius .... .......   250 m
Maximum Grade:  normal  ..... ........      7%
exceptional    .........   8%
Minimum Vertical Radius:  Summits ...  3,000 m
Sags ......  2,200 m
Pavement Width .....................        7.00 m
Shoulder Width .1.00 m
Axle Load .......................lO t
Source: DPC, May 1975
Jully I ) 5.



Table 7
REPUBLIC OF GUINEh
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Proiect Roads                             Average
Iength       Traffic in 1975
1. Paved Roads                                           km                vnd
Conakary-Coyah-Kindia-Mamou ------------------------  266           2,000-1,300-750
Mamou-Dalaba-Pita-Iabe ----------------------------  145                     lBo
llamou-Faranah-Kissidougou -------------------------  322                    180
Kissidougou-Gu6ckedou -----------------------------   90                     180
Kissidougou-Kankan (First section) ----------------   50                      90
Coyah-Forecariah ----------------------------------   46                      90
Coyah (km 36) - Dubr6ka  --------------------------   18                     180
Boke - Kamsar -------------------------------------   52                      90
Links in the zones of Bok6, Lab6,
Mamou, Faranah, Kissidougou,
and Pita -------------------------------------   57                     90
Total paved roads ------_------____________1,046
2. Gravel & Birth Roads
iubr6ka - Soubetide --------------------------------  47                     50
Soubetide-- Boffa ----------------------------------  40                     50
Boffa - Km 24 (from Boke) ------------------------- 126                      50
Mamou - Dabola (not included are 7 km which
have asphalt pavement) ------------  150                    25
Dabola - Kouroussa --------------------------------  165                    40-20
Kouroussa - Kankan --------------------------- -    95                       20
Kankan - Kerouan6  -------------------------------       5 -45
KerouanM  - Beyla ---------------------------------  107                     40
Beyla - N'Zer6kore --------------------------------  132                     35
NIZUrAkorA  - Macenta --------------------------  143                        30
Macenta - Gueckedou -------------------------------  100                     30
Macenta - Konsan Koro -----------------------------  100                     25
N 'Z&r6kor6 - Liberian Border --------------------_   95                     25
Total Gravel & Earth Roads ----------------------- 1,445
Total Project Roads ------------------------------ 2,491 km
Source: DPC and mission analysis, May and September 1975
September 1975.



Table 8
R.tBLC OF GUIKL
rVUU or _ru
FLU?
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Technical Assistance
Man-Months Required
-___________________________________________ -1976              1977       1978      Man-Months
(1)  Diretr                                                     _     _36
(2) Hihwy  78ineer                                  ,36
(3)   lulpwnt and Shop  Spe___ai_t                                                        36
1%4) Bride Sagieer                                        -                               30
(5.) maintAeance Specialist                               -                               30
(6.) Neohanio                                             -                               30
(7) Mechanic                                                      .                       30
Tri-ning Courses
(1) Operator Instructor                                                                   1?
| ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2o1
M9)   ka~ter Mechone~nc____
Sourzv    DPC and mission ana is, May 1975
July 1975.



RLPOOLIC OP GUINEA
Li04    CiGHWAY PROJFCT
-eaeicatnad Maintenance
Crews and thn-, Esn-p-e
CREWS                                                                                                                                         Eqalpeens
Paved Road,                                         Gravl .nd Prth Rads                                                                                     Techn-ca            Total                   CGI. . CQ.8k"r
Anphal         AsphaIlt      Aeph.lt      Dltch-n               R-sh.p-g                  Tle.api0                                     Selected           Rentine            T.en                of                         .a.  75 prIce
FCQCDPMmS                           Fatching         Oroc           his-           and             mg-reall-g                  Reeg--ell-n                Ur-dgen           M.r(' -WEnen Se                                         qnspl-e                                 ____
I-to ntec       o iO-x   5-1ndor          -,tch-n  4 ShonIder         Ditches & Shonldo-                                              I    .-.Ic          Trenp-rta-lo           lJnIts             Per Unit               Tela1
________   ______ ____          __ _______     Mino-   1  -     -ov nets                                                                    I                                        teqor-d             US$  '000              USS  'o00
_________ _________ _________ ______  _   One   Cre       So  Ctn       E  C  C e     ne  C e           One.   m                      Two    Green             F.ne   Crews        On-   Cr-      U   Snbdt    ~la
14  000cr  (250    ((F)   ____________________   ________________     ____________                                                        __________                                4                103.0                  412.0~~~~~~~~~~~~~~4103.0412.
00100 Grader   135 OF,  4.                                                                                                                                                         ____________    ______________ ~~~~~~2  47                   650450. 5
wheel  oader iTT    4   1.5    __                      __  _ _    _ __ _         _ _ __ _     2___ _ _2_                                                                                                                         _ __ __ _ __ _       6                  46.5                  279.0
_____ ___-  _ ___   1_ _-___ _____ _____ _____ __            2____to                                                                                                                                                                                                          22.0                  220.0
T________________-       ___P  ___  ___  ___  ___  __    __I__I                                                                                                                                                                                                                21 0                  2 .0
__________  ________  ~ ~    ~    45                                                                                                                                                                        2.5                  12.0
____________     2                  50.0                 104.0
160.0                          60.0
__ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ __ __ _ __ __ __ _                __  __ _ __                                                                                           _ __ ___I_    _  _I__     __  __ _15.0                                                                                  1 0.0
I _E .. -c-    30 HP   0.1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.3)                                                                                                                  1 ~      ~ ~ 8.                          8.
Lowle  Trailer  (20-25 t) W/Trot                     ____2__3                                                                                                                                                                                                               65.0                 195.0
Mobot Bloe   (       H0 P)                                  I______2                                                                                                                                                                                                            1.0                   3.0
Inop Trech  4.5 tn3(                    __________                                                                                                                                                                          NO~~~~~~~~~~~~~~66  2  6  20.0         1,500.0
Wate  T-ch Trok  W/Pomp (140 HP. 10.000 1)               2___2_                                                                                                                                                                                             4                 27.0                  106.0
One1 Tank Cench  (122 HP, 8,000 1)                                                                                        1                               2                                                                                                 3___              24.0                   72.0
B.,ado    60                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          6                   3.0                  111.0
Portable Ace Coop-e-n    (4.5 o.3Olfl.                  4____4                                                                                                                                                                                                                 12.0                  48. 0
Br-ak-    iome (.20  Ke                                 __ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _4                                                                                                                                                                                       0.6                    2.4
Hacto  ~T-e    Tow.ed    - Typ, /P-mp   1.000  41_____                                                              _________1201.
0oo    ne(0 .3/hr(                                                                                                                                                                                             4                                                         2.06.
ConcretO    Scoe   0.P.   (2m3)                          _ _ _ _ __ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                              4                                                                          4                                         4.6
Concreie Tchrotoe  (Stan.  h3 0501  ___________ j.                                                     ____________________          4                                                                         4                   0.4                   1.6~~~~4  4  0.
W-krEhoc   T n h  ( 0    P                               _ _ _ _ _                    -1_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                                                                               75.0                   7 .
G-an-UIt4                                                                                                                 1                              2                                                                                                  3                 22.0                   6.
Dashino   Dratcon   Sta   ccooarT   __________   ~~~~~~~~~~~.   _____________________                                                 1            ____________                              1                  20.0                  20.0~~~~~~I  20 .
Pick-So                                      ~~~~~                                        ~               ~            ~               ~            ~ ~~I  4    1    2  4  4                                                8              228017.
S ed aeJ                                                _ _ _ _  _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _     _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _     _ _  _ _ _ __  _ _ _ _      _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _ _  _ _ _ _  _ _ _118                                                                                  08
TOta1 hqnIp-Ol                              4.1281.5
Sper   Pseec  (I07.)                           412.9
Total E-cpn50t_.nd Spate  P-rts                              4.541.4~-
Total  (Eane.ded)401.
Adj-sted co Jce. 76 p-cce                                    5,086.-
S.....n reor,   djnct.od  (o SPC .od mean,M.y 1975.
J,,J~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 1975.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~I



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HILGhB4AY PROJECT
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Cost Estimate of Imported Materials and Supplies
Use of                                     j                     Number                            Estimated Cost of Imported.Materials and Supplies
lInit             of                                                Ja n. /~prices
Imiported Materials and Supplies                                               Units                        For                            For
Eq.ipmers  Operation                 production
Per Unit        Total            Per Unit         Total                    Total
l____________________________________________________________________                     US$          IR'000              US$            US$'t00               UIOVOl
tAsphalt Patching                                      m2              26,150            0.67             17.5             0.28(1)          7.3                    24.8
Paved                Asphalt Surface Treatment                                Km                300          129.-              38.7         1,570.- (1)        i71.0                  509.7
Roads                 Asphalt Resurfacing (B. C.)                             Km                105          565.-              *9.3         4,239.- (1)        445.1                  504.4
Ditches and Shoulders                                   Km                500           35.-              17.5                   (2)                               17.5
Heavy Rehabilitation and
Gravel                Minor Improvements                                      Km                 269       1, 721-            462.9                   (2) [                            462.9
and                 lRehabil tat ioI
Earth                |(Works of lesser extent)                                Km              1,176          529.-             622.1                   (2)                              622.1
Roads
Routine Maintenance by 21 Subdivisions                                                  Day               500          392.-             196.0                                                    196.0
Bridges                                                                                 Bridge            120        1,600.-             192.0          5,240.- (2)    628.8                      820.8
Culverts                                                                                Km              2,635                                               30.-           79.1                    79.1
Selected Materials                                                                      m3            600,000             0.20           120.0                                                    120.0
Workshops                                                                               Shop                 5                                         25,000.-           125.0                   125.0
Transportation for Technical Assistance Team                                             hr            23.760             2.06            49.0                                                     49.0
Total Imported Materials and Supplies                               3,531.3
Total (Rounded)                                   3,531.-
Ad]usted to Jan. 76 prices                                          4,061.-
Notes:  (1)  Aggregate to be supplied by Government
(2)  Equipment operating costs (supplies) for screening,
washing and hauling gravel are included in the item
"Selected Materials".
Soug-r:  Cunsultants' report, ad3usced by mission, May  and September 1975.                                                                                                                                                 W



REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FTRST HT(GH-WAY PROTECT
Rehabilitation and Maintenance
Work Schedule
TYPE OF ROAD                      WORK DESCRIPTION                 1976        1977       1978       Total
Km         Km          Km         Km
Asphalt Patching                           300         350        396      1,046
Asphalt Surface Treatment                   50         110         140       300
PAVED                   Asphalt Resurfacing (B.C.)
with ADT< 500                            15          20         25         60
ROADS                      with ADT> 500                            10          15          20        45
Ditches and Shoulders                      100         200         200       500
GRAVEL                  Heavy Rehabilitation
and
and                    Minor Improvements                          53         100         116       2V9
EARTH                   Rehabilitation                             205         414         557     1,176
(Works of lesser extent)
ROADS
Soge   Consultants 'Report, adjusted by mission - May and September 1975.



Table 12
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJ=C
Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
IDA Fiscal Year                                        Cumulative Disbursements
and Quarter Ending                                     at End of Quarter
1975/76
March 31, 1976                                            150
June 30, 1976                                             905
:1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      4,130
December 31, 1976                                       7,060
March 31, 1977                                          8,150
June 30, 1977                                          11,850
-197/78
September 30, 1977                                     12,715
December 31, 1977                                      12,880
March 31, 1978                                         13,560
June 30, 1978                                          13,710
19 78/79
September 30, 197r                                     1 1, 855
December 31, 1978                                      IL,000
;tourc9:    i -li -; i on  D) t, iLri LeS.
July 1975.



Table 13
1-YJUBLIH OF GUINIa
FIRS.T 1IGHIWAY PROJECT
1/
Estimates of Vehicle Operating Costs
(IJ3 1czi net of taxes)
vehicle              Paved load                   Gravel aioad              3arth
T,-5e            Good    Fair    Poor        Good    Fair    Poor           iload
Light 2/
Vehicles         7.28    7.66      8.0       8.39   10078   13.03           2006
Heavy 3/
Vehicles        19.10   21.44    23.93    24.42   31 57   35.61             55.57
1/ In IMay 197) prices.
2/ Passenger cars, station wagons,and vans .
3/ Trucks (8-10 t).
Jource: Miission estimates.
July 1975.



Table 14
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Sensitivity Analysis,/
Project      Project       Total
Basic      Cost          Cost          Benefits    Costs  + 15%
Inputs     + 15%         + 20C          - 4B% enefits  - 25%
above       above        above
Economic Return    100%         100%         100%           78.0%           85.0%
Benefit/Cost
Ratio               4.65        4.10         3.90            3.25            3.60
(discounted
at 12
1/ For details, see Annex 2.
Source: Mission estimates.
September 1975.



ANNEX 1
Page 1
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Ministry of Public Works, Mining'and Geology
Department of Roads and Bridges
Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
Draft Terms of Reference
I. INTRODUCTION
1.        The Government of Guinea, with the assistance of the International
Development Association (IDA), is carrying out a rehabilitation and maintenance
program, which will extend over a period of three years. The consulting ser-
vices required to assist the Government in executing the program are outlined
below.
HI. OBJECTIVES
2.        The purpose of the services, which will cover the 36-month period
1976-1978, are generally to assist the Department of Roads and Bridges (DPC)
to implement a three-year plan for rehabilitation and maintenance. The objec-
tive of this plan is to:
(i) carry out needed rehabilitation on 2,491 km of roads and
initiate proper maintenance operations on these roads;
(ii) repair existing equipment and plant, and rehabilitate workshops;
(iii) purchase (1) highway equipment and spare parts, (2) workshop
equipment and tools, (3) parts for repair of existing equipment
and plant, (4) engineering and laboratory equipment, and training
material, and (5) radio equipment;
(iv) purchase materials and supplies for all operations included in
the project;
(v) implement a program for the training of mechanics and equipment
operators;
(vi) develop design standards for different categories of new roads
and tolerable standards for existing roads:
(vii) establish a system for (1) regular traffic counts, (2) road
network inventorv, (3) testing of soils and construction materials;
(4) collection of data on motor-vehicle fleet and motor fuel
consumption: and



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(viii) prepare the second phase of the road rehabilitation and main-
tenance program to be executed during the period 1978/79 -
1980/81.
III. SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
A.   General
The Consultants shall advise and assist DPC in the performance of
all engineering and administrative work, organizational and financial analyses,
field investigations, rehabilitation and maintenance operations, training
personnel, and all related work herein described, as required to obtain the
objectives given in Section II above. In the conduct of this work the Consul-
tants shall cooperate fully with DPC, which in turn will provide the data and
services outlined in Section VII below; the Consultants shall be responsible,
however, for the analysis and interpretation of all data received, and for the
conclusions and recommendations contained in their reports.
B.  Maintenance Organization
The Consultants shall study the organization of DPC and of all con-
cerned subdivisions of the Ministry of Public Works, Mines and Geology, taking
into account the objectives of the rehabilitation and maintenance program. The
Consultants shall advise and assist in the organizational changes needed to
increase the efficiency of all functions of the maintenance divisions, and to
implement the program as outlined below.
C.   Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
t    The attached list and Map specify the 2,491 km of high priority
roads which form part of the three-year rehabilitation and maintenance plan,
all as developed by the planning organs of DPC with the explicit understanding
that the rehabilitation program includes only such works which are required
to reconstruct the selected roads as originally designed or as subsequently
improved. Improvements involving heavy earthworks are not to be included in
the scope of the project.
The Consultants shall advise and assist in the establishment of a
policy on design standards, and in the development olf tolerable standards for
the rehabilitation of existing roads and of design standards for different
categories of new roads.
The Consultants shall advise and assist in the review and analysis
of all existing plans concerning rehabilitation work on the selected roads,
and in their recommendations shall indicate:



ANNEX 1
Page 3
a)   which road sections are in suitable condition for routine
and periodic maintenance by departmental forces; and
b)   which road sections are in need of rehabilitation and minor
improvement works suited for execution by departmental forces.
During the implementation of the project, the Consultants shall make
detailed studies of maintenance operations, equipment and administration, and
shall advise and assist DPC in the recording of cost data. The Consultants
shall then assist DPC in the determination of the minimum level of maintenance
operations required to keep the selected roads at a suitable level of traffic
serviceability, determine the prospective costs of maintenance, and advise and
assist in the program and budgets for future maintenance of the selected roads.
D.   Equipment and Plant
A general inventory of all highway maintenance and shop equipment,
plant, engineering and laboratory equipment, and training material available
to or on order by DPC or by the respective subdivisions of the Ministry of
Public Works, Mines and Geology was carried out in March/April 1975. The
consultants shall advise and assist DPC in reviewing and updating this inven-
tory. The consultants shall also assist in the review of equipment list in-
cluded under the project.
The above review and updating shall be accompanied by detailed and
documented cost estimates for the proposed acquisitions.
The Consultants shall assist DPC in the preparation of bidding docu-
ments, the evaluation of bids, and in contract awards for the above outlined
goods.
E.   Operations
The Consultants shall advise and assist DPC in the implementation
of the three-year rehabilitation and maintenance plan with particular view to
improvement in operations and procedures for routine and periodic maintenance
of the roads concerned that will result in optimum utilization of departmental
equipment, facilities, manpower and materials, and in efficient control of
costs, accounting and records.
The Consultants shall advise and assist DPC in the repair of bridges
on the selected roads, and introduce a system of regular inspections by qualified
personnel as the fundamental basis of competent bridge maintenance. If complete
plans of bridges as constructed are not available, the Consultants shall advise
and assist in field surveys of such bridges and in the resulting preparations
of plans.



ANNEX 1
Page 4
The Consultants shall advise and assist DPC in rehabilitation of
the facilities in Conakry, Labe, Kankan, Faranah, and N'Zerekore, including
the repair of shops, warehouses, and offices.
The Consultants shall advise and assist DPC in the acquisition of all
materials and supplies needed for the performance of operations under the
three-year project, and shall assist DPC in the preparation of bidding docu-
ments, the evaluation of bids, and in contract awards for such materials and
supplies.
F.   Training of Skilled Labor
In conjunction with the technical assistance described above, the
Consultants shall advise and assist DPC in the training of mechanics and equip-
ment operators.  The training program will involve the establishment of training
centers in the shops of Conakry and N'Zerekore where trainees can be taught under
actual operating conditions, and where the Consultants shall direct two one-year
courses for mechanics and a one-year course for equipment operators. The Cob-
sultants shall advise DPC in the choice of materials to be acquired for the
above training courses in Conakry and N'Zerekore. Based on the experience
obtained during the training program with regard to manpower and general
proficiency of the personnel, the Consultants shall advise DPC as to the
problems of establishing future training schools and on-the-job training
procedures.
G.   Preparation of 1978/79 - .1980 Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program
For the most important roads in the country not covered by the Pro-
gram in III C above,and the city streets of Conakry and Kankan, the consultants
shall prepare a detailed program, similar to the 1976/77 - 1978/79 Road
Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program for the period 1978/79 - 1980/81. The
Consultants shall provide the economic justification for the program based
on a comparison of costs and benefits. The program shall include estimates
of additional manpower, equipment, spare parts and materials required for
its implementation, and the consultants shall identify the items obtainable
locally and those to be imported.
The Consultants shall prepare cost estimates and outline specifica-
tions for all major items in the program. For the equipment items suitable
for international competitive bidding, the consultants shall prepare appro-
priate contract documents.
The Consultants shall also make detailed recommendations on:
(i) a program for improving Highway Administration and Maintenance; and
(ii) measures to establish accounting procedures which will enable the
DPC to exercise adequate control over costs for all types of road
maintenance, rehabilitation and construction.



ANNEX 1
Page 5
These recommendations shall be accompanied by a detailed time schedule
of implementation.
IV. TIME SCHEDULE
The Consultants shall commence field work on this program within
thirty calendar days of the effective date of the Contract.
The program shall be carried out in two stages:
STAGE I: During this preparatory stage of 3 months, a General Plan
of Action shall be developed concerning all aspects of the rehabilitation and
maintenance program, and contracts for the purchase of equipment and materials
shall be awarded.
STAGE II: During this stage, i.e. during the remainder of the
Consultants' contract period, the Consultants shall assist DPC in the imple-
mentation of the agreed Plan of Action.
V. STAFFING
The following qualifications are considered as a minimum require-
ment for your staff:
a)   Director - should have broad experience in the direction of
all highway operations.
b) Highway Engineer - should have broad experience in the direction
of all field maintenance operations within a highway department; in
the selection (for purchase), operation and repair of maintenance
equipment; in the operation of workshops; in the preparation of
maintenance plans for future operations, including the preparation of
the budget; and in the training and general ditection of personnel
within the maintenance division of a highway department.
c)   Equipment and Workshop Specialist - should be experienced in the
inspection, repair and operation of maintenance equipment in the field
and in the shops; should be capable of training equipment operators
and mechanics.
d)   Bridge Engineer - should have broad experience in design, con-
struction and maintenance of bridges and in the training and organizing
of bridge inspection personnel who are able to judge the importance of
any damage and to devise the proper method of repair.



ANNEX 1
Page 6
e)   Maintenance Specialist - should be experienced in the direction
of general maintenance operations, and the reporting of findings which
would serve as principal means for the introduction of new methods for
maintenance operations throughout the country.
f)   Master Mechanic - should have broad experience in all matters
pertaining to equipment repairs and maintenance; in the direct super-
vision of all shop activities; in the training and instruction of
mechanics; and in the stocking of repair parts. He should be experienced
in the general care of all highway equipment, including preventive
maintenance and the procedures which are employed by equipment operators
to prevent excessive wear and damage to the equipment.
g)   Mechanic - should have experience in all matters concerning equip-
ment repairs and maintenance, and should be capable to adapt his work
in the repair shops to apprentice-type, under-study training, in
which partially trained mechanics will work under his direct supervision.
h)   Operator Instructor - should be experienced in the operation of
several types of equipment, and should be capable to teach trainees
in the operation of tractors, graders, wheel loaders, asphalt distri-
butors and finishers, and stone spreaders, all under actual conditions.
He should also be capable to teach equipment maintenance as an Important
part of the work.
VI. REPORTING
The Consultants shall prepare and submit the following reports within
the period indicated:
(i) An Inception Report, within three months after the Starting Date,
presenting the general Plan of Action developed in Stage 1, the
recommended program for the training of DPC's mechanics and operators,
and draft contract documents for the purchase of equipment and
materials (10 copies in French to the Government, 5 copies in French
and 5 in English to the Association).
(ii) Progress Reports, at three month intervals after submission of the
Inception Report, giving a statement of all work performed during
the reporting period, a summary of interim findings, and an outline
of the work program for the next two reporting periods. (10 copies
in French to the Government, 5 copies in French and 5 in English
to the Association).



ANNEX 1
Page 7
(iii)  Interim Report, within twenty-one months of the Starting Date,
presenting the Consultants' proposals for the 1978/79 - 1980/81
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation Program (III G above) with
tentative estimates of equipment, material, and manpower needs, and
proposals for improvement of highway administration and maintenance
in Guinea (10 copies in French and 5 in English to the Association).
(iv)  Draft Final Report, within twenty-seven months of the Starting
Date, summarizing (a) all works performed, (b) major findings and
conclusions, and (c) recommendations for further assistance in
Road Maintenance and Rehabilitation (10 copies in French to the
Government, 5 copies in French and 5 in English to the Association).
(v)  Final Report, within thirty-three months of the Starting Date,
incorporating (a) all revisions deemed appropriate by the consul-
tants after receipt of comments on the Draft Final Report from the
Government and the Association; and (b) an annex listing all
comments which have not resulted in revisions of the report
(number of copies to be determined by the Government and the
Association).
The reports mentioned in (i) to (v) above shall contain a concise
first chapter summarizing all important results, findings, problems, and
recommendations of the Consultants. The Draft Final Report shall be edited
and complete, so that the production of the Final Report can proceed without
delay.
VII. DATA, LOCAL SERVICES AND FACILITIES TO BE
PROVIDED BY DPC
A.   Technical and Economic Data
The Government is to provide the Consultants with all available
data on:
(i)  maps of the country and its transport networks, including
existing inventory data;
(ii) inventory of existing DPC equipment;
(iii)  inventory of existing DPC personnel, including information on
training, past experience and present responsibilities;
(iv) traffic on the road network and the economic development plans
of Guinea, necessary to forecast future transport demand;
(v)  operations and accounting systems of the DPC and local authorities
responsible for road maintenance and rehabilitation;



ANNEX 1
Page 8
B.   Cooperation of Governmental Agencies
In connection with work by the Consultants that requires the coopera-
tion of local authorities or other Government agencies, the DPC is to provide
liaison and to ensure that Consultants have access to all information required
for the completion of the Action Plan.
The Government is to issue local travel permits to the Consultants
and take all other necessary steps to enable the Consultants' travel without
hindrance in all parts of the country, as required for the performance of
their services.
The DPC will assign qualified counterpart staff on a full-time basis
to work with the key personnel of the Consultants.
C.   Facilities and Supporting Staff for the Consultants
The Government is to provide the following facilities and staff to
help the Consultants perform their services in Guinea:
(i)  Office space and furniture including desks, chairs, tables and
filing cabinets; and office equipment including typewriters,
drafting tables, calculating machines and photocopier; alterna-
tively, Government may request Consultants to purchase above-
mentioned furniture and equipment to be financed out of the
Credit from the International Development Association;
(ii) administrative, secretarial and clerical staff in amounts to
be agreed during contract negotiations;
(iii) supporting staff including surveyors, draftsmen and field
assistants in numbers as required;
(iv) surveying equipment as required, including theodolites, levels,
steel tapes, chains, levelling staffs;
(v)  transportation within Guinea including local air transport and
drivers for vehicles purchased by the Consultants.
The Government is to assist the Consultants in locating satisfactory
and appropriate hotel and other living accomRodations for the personnel of the
Consultants, and in obtaining utilities, telephones, postage, telegraph and
telex services.



GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
Details of Economic Analysis
3-Year Highway Rehabilitation and Maintenance Program
A. With Proposed Project
a) Cost Inputs (US$'000)
Year                                    1976      1977     1978      1979     1980      1981      1982     1983      1984      1985     1986
1.  Equipment and Spare Parts                       579    1,159    1,159    1,159        810     h61       L13       365      186        -         -
2. Recurrent Costs
(i)   Rehabilitation Program
(Materials + supplies + technical
assistance + labor) 1/                 2,060    2,870    1,170        -        -         -         -        -         -         -
(ii)  Annual Maintenance                         0      432    1.310    2,370    2,370    2.370    2            230       2.370    2,370    2,370
Subtotal 2                                   2,060      3,302   2,480    2,370    2,370    2,370    2,370    2,370    2,370    2,370    2,370
3.  Total  (1 and 2)                             3 639      4IIh6i   262k     XX2    3a280    2J 31    2.783    2~135    2*536 2.37Q    2370
1/ Economic analysis was done in US$. To reflect the difference between the official domestic prices and actual market prices,
local cost components have been priced at one-sixth of their official domestic price levels; this implies an exchange rate of
US$1 = 122.76 Sylis.
As Guinea's official sector of the economy is entirely state-controlled, the notion of effective protection is not useful in these
circumstances.  Estimates of the shadow rate of exchange are based on a comparison of retail prices in Guinea's parallel market
with those in neighboring countries.  This could not be done on the basis of prices in the official market, which is not in equi-
librium because of the existence of a comprehensive system of rationing and price controls.   In  addition the official market                   k
covers only a small portion of total economy outside mining and public administration. A comparison of free market retail prices
of 22 products led the 1973 Bank economic mission to Guinea to estimate the shadow rate of exchange of the Syli at 135 - 150 per
LJS$,or six to seven times the official rate.  Taking into account the devaluation of the Dollar during the past two years, and its
subsequent fluctuation, a shadow rate-of Syli 120 - 125 or about six times the official rate appears reasonable at present.



b)  Network Condition  (End of the year, in Km)
1975           1976            1977           1978
1) Paved Roads
Good                                                  -              195             600           1,046
Fair                                                 641             521             261             -
Poor                                                4'.'5            330             185             -
Subtotal (1)                                 1,046           1,046           1,046            1,046
2) Gravel and Earth Roads
Good                                                  -              258             772           1,445
Fair                                                  -               -               -              -
Poor                                              1,445            1,187            673
Subtotal (2)                                 1,445           1,44',          1,445            I,445
Total (1) + (2)                              2,491           2,491           2.491             249



B. Without the Project
a)   Network Condition
It is assumed that all roads presently in fair condition will gradually degrade to poor and those presently in poor
condition will require reconstruction by beginning of 1980.  A six-year rehabilitatioa/reconstruction period ha.s
been assumed for t'ose roads. On the basis of this assumption the following network condition is assumed in the
"without" case of the analysis.
1975                   1980                    1985
1)  Paved Roads (km)
Good                                                  -                      -                      1,046
Fair                                                641
Poor                                                405                     641
Fully Degraded                                        -                     405
Subtotal (1)                                1,046                   1,046                     1,046
2)  Gravel/Earth Roads (km)
Good                                                -                        -                      1,445
Fair
Poor                                              1,445                      -
Fully Degraded                                      -                     1,445
Subtotal (2)                                1,445                   1,445                     1,445
Total (1) + (2)                         2,491                   2,491                      2.491
(t'D



Cost Input "without" Project
(i)    It is assumed that without the project the DPW will continue to allocate an average of about US$ 170/km/year on
road maintenance as it has over the past ten years.
(ii)   The year 1980 has been selected as the year when reconstruction of fully degraded roads should commence.  This is
a purely engineering judgement and does not pretend to be based on optimization of total transport costs,
(construction, maintenance and vehicle operating costs).
(iii)  A reconstruction cost of US$ 80,000 km for paved roads and US$ 50,000 km for fully degraded gravel roads have
been assumed.
Year                       1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
1. Reconstruction/Rehabilitation
costs                        -         -         -        -    20,650   20,650   20,650   20,650   20,650   20,650    2,370
2.  Maintenance Costs                   450      450       450       450       450       450           -              -          -         -
3.   Total (1) and (2) (US$'000)       450       450       450       450   21,100   21,100   20,650   20,650   20,650   20,650   2,370
C.  Incremental Cost with Project (A.3 - B.3)
Year                       1976      1977      1978     1979      1980      1981      1982      1983      1984      1985      1986
Cost (US$'000)                     2,189    4,011    3,189   3,G79  -17,920  -18,269  -17,867  -17,915    - 18,094 - 18,280             0
oQ 
(D >



D.   Benefits
(i)   It is estimated that the residual value in 1986 of reconstructed and rehabilitated roads, in the
"without" case, is the same as the initial value. Errors due to this assumption have no
significant impact on the economic returns since these inputs come at the end of the project
life and are small when discounted at the high rate of return.
Year                         1976       1977       1978       1979       1980       1981       1982       1983       1984       1985       1986
1. Vehicle Operating Cost Savings
(US$ '000)
a)  Paved Roads                      0     1,579       3,322      4,345      4,476      3,688       2,766      2,210    1,,770         0           0
b)  Gravel Roads                     0       733       2,633      4,756      5,546       5,052      4,041      3,233    2,590          0           0
Subtotal (a) and (b)            0      2,312       5,955      9,101    10,022       8,740      6,807      5,443    4,360           0          0
2.  Residual Value of Reconstruction
and Rehabilitation Investments        0       0           0          0          0          0          0          0          0            0   - 123,900
Total Benefits (1) & (2)              0     2,312       5,955      9,101    10,022       8,740       6,807      5,443      4,36)         0  - 123,900
(US$ '000)
Incremental Costs from C           2,189   4,011        3,189      3,079   -17,920   - 18, 269 - 17,867 - 17,915 - 18, 094 - 18,280                 0
(US$ '000)
I P






REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
FIRST HIGHWAY PROJECT
New Organization of the Ministry of Public Works, Mining and Geology
Minister
inspector General
Directorates
Roads & Bridges
Land Acquisitions
Urban Projects
Topography
Building Construction
Mining & Geology
Motor Vehicles Control
I nspector             i nspector             Insperctor             I nspector             I nspector            tInspector                nspector
Zone                   Zone                  Zone of                  Zone                  Zone                   Zone                   one
Conakry                Kindia                Boke                     Labe                  Kankan                 Faranah               N'Z6rekor6
3 Subdivisions        4 Subdivisions          5 Subdivisions        6 Subdivisions          5 Subdivisions         5 Subdivisions         5 Subdivisions
.   Boke               Labe              l    Kankan                Faranah                 N'Zerekore
Conakry                 Kindia                Boffa                   Matii            l    Kouroussa              Dabola                 Macenta
Dubre6ka                T6[imd(6              Fria                    Tougue                Siguiri      |   |   Dinguira        |        Beyla
For6cariah              Mamou                 Gaoual                  Lelourna         l    Kerouan6               Kissidougou            Youmou
Dalaba                Koundara               Kbita             |    Mandiana              Gueckedou               Lola
Source: DPC, May 1975                                                                                                                        World Bank-9967






U004,  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~     ~       ~      ~       ~      ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    ~    'u>   I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 11698R
-W  mNO 50                                                                                                                                        
= SOY                                  :             Dj'0 9 "   TA Koundora  You.' K;                                                                                             5NOAAflC=, A}                             K3; N  wg   'u;r ;z   &;W 1  E1z
17001  /0~                         t-    zC                        I S>y -'  LbKoure                       K(>
:   4       )roGEoL^Bs/  j;            -  '~ 'j    /.         Ct,                                                                  qY0/m                                                          r      A
le ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~0ulaoin
<;cAL--  Rier     alrport          7       -ru                             s'5 \,t  aou KoWb. S             -.'.                                                                                    /    ('
4        r- zRr eglaumrly serviced a7irfields                                                     i'erekoLe                                                                                                    0
_~~ ~    ~ ~~~~~~~~~ r14    c.<& Dl g iavRt
9  >           y$redi-t   5    ~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~~                                                                      ~ ~~~                                ~~~Pita!         efX(   $ Os
.-IteratiaoI,  lh b    r                                                                                     1       Q,/Is  .  J                              I                 '
';  5  \ 0; Q7NKR,Y olJ abtv  ,' ,   
5~ ~ ~ ~~~~~                                              Ki 5s \    niFrcr                                                    For;n,                                                                         5.i    0  MJn-Sa18      -t-i    rYl fi>_ )I:   ;v >|t lrt
2  =                          1,t' (> - \       m;  l'r             n       L       "    i   N  E:>,l>fA-=                    aa 41'                               J  /,J4                   'Is      11
n  . : ~~~~~Teaud o r,,e  -.7A,u, .......... OXa,o,    e                  I    ,    s fj'  M, lg' 1ik ,;a1>. 2                                       ~      ,  i       5              .       .............  /  <   - fKerou-n   K t:;
or                                                        2^J Q                w<                          <rISt                             X           Ksiogut9t
0~~~~~~~~~~ __Poefted(rlndearthwi:2nn1; 01|,E ,:T acaeoter  44 tK                                                                    "7,        7uK'~              .    (-%jl;;E3:                     I
F ; b       io k.dasaf3iihrn             -                             ,                                                                   a                       'a ts.h'
E    ~~~~~~CNAKOhrirtctgRYrod ;t .......   h1 ,r, 5; . j i"!-+lr  il  DB  t r   ,.Q.
N Roudsp~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~r6dconalCin ,=Cirt, -4_5.  =.;k
; . , Ralirodds E , ;7 IC ,I,v~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M k1fMr-c- iIS >ttxr,5
-SS ~ ~ ~ ~ ~    ~      ~      ~     ~      ~      ~     ~      ~     ~     ~    - r:   t .  PyceTos*rinarira       7:        -B. 1-4QS                                                  / .;r4zi .
,   ;R;   _=-.--=  Risers  ;  : ; 9,.l:flkr r:::;t%:,C,iS:E / ,;vx \ MWIIS'r-: ij tz,i i~~~~~~~~~~~~on
1    ;,    +   InternOfioral~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~MW                                                                                  ssirpoutyt:il;J -g ,j,. ;ir1 N'ekouqi
0 2   ,             1 , *    rg <;P ^ & t   = t   t U 4 1 g q r   q   t t : -                                                                                                                                 j   c ejl



