CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 596 GUI
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 24, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 596 GUI
Development Credit
Agreement
(First Highway Project)
BETWEEN
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED DECEMBER 24, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated December 24, 1975, between REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
(hereinafter called the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association).
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the term "DPC" means Direction des Ponts et
Chaussees a directorate within the Borrower's Ministry of Public Works, Mining
and Geology.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to fourteen million dollars ($14,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time by agreement between the
Borrower and the Association, for expenditures made (or, if the Association shall
so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project shall be
procured in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.


﻿4
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 1979 or such later date
as the Association shall establish. The Association shall promptly notify the
Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 1%) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on April I and
October 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each April 1 and October 1 commencing
April 1, 1986, and ending October 1, 2025, each installment to and including
the installment payable on October 1, 1995 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. The Borrower shall carry out the Project through its DPC with
due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative,
financial and engineering practices, and shall provide, promptly as needed, the funds,
facilities, services and other resources required for the purpose.
Section 3.02. In order to assist the Borrower in the carrying out of the
Project, the Borrower shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.
Section 3.03. (a) The Borrower undertakes to insure, or make adequate
provision for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit against hazards incident to the acquisition, transportation
and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for such insurance
any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by the Borrower to
replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, all goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit shall be used exclusively for the Project


﻿5
until its completion, and shall thereafter be used exclusively for the maintenance
and rehabilitation of the Borrower's road network.
(c)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of paragraph (b) of this Section 3.03 of the Development Credit Agreement and
except as the Association shall otherwise agree, goods and services financed out
of the proceeds of the Credit shall not be used for heavy earthworks.
(d)   For purposes of this Section the terms "heavy earthworks" shall mean
excavation or fills arising at or resulting in, changing the original highway standards
of the Borrower's roads on which such works are to, or have been carried out.
Section 3.04. (a) The Borrower shall furnish to the Association, promptly
upon their preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and
construction and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material
modifications thereof or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall
reasonably request.
(b)   The Borrower: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the
progress of the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and
services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, and to disclose the use thereof
in the Project; (ii) shall enable the Association's accredited representatives to visit
the facilities and construction sites included in the Project and to examine the
goods financed out of the proceeds of the Credit and any relevant records and
documents; and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the
Association shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the
proceeds of the Credit and the goods and services financed out of such proceeds.
Section 3.05. The Borrower shall take all such action as shall be necessary
to acquire as and when needed all such land and rights in respect of land as shall
be required for carrying out the Project and shall furnish to the Association,
promptly after such acquisition, evidence satisfactory to the Association that such
land and rights in respect of land are available for purposes related to the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Covenants
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall maintain or cause to be maintained records
adequate to reflect in accordance with consistently maintained appropriate
accounting practices the operations, resources and expenditures, in respect of the
Project, of the departments (including, but without limitation DPC) or agencies
of the Borrower responsible for carrying out the Project or any part thereof,


﻿6
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall take all action as may be required to
maintain adequately its road network and bridges in its highway system including
without limitation, the workshops related thereto, shall promptly make all necessary
repairs thereof in accordance with sound engineering practices, and shall maintain
and renew, as and when needed, the road network maintenance and other
equipment required for the purpose and shall make adequate arrangements for the
timely provision of funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the
purpose.
Section 4.03. (a) The Borrower shall ensure that vehicle dimensions, weights
and speeds are appropriate to the geometric and structural standards of the
Borrower's road system and shall take all necessary action to implement and enforce
traffic rules and regulations designed for such purposes.
(b)   Without limitation or restriction on the generality of the provisions
of the foregoing paragraph (a) of this Section, the Borrower shall, not later than
March 31, 1976 or such other date as the Association may agree: (i) take all such
measures as may be required to forbid, during rainy periods, the use, on unpaved
roads, of vehicles whose axle load shall exceed 5 tons and (ii) take all such measures
as may be required to reduce to 10 tons the maximum axle load of vehicles to
be used on its unpaved road network.
Section 4.04. The Borrower shall maintain a road inventory and for such
purpose shall no later than June 1, 1977, or such other date as the Association
may agree, start to collect, and thereafter continue to collect in accordance with
appropriate statistical methods and procedures such other technical, economic and
financial information as shall be reasonably required for proper planning of
maintenance, improvement and extensions of its road system and shall furnish to
the Association such information in respect thereof as the Association shall
reasonably request.
ARTICLE V
Termination
Section 5.01. The date March 24, 1976, is hereby specified for the purposes
of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
Section 5.02. The obligations of the Borrower under Article IV of this
Agreement shall cease and determine on the date on which the Development Credit
Agreement shall terminate or on a date ten years after the (late of this Agreement,
whichever shall be the earlier,


﻿7
ARTICLE VI
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 6.01. The Ministre des Travaux Publics, Mines et Geologie of the
Borrower is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section
11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Minist6re des Travaux Publics,
Mines et G6ologie
P. 0. Box 295
Conakry
Guinea
Cable address:
MINISTRAVO
Conakry, Guinea
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed


﻿8
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUINEA
By /s/ Habib Bah
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / Xavier de la Renaudi6re
Director, Country Programs Department
Western Africa Regional Office


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of
the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the amounts of the Credit to each
Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be financed in each
Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated            % of
(Expressed in           Expenditures
Category                  Dollar Equivalent)      to be Financed
(1)   Highway equipment              5,100,000          100% of foreign
and spare parts                                   expenditures or
85%1 of local ex-
penditures
(2)   Shop equipment and              800,000           100% of foreign
miscellaneous tools                               expenditures or
85% of local ex-
penditures
(3)  Parts foi repair of              560,000          100% of foreign
existing equipment                                expenditures or
and plant                                         85% of local
expenditures
(4)   Engineering and                 400,000          100% of foreign
Laboratory equip-                                 expenditures or
ment and training                                 85% of local
materials                                         expenditures
(5)   Radio equipment                 230,000           100% of foreign
expenditures or
85% of local
expenditures
(6)   Materials and                 4,100,000           100% of foreign
Supplies                                          expenditures or
85% of local
expenditures


﻿10
Amount of the
Credii Allocated              % of
(Expressed in            Expenditures
Category                   Dollar Equivalent)        to be Financed
(7)   Consulting Services             1,900,000           100% of foreign
expenditures
(8)   Unallocated                       910,000
TOTAL         14,000,000
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule (a) the term "foreign expenditures" means
expenditures in the currency of any country other than the Borrower and for
goods or services supplied from  the territory of any country other than the
Borrower; and (b) the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the currency
of the Borrower and for goods and services supplied from the territory of the
Borrower.
3.    The disbursement percentages have been calculated in compliance with the
policy of the Association that no proceeds of the Credit shall be disbursed on
account of payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of, the Borrower on
goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof; to that end, if the amount of any such taxes levied on or in respect
of any item to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit decreases or increases,
the Association may, by notice to the Borrower, increase or decrease the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such item as required to be consistent
with the aforementioned policy of the Association.
4.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except
that withdrawals may be made in respect of Category (7) on account of
expenditures incurred after December 1, 1975 in an aggregate amount not
exceeding the equivalent of $150,000.
5.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit or the
disbursement percentages set forth in the table in paragraph I above, if the
Association has reasonably estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated
to any Category will be insufficient to finance the agreed percentage of all


﻿11
expenditures in that Category, the Association may, by notice to the Borrower:
(i) reallocate to such Category, to the extent required to meet the estimated
shortfall, proceeds of the Credit which are then allocated to another Category and
which in the opinion of the Association are not needed to meet other expenditures,
and (ii) if such reallocation cannot fully meet the estimated shortfall, reduce the
disbursement percentage then applicable to such expenditures in order that further
withdrawals under such Category may continue until all expenditures thereunder
shall have been made.
6.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as, in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿12
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of a three-year plan for rehabilitation and maintenance
of the Borrower's road network and consists of the following parts:
Part A:    (1)   Rehabilitation (excluding heavy improvement works), as needed
of about 2,491 km of high priority roads, comprising about 1,046 km
of asphalt paved roads and about 1,445 km of gravel and earth roads,
all as listed in Annex A to this Schedule.
(2)   Initiation of proper maintenance operations on these roads.
Part B:    Repair of existing equipment and plant, and rehabilitation of
workshops, including the purchase of equipment, tools and materials required
for the purpose.
Part C:    Training of mechanics and equipment operators of the Borrower, and
the preparation of a second phase of the rehabilitation and maintenance
program of the Borrower to be executed during the periods 1978-1979 and
1980-1981.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


﻿13
ANNEX A TO SCHEDULE 2
List of Road Sections to be Rehabilitated
Under Part A of the Project
Length
km
1.   Paved Roads
Conakry-Coyah-Kindia-Mamou                                          266
Mamou-Dalaba-Pita-Lab6                                              145
Mamou-Faranah-Kissidougou                                           322
Kissidougou-Gu6ck6dou                                                90
Kissidougou-Kankan (First section)                                   50
Coyah-For6cariah                                                     46
Coyah (km 36) - Dubr6ka                                              18
Bok6-Kamsar                                                          52
Links in the zones of Bok6, Lab6,
Mamou, Faranah, Kissidougou,
and Pita                                                       57
Total paved roads                                            1,046
2.   Gravel and Earth Roads
(a)  Western part of Guinea
Dubr6ka-Soubetid6                                                   47
Soubetid6-Boffa                                                     40


﻿14
Length
km
Boffa - km 24 (from Bok6)                                              126
Mamou-Dabola (not included are 7 km which
have asphalt pavement)                                15C
Dabola-Kouroussa                                                       165
Kouroussa-Kankan                                                        95
Kankan-Kerouan6                                                        145
Kerouan-Beyla                                                         107
Beyla-N'Z6r6kor6                                                      132
N'Z6r6kore-Macenta                                                    143
Macenta-Gueckedou                                                      100
Macenta-Konsan Koro                                                    100
N'Zdrekor6-Liberian Border                                              95
Total Gravel & Earth Roads                                     1,445
Total Project Roads                                            2,491


﻿15
SCHEDULE 3
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.   Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, goods, works and services shall be
procured under contracts to be awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World Bank Loans
and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in August 1975 (hereinafter called the
Guidelines), on the basis of international competitive bidding.
2.    (a)  With respect to any contract for equipment estimated to cost less than
the equivalent of $20,000 and with respect to any contract for fuel, the Borrower
may procure such equipment and fuel on a basis of reasonable and competitive
procurement procedures, including but not limited to the solicitation of price
quotations provided however, that the aggregate costs of all contracts to be so
procured shall not exceed, in case of equipment the equivalent of $100,000.
(b)   Spare parts for existing equipment may be purchased on a negotiated
basis.
B.   Evaluation and Comparison of Bids for Goods; Preftrence for Domestic
Manufacturers
1.   For the purpose of evaluation and comparison of bids for the supply of
goods: (i) bidders shall be required to state in their bid the c.i.f. (port of entry)
price for imported goods, or the ex-factory price for domestically-manufactured
goods; (ii) customs duties and other import taxes on imported goods, and sales
and similar taxes on domestically-supplied goods, shall be excluded; and (iii) the
cost to the Borrower of inland freight and other expenditures incidental to the
delivery of goods to the place of their use or installation shall be included.
2.    Goods manufactured in Guinea may be granted a margin of preference in
accordance with, and subject to, the following provisions:
(a)   All bidding documents for the procurement of goods shall clearly
indicate any preference which will be granted, the information required to establish
the eligibility of a bid for such preference and the following methods and stages
that will be followed in the evaluation and comparison of bids.
(b)   After evaluation, responsive bids will be classified in one of the
following three groups:


﻿16
(1)   Group A: bids offering goods manufactured in Guinea if the
bidder shall have established to the satisfaction of the Borrower
and the Association that the manufacturing cost of such goods
includes a value added in Guinea equal to at least 20% of the
ex-factory bid price of such goods.
(2)   Group B: all other bids offering goods manufactured in Guinea.
(3)   Group C: bids offering any other goods.
(c)   All evaluated bids in each group shall be first compared among
themselves, excluding any customs duties and other import taxes on goods to be
imported and any sales or similar taxes on goods to be supplied domestically, to
determine the lowest evaluated bid of each group. Such lowest evaluated bids shall
then be compared with each other, and if, as a result of this comparison, a bid
from group A or group B is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award.
(d)   If, as a result of the comparison under paragraph (c) above, the lowest
bid is a bid from group C, all group C bids shall be further compared with the
lowest evaluated bid from group A after adding to the c.i.f. bid price of the
imported goods offered in each group C bid, for the purpose of this further
comparison only, an amount equal to (i) the amount of customs duties and other
import taxes which a non-exempt importer would have to pay for the importation
of the godds offered in such group C bid, or (ii) 15% of the c.i,f. bid price of
such goods if said customs du ties and taxes exceed 15% of such price. If the group
A bid in such further comparison is the lowest, it shall be selected for the award;
if not, the bid from group C which as a result of the comparison under paragraph
(c) is the lowest evaluated bid shall be selected.
C,   Review of Procurement Decisions by the Association
1.   Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts.
With respect to all contracts for equipment, materials and supplies estimated
to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, the Borrower shall furnish to the Association,
for its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and
other bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures
to be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request, Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.


﻿17
(b)   After bids have been received and evaluated, the Borrower shall, before
a final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of
the bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the
intended award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review,
a detailed report, by the consultants referred to in Section 3.02 of this Agreement,
on  the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together with the
recommendation for award of the said consultants and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the intended award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule,
promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such determination.
(c)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(d)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, the Borrower shall furnish
to the Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to
the Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit
Account in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract,
together with the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other
information as the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if
it determines that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines
or this Schedule, promptly inform the Borrower and state the reasons for such
deternination.


