                                       Documentof
                                   The World Bank




                                                      Report No.: 32613




                 PROJECT PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT REPORT

                               REPUBLIC OF UGANDA



                 COTTON SUBSECTORDEVELOPMENT PROJECT
                                     (CREDIT 2609)

                                          AND

            AGRICULTURAL RESEARCHAND TRAINING PROJECT
                                     (CREDIT 2446)


                                      June 14,2005




Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group
Operations Evaluation Department

                                                         * .
                                                       11



 CurrencyEquivalents(annual averages)
 Currency Unit = Uganda Shilling (USh.)

 1992(ARTP Iappraisal) US$l.OO USh 1,134              1998                            US$l.OO   USh 1,240
 1993 (CSDP appraisal)     US$l.OO USh 1,195          1999                            US$l.OO USh 1,455
 1994                      US$l.OO USh 979            2000 (ARTP Icompletion) US$1.OO           USh.1,644
 1995                      US$l.OO USh 969            2001                            US$l.OO   USh 1,756
 1996                      US$l.OO   USh 1,046        2002 (CSDP completion)          US$1.OO   USh.1,798
 1997                      US$l.OO USh 1,083


 Abbreviations andAcronyms

 ACMD African cassavamosaic                   IFAD        International Fund for Agricultural
          disease                                         Development
 AEP      Agricultural Extension              IITA        International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
          Project                                         (Nigeria)
 ARDC     Agricultural Researchand            ISNAR       International Service for National Agricultural
          Development Centre                             Research
 ARTP     Agricultural Researchand            KARI        KawandaAgricultural ResearchInstitute
          Training Project                    LIRI        Livestock Health ResearchInstitute
ASAC      Agricultural Sector                 LMB         LintMarketing Board
          Adjustment Credit                   MAAIF      Ministryof Agriculture, Animal Industriesand
BOU       Bank of Uganda                                 Fisheries
BPA       BukalasaPedigreeAlbar               MAK        MakerereUniversity
CDO       Cotton Development                  MEPU       Monitoring, Evaluation, and Planning Unit
          Organization                        MTR        Mid-TermReview
COREC Coffee ResearchCentre                   MUARIK MakerereUniversity Amicultural Research
CSDP      Cotton Subsector                               Instituteat Kabanyolo
          DevelopmentProject                  NAADS      National Agricultural Advisory Services
FAOICP Food andAgriculture                               Programme
          Organization (Cooperative           NAAFU      NamulongeAgricultural and Animal
         Programmewith IBRD)                             Production ResearchInstitute
FORI     ForestryResearchInstitute            NARO       National Agricultural ResearchOrganization
FOSRI    Food Science and                     NARS     National Agricultural ResearchSystem
         TechnologyResearch                   OED        OperationsEvaluation Department
         Institute                            PMA        Planfor Modernization of Agriculture
GOU      Government of Uganda                 PPAR       ProjectPerformanceAssessment Report
HRI      FisheriesResearchInstitute           PPF      Project PreparationFacility
IARCs    International Agricultural           QAG      Quality Assurance Group
         ResearchCentres                      RELU     Researchand Extension Liaison Unit
IBRD     International Bank for               SAARI    Serere Agricultural and Animal Production
         Reconstructionand                             ResearchInstitute
         Development("World                   SAR      Staff Appraisal Report
         Bank")                               SATU     Serere Albar Type Uganda
ICR      Implementation Completion            SCRP     Smallholder Cotton Rehabilitation Project
         Report                               TA       Technical assistance
IDA      International Development            UGCEA    UgandaGinners and Cotton Exporters
         Association (IBRD affiliate)                  Association

Fiscal Year
Government:                          July 1-June 30
Cotton Market Year:                  Oct. 1- Sept. 30




Director-General, Operations Evaluation                             : Mr.GregoryK.Ingram
Director, Operations Evaluation Department                          : Mr.Ajay Cl-hbber
Manager, Sector, Thematic, and Global Evaluation Group              : Mr.Alain Barbu
                                                                    : Mr.Christ0 her Gerrard

                                                                i
r      O& Mission: Enhancingdevelopmenteffectivenessthrough excellence and independenceinevaluation.                          I
 About this Report
        The Operations EvaluationDepartmentassesses the programsand activities of the World Bankfor two purposes:
 first, to ensure the integrityof the Bank'sself-evaluationprocessand to verify that the Bank`s work is producingthe
 expected results,and second,to helpdevelop improveddirections, policies,and proceduresthrough the disseminationof
 lessons drawnfrom experience.As part of this work, OED annuallyassesses about 25 percent of the Bank`s lending
 operations. Inselectingoperationsfor assessment, preferenceis givento those that are innovative, large, or complex;
 those that are relevant to upcomingstudies or country evaluations;those for which ExecutiveDirectorsor Bank
 management have requestedassessments;and those that are likelyto generate important lessons.The projects, topics,
 and analytical approaches selectedfor assessmentsupport larger evaluationstudies.
       A Project PerformanceAssessment Report (PPAR) is based on a review of the Implementation Completion Report
 (a self-evaluation by the responsible Bank department) and fieldwork conducted by OED. To prepare PPARs, OED staff
 examine project files and other documents, interview operational staff, and in most cases visit the borrowing country for
 onsite discussions with project staff and beneficiaries. The PPAR thereby seeks to validate and augment the
 information provided in the ICR, as well as examine issues of special interest to broader OED studies.
       Each PPAR is subject to a peer review process and OED managementapproval. Once cleared internally, the
 PPAR is reviewed by the responsible Bank department and amended as necessary. The completed PPAR is then sent
 to the borrower for review; the borrowers' comments are attached to the document that is sent to the Bank's Board of
 Executive Directors. After an assessment report has been sent to the Board, it is disclosed to the public.


 About the OED RatingSystem
       The time-tested evaluation methods used by OED are suited to the broad range of the World Bank's work. The
 methods offer both rigor and a necessary level of flexibility to adapt to lending instrument, project design, or sectoral
 approach. OED evaluators all apply the same basic method to arrive at their project ratings. Following is the definition
and rating scale used for each evaluation criterion (more information is available on the OED website:
 http://worldbank.org/oed/eta-mainpage.html).
       Relevanceof Objectives: The extent to which the project`s objectives are consistent with the country's current
development priorities and with current Bank country and sectoral assistance strategies and corporate goals
(expressed in Poverty ReductionStrategy Papers, Country Assistance Strategies, Sector Strategy Papers, Operational
Policies). Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficacy: The extent to which the project`s objectives were achieved, or expected to be achieved, taking into
account their relative importance. Possible ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
       Efficiency: The extent to which the project achieved, or is expected to achieve, a return higher than the
opportunity cost of capital and benefits at least cost compared to alternatives. Possible ratings: High, Substantial,
Modest, Negligible.This rating is not generally applied to adjustment operations.
      Susfainabilify: The resilienceto risk of net benefit flows over time. Possible ratings: Highly Likely, Likely, Unlikely,
Highly Unlikely, Not Evaluable.
      lnsfitufionalDevelopmentImpact: The extent to which a project improves the ability of a country or region to
make more efficient, equitable and sustainable use of its human, financial, and natural resources through: (a) better
definition, stability, transparency, enforceability, and predictability of institutional arrangements and/or (b) better
alignment of the mission and capacity of an organization with its mandate, which derives from these institutional
arrangements. Institutional Development Impact includes both intended and unintended effects of a project. Possible
ratings: High, Substantial, Modest, Negligible.
      Outcome: The extent to which the project's major relevant objectives were achieved, or are expected to be
achieved, efficiently. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Moderately Satisfactory, Moderately
Unsatisfactory, Unsatisfactory,Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BankPerformance: The extent to which services provided by the Bank ensured quality at entry and supported
implementationthrough appropriate supervision (including ensuring adequate transition arrangements for regular
operation of the project). Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly Unsatisfactory.
      BorrowerPerformance: The extent to which the borrower assumed ownership and responsibility to ensure quality
of preparation and implementation, and complied with covenants and agreements, towards the achievement of
development objectives and sustainability. Possible ratings: Highly Satisfactory, Satisfactory, Unsatisfactory, Highly
Unsatisfactory.


                                                                         ...
                                                                         111



 Contents

PrincipalRatings           ................................................................................................................       v

Key StaffResponsible               ........................................................................................................       v

Preface   ..............................................................................................................................          ..
                                                                                                                                                 vi1

Summary      ...........................................................................................................................         ix

Context   ................................................................................................................................        1

PartI:Cotton SubsectorDevelopmentProject                                      ...............................................................     2

        Background.............................................................................................................. 2
        Project Objectives and Components........................................................................                                 2
        Implementation Issues.............................................................................................                       -3
         Overall Outcome......................................................................................................                    5
                    Relevance (Were the project's objectives right inthe light o f current
                          priorities?) ..............................................................................................             6
                   Efficacy (Did the project achieve its stated objectives?)                                       .............................  6
                   Efficiency (Was the project cost-effective?) ................................................                                  8
        Institutional Development Impact and Sustainability..............................................                                         8
        Bank and Borrower Performance ............................................................................                                8
       Lessons.....................................................................................................................               9
Part11:AgriculturalResearchandTrainingProject(PhaseI)                                                      ..................................    10

       Background............................................................................................................                    10
       Project Objectives and Components.,....................................................................                                   11
       ImplementationIssues............................................................................................                          12
       Post-Implementation Developments ...................................................................... 14
       Overall Outcome...................................................................................................                       -17
                  Relevance (Were the project's objectives right inthe light o f current
                         priorities?) ............................................................................................ 18
                  Efficiency (Was the project cost-effective?) ..............................................                                    19
       Institutional Development Impact and Sustainability............................................                                          19
                  Institutional Development Impact.,............................................................                                19
                  Sustainability.............................................................................................. 20
                            . . .
       Bank and Borrower Pevformance .......................................................................... 20

Ths reportwas preparedby AnthonyJ. Blackwood(Consultant), under the supervisionof Chris Gerrard(task
manager). The reportwas editedby William Hurlbut,andRose Gachinaprovidedadministrativesupport.

                                                             iv


     Lessons................................................................................................................... 21
Annex A Basic Data Sheet
       .                         .............................................................................................. 23

      Cotton Subsector Development (Credit No. 2609-UG).........................................                                23
     Agricultural Research and Training Project (Credit 2446-UG)..........................                                      -25

                                                       V



 PrincipalRatings

 Cotton Subsector DevelopmentProject(Credit 2609)

                                        ICR                    ICR Review*                      PPAR
 Outcome                            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
 Sustainability                        Likely                      Likely                   Highly Likely
 Institutional Development              High                    Substantial                      High
    Impact
 Bank Performance                   satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance               Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory


 AgriculturalResearchandTrainingProject(Credit 2446)

                                        ICR                    ICR Review*                     PPAR
                 ~
 Outcome                            Satisfactory                Satisfactory                 Satisfactory
 Sustainability                        Likely                     Unlikely                  Not Evaluable
 Institutional Development          Substantial                 Substantial                  Substantial
    Impact
 Bank Performance                   Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
 Borrower Performance               Satisfactory               Satisfactory                  Satisfactory
* The Implementation Completion Report (ICR) is a self-evaluation by the responsible operational division of the
Bank. The Evaluation Summary (ES) is an intermediateOED product that seeks to independently verify the
findings of the ICR.


Key Staff Responsible

Cotton Subsector DevelopmentProject(Credit 2609)

Project                       Task Manager/Leader             Division Chief/                 Country
                                                              Sector Director            ManagedDirector
 Appraisal                        K. Loganathan              Sushma Ganguly                Francis Colaco
 Completion                    Christine Cornelius*            Karen Brooks               Judy O'Connor
* Primary authors of the ICR were F. Maundrell and P. Brinn, FAO/CP


AgriculturalResearchand Training Project (Credit 2446)

Project                       TaskManagedLeader               Division Chief/                 Country
                                                              Sector Director            Manager/Director
 Appraisal                       E. Quisumbing                J. Shivakumar                Brian Falconer
 Completion                      E. Quisumbing**             Sushma Ganguly                James Adams
** Primary author of the ICR was G. Evers (FAOKP)


                                                 vii


 Preface

 This i s the Project Performance Assessment Report (PPAR) preparedbythe Operations
 EvaluationDepartment (OED) for two Uganda agriculturalprojects. The Cotton Subsector
 Development Project was approved inMay 1994 for an IDA Credit (26090-UG) o f US$14
 million. It was closed two years behindschedule inDecember 2001 with US$0.2 million
 cancelled. The Agricultural Research and Training Project was approved inDecember 1992
 for an IDA Credit (2446-UG) o f $25 million. Itwas closed in September2000 fully
 disbursed, three months aheado f schedule.

 This report is based on the ImplementationCompletionReports (ICRs) prepared by the
Africa region, the Memorandumand Recommendation o fthe President, appraisal reports
 (Report No. 11970, dated April 15, 1994 and Report No. 19144, dated April 9, 1999), loan
documents, project files, and discussions with Bank staff (current and retired). An OED
mission visitedUgandainJanuary 2004 to discuss the effectiveness o f IDA'S assistance and
to visit selectedproject sites. Itmet with project implementers and concerned government
staff (active and recently retired), representatives o f civil society, including beneficiaries, and
other stakeholders. The mission also exchanged views by correspondence with other
interestedparties. The cooperation and assistanceo f all who assistedthe mission is gratefully
acknowledged.

The rationale for the assessmentwas, for the cotton project, to learnpositive lessons about
the process and substanceof institutionalreform inthe context o f a commodity subsector
approach to agricultural development, and for the agricultural researchproject to examine
how well the project investments, some years after closing, have contributed to the ongoing
reformprocess for the agricultural research system (inwhich several African countries are
now engaged intheir own countries). The ICRs o fbothprojects were generally satisfactory
inpresenting afull andclear account oftheproject experience, butinbothcases the full
impact o f the projects could not bejudged at that time and later developments, both foreseen
and unforeseen, have affected project outcomes andprospects.

Following standardOED procedures, the draft PPAR was sent to the borrower for comments
before it was finalized. The Borrower had no comments on the report. Inaccordance with the
Bank's disclosure policy, the final report will be available to the public following submission
to the World Bank's Board o f Executive Directors.


                                                 i x


Summary
Uganda's agriculture sector provides by far the country's main sources o f income,
employment, food, and foreign exchange. Agricultural growth, under the national
modernization strategy, i s essential for economic growth and poverty eradication. Against
this backgroundthe Cotton Subsector Development Project (approved inMay 1994) and
Agricultural Research and Training Project (approved inDecember 1992) were highly
relevant investments informerly strong parts ofthe sector, which hadbeen neglected since
the early 1970s, both to restore cotton as a major export (produced largely by smallholders)
andto provide updated agriculturaltechnology for the whole sector.

The cotton project aimed to revive cottonproductionandexports through increased
competition incottonprocessing andmarketingand improved supporting services to farmers.
The specific objectives were improvedperformance inthe cotton ginningindustry, through
liberalization within an efficient regulatory framework, improved supporting services
through support for a nationalresearch and extension program, and improved credit and seed
delivery.

The outcome o f the cottonproject i s rated Satisfactory. Despite some implementation
problems the cotton project substantially achieved its main objectives by the time it was
completed two years late in2001 and since thenprogress has continued and the gains have
beenconsolidated. The industry has beenrehabilitatedfrom a dilapidated state. Liberal
economic policies have provided incentives to international ginners to participate ina
competitive and efficient processing industry, with some also providing smallholder services.
Cotton researchhas beenrevived, credit and seed supply services are improving, but
advisory services for cotton growers are still weak. The industry i s now well servedby the
semi-autonomous CottonDevelopment OrganizationAuthority andthe UgandaGinners and
Cotton Exporters Association.

Bythe endo fthe project cottonproductionwas averaging 100,000 bales (over 400 percent
more thanpre-project levels) andwas 150,000 bales inthe 2003/04 season despite lower
cotton lint prices. Cotton export earningshave only about doubled due to low intemational
prices, but the subsector has shown resilience to price movements. Giventhese developments
sustainability i s Highly Likely, institutionaldevelopment impact i s ratedHighand the
performance o f the Bank and borrower are rated Satisfactory, although the Bank started
somewhat weakly by not preparingsome keyparts o fthe project adequately.

The main lessons o fwide general applicationare:

    0   Governmentcommitment:Despitecommodityprices andnatural conditions at
        times beingunfavorable, a dilapidated agricultural industrycan be put back on its feet
        relatively quickly by a committed government with appropriate economic and social
       policies and which promptly passes supporting legislation.

    0   Processingindustry:Financialrestructuringof a bankrupt processing industry,
       which inthis case facilitated the retum o f experienced international operators, can be
        an essential requirement o f agricultural rehabilitation.

                                                   X



          0  Project preparation:Unevendepth o fpreparation o fproject components can
             show up later inimplementationproblems, which can behard to overcome and
             may needlessly absorb a substantial amount o f supervision and borrower
             resources. Project designs should be fully complete at approval, especially in
             production-orientedprojects where some components are needed to ensure that
             output objectives can be achieved.

 The agricultural research project was to promote agricultural growth and diversification of
 the production, processing, and export base through the development and transfer o f
 improvedtechnology. At appraisal it was judged that without better agricultural research
 support, Uganda's economically dominant farming community was unlikelyto contribute to
 rapid economic recovery, to increased productivity, and to sustainable environmental
 management. The rundown and under-funded system and the disorganized research
 activities had to be brought under the National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO).
 The specific objectives o fthe projectwere to "(i) and support the key activities of
                                                      launch
 NARO, (ii)   strengthenthe linkages and coordination among the research system, the
 extension service, and the agricultural faculties o f Makerere University, and (iii)   improve
 agricultural education and training capacity."

 When the project was completed in2000, agricultural research capability hadbeen
 rehabilitated and was producing substantial results, despite some continuing institutional
 concerns (eroding salaries inNARO, over-centralization o f the researchnetwork, insufficient
 farmer consultations, andweak supporting extension services).

 Throughout the 1990s,during a time o f economic liberalizationand tight government
 finance, the borrower, with the Bank's assistance, succeededinbuildinga sound institutional
basis for supporting agricultural research. Research activities were integrated into a national
program coordinated by NARO; interactionwith farmers and other stakeholders was
improved; NARO was transformed from a civil service organizationto a semi-autonomous
status andwas ina good position to start to recover costs for services and pursue more
diverse funding sources, especially from private sector participation; the research
infrastructure o f four institutes was rehabilitated, and an agricultural training center was
constructed at Makerere University and i s beingused. The impact on rural poverty reduction
o f agricultural researchhas beenwidely recognized. Regionally NARO was viewed inthe
late 1990s as a modelresearch system for other countries to follow. The outcome o f the
agricultural researchproject i s thus rated Satisfactory. The institutional development impact
o fthe project i s rated Substantial.

At completionin2000, the expectationwas that the subsequent SecondAgricultural
Research and Training Project (approved in 1999)would help to consolidate these substantial
gains and improve impact by focusing more directly on technology adoption through
extension service linkages. But the protracted (and still on-going) debate inthe country
regardingproposed major policy changes for agricultural research and on a new extension
strategy, suggest that prospects for sustainability o f the benefits o f the project are still
uncertain at this stage and sustainability shouldbe rated as Not Evaluable. This does not
downgrade the substantial achievements o f the project duringimplementationand its overall
satisfactory outcomes to date, but takes note o f the existing uncertainties associated with
formulating andimplementingthe new researchpolicy and strategy. Ina lengthy ongoing

                                                 xi


transition there are risks o f undermining the flow of research outputs initiatedunder the
project.

The performance ofthe Bank andborrower are rated Satisfactory with some reservations
discussed inthe text on extension activities and failure to resolve institutional problems in
NARO    .

Experience with the project and its aftermath indicate three main lessons:

    0   Public sector research:Sustaining smallholder productionrequires a flow o f
        technology from research (as was amply shownunder the project inthe 1990s).
        Public sector research i s especially important ina sector dominated by poor
        subsistence farmers dependent on food crops. This i sjustified onpublic goods and
        social safety net grounds, and interms o f financial and economic efficiency, giventhe
        highreturns to agricultural research for rural areas.

        Farmsystemsapproach: Smallholder technology improvements shouldbe
        developed through a farm systems approach (for example, taking into account mixed
        crops andlabor constraints) ifthey are to be fully applicable to the needs o f
        smallholders. Technology developed without system constraints beingtaking into
       consideration is unlikely to find strong acceptance.

   0   Complementarity of researchand extension: Where amajor investment is being
       made inboosting agricultural research, strong consideration should be givento
       internalizingthe accompanying extension system arrangements inthe project as a
       component and as an institutionalparticipant.



                                                                            Ajay Chhibber
                                                                      Acting Director-General
                                                                       Operations Evaluation


                                                            1


 Context

 1,        Uganda's agriculture sector provides by far the country's main sources o f income,
 employment, food, and foreign exchange. Agricultural growth i s essential for economic
 growth and for poverty eradication and hence has been at the center o f government's strategy
 since the late 1980s.Agriculture is expected to remainthe mainstay and engine o f growth for
 the economy for the foreseeable future. The mainpolicy for agricultural growth is
 modernizationo f agriculturalproduction' inkeepingwith the overarching modernization
 goal for the whole economy.2

 2.        With a favorable year-round climate and some of the best agricultural landinAfrica
 on 81 percent o fits area, Ugandaproduces a wide variety o ftropical and sub-tropical
 agricultural products throughout the year. Over 88 percent o f the country's population lives
 inthe rural areasand earn their livelihoodfiom agriculture. In2002, the sector contributed
 31 percent o f total GDP (down fiom 51 percent in 1992 when industryand services were
 greatly depressed) and has shown strong growth o f over 4 percent per annum since 1992. In
 the 1990s,agriculture commodities providedover 90 percent of exports byvalue. Likemany
 other developing countries, Uganda has mainly ago-based industries,which dependon the
 sector for raw materials.

 3.       O fthe four major subsectors o f crops, livestock, fisheries, and forestry, the crops
 subsector i s by far the largest interms o f area and contributionto GDP (about 75 percent o f
total agriculture in 1999'Much o f this output i s food crops for subsistence by smallholder
households, with only a third soldto the domestic and export markets. Smallholder farming
predominates with an estimated 2.5 to 3.0 million holdings accounting for 94 percent o f all
crop production. The typical smallholder cultivates 0.5-2.0 hectares per year. Plantation
farmingon 6 percent o fthe cultivable area consists entirely o f sugar cane andtea estates run
directly by companies with some outgrowers.

4.        The livestock subsector accounts for about 16 percent o fthe total agricultural GDP
and 10percent o f total GDP. Livestock productionpotential is highyear-round with good
quality pastures and there i s a growing feed industry. Oxenpower i s traditionally usedfor
field operations insome areas, includinginimportant cottonareas. With about 17 percent o f
Uganda's surface area covered by lakes, rivers, and swamps (about 42,000 square
kilometers), the fisheries subsector accounted for 5 percent o f agricultural GDP in 1996/97
and has been second to coffee inexport earnings. Almost all production i s marketed. Fish
farming i s expanding. The forestry subsector accounts for about 4 percent o fUganda's
agricultural GDP. Natural andplantation forests are widely distributedthroughout the
country. Many areas also feature ago-forestry activities and social and community forestry
are developing.

5.        With such adiverseandproductive agriculture sector the demands on agricultural
research are heavy and complex and offer geat opportunities for raisingproductionthrough
research and development. The cotton subsector offers smallholders a cash cropping

1. Planfor Modernisation of Agriculture, Government of Uganda(MAAFMPED), August 2000
2. This sectiondraws on the four-volume Agriculture in Uganda, NationalAgricultural Research Organisation, ed. Joseph
K.Mukiibi,2001. Morerecent data is fromthe Bank's Ugandaat a Glancedatabase.

                                                 2


 opportunity and, ifproductioncan berestored to former levels, couldbe a significant source
 o f export diversification.


 Part I:Cotton Subsector Development Project

 BACKGROUND

 6.        Cottonproductiongrew steadily after the crop was introducedto Uganda in 1903,
 with apeak decade from 1964 to 1973 ofwell over 400,000 bales annually o f superior grade
 mediumto long staple lint.The industrybenefited from beingthe regionalcenter for cotton
 research and development under the colonial system, with the EmpireCotton Growing
 Corporation locating its main research station in 1923 outside Kampala. But from the mid-
 1970s a steady productiondecline set inas a result o f a series o f misfortunes that lasted for
 over 12 years (civil strife, insecurity, maladministration, economic uncertainty, food
 shortagesnecessitating food cropping, and especially the suddenforced departure o f most o f
 the Asian community, which was active incotton ginning and marketing). Cotton production
 eventually fell to less than 20,000 bales inthe late 1 9 8 0 a ~
                                                              ~ decline o f over 95 percent.

 7.        With this collapse inoutput the cottonindustry's institutions and infrastructure
 wasted away at all levels: marketingandpricing became erratic, with prices often below
 costs; the systems for industry financing, seed production, and cottontrading collapsed;
 inputswere unavailable; cotton stores and gins decayed; cottonresearch all but ceasedand
research facilities randown; germplasm andbreedingstocks were lost, and cotton extension
ceased. Productionwas completely abandoned insome traditional cotton-growing areas
because o f security problems, the needto produce food, and lack o f draught ani mal^.^

8.         Cotton industryrehabilitationwas a highpriority under the government's Economic
RecoveryProgramme launched in 1987, giventhe emphasis on diversifyingexports and
reducing dependenceon earnings from coffee exports (which incontrast had held upwell
despite the disruptions ofthe 1970s and 80s). A sustainable cotton industry was to supply
raw material for local industry, reduce imports, andproduce cotton lint for export. However,
without major new resources for the cotton sector and a weak ginningindustry, production
remained low until the early 1990s when it tripledto over 60,000 bales. From 1994, the IDA
project and parallel support from IFAD were the main funding sources that helped
productionto continue to rise.


PROJECTOBJECTIVESAND COMPONENTS

9.         The project supported the government's strategy to revivecotton production and
exports through increased competition incottonprocessing and marketing and improved
supporting services to farmers. The specific objectives o f the project were:

     0    Improvedperformance inthe cotton industry, through liberalization o f cotton
          processing and export marketing, establishment o f an efficient regulatory framework


3. Agriculture in Uganda,op. cit.

           for the cotton industry, and improvedmanagerial, technical, and operating efficiency
           ina creditworthy ginningindustry;
      0    Improved efficiency and impact o f supporting services through support for national
           research and extension program; and
      0    Improveddeliverymechanisms and availability o f credit and seed.

 10.       These objectives would contribute to the broader sectoral objective o f increased
 agricultural growth and diversification. The project design provided financial assistance to
 support three broad sets o f activities:

      0    Restructuringthe cotton industrythrough (a) revisiono f the legal framework,
           liquidation o f Government regulatory and marketing agency and establishment o f an
           industrybasedregulatorybody, andsupport o f operations o fthe regulatory body, on a
           declining basis; (b) transformation of Cooperative Union owned ginneries into
           creditworthy operators, including strengthening management and technical training to
           the industry; and (c) support to Agricultural Policy Committee's (APC) oversight o f
           the subsector policy reform and inter-agency coordination responsibilitiesthrough the
           Agricultural Secretariat;
     0     Improved supporting services through support for national research and extension
          programs; and
           Improved delivery mechanisms and availability o f credit and seed through provision
          to farmers o f short-and medium-term credit through intermediaries (e.g., ginneries
           andNGOs), as well as improved quality seed.

IMPLEMENTATIONISSUES

 11.      IFAD was to providemost ofthe fbnding(US$12.5 million) for the credit and seed
program, amounting to 40 percent o ftotal financing. US$2.7 million o f the IFAD funds (for
non-performing extension a~tivities)~were reallocated from this component to the pilot
extension program (after a year's delay) implementedby the National Agricultural Research
Organization(NARO),and to research, ginneryrestructuring, monitoringby the Cotton
Development Organization (CDO) and project coordination. Partly because o f this slow start
and needfor adjustments, the five-year implementation periodwas extended to seven years.
The rehabilitation o f cattle holding grounds was cancelled as the government's restocking
programhad failed and a microfinance capacity-building component was added (with
US$l.25 million o fIFAD funding) following the mid-termreview. The failure o f the oxen
activity constrained cotton acreage expansion inthe important Teso production areas where
oxen cultivation is traditional (cattle numbers inthese areas had fallen by 95 percent
following civil strife and cross-border rustling, which i s still a threat).

12.       The IFAD-fundedfarm credit component performedpoorly largelybecauseof
inadequate design and that the line o f credit from commercialbanks to ginners and thence to
farmers didnot materialize due to lack o f interest from banks and the poor credit-worthiness


4. The ICR notes that the original extension component was designed more to fill gaps in the Bank-assisted Agricultural
Extension Project than to serve cotton farmers. The latter project did not perform well, proving to be the end o f the Training
and Visit extension approach in Uganda, and once this was apparent, the Bank task team correctly decided to close the
component early.

                                                              4


  o f ginners. Consequently, toward the end o f the project an input-based system was
  substituted with a line o f credit from Bank of Ugandato the Uganda Ginners and Cotton
  Exporters Association (UGCEA) and reallocationo f IFAD funds. Although this was a
  temporary measure it continued to operate after the project closed and inthe absence o f full
 repayment (as cotton prices fell) the credit was rolled over (rising to USh.9.8 billionin2003,
  or about US$5.8 million). Incommon with many such administered credit arrangements, the
  expectation inthe industrywas that government would have to write offmuch o fthis
 indebtedness. An improvement has beenUGCEA's decision only to sell pesticides while
 continuing to provide seeds on credit. Two parallel morehopeful initiatives may eventually
 replace public sector cotton credit: some 51rural financial institutions have been established
 andassistedbythe central bankwith essential equipment andtraining, but expected funding
 (including from the World Bank) hadnot beenforthcoming at the time o f the evaluation.
 Second, international ginners are beginningto provide smallholder inputs ina successful
 credit model that does not involve the drawbacks o fpublic sector credit.

  13.      The fall inworld cottonprices to 30-year lows was by far the greatest implementation
 issue. Despite this disincentive to investment andproduction, project activities continued and
 production expanded. Natural conditions (drought and heavy rains, pest outbreaks) caused
 problems in some years and continued insecurity inthe northernproducing areas discouraged
 farmers from resumingcotton cropping. Extension services for cotton farmers were
 ineffectivebecause o fproblems relating to three reorganizations o fthe system, exacerbated
 by one season o fon-farm research and demonstration being lost by a delay inIFAD
 financing under its parallelproject (Smallholder CottonRehabilitationProject).'

 14.       There was a surprisingfailure o f the borrower and Bank to designand agree on
 details o f essential core components (extension, credit, and seed supply) as parts o f the
 project when approved. As a result, these activities were never able to catch up to play their
 vital roles instimulating and indeedinfacilitating production expansion. The ICR notes that
 preparation o fthese components was intentionally left untilimplementation, eventhough the
 two full years betweenidentificationand approvalwas more than adequate time andthere
 were adequate specialist staff andconsultants for the purpose - over 150 staffweeks to
 approval, (Nonetheless, the ICR rated quality at entry o f the project as satisfactory.)

 15.      Arrangements for channeling funds to the ginneries proved especially difficult to
agree, especially as the debt overhang problem o f the ginneries was not hlly resolved(a few
ginneries were insolvent andmany others had fragile finances and limited credit-worthiness)
and, despiteintensive Bank supervision, the absence o f amonitoringand evaluationh c t i o n
missed the opportunityto identify and take action on these deficiencies more promptly and
effectively. After the project closed, restructuringprogressed and the ginning industrywas
put on amore stable basis, helpedespecially bythe arrival o finternational ginningfirms who
have taken a longer term view o f their role than earlier participants.

16.      At the start of implementationrelationships betweenthe Bankandthe project's senior
staff were less than satisfactory to the extent that normal free and frank interactions were not


5. The appraisalreport shows IFAD funding as cofinancing under the project, but it i s clear from the ICR that these funds
were made availableunderthe separate IFADproject. The complexity created by the parallel IFADoperationi s apparent
fromthe files, but there is no explanationof why there could not have been a cofinancing arrangement.

 possible. Two changes o f task manager in a short period eventually ledto improved relations.
 This was a difficult two-year periodfor the project, especially giventhat some key activities
 had to be conceived, designed, and agreedwith the Bank duringthis early implementation.

 OVERALL        OUTCOME

  17.       The project outcome i s rated Satisfactoly. Despitethe problems outlined above, the
 project substantially achieved its main objectives by the time it was completed only two
 years late in2001 and since then progress has continued and the gains have been
 consolidated. The cotton industryhas beenrevitalized with (especially, since project
 completion) the financial restructuring o f the ginneries completed and the critical cotton
 ginningoperations o fa number o f leadingginnersbecomingbetter established andmore
 supportive o f smallholder productionthan previously.

 18.        Bythe endofthe project cottonproductionwas averaging 100,000 bales and
 reached 120,000 bales inthe 2000/01 season(four times the low pre-project level) despite
 lower cotton lint prices. Productionthus reached 75 percent o f the appraisal target with two
 years delay, which was reasonable under the circumstances. Since thenproduction fell to
 110,000 bales inthe 2001/02 seasonbut rose to an estimated 150,000 bales last season, aided
by support from theUS Agency for InternationalDevelopment (aimed at increasingthe
 competitiveness o f Uganda's cotton on internationalmarkets). These data are subject to a
reservation, however, since they include unknown quantities o f imports o f seed cotton (for
ginning) from Congo inparticular, which is attractedbyrelatively highseed cottonprices to
farmers (given a highfarmer share at some 70 percent o f export values). Although this
obscures the Ugandaproduction statistics and the project's impact, it also attests to a highly
competitive ginning industry whose revival from a very poor state beganunder the project.

 19.       Cottonexport earnings fluctuated around an increasing trend, givenproduction
variations and a declining price trend, rising from about US$12.8 million in 1994/95 to
US$24-29 million inthe period 1998-2003 (2001/02 was lower with an extraordinarily low
world cottonprice). This was achieved byproduction increases, the revival o f an efficient
processing andmarketingsystem, and the highgrade o f cottonproduced. The performance o f
the cottonprocessing industry as awhole improved, producingincreased quantities o f
premium grade cottoninresponse to project activities (especially restructuring, rapid
liberalization, andprivatizationo f ginning and trading inkeepingwith national development
policies). Initially many participants inthe ginningindustrywere slow to broadentheir
activities beyondbuying seed cotton, ginning, and marketing o f cotton lint, without any
interest inpromoting smallholder production. This changed with the arrival of some well
known corporate names inworld cottonprocessing and trade whichhave adopted a longer-
term approach to expanding output and are providingproduction services to smallholders.6
This was achieved despite the serious implementationproblems described above.

20.        Supportingproductionservices havebeenrevived, ledby cottonresearch, which
has already had excellent results, and after a weak start, a decentralized extensionsystemwas


6. One major problem remains, which is receiving attention: that with liberalized marketing those advanced ginners who are
also investing insmallholderproduction assistancehaveno hold over their farmers' seed cotton production, which canbe
sold (at higherprices) to other ginners who have not incurred any production expenses through advances to farmers.

                                                 6


 piloted. Prospects for ruralcredit access are improving, as described above, and the basis
 has been laid for a reliable seed supply system (with a model seed multiplication process
 deliveringhigh-quality purevarieties).

 21,     Although there were problems on the cotton growing and price incentive sides, the
 keyto any growth at all was restructuringof cottonprocessingandtrading,which was
 greatly aided by appropriate sector policies and legislationthat opened the door to
 experienced international interests. Privatizedginneries are competing for seed cotton and
 the new internationally acceptedpremiumquality standards for Ugandacottonwere
 important inattractingforeign traders. Efficient and competitiveprivate trading inseed
 cotton, seed, and lint, with prompt payments to farmers providing production incentives, has
 beenkeyto counteracting low international prices. An excellent ginnery training school
 undertheproject has provideda cadre ofUgandantechnicians and is also earning income
 from training technicians from other cotton producing countries. These changes have been
 introducedand are supported by key industry institutions that now manage the sector, namely
 an effective Cotton Development Organization and its offshoot, UGCEA, which are now
 fully funded from withinthe subsector. TheUGCEA is promotingtheprovisionof services
 to smallholders by ginners to secure supplies o f seed cotton and, on their side, farmers are
 forming blocks of cotton cultivation to facilitate services.

 22.    Although poverty reduction was not an explicit project objective, the rate o f rural
poverty inEastern Uganda fell from 61 percent in 1992 to 38 percent in2000, andthis must
be partly due to increased cotton growing.

Relevance(Were the project's objectives right inthe lightof currentpriorities?)

23.     The project's objectives were highlyrelevant at approval andhave remainedso in
terms o f the government's development policies and the Bank's support strategy. Sectoral
goals are to diversify agricultural production, processing andthe export base, while achieving
food self-sufficiency andreducingpoverty. The overarching policies are to liberalize the
economy and encourage greater private sector participation. Restoring growth inthe cotton
subsector through the project strategy adopted i s one of the principal means available to the
government for pursuingthese objectives. The cotton subsector has a number o f features
which the project was able to exploit and inso doing addressed several o f the country's
development priorities: a smallholder productionbase, downstream linkages into processing,
trade, manufacture and export, a premiumproduct indemand on world markets andpolicies
attractive to internationalprivate sector participation.

Efficacy(Did theprojectachieveitsstated objectives?)

24.     Revivalof cotton productionand exports: The project made amajor contributionto
the revival ofproductionandexports, but giventhe declining price trends andproject-related
deficiencies outlined above, didnot quite meet the targets set at appraisal. However, since the
project ended, production growth has continued. Increasedcompetitioninprocessing and
marketing were major means o freviving the subsector as planned, but the provision o f

                                                                 7


  supporting smallholder services fell short o fproject intentions mainly becauseplans were
  incomplete at appr~val.~

  25.       Improvedperformancein the (post-harvest)cotton industry:Cottonprocessing
  and export marketinghave beenliberalized as plannedand an efficient regulatory framework
 has been established; managerial, technical, and operating efficiency have improved through
 training and facilitating the involvement o f well-established internationalcotton companies;
 technicalparameters have improvedto satisfactory level (staple lengthand outturn) and
 Uganda lint has beenre-established as premiumquality; and with the restructuring eventually
 o f the formerly bankrupt processing industry, to which most o fthe project's technical
 assistance was devoted but which didnot finally occur until after the project ended, the
 industryis generallycredit-worthy.

 26.        Improvedefficiency and impactof supportingservices (by supportingresearch
 and extension for smallholder production): research results were highly satisfactory, but
 extension activities sufferedsetbacks that are well described inproject records. Advisory
 services did not reach effective levels. Support for cotton research built on assistanceunder
 the FADproject. A cottonresearch systemwas re-established based onNARO's Sere
 research station with outstation trial sites (the integrated pest management unit from
 Namulongewas movedthere); a research strategy was established; facilities were improved
 andexpanded; staffwere trained; ginningwork hadgoodresults; improvedvarieties became
 available and a wide range o f cotton agronomy trials were producinguseful results. There
 was considerable progress developing pest control technologies and integrated pest
 management (IPM) and IPMtechnology was transferred to the field inLira District. An IPM
 manual for extension workers was produced.'

 27.       Extensionservices for cottonwere not satisfactorily established -largelybecausethe
 two attempts were closely associatedwith nationalprograms (assisted by Bank funding)
 which either failed (the Agricultural ExtensionProject inthe 1 9 9 0 ~or~under the          )
 replacement pilot component (which started only in 1999)were part o f a decentralized
 extension systemthat has yet to be implementedas planned. Evenso, some useful
 preparatory work was done under the project, including limited farmer training.

 28.       Improveddelivery mechanismsand availability of credit and seed: the credit
 objective was only partly achieved, since after initial failure the changed approach after the
mid-termreview provideddirected credit (but with sustainabilityproblems) and a
 satisfactory capacity buildingprogram for microfinance. The seed component was not
 successful inachieving its ultimate privatization objective but after a difficult start did
achieve reasonable physical objectives interms o f improved dressed seed distributed, but
with financial sustainability problems.



7. This is now being correctedby the initiatives of some ginners
8. In addition, the ICR lists an impressive set of cotton research achievementsand outreachunder NARO management:
including several biological control technologiesand; agronomyresearch concentratingon spacing, date ofplanting, control
of weeds, and, more recently, intercropping with legumes. Inaddition, specific recommendationsfor westerncotton growing
areas have beenreleased; a farmers' guide has beenpublished and translated into five local languages; a lightweight plough,
aplanter, and an ox-weederhave been developed; and cotton research results have beenpublished in30 publications,
including refereedjournals, theses, conference proceedings,and contributions to books.

                                                         8


 Efficiency (Was the project cost-effective?)

 29.      The ICR's estimate o f an economic rate ofreturn inthe range o f 10to 22 percent is
 satisfactory methodologicallyand i s supported by the evidence, inparticular the value o f
 increased cotton output and project costs, but the various shortcomings o f the project indicate
 that a higher efficiency rate could have beenachieved hadmore o fthe project gone
 according to plan. Evenso, with the continuedgrowth and deepeningo fthe integrated cotton
 ginning and trading operations o fseveral major international firms, the benefit stream
 appears to be on a solid upward path.

 INSTITUTIONAL DEVELOPMENT               IMPACT AND SUSTAINABILITY

 30.      Institutionaldevelopment impact i s rated as High giventhe continuing
 improvements that have occurred since the project was completed. The added time since the
 project endedin2001, duringwhich the institutionalachievements have been expanded and
 consolidated, allows more confidence that institutionalachievements are substantial and
 lasting. A strong institutional foundation has been laid at the apex for further growth o f
 cottonproduction(especially CDO, UGCEA, and the whole private ginning industry).

 31.      However, on the research and extension side MAAIF's evolving strategy for a
 decentralized multi-provider system managed and funded by stakeholders, has disrupted
 existing services before the replacements are fully fun~tioning.~ continuity o f important
                                                                               The
 cottonresearch may be affected ifthe decline o f current agricultural research capability i s not
reversed at least until such time as the new system i s producingresults. The critical decline
o f agricultural research capability i s discussed further below inconnectionwith the research
project.

32.      Definedas the resilience o fproject achievements against risks, Sustainability i s
judged Highly Likely giventhe importance o fthe crop, supportive national and subsector
policies, a vibrant cotton research effort, andthe evidence o fproduction resilience inthe face
o fthe largest unknown- falling commodityprices. The institutional strengths at the apex and
the presence of anumber ofinternationalfirms as the backbone o f ginningoperations (which
are increasingly active also inproduction services) offer strong assurance that risks to
subsector prosperity should bewell managed and overcome.

BANKAND BORROWER              PERFORMANCE

33.      Bankperformance was mixedbut is ratedSatisfactory overall. The initial
identificationo f a highpriority needs inline with government's development strategy was
underminedbyweak preparation o fparts o fthe project duringtwo full years to approval,
althoughthere was no shortage o f staff resources intotal. Project implementation suffered
accordinglywith false starts inthose key areas and a mid-termreview effort was needed to
devise new directions more thoroughly. This was costly for the Bank inthat supervision
resources averaged a highlevel o f 27 staff weeks a year throughout and the project as a
whole absorbed 8 staff-years oftime from beginningto end. Duringsupervision, the


9 . Beingpursuedespecially underthe IDA-assistedNationalAgricultural Advisory Services Project(NAADS).

                                                9


consistent rating o fproject performance (both P and DO) as satisfactory is questionable in
hindsight, especially for the early period.

34.     Borrower performanceoverall was Satisfactory, bordering onHighly Satisfactory
but for the reservations noted here. Although as the ICRnotes there were some delays on
meeting covenant requirements and on funding on occasions, the government and its
agencies overall remained strongly committed to the project objectives throughout. The
macroeconomic policy settingwas highly supportive o fproject objectives. However,
government must share some responsibility for the delays and inefficiencies that occurred as
a result o f some key components not beingadequately prepared (as already discussed).

LESSONS

35.     The main lessons o f wide general application are:

    0   Governmentcommitment: Despite commodity prices and natural conditions at
       times being unfavorable, a dilapidated agricultural industry can be put back on its feet
       relatively quickly by a committed government with appropriate economic and social
       policies and which promptlypasses supporting legislation.

   0   Processingindustry:Financial restructuring o f a bankruptprocessing industry,
       which inthis case facilitated the return o f experienced international operators, can be
       an essential requirement o f agricultural rehabilitation.

   0   Projectpreparation:Unevendeptho fpreparation ofproject components can show
       up later inimplementation problems, which canbe hard to overcome and may
       needlessly absorb a substantial amount o f supervision and borrower resources. Project
       designs should be fully complete at approval, especially inproduction-oriented
       projects where some components are needed to ensure that output objectives can be
       achieved.

                                                                 10



  Part 11: Agricultural Research and Training Project (Phase I)

  BACKGROUND

  36.        Ugandahas a long agriculturalresearchtradition, starting from the early colonial
  period a century ago when tea, cacao, and cotton were introduced." Outstanding research
  stations were developed at Kawanda, Namulonge, Serere, and Entebbe, which contributed to
  agricultural productivity beyondUgandaon a regional basis. Improvedcrop varieties,
  livestock strains, andhusbandry practices flowing from these stations helpedto make
  Uganda a leader among East African countries inthe production o f food and export
  commodities across mid-20thcentury decades. The Faculty o fAgriculture and Forestry o f
  Makerere University(MU) beganresearch in agriculture in 1957. It i s the oldest institutiono f
  higher learning inagriculture inAfrica, offering manyresearch programs. Uganda also
  hosted the East African Community (EAC) research institutes for trypanosomiasis and tsetse
  control and for fisheries, and established research stations with major responsibilities within
 the EAC for sorghum, millet, sugarcane, and cotton improvement."

  37.       ButUganda's research systemduringthe colonial era andthe EAC periodwas
 designedlargely to serve the needs ofthe larger commercial farmers inthe EAC ando f
 smallholders producing export crops, with much less done to addressthe needs o f
 smallholder subsistence farmers. That legacy problempersisted untilquite recently.

 38.        At appraisal in 1992the NationalAgricultural ResearchSystem (NARS) comprised9
 research institutes, 11research stations, 4 regional veterinary laboratories and 65 variety-
 testing centers operated by MAAIF, the Ministry o f Water, the Ministryo f Commerce andby
 Makerere University(MU).Despite some international assistancefrom the 1980s, once the
 earlier turbulence calmed sufficiently, the overall condition o f these research establishments
 was very poor at that time.l2Research incrops, livestock, and fisheries was implementedby
 three ministries; the MAAIF;inforestry by the Ministryo f Water; and infood technology by
 the Ministryo fCommerce. The Facultyo fVeterinary Medicine and the Faculty o f Science,
 o fMUalso conducted research on the same commodities and disciplines. Coordinationwas
poor and resources were wasted on developing some unsatisfactory technologies. Funding
was inadequate andunstable. The appraisaljudged that without better agricultural research
support, Uganda's economically dominant farming community was unlikely to be able to
contribute to rapid economic recovery, increase productivity, and achieve sustainable
environmental management. But without strong agricultural growth there was little
possibility o f economic recovery -hence restoring agricultural research capability was one o f
the keysto economic reconstruction.




I O . Agriculture in Uganda, op cit, includes an account o f agricultural research on which this section drew.
11. This account o f the condition o fthe research organization at appraisal is based on details inthe SAR, paras. 3.1 - 3.5.
12. Apart from inadequate funding for decades, the agricultural research systemhad, like much o f Uganda's infrastructure
and institutions, suffered from economic mismanagement and social upheaval under repressive and corrupt regimes, and
from warfare and extended periods of civil unrest. Although a research establishment existed on paper it did not have the
resources or incentives to meet the sector's needs.

                                                         11


 39.        IDA'Sassistanceto the (still) run-down andunder-performingresearch system
 followed earlier efforts since 1986 (whenrelative national stability returned) to revitalize the
 research system, but only ina partial way through assistance for the research institutes at
 Namulonge, Kawanda, and Entebbe providedby USAID, EU, FAO, CIAT,13 and GTZ.
 Additional rehabilitation and facilities and new equipmentwas requiredto meet expectations
 under the National Agricultural Research Strategy andPlan(NARSP), especially at the
 institutes at Serere, Jinja, Tororo, and Kifu.A NARO headquarters building(including staff
 housing) was needed.


 PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS

 40.        At appraisal inlate 1992 itwas notedthat for the foreseeable future, agriculture
 would remainthe most important sector inthe Ugandaneconomy, providing food,
 employment, and export earnings. With a rapidly growingpopulation (3 percent annually),
 but limitedopportunity for increasing the areaunder cultivation, akeyelement o fUganda's
 strategy for agricultural growth was to increase the productivity o f existing farms. Thus,
 output from the crop, livestock, and fisheries subsectors was to be increased substantially,
 andthe technology to attain these increaseshadto be developed through arevived
 agricultural research system.

41,        The overall goal ofthe projectwas topromote agriculturalgrowth and the
diversijkation of production, processing, and export base through the development and
transfer of improved technology. The specific objectives o f the project were to launch and
support the key activities o fNARO, includinghigh-priority research; strengthenthe linkages
and coordination among the research system, the extension service, and the agricultural
faculties o f the university and agricultural colleges; and improve agricultural education and
training capacity. The implicit institutionalobjective and means o f achievingthe project's
development objectives (agricultural growththrough an expanded flow o f research outputs)
was to re-establish public sector capacity to conduct agricultural research. The project's
broad sectoral context was complex and challenging for such a single-purpose attack on only
one o f the agricultural sector's many constraints.

42.       Muchhangs on the interpretationo fthe phrase "development and transfer of
improved technology" inthe statement o f objectives, both interms o f evaluating the project
against its objectives and with reference to later perceptions o f the performance o f NARO as
used to justify proposed reforms o f the agricultural research system.

43.       Reviewo f the appraisal documents indicates that the reference to transfer o f the new
technologies to be developed by NARO was overstated since the extension service itself was
not a partner inthe project and there were limited means for NARO to effect transfer (mainly
bytraining of extension staffanddemonstration activities). Butthese efforts couldhavehad
only limited effectiveness at a time when the extension systemitself was ingrave difficulties
andneededmajor reform ifit was to transfer the new technologies needed by farmer^.'^ Nor
was it realistic to expect that NARO could makethe difference (even the S A R noted that


13 . The IntemationalCenter for Tropical Agriculture.
14. The T&V extension systemhad proved unsustainable and the Bank thereafter ceased to support this model further.

                                                               12


 technology transfer depended on the extension system beingmore efficient). Thus, the
 transfer objective mustbe viewedrealistically as secondary or even pro forma rather than
 substantial to the level req~ired.'~ "transfer and adoption o f superior technologies" was
                                                The
 givengreater attention inthe following project (Second Agricultural Research and Training
 Project, approved inFY99).

 44.       It should benotedthat there was no suggestion at project appraisal that a publicly
 owned, managed, and financed research systemwas not appropriate, and hence the design
 didnot include any aspects addressing reforms divergingfrom that traditional model. Given
 the dominance of small-scale subsistence-level producers inUganda, many below the
 poverty line, that model o fpublic sector support for agricultural research had beenfound to
 be socially andpolitically pragmatic inthe 1980s and 1990safter the country hadreturned to
 stability. This traditional model o fpublic research continues to berecommended by the Bank
 for developingtechnology for small market-oriented farmers and subsistence producers.l6

 45.       The tough sector backgroundinwhich the project was to be implemented, andthus
 the broad nature o f the problems being faced, was well statedinthe appraisal report (paras.
 2.13 and 2.14) where it was clear that research was only one critical input among many
 requiredto revive the sector. The S A R notedthat for sustained sectoral growth farmers must
 adopt improved production technologies and diversify into non-traditionalexport crops;
 yields must be raised substantially; that appropriate technologies and practices for seeds and
planting material, soil management, weed management, pest control, post-harvest handling,
 storage andmarketingmustbe developed; there were funding constraints including
inadequate operating funds; extension services were fragmented and support services and
facilities were run-down; efficient landmarkets were absent; destroyed infrastructureneeded
to be replaced, and that skilled personnel -lost due to low wages -mustbe recruited. It i s
against this difficult backgroundthat the project's results arejudged.

IMPLEMENTATIONISSUES

46.       The appraisal correctly identifiedsome ofthepotentialconstraints that were to affect
efficient implementation, as notedby the ICR. The main implementationissues were that
NARO staff shortages affected the finance andM&E activities (through the non-
competitiveness o fNARO terms - for those types o f specialist staff- compared with the
private sector); policyAegislative shortfalls (for seed and planting material); and lack o f
private sector interest inseed andplant materialproduction-with consequent reduced
impact o f emerging research results. Although baseline indicators were defined they were not
measured at appraisal and lack o ftimely attention to M&Ehas made it difficult to assess
project impact.l7Provisiono f counterpart fundingby the government was erratic and
research operations were constrained at times by inadequate operating funds.


15. There is only so mucha research organization can achieve by "pushing" its knowledge out. There also has to be an
effective extensionsystemhelping to stimulateawarenessand demandfor technology amongpotential clients. There has to
be "pull" as well. Even so, a great deal of valuable technology was producedby the project, some of which is being usedand
some ofwhich remainson the shelf.
16.Agricultural Investment Sourcebook, Agricultural andRural DevelopmentDepartment, World Bank,2004, Table 2.2.
17. The beneficiary survey conductedby NARO and reportedinthe ICR compensatedsomewhat for earlier inadequate
M&E.

                                                                  13


 47.        The ICR's observations on staff salary concerns were confirmed as a continuingissue
 duringthe mission's visit. The major structural salary and allowance increase of 1993,
 althoughnecessary and appreciated by staff at the time, has had an adverse long-term impact
 on morale and the performance o fNARO. All salary and allowance funds under the Credit
 were needed to finance the higher salaries, and inthe absence o f other funds little was left for
 performance incentives, salary scale adjustments with inflation, or even for salaries for key
 replacement staff. Remuneration levels have thus beenlargely stagnant for about ten years,
 which has increased staff turnover (with laggingreplacement), diminishedNARO's
 competitiveness as an employer, and staffhave not beenrewarded for good performance. As
 a result, formerly good moralehas eroded. The consequent delayed recruitment (or
 redeployment where feasible) o f critical professional staff has hampered research
 implementation in several programs.l8

 48.        There were remarkable salary differentialsbetweenNARO levels (which have been
 unchanged for 10 years) and those o f comparator organizations: for example the salary level
 for the agricultural extension agency (NAADS) i s double to quadruple that for NARO staff in
 the senior grades (and such disparitiesare similar with other technical "sister" agencies).
 Failure to address staff salary concerns for so long weakened research capacity (by
 increasing departures and reducingincentives). So didthe banon recruiting replacement staff
 as numbers                Most recent informationprovidedbyBank staff indicates that the salary
 question i s beingaddressedand that NARO has been authorized to recruit 20 core
 replacement staff.

 49.        The ICR also reported that concentration o f most o fNARO's research facilities
 within an arc aroundKampalaresultedinhightransport costs travelingto and fkom outlying
research sites andthat lack o f flexibility insharing staffresources betweeninstitutes and
programs reduced overall                                Theneed for decentralization o fresearch activities is
not a new issue, having beenraised duringproject preparationbut not pursuedunder the
project. It was taken up under the secondproject (approved inFY99) with the establishment
o f 12regional Agricultural Research andDevelopment Centers (ARDC). More recently
NAROhas also taken action on the flexibility issue by switching to definingits work
program and budget interms o f research "projects" that can draw on whatever resources
(staff, materials, facilities, and equipment) may be neededto meet objectives, without regard
to their location androutine custodianship at any givenresearch facility. Fiscal


18. The 1998 Public Service Review led to a recruitment freeze which has been lifted recently, but not for agricultural
agencies. The mission found that the continuation o f this "enfeebling o fNARO," as it was characterized by some
interviewees, was occurring at random (rather than through planned obsolescence) with a potential negative impact on
NARO's effectiveness. The report o fthe agricultural committee o fparliament on the 2003/2004 agriculturalbudget
estimates refers to over 180 staff (including 65 experienced scientists) leaving since 1994 due to poor pay andjob
uncertainty. Some were key staff trained under the project. Moreover, without recruitment o f young staff the age profile is
increasing and succession planningis difficult. Staff departures are not evenly spread with some stations particularly hard
hit:e.g., FIRlUhas lost 11 o f its 25 technical staff, 44 percent decline, and SAARI has lost eight o fits establishment of25
scientists, a drop o f 32 percent.
19. These matters were the subject o f lengthy discussions with the mission among a wide selection o f staff at the research
stations visited. It was clear to the mission that the issues were o f grave concern to the staff. Back in KampaldEntebbe there
were indications that these matters were receiving attention at the time o f the mission, as was urgently needed, and a draft
proposal was seen.
20. On the other hand, as noted by a reviewer o f this report, a decentralized multi-provider system will have high
management overheads, which are likely to offset transport cost savings.

                                                                 14


  decentralization (an objective o f current reforms) i s channeling more resources to the districts
  and NARO activities could be more devolved to take advantage o f this additional source o f
  potential funding.

  50.      Finally, there was concern during implementation that technology adoption was
  partial - a findingwith analogues insimilar situations elsewhere. Thus, the ICR reports that a
  beneficiary assessment found that despite highadoption rates (of new NAROcrop varieties)
  a relatively small proportion o f adopters follow the recommended agronomic practices that
  give best returns with the improved varieties. This was attributed inpart to NARO paying
  insufficient attention to the specifics o f traditional mixedrelay cropping with which the
  improvedpractices were not a good fit. Again the missing extension input is highlighted,
  with the study notingthat field extension staff indicated the need for strengthening o f
  farmer/extension/researcher relationships.


  POST-IMPLEMENTATION                DEVELOPMENTS

  51.      With a view to provide critical context to the assessment o fthe project's development
 outcome and sustainability 4 years after the project ended, this section provides a brief
 overview o fproposed changes in strategy for the financing, corporate structure, management
 and participation inagricultural research and extension. These changes have been taking
 shape gradually since earlier detailed proposals in2003, which some stakeholders did not
 fully support, have been adjusted inthe draft legislation to gain broader support.

 52.      Follow-on project: before the first project closed in2000, the Bank in 1999 indicated
 its continuing confidence inthe performance o f NARO as the prime source o f smallholder
 agricultural research by approving the Second Agricultural Research and Training Project,21
 Having established a unified public sector research capability under the first project, the
 follow-on project aimed to strengthen NARO's impact by giving increased emphasis to
 demand-driven, client-oriented research and promote the active participation o f stakeholders,
 especially farmers and the private agribusiness sector, inresearch planningand
 implementation. Researchwas to focus on specific constraints on particular production
 systems and "bridging finance" was included for pilot activities on improved technology
 transfer under the decentralized extension system proposed for Bank support under a new
 Agricultural Extension Project. Thus the second project echoed the main themes o f
 government's Planfor Modernisation ofAgricuZture (PMA) that was under preparation at the
time (more on PMA i s below). At that time (the project documents state) NARO was
 expected to "continue on-going highpriority, adaptive research which address specific
production constraints and have a highpotential o f producing significant benefits andimpact,
inarelatively short time.. ..Otherresearch areasto be supported bythe project will be
identified during a series o f district and national level consultations between NARO and all
the stakeholders of agricultural research." Thus the expectation in 1999 was that NARO
would continue to be the main source o f agricultural technology for smallholder agriculture.

53.      The objectives o f the second project responded well to concerns that NARO needed
to reflect more closely the precise needs o f farmers (through yet closer consultation) and be

21. Inan unusual run o f staff continuity, the second project team leader had been the team leader for the first project
throughout, since 1991.

                                                                  15


 more directly active inpromoting the adoption o f improvedtechnology.22However, given the
 uncertainties as the NARO reform agenda is fleshed out, some activities o f the second
 project, affected by the expected policy changes, have beenput on hold and funds have been
 reallocated to support the new extension approach.

 54.        MAAIF's new strategy for agricultural research and extension: the Planfor
 Modernisation of Agriculture was publishedinAugust 2000, as the first IDAresearch project
 came to its close, after deliberations dating back to 1996. The initial focus was on
 progressive modern farming techniques, but this switched later to smallholders and poverty
 alleviation. The P M A aims to modernize agriculture and i s a major part o f the national
 strategy to eradicate poverty by modernizing the economy. The key feature i s improving
 smallholder technology, starting from a generally low base. Hence mainparts o f the Plan are
 to implement a new NationalAgricultural Research Policy to develop technology and to put
 inplace amarket-targetedadvisorysystem "owned bystakeholders, effective, efficient,
 sustainable" to deliver good technical advice to farmers -the National Agricultural Advisory
 Services Programme. The effectiveness o f current agricultural research services, specifically
 NARO, was then measured against the PMA strategy, which ledto the identificationo fa
 needfor substantial reform o ftheway that agriculturalresearchis funded, planned, managed,
 conducted and transferred to farmers.

 55.        The Plandocument is clear on the complexity ofthe task o f improving smallholder
 agriculture, notes that research i s only one o fmanyrelated requirements, and points up that
 althoughresearch i s a key ingredient, it cannot alone reduce rural poverty. This i s important
 because continuingrural poverty i s seen by some as an indicator o f NARO's weak
 performance, eventhough NARO i sjust one o fthe keyplayers inthe efforts needed to
 relieve a complex o f c~nstraints.~~Indeed, a key early briefing paper making the case for
 reform, it was statedthat continuingrural poverty and low agriculturalproductivity had
 raised concerns as to " 0 ' s              effectiveness intransforming the agricultural sector inspite o f
NARO's goodrep~tation.'~

 56.       At the time ofthe OED fieldvisit (January 2004) the details ofthe reformproposals
were available inthe NARS Reform "Master Document" (issued inDecember, 2002) but
draft legislationwas still under revision, giventhe needto reach consensus amongst the
 stakeholders. Under the current NARS Reformproposal (as reflected inthe latest drafts o f

22. The secondproject's objectiveswere to: (a) transfer relevant technologies and indigenousknowledge, and improved
cultural practicesto farmers' fields, andpromotetheir adoption, (b) ensure that technologiesbeing developedare addressing
actualproblems of farmers, (c) establishand operate the Agricultural Researchand Development Centers(ARDC),(d)
reinforceNARO's technicaland in-service training support for the district-level extensionservices; and (e) strengthen
" 0 ' s   effectivenessand efficiency intechnologytransfer, including smallholder seed production and distribution
systems, integratedpest management, and soil fertility and management.
23. The relevantPMA extract says, "Consultations with poor farmers revealedtwo types of constraints:productivity related
constraintsand constraintsrelatedto governance. Productivity related constraintsinclude: lack of sufficient food, lack of
land, soil infertility, lack of proximal water sources, lack of inputs,pests and diseases, lack o fskills and knowledge, lack o f
capitaland accessto credit, marketproblems (low prices, lack of markets), poor roads andtransportnetworks, lack of
storage and processing, insecuritywhere it exists, and loss of oxen due to insecurityinareas where they are used.Broad
governance constraintsfaced by poor farmers include insecurity ofpersons andproperty, corruption, lack of accountability
andtransparency, poor delivery ofbasicpublic services, and weak local leadership.Lack of consultation with farmers by
governmentaland non-governmentalorganizations concerningtheir priorities, implementation .          ..." (PMA,  pagevii)

24. One ofthe main commentsconveyedbyNARO staff (past andpresent) on the genesis of the reformprocesswas that
the technicalanalysis insupport of such apivotal view hasnot been done.

                                                       16


 legislation and proposal, now called the Core Document25),the following main features are
 relevant to assessing the sustainability o f the benefits o f the project:

           " 0 ' s      core management would be reorganized into a coordinating apex body - the
           "NARO council" -with responsibilities for formulating policies and strategies for
           agricultural research, setting priorities, allocating funds, and coordinating and
           monitoring research providers and programs.

      0    The Director General o fNARO would be one o f 16 members o f the council from the
          public and private sectors, with the chairperson and nine private sector members
           appointed by the Minister o f Agriculture;

          Below the council, the Director General would be ex-officio head o f the NARO
           Secretariat for day-to-day management o f the system;

      0   Some research funding would be separated from researchdelivery by establishing an
          Agricultural ResearchTrust Fundto be managed by the NARO council to fund
          "competitive agricultural research contracts" executed byproviders; and

      0   The staff and research stations o f the current NARO would be reorganized into 13
          institutes, each o f which would be separate semi-autonomous bodies corporate (with
          management and contracting committees). Six are current NARO research institutes
          and seven are NARO regional research centers already set up under the
          decentralization strategy.

 Within ths structure, drawingon the Core Document, NARO's staff and facilities would be
 "right-sized" and NARO institutes would be "expected to give way to the emergent private
sector and, over time, to be responsible for only those strategic and public-goods areas o f
research that the private sector cannot take on."26Analysis o f the likely areas which the
private sector cannot "take on" (considering the public good character of smallholder
research products) has yet to be done but was expected to identify a substantial menu left for
public research.

57.       The current uncertainties regarding the eventual approval o f the billby parliament,
together with the innovative character o f the NARS Reform strategy, imply a real risk o f
decline inthe flow o f smallholder benefits (fi-om the project investments in" 0 ' s          physical
and human resources) at least during a transition period. There is also a risk that the
necessary priority focus and scale economies, o f importance for research into major national
priorities, may be difficult to achieve ina more decentralized, corporately segmented and
competitive system. Finally, the competitive element o f the arrangements carries the risk that
smallholder needs may lose out to the more commercially attractive demands o f medium and
large-scale farmers. These risks have a bearing on the outcome and sustainability ratings
discussed below.



  ~         ~~        ~~

25 .NationalAgricultural Research System Reform Programme - Core Document, MAAIF, March 2005
26 . Core Document, section 5.2.1.2.

                                                                 17


  OVERALL         OUTCOME

  58.       Whenthe project was completed in2000, public capacity for agricultural research
  hadbeenrehabilitatedand was producing substantial research results, especially for
  smallholders. Outcome was rated Satisfactory inOED's review o fthe ICR in2001,
  confirming the ICR's rating. The expectation was that the secondresearchproject would
  consolidate these substantial gains by focusing on acknowledged systemweaknesses and
 buildingonthe substantial institutional capability established bythe project for public goods
 research for the smallholder subsector. The present assessment confirms the rating o f
 Satisfactory for the Outcome of theproject based on the assessment o frelevance, efficacy
 and efficiency described inthe following paragraphs.

 59.        Achievements were substantial over the project's life. Duringa time o f economic
 liberalizationand tight government finance the borrower, with IDA'Sassistance, succeeded
 inbuildinga sound institutionalbasis for supporting agriculturalresearchinacountry
 heavily dependent on subsistence agriculture. ISNAR(Intemational Service for National
 Agricultural Research) "regards the process and collaborative efforts o f donors, the
 intemationalagricultural research centers and the Government inestablishing NARO a
 model for other countries to                           All such achievements mustbemeasuredagainst the
 manychallenges facing the sector, as set out inthe PMA.

 60.        The researchactivities of existing institutes (formerly managedby different
 ministries) have beenintegrated into a nationalresearchprogram coordinated by NARO to
 address all the major productionpriorities identifiedthrough regular participatoryprocesses
 with farmers andtheir representatives. Thus the project ledto improvedunderstanding o fthe
 importance o f interactionwith farmers and other stakeholders and to looking at the adoption
 o f new varieties within the context o fmixed-croppingpractices. NARO was transformed
 from civil service to semi-autonomous status andi s ina good position to initiate some cost
recovery for services andpursue more diverse funding sources, especially from private sector
participation.28However, the ICR comments, and the mission confirmed, that fixed asset
management and maintenance ingeneral could improve further.The mission also noted at
the stations visitedthat some o fthe facilities andequipmentprovidedwere not inregular or
full use, perhaps indicatingone ofthe costs ofdeclining humanresources inNARO.

61.        The overall impact on rural poverty reductiono f agricultural research globally has
been widely recognized (and it could hardly have been otherwise inUgandainsuch an
agricultural economy). The ICRreports exceptionalrates o f adoption (inthe 60 to 70 percent
range) for improvedvarieties o f a number o fmajor crops.29In all, more than 50 new crop


27. ICR, page 15,9. Partner Comments
28. Some details of achievementsare: management,administrative, accounting and financial systemshave been
strengthened, the researchinfrastructureof four instituteswas rehabilitated and an agricultural training center was
constructedat MakarereUniversity and is beingused. Strongfunctional relationshipsbetweenregional and intemational
researchinstitutions and the faculties of MUwere established.A monitoring andplanning unitwas establishedand priority
settinghas been operationalizedwith stakeholderconsultations.Buildings were rehabilitated at three centers and there were
cost savings sufficient to fund rehabilitation of laboratoriesat an additional center.
29. However, the commonproblem of low adoption rates for some of the cultural practicesneededto realizevarietal
potentials is attributableinpart to insufficient attentionby researchersto mixed cropping practices and labor constraints-
also a commonproblem. NARO was well aware o f these weaknesses in its approach.

                                                              18


  varieties were released. But as is often the case insmallholder situations, there are concerns
  over failures to adopt all aspects o f a technology package. Inthe field the mission also
  learned, andread the accounts by other observers, o f a number o f cases inwhich NARO
  researchheaded off major famine risk when key food crops were underpathogenthreat.

  62.       The main example is resolutionofthe African CassavaMosaic Disease (ACMD)
  crisis, which was a major achievement. ACMD had a catastrophic effect on cassava
 production and on poverty untilrelease o f resistant varieties developed byNARO enabled
 recovery o f the crop so that by 1999production exceededpre-epidemic levels. The ICR
 indicates that interms o f lives saved from dying o f hunger,the value o f the ACMD-resistant
 varieties introducedcannot be overemphasized. Similarly, virus-resistant sweet potato
 varieties have allowedthat crop to re-emerge inlarge areas where its cultivation hadvirtually
 ceasedbecauseo f endemic disease. Other major achievements were inmaize breeding(out-
 yielding other East African varieties); a sorghum beinggrown specifically for a newpopular
 brand o f beer; andbiological control o f water hyacinth (withtechnology from IITA, Nigeria),
 another major success, with the lakeshore and waterways now cleared o fthat aggressive
 weed with largebenefits to hydroelectric generation, fisheries, andwater

 63.        Perhaps the most concise measure o f the achievements o fNARO duringthe project i s
 provided by the substantial list o f available technologies "on-the-shelf? which the Second
 Agricultural Research and Training Projectwould concentrate on passing to farmers inthe
 early years.31

 64.       Regionally, NARO was viewed inthe late 1990s as a model research system for other
 countries to follow, and information-gatheringmissions from several countries were hosted.
 IDA'SProjectAppraisal Document for the 2001NationalAgricultural Advisory Services
 Projectwas laudatory: "NU0 i s considered to be a successfbl andwell-managed institution
 with greater administrative capacity and greater flexibility (by virtue of its semi-autonomous
 status) thani s present inmost public sector institutions."

 Relevance (Were the project's objectives right in the light of current priorities?)

 65.       The project's objectives couldnot havebeenmore highlyrelevant at approval and
 remain so today, since the needfor public research to produce public goods for smallholder
 subsectors has not diminishedand i s widely recognized. Insome ways the relevance o fthe
project objectives has beenheightened by the proposed policy change toward a more
complex model for the agricultural research system. The need to retain a core public research


               ~          ~          ~




30. Beyondthese physical impacts,the ICR reportslargedisseminationoutputs: 535 publications, 114articles, 73 annual
reports, and 150joumal articles/researchpapershook chapterswere produced.Twenty-four NARO and 40 MAK staff
receivedhigher degree training (29 PhD and 35 MSc.).
3 1. The appraisaldocument lists the following technologiesas readyto go: `` (a) improved cultural management of bananas
to reduce the harmful effects of the Sigatokadisease, bananaweevil andnematodes, (b) the rapid multiplicationof planting
materialsofmany crops, e.g., mosaic resistantcassava cultivars, high yielding clonal coffee, high yielding diseaseresistant
Irishpotato and sweet potatovarieties,throughtissuecultureand other techniques, (c) improved varieties ofbeans,
sorghum, cassava, groundnuts, sunflower, cotton, (d) village level on-farm storage structures for maize and other foodgrains,
(e) small farm implementsdesignedfor the smaller cattle of Uganda, e.g., the improved Ugandanplow; hand shellers, hand
threshers, andmechanicalweeders, and (0 improved agro-forestry technologiesandpractices for harvesting,processingand
utilizing productsof conifer plantations." (PAD, page 2)

                                                            19


  capability for smallholder technology may be heightened ifcommercial incentives divert
  resources towards addressing the technology demands o f larger scale commercial farmers.

  Efficacy (Did the projects achieve its stated objectives?)

  66.       The project achieved its objectives at completion with the exception o fthe overstated
  technology transfer objective already discussed, for which there were insufficient means in
 the project. Even so, adoption rates as described were good, productivity increased (and
 moreover production did not fall, a real possibility under the onslaught o f natural causes
 which were overcome by " 0 ' s                   work), and diversification as a long-term objective was
  served, especially by reversing any trendtoward fewer cropping opportunities caused by crop
 pathogens.


 Efficiency (Was the project cost-effective?)

 67.       Despite the implementation shortfalls described, the project was a highly efficient use
 o f Uganda's resources. Returns to successful agricultural research are very highand inthis
 case the evidence on outputs is convincing. Many improved varieties were released and
 adopted, there were instances of major cropping disasters being reversedby NARO work,
 and water hyacinth control was a major success.32Institutional outputs were also impressive
 and will generate benefits for years to come: a substantial list o f researchpublications and
 peer- reviewed articles, training o f over 1,000 extension staff, over 1,000 technical
 workshops, on-farm demonstrations and field days, an annual stakeholder planning meeting
 at each station, and considerable staff training and post-graduate upgrading.

 INSTITUTIONALDEVELOPMENT                     IMPACT AND SUSTAINABILITY

 68.       The lasting institutional impact o f the project, inits original form, has clearly changed
inthe context ofthe ongoing organizational uncertainties, anduncertainty remains over how
 long the current transition period will last.33There is a need for determined and prompt action
on key areas so that critical research capacity does not erode further. The risks inthe short
term are substantial, such that appropriate corrective actions are urgently required. It is
against this uncertain background that the project is rated against these two evaluation
criteria.


Institutional Development Impact

69.       Although the lasting institutional impact o f the project is clouded and constrained by
the ongoing policy and organizational uncertainties, the pragmatic policy approach for
agricultural research and extension that i s likely to emerge indue course will capitalize on


32. Inthe ICR, Table 3 provides a longand impressivelist o fthe technologiesavailable from NARO.
33. At the time o f the field visit the NARS reform programwas showing clear signs of stress: the case study of Ugandain
ISNAR's review inlate 2003 notedthat major elements of the reform were being questionedon feasibility grounds (the role
of local communities, decentralizationo f NARO given staffing constraints, stakeholderparticipation "in abeyance" and
systemlinkages still had to be developedwith the extensionservices (A Review of Key Issues and Recent Experiences in
Reforming Agricultural Research in Africa, ISNAR, December 2003, Appendix 2.7).

                                                                20


 the institutionaladvancesunderthe project.NARO will likelyplay a leadingrole inthis
 system. While at project completion in2000 a rating o fHigh for institutional development
 impact would have beenjustified (an upgrade from both the ICR and OED's review ratings
 o f Substantial), Substantial i s now againjustified for the ID1rating, since the impact has
 beeneroding inthe last two to three years.

 Sustainability

 70.      While there is a realrisk ofresearchbenefits for smallholders from NARO declining
 as the reforms come into being, the resilience o f the NARO system to recover quickly i s
 judgedto be good. Providedthat corrective actions on incentives and staffing are not
 delayed, the substantial investment made under the project can continue to benefit Uganda's
 poor farmers. Otherwise, leakage o fhumanresources (including out o f the country) will take
 those benefits elsewhere and outputs will decline. However, the reform process has been so
 stretched out, and controversy so strong, that predicting a final outcome at this time i s
 difficult. Hence, after careful consideration o f the probabilities, remaining uncertainties
 inhibit choosing at this time betweenLikely and Unlikely resilienceto risks o fproject
 benefits. Sustainability i s therefore recorded as Not Evaluable.

 71.      There was an expectation that the secondresearch project would consolidate the
 substantial gains o f the project by focusing on acknowledged system weaknesses, especially
 field impact, Results "on the shelf' and a continued flow o fvaluable researchresults from
 work initiated under the project would be transferred to smallholders by a strengthened
 system. Thus a strong flow o fprojectbenefits seemed assured. But since research outcomes
 are lagged substantially on research inputs, what happened after the project closed affected
 (and will continueto affect) the longer term impact o fthe                              The uncertainties
introducedbythe proposed policy changes since closing suggest that the flow o f critical
benefits to small farmers i s now less assured, and certainly less resilient to these increased
risks. Much will depend on how well the transitionperiod i s managed and how quickly
current uncertainties threatening research outputs canberemoved. This does not downgrade
the substantial achievements o fthe project duringimplementation, as discussed above, but
takes account o fthe uncertainimplications for NARO's main smallholder customers, if
indeed NARO's core capability for research i s reduced under the current proposals for
decentralization and dispersed management inmany semi-autonomous institutes.

BANKANDBORROWER                  PERFORMANCE

72.       Bankperformancewith respect to theproject is ratedoverall as Satisfactory withthe
following comments. The Bank task manager remainedthe same throughout, incontrast to a
more common pattem o f several changes o ftask manager. Ina review o f supervision the
Quality Assurance Group (QAG) raised this as an issue (preferring the added insightso f
occasional changes o f task manager), whereas the ICR correctly notes that OED has
frequently criticized hightask manager turnover. Borrowers have notedthat highturnover

34. There are some encouragingsigns emerging. Staff in the Bank's regional office have reportedthat early monitoring of
the impactofNAADS has shown very goodretumsto programactivities in"NAADS districts" comparedwith others. A
major share of these benefitsis likely to be attributableto the NARO technologies that NAADSis passingon to
smallholders.

                                                                   21


 can cause them problems and may lead to delays as new staff require time to become familiar
 with the situation. Continuity o ftask manager inthis case was on balance a benefit as canbe
 attested by results and, moreover, the record shows that supervision was relatively intensive
 with above average resources and a fair number o f specialists engaged from time to time.

 73.      The project was timely and respondedto critical needs, but the design would have
 been greatly improved if a more productive extension component hadbeen possible.35This
 might also benoted as a design deficiency which passedover the knownproblem o f the
 concentration o f research centers around Kampala and the problems this gave for conducting
 efficient outreach and demonstration. Later during supervision the salary issue should have
 received more attention rather than being allowed to linger, eventually through completion
 into 2004 (especially as the issue was identified at appraisal in 1992- S A R , para. 6.12).

 74.      Borrowerperformanceis also ratedSatisfactory, but with the reservation that the
 comments above on Bank performance shortfalls also reflect on the borrower, whose project
 it was. Moreover, the post-project issues, as they affect inparticular the ID1and
 sustainability ratings, also owe muchto initiation o f the NARS reform process (following the
 new model offered to it by donors), leaving the borrower to resolve the issues that are
 reducing research capability inthe short term. Ultimately, only the borrower can ensure that
 inthe longer-term quest for reform, the recent substantial gains inpublic researchcapacity
 for smallholder agriculture do not wither further.

 LESSONS

 75.      Experience with the project and its aftermath points to three main lessons:

     0    Public sector research: Sustaining smallholder production requires a flow o f
         technology from research (as was amply shown under the project inthe 1990s).
         Public sector research i s especially important ina sector dominated by poor
         subsistence farmers dependent on food crops. This isjustified on public goods and
         social safety net grounds, and interms o f financial and economic efficiency, given the
         highreturns to agricultural research for rural areas.

     0   Farm systems approach: Smallholder technology improvements should be
         developed through a farm systems approach (for example, taking into account mixed
         crops and labor constraints) ifthey are to be fully applicable to the needs o f
         smallholders. Technology developed without system constraints beingtaking into
         consideration i s unlikely to find strong acceptance.

    0    Complementarity of research and extension:Where a major investment is being
         made inboosting agricultural research, strong consideration should be given to
         internalizing the accompanying extension system arrangements inthe project as a
         component and as an institutional participant.




35. Without going into detail, it i s apparent that the hiatus in the Bank's support for agricultural extension associatedwith
the move away from the T&V systemwas a contributing factor to technologytransfer shortcomings during the period.


                                         23                                           Annex A


  Annex A. Basic Data Sheet

  COTTONSUBSECTORDEVELOPMENT       (CREDIT No.2609-UG)

  K e y Project Data (US$millions)
                                         Appraisal            Actual or         Actual as % of
                                         estimate          current estimate   appraisal estimate
  IDA Credit                              14.00                  13.78                98
 Cofinancing                              12.50                  11.32                91
 Government                               4.90                   3.40                 69
 Total projectcost
       _-                                 31.40                 28.50--*              91
a  x&*p   %."                         -=-                       ~       *_



 Project Dates

-_                                            Original                        Actual
 Departure of Appraisal Mission                                              05/15/1993
 Board approval                                                              05110/1994
 Effectiveness                               07/01/1994                      1111811994
 Closing date                                12/01/1999                      12/3112001


 Staff Inputs(staffweeks)
                                                        ActualNatest Estimate
                                           N" Staff weeks                   ussus$~ooo)
 Identification/Preparation                     88.5                           245.5
AppraisaVNegotiation                            67.8                           186.2
 Supervision                                   187.6                           641.2
 ICR                                            2.3                             16.1
Total                                          346.2                          1,089.0

                                                    24                                            Annex A


Mission Data
                        Date     No. of       Specializations represented               Performance Rating
                    (month/year) persons                                              Rating      Types of
                                                                                       trend      problems
Identification/      June 1991
Preparation
Identification/      Feb. 1992
Preparation
Identification/      Jan. 1993
Preparation
AppraisaVNegotiation July 1993      2       Financial Management Specialist
AppraisaVNegotiation April 1994     7       Economist (2) Operations Officer,
                                        Agriculturalist (2); Women in development
                                                       Private sector
Supervision 1        November       2   Operations Officer, Financial Management         S           S
                        1994                             Specialist
Supervision 2         February      9     Financial Management Specialist (2);           S           S
                        1995            Operations Officer (2); Agriculturalist, IPM
                                          Specialist, M&E specialist, Extension
                                             specialist, Research specialist
Supervision 3        July 1995     2     Financial Management specialist, seeds          S           S
                                                         specialist
Supervision 4        November      2        Financial Management Specialist,             S           S
                       1995                          Ginneries Specialist
Supervision 5        July 1996     5       Financial Management Specialist,              S           S
                                         Ecologist, Operations Officer, Extension
                                                Specialist, Credit Specialist
Supervision 6        September     1        Financial Management Specialist              S           S
                       1996
Supervision 7        December      1        Financial Management Specialist              U           S
                       1996
Supervision 8        June 1997     7       Financial Management Specialist,              S           S
                                         Economist (2), Operations Officer, IPM
                                        Specialist, M&E Specialist, Seed Specialist
Supervision 9        February      5     Credit Specialist, Economist, Financial         S           S
                       1998              Management Specialist, M&E Specialist,
                                                       IPMspecialist
Supervision 10       July 1998     3    Operations Officer, Financial Management         S           S
                                               Specialist, Credit Specialist
Supervision 11       February      4    Operations Officer, Financial Management         S           S
                       1999             Specialist, IPM Specialist, Credit Specialist
Supervision 12       February      3    Operations Officer, financial Management         S           S
                       2000             Specialist, Rural Development Specialist
Supervision 13       February      3    Operations officer, Financial Management         S           S
                       2001             Specialist, Rural Development Specialist
Completion           December      2            Economist, Agriculturalist               S           S
                      2001   '

                                  25                                            Annex A


 AGRICULTURALRESEARCHAND TRAININGPROJECT(CREDIT 2446-UG)

 Key ProjectData (US$millions)
                                  Appraisal            Actual or          Actual as % of
                                  estimate          current estimate    appraisal estimate
 IDA Credit                        25.00                 25.18                  101
Cofinancing                          -                     -                     -
Government                         3.83                  7.02                   183
Total project cost                 28.87                 32.20                  112


ProjectDates
                                       Original                         Actual
Departure of Appraisal Mission                                         0611511992
Boardapproval                                                          1211511992
Effectiveness                         06/24/1993                       08/31/1993
Closingdate                           12/31/200                        09/30/2000


StaffInputs(staffweeks)
                                                 Actual/Latest Estimate
                                    N" Staff weeks                    us$us$(ooo)
IdentificationlPreparation              162.8                            319.1
AppraisaIlNegotiations                   33.5                            108.6
Supervision                             189.5                            702.4
ICR                                      14.9                            63.2
Total                                   400.7                           1,193.3

                                                   26                                              Annex A


Mission Data
                           Date         No. of  Specializationsrepresented I/        Performance Ratings _U
                       (month/year)     persons                                  Implementation  Development
                                                                                    Progress      Objectives
Pre-preparation           Mar. 90          2               Ag; AR                     n.a.
Preparation           Apr-May 1991         6      Ag; AR; LR; FR; CR; Ex              n.a.
Final Preparation     Sep-Oct. 1991        3             Ag; Ex; Ec                   n.a.
Pre-appraisal         Jan-Feb. 1992        4             Ag; Ex; Ec                   n.a.
Second Pre-           Apr-May 1992         7         Ag; Ex; Ag; FA; Ec               n.a.
appraisal
Appraisal             Jun-July 1992        6         Ag; FA; Pr; AR; FM               n.a.
Supervision 1      Oct. ~I-NOV.11, 1993                    Ag; AR                      S
Supervision 2       Jun 24-July 9, 1994                     Ag; Fi                     S              S
Supervision 3        Jan. 29- Feb. 11,                     Ag; FM                      S              S
                           1995
Supervision 4        Feb. 1-22.1996        8         Ag; FA; TR; Ec; AR                S              S
(MTR)
Supervision 6       March 18-April 8,     4              Ag; AR; FA                    S              S
                           1997
Supervision 7        June 24 -July 9,      3             Ag; EC; Tr                    S              S
                           1997
Supervision 8        Jan 30 - Feb. 10,    3              Ag; AR; FA                    S              S
                           1998
Supervision 9       June 24 -July 10,     5         Ag; AR; Ec; AS; Ag                 S              S
                           1998
Supervision 10       NOV.9 - 23,1998      1                  Ag                        S              S
Supervision 11       AUg, 3-13, 1999      2                Ag; AS                      S              S
Supervision 12          Feb. 2000         36              AG; EC                       S              S
ICR                     Feb. 2000         3              Aa; ASSE                      S              S
                                                           Y
-I/Ag=Agriculturalist                                     FM = Financial Management
AR =Agricultural Research                                 Ex = Extension
LR = Livestock Research                                   Ed =Agricultural Education
FR = Forest Research                                      CE Civil Engineer
CR = Crop Research                                        Fi = Fisheries Research
Ec = Economist                                            Tr = Training
FA = FinancialAnalyst                                     AS =Agricultural Services
Pr = Procurement                                          SE = Socio-Economist

2/ S = Satisfactory

