Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No.:    22045
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
(2446-UG)
ONA
CREDIT
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$28.8 MILLION
TO THE
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & TRAINING PROJECT
March 30, 2001
Rural Development Operations
Eastern and Southern Africa
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.l



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective )
Currency Unit    Ugandan Shillings (USh)
At Appraisal (June 1992) UShl,170 = US$ I
US$ I =  USh 1,800 At Completion (September 2000)
FISCAL YEAR
July I  June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AEATRI   Agricultural Engineering and Appropriate Technology Research Institute
ACMD      African Cassava Mosaic Disease
ARDC      Agricultural Research and Development Centre
ARIS      Agricultural Research Information Service
ARTP      Agricultural Research and-Training -Project
COREC    Coffee Research Centre
CSDP      Cotton Sector Development Project
FAO/CP   Food and Agriculture Organization (Cooperative Programme with the WB)
FIRI      Fisheries Research Institute
FORI      Forestry Research Institute
FOSRI    Food Science and Technology Research Institute
GOU       Government of Uganda
IARCs    International Agricultural Research Centres
ICR       Implementation Completion Report
IDA       International Development Agency
ISNAR     International Service for National Agricultural Research
KARI      Kawanda Agricultural Research Institute
LIRI      Livestock Health Research Institute
MAAIF    Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MAK       Makerere University
MEPU      Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit
MUARIK  Makerere University Agricultural Research Institute at Kabanyolo
MTR       Mid-Term Review
NAADS   National Agricultural Advisory Services Programme
NAARI   Namulonge Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute
NARO      National Agricultural Research Organisation
NAROSEC NARO Secretariat
NARS      National Agricultural Research System
NARSP    National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan
QAG       Quality Assurance Group
RELU      Research and Extension Liaison Unit
SAR       Staff Appraisal Report
SAARI    Serere Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute
TA        Technical Assistance
UCDA      Uganda Coffee Development Authority
Vice President:    Callisto Madavo
Country Manager/Director:    James W. Adams
Sector Manager/Director:    Sushma Ganguly
Task Team Leader/Task Manager:    Edgardo Quisumbing



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & TRAINING - PHASE I
CONTENTS
Page-No.
1. PROJECT DATA ............................................................................4
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS ............................................................................4
3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE, DESIGN, AND QUALITY AT ENTRY ..........5
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS ...........................................................................6
5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME ..................................... 11
6. SUSTAINABILITY ...........................................................................                       12
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ........................................................................... 13
8. LESSONS LEARNED ........................................................................... 14
9. PARTNER COMMENTS ............................................................................ 15
10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ............................................................................ 16
ANNEXES
ANNEX  1. KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS/LOG FRAME MATRIX ........................................ 16
ANNEX 2. PROJECT COSTS AND FINANCING ...........................................................................  18
ANNEX 3. ECONOMIC COSTS AND BENEFITS ...........................................................................  19
ANNEX 4. BANK INPUTS ...........................................................................                    20
ANNEX 5. RATING FOR ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVES/OUTPUTS OF COMPONENTS ...... 21
ANNEX 6. RATINGS OF BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE ............................................. 22
ANNEX 7. LIST OF SUPPORTING DOCUMENTS ........................................................................... 22
Annex 7a. - Supplementary Tables
STI   NARO Institutes and Mandates
ST2   Project Financing and Disbursement Categories
ST3   Funding of Agricultural Research (from all sources)
ST4   Comparison of Annual Salaries and Allowance, NARO and MAAIF
ST5   NARO Scientific Staff as at July 1999
ST6   MSc and PhD Training
Annex 7b - Borrowers Implementation Completion Report
Annex 7c. ARTP Beneficiary Assessment Study
FIGURE 1. NARO ORGANIZATIONAL CHART ...................................... 49
MAP NO. IBRD 24111
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



1. PROJECT DATA
Name.' AGRIC. RESEARCH & TRAINING                 L/C/TF Number:  24460
Country/Department: UGANDA                                             Region:  Africa Regional
Office
Sector/subsector: AE - Agricultural Extension; AG - Agency
Reform; AR - Research
KEY DATES
Original          Revised/Actual
PCD.'  12/31/91                             Effective:  06/24/93          08/31/93
Appraisal:  06/15/92                                MTR:  01/22/96             02/22/96
Approval.  12/15/92                              Closing:  12/31/2000         09/30/2000
Borrower/Implementing Agency.' GOVERNMENT OF UGANDA/NARO
Other Partners:
STAFF               Current                                  At Appraisal
Vice President:     Callisto E. Madavo                       E. Jaycox
Country Manager:    James W. Adams                           B. Falconer
Sector Manager:      Sushma Ganguly                          Jayasankar Shivakumar
Team Leader at ICR:  Edgardo Quisumbing                      Edgardo Quisumbing
ICR Primary Author:  G. Evers (FAO/CP)
2. PRINCIPAL PERFORMANCE RATINGS
(HS=Highly Satisfactory, S=Satisfactory, U=Unsatisfactory, HL=Highly Likely, L=Likely, UN=Unlikely, HUN=Highly Unlikely,
HU=Highly Unsatisfactory, H=High, SU=Substantial, M=Modest, N=Negligible)
Outcome: S
Sustainability: L
Institutional Development Impact: SU
Bank Performance: S
Borrower Performance: S
QAG (if available)      ICR
Quality at Entry: S                      S
Project at Risk at Any Time: No
- 4 -



3. ASSESSMENT OF DEVELOPMENT OBJECTIVE AND DESIGN, AND OF
QUALITY AT ENTRY
3.1   Original Objective:
The Project was to support the Government's strategy for improving agricultural growth and
diversification through the development and transfer of improved technologies. The broad objectives of
the project were to develop an organizational framework and institutional process for agricultural research
which were to be sustainable and efficient, as well as responsive to the constraints faced by farmers
through the establishment of the National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO). The specific
objectives of the project were to: (i) launch and support key research activities of NARO; (ii) strengthen
linkages and coordination within the research system, with the extension services and the agricultural
faculties of MAK; and (iii) improve agricultural education and training capacky.
The project was intended to establish a semi-autonomous NARO' through the consolidation of
various agricultural research institutions. Project objectives were responsive to the constraints prevailing
in the early 1990s when the country was undergoing post-war reconstruction and agricultural research
was largely moribund and fragmented between several ministries. Objectives were clear, consistent with
the Bank's Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), in line with Government's development priorities and
rightly emphasized institutional and human resource development. The project was conceived as the first
phase of a long-term development program to strengthen agricultural research in Uganda. Financial,
institutional and macro-economic project risks articulated in the Staff Appraisal Report (SAR) did not
prove to be major problems during implementation. Indeed, not investing in re-establishing and
strengthening agricultural research in a country so heavily dependent on agriculture could well have
posed a greater risk2.
3.2   Revised Objective: (not revised)
3.3   Original Components:
*  Institutional Development of NARO (US$7.0 million): funding of its Secretariat activities,
research priority-setting and program coordination, monitoring and evaluation (M&E),
studies on research funding and new headquarters construction, project mid-term review
(MTR), and provision of mobility and equipment;
*  Rehabilitation of NARO Research Institutes (US$4.2 million): including offices, laboratories
and staff housing, as well as equipment and transport;
*  Execution of High Priority Research Programs (US$12.3 million): funding NARO
incremental operating costs, and staff salaries and allowances; and
*  Strengthening Agricultural Education and Training Capacity (US$5.3 million) at MAK,
support for local and foreign-based higher degree education, and upgrading of facilities and
equipment of the agricultural faculties; and establishment of a Continuing Agricultural
Education Center.
NARO is composed of a Secretariat (NAROSEC), eight Institutes and one Centre. Six Instilutes existed before ARTP:
Kawanda Agricultural Research Institute (KARI), Namulonge Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute
(NAARI), Serere Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute (SAARI), the Forestry Research Institute
(FORI), the Livestock Health Research Institute (LIRI), and the Fisheries Research Institute (FIRI). Two additional
institutes were established at ARTP inception: the Agricultural Engineering and Appropriate Technology Research
Institute (AEATRI) and the Food Science and Technology Research Institute (FOSRI). The Coffee Research Centre
(COREC) was established in 1996. AEATRI and COREC were previously two programs of KARI, and FOSRI was
under FIRI. See Figure I (Organization Chart).
2 At time of appraisal, agriculture accounted for 60% of Gross Domestic Product (GDP), 95% of export earnings, 80%
of employment and 40% of government revenues.
- 5-



Project design was appropriate, directly addressing key institutional issues and the components
clearly related to objectives. The project was not intended to fund all research activities, but, rather to
develop an effective organization able to attract and efficiently manage funds from GOU, donors,
international centers, the private sector and multilateral agencies3 It was designed to focus initially on
institutional development and to support new priority research programs in the latter half of project
implementation. Between project Appraisal and Credit Effectiveness, two additional Institutes, FOSRI
and AEATRI, were created by GOU. Around 1996, COREC was also established.
3.4   Revised Components: (not revised)
3.5   Quality at Entry.
Overall, the quality at entry was considered satisfactory by both the ICR mission and the Quality
Assurance Group (QAG). The design was responsive to prevailing conditions at the time and preparation
and appraisal were generally well managed. Borrower ownership and commitment were strong
throughout, and the project was adequately prepared, with NARO statutes and a detailed Implementation
Plan in place prior to Board presentation. Although component design was generally satisfactory, project
identification stressed the importance of having a broad geographic research presence to respond to
location-specific needs of farmers in all agro-ecological zones. The issues of over-concentration of
research institutes in the Kampala area and the need for decentralization were recognized but were not
fully addressed by the project as priority was given to the consolidation of existing institutes into one
national organization (NARO), the operationalization of NARO, and to human resource development,
rather than funding new infrastructures. It was agreed that these issues would be better addressed during
the second phase of IDA's assistance to agricultural research and NARO was fully operational.
The ICR shares the view of the QAG that an analysis of the Borrower's long-term capacity to
sustain its NARS without eventual donor support would have provided a useful appraisal tool to
determine what size of NARS the Borrower should aim at, and to serve as a point of reference for
securing long-term institutional and financialsustainability. Project vision and entry quality would have
been enhanced, had these considerations been taken into account. The main external factor that affected
entry quality was the absence of a clear government policy to attract private sector investment in seed
production, which restric,ted the diffusion of crop varieties released by research4.
4. ACHIEVEMENT OF OBJECTIVE AND OUTPUTS
4.1   Outcome/achievement of objective:
Overall, the outcome of the project is rated as satisfactory. The project met its principal objectives
of establishing a stronger, semi-autonomous NARO and developing management and operational
processes for agricultural research planning and implementation. The new autonomy enabled NARO to
apply competitive terms of service and be more flexible in resource allocation and management.
Specifically, the project has: (a) successfully launched NARO and established a prioritized national
research program; (b) developed strong functional linkages with regional and international research
institutions and with faculties of MAK; and (c) had a significant impact on improving training capacity
and agricultural education. The outcomes of developing M&E and human resource management
capacities were less satisfactory. NARO needs to further improve the quality of its interaction with
farmers and other stakeholders, which has been constrained by the current concentration of institutes
Including the IDA-funded Headstart Agricultural Research and Extension Program under the Agricultural Sector
Adjustment Credit; the Cotton Sector Development Project (CSDP); and the Lake Victoria Environmental
Management Project, IFAD funded Smallholder Cotton Rehabilitation Project, EU funded Coffee Cropping Systems
Project and commodity research programs funded by USAID, GTZ, UNDP and FAO.
4 Consistent with QAG remarks, but the ICR considers that it was not the role of NARO to provide such services.
- 6 -



around Kampala and the financial limitations to conducting on-farm research. NARO's outreach
activities throughout the country have been seriously affected by the failure of the IDA funded National
Extension Project to develop the capacity of the agricultural extension service to perform its functions and
serve as active partners.
The project impact on agricultural growth is difficult to assess since it is still in the first Ihase of a
long-term institutional development strategy. The SAR did not attempt to estimate an economic rate of
return in this project phase. While impact indicators had been defined at Appraisal, these were only
quantified in 1998, and no impact data were available at this time. Nevertheless, some technologies
clearly contributed to increased food production and income, and prevented major food production
collapse and related food security problems. This is illustrated by the cases of wide adoption of African
Cassava Mosaic Disease (ACMD)-tolerant cassava varieties which increased yields from 7 tons per
hectare to over 30 tons per hectare and are currently planted in 150,000 hectares or 60% of the total area
planted to cassava. In monetary terms, at a conservative average production of 15 tons per hectare and
cost of $100 per ton, the value of the cassava produced would be US$225 million. But in terms of lives
saved from dying of hunger, the value of the ACMD-resistant varieties introduced cannot be
overemphasized. NARO has also contributed to water hyacinth control in the lake complex, the
economic value of which still requires estimation. Other notable achievements include the release of a
range of crop varieties, and agro-forestry species; and improved understanding of livestock disease
epidemiology and lake ecologies. The project significantly increased the number of MAK and NARO
staff trained in relevant disciplines, and has markedly enhanced education capacity at MAK.
Beneficiary Assessment (BA). The findings from the beneficiary assessment study' suggest that, in
order to further improve its performance, NARO should: (i) update its priority research programs
regularly to better reflect farmer priorities and tackle key bottlenecks in the farming systems (areas of
immediate attention include soil and water management, control of new disease outbreaks, seed
production and post-harvest technologies); (ii) stress the importance of good land husbandry and crop
management practices as pre-requisites to increasing farm productivity and to increasing returns from
purchased inputs such as seeds and fertilizers; (iii) develop labor saving technologies consistent with
practiced farming systems, gender and other socio-economic concerns, or develop with stakeholders new,
less labor demanding production systems, including conservation agriculture and no-tillage systems; and
(iv) monitor the impact and economic viability of the new technologies.
4.2   Outputs by components:
Institutional Development of the National Agricultural Research System (US$7.0 million)
Overall, this component has been successfully implemented, and staff are enjoying competitive
terms and conditions of service that were introduced as a result of the change from a civil service to semi-
autonomous status. The research activities of existing Institutes have been integrated into one national
agricultural research program which is coordinated by the National Agricultural Research Organization
through a Secretariat. Management, administrative, accounting, and financial systems were strengthened;
research infrastructure of 4 institutes was rehabilitated, and a Continuing Agricultural Education Center
was constructed at MAK in Kabanyolo.
Management Systems and Capacity Development Considerable progress has been made in
establishing operational and planning procedures, financial management and accounting, procurement and
training systems. Management introduced in 1996, a computerized financial management (FINPRO) and
an asset recording and management system in 1999. Observations of the ICR mission in visits to several
stores, workshops and laboratories indicate that there is considerable scope to further improve fixed asset
management. The process of annual research and budget planning within a rolling five-year plan has
Carried out by NARO in support of the ICR preparation (January/February 2000), see Annex 8.
- 7 -



been introduced but is not yet fully effective6, especially in programs constrained by inadequate non-
salary operating funds. Given that inter-institute and program coordination in plan and budget
development are not yet fully operational, there is some inefficiencyin resource utilization. A research
management program (INFORM developed by ISNAR) has also been introduced to track research
programs and activities but has still to be fully utilized.
Terms and Conditions of Service. Project funding included some US$10 million for staff salaries
and allowances, equivalent to about 35% of total project costs. The intention was that salaries and
allowances should be high enough to allow scientists to dedicate themselves full-time to research, attract
and retain high quality staff, and support a possible establishment of 840 staff. Soon after Credit
Effectiveness, SAR costed salaries and allowance levels were substantially increased, and service
conditions to adjust for inflation and make them competitive. However, because of this major salary
adjustment, funds have not subsequently been available to apply performance-based incentives through
promotion or incremental advance5, and to fill positions falling vacant. The staff establishment has fallen
from a peak of about 780 in 1998 to 709 in early 2000 (including 187 scientific staff). The inability to
fill a relatively small number of key vacant scientific positions through re-deployment or recruitment has
had a disproportionate impact on research implementation in a number of programs. Although NARO
salary and allowance levels have become less competitive when compared to those of MAAI9, turnover
of senior staff has not been excessive. For example in 1998 and 1999, senior staff loss averaged 5% per
annum (mainly through death and retirement).
Agricultural Research Information Service (ARIS). ARIS has been developed into an effective
center for coordinating and disseminating information to NARO scientists and other stakeholders. It
provides several services such as literature search and document delivery and has also established an
agricultural research and information network, an electronic library and publishes a Journal of
Agricultural Science. Six Institute libraries were equipped with computers. Books, periodicals and CD
ROM databases were acquired in partnership with international information centers. Email and internet
connections with all Institutes have improved communication.
Research and Extension Liaison Unit (RELU). One research and extension liaison officer from
MAAIF has been posted to each Institute to promote and co-ordinate outreach activities and facilitate
farmer-extension-research interaction. RELU activities include: extension training, needs assessment
studies, pre-seasonal planning, technical workshops, on-farm demonstrations, farm field days, production
of brochures and leaflets, and publication of a monthly bulletin. Despite undertaking a broad range of
activities, national impact has not fully met expectations, being constrained by organizational
uncertainties and the ineffectiveness of the partner extension operations. Under the follow-up of ARTP
II, RELU activities are expected to be absorbed by the proposed Agricultural Research and Development
Centres (ARDCs), and funding issues of extension addressed under the proposed National Agricultural
Advisory Services Program (NAADS).
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (MEPU). The establishment of MEPU was delayed and
faced serious problems of staff recruitment and high turnover. MEPU has developed an evaluation
manual with quantifiable indicators to track progress and determine impact, but methodologies for
economic analysis and beneficiary assessment need further strengthening. In 1998, MEPU conducted an
Organisation Performance Assessment, which is a commendable step. Although this "self assessment"
methodology needs to be refined, it made useful recommendations to improve NARO performance, most
of which are in line with the ICR findings. The most critical task facing MEPU is the development of a
6 QAG noted "the annual work plan tool was not adequately used, and the five year rolling plan did not materialise
making it difficult for NARO to properly update the research program".
An analysis of salaries and allowances indicates an increase of over 100% for all grades (Annex 7, Table ST 4).
A staff performance assessment process was developed with technical assistance support and introduced in 1997. It
proved cumbersome, was revised and the 1998/99 assessment is now underway.
9 Table ST 4 indicates that even after the major increase in the MAAIF remuneration package, existing NARO terms are
still better, though NARO terms are generally below those of other parastatals in Uganda.
- 8 -



management information system (MIS) to track research progress and implementation and serve as a tool
for management; and the development of capacity to evaluate research benefits and impact. NARO will
be seeking the assistance of outside consultants to develop the MIS as well asoperationalize the M&E
function of MEPU.
Studies and Technical Assistance. The project intended to focus heavily on identifying sources of
incremental research funding, including the possibility of establishing a research endowment trust,
identifying contract research opportunities from Government and agribusiness, and optimizing donor
contributions. In 1996, a study on "Sustainable Funding Initiative" proposed a range of direct revenue
generation opportunities, and discussed cess and trust fund options, but without apparent outcome. No
new initiatives have been taken and NARO has mostly pursued incremental funding through other donors
and international agencies. These contributions have proved vitally important in running research
programs but their total annual contribution has not increased since 1993 (Annex 7, Table ST3).
Significant technical assistance (TA) input was employed for research and education capacity building
and for management support and institutional capacity building. The output of TA was generally
positive.
Rehabilitation of Research Institutes (US$4.2 million)
The project financed the rehabilitation of buildings at SAARI, LIRI and FIRI, which was
completed by September 2000. Savings generated on this sub-component allowed undertaking
rehabilitation of laboratories and improvement of utilities (electricity and water systems) at KARI. Much
work remains to be done, especially at SAARI where laboratory rehabilitation was not included. The
future maintenance of these rehabilitated buildings is a concern given the inadequate maintenance budgets
in the past and early deterioration seen at some rehabilitated housing. Vehicle and equipment
procurement for the Institutes was completed ahead of schedule. This sub-component has significantly
improved the working environment of the concerned Institutes.
Execution of Priority Research Programs (US$12.3 million)
This component included mainly funding of NARO staff incremental salaries and allowances, and
also non-salary operating costs to complement on-going and future priority research. In 1991, GOU had
undertaken several studies that formed the basis for preparing the National Agricultural Research
Strategy and Plan (NARSP), which set national research priorities, largely on a commodity basis, to
address the country's agricultural development objectives. The project succeeded in providing an
improved enabling environment for agricultural research and, as staff were gradually recruited and
benefited from training, research on identified priorities was implemented. Although generally
compatible with NARSP priorities, a large number of small research projects have been supported by
various donors and agencies (Table 7a ST3), which could have been better coordinated and consolidated
into fewer more focused priority research activities. Notably, most research programs have established
good collaboration with International Agricultural Research Centers (IARCs).
A marked focus on crop breeding and introduced variety screening has led to release of over 50
varieties (Borrower's ICR, Table 3). There was less emphasis on equally important cross-cutting and
farming systems-based issues such as agricultural engineering (labor-saving technologies, farm
implements), soil fertility and weed management, post-harvest and socio-economic aspects. Livestock
research appeared well balanced between production and health issues, and fisheries between production
and resource management issues. Forestry activities covered both forest management, production and
agro-forestry. Demand-driven, participatory research planning and implementation methodologies have
been introduced, through interactions with IARCs and NGOs, but they are not yet fully internalized. In
addition, priority has been increasingly given to on-farm research. In spite of the economic importance of
-9-



the coffee industry (65% of foreign exchange earnings), coffee research appeared relatively under-
resourced'°. NARO needs to vigorously pursue additional funding contribution from the UCDA.
NARO was able to adjust its work program and mobilize financial and human resources to
successfully respond to major crises threatening the sector, in particular for the ACMD outbreak and the
water hyacinth infestation on Lakes Victoria and Kyoga. A similar approach is expected to be developed
to address the Coffee Wilt Disease threat which is currently occurring throughout the Robustacoffee
growing areas.
Strengthening Agricultural Education and Training (US$5.3 million)
The project provided funds for staff training and for developing the education capacity at MAK.
Higher degree training and short courses were to be sponsored locally and overseas in priority disciplines.
Capacity building at MAK was supported through a twinning arrangement with Ohio State and Cornell
Universities to improve the curriculum of Bukalasa Agricultural College and develop non-degree training
through a continuing education program. US$0.8 million was provided to establish a Continuing
Agricultural Education Centre at Makerere University's Agricultural Research Institute in Kabanyolo.
Training was well planned and covered the priority needs identified at appraisal for scientific,
management and support staff; 24 NARO and 40 MAK staff benefited from higher degree training (29
Ph.D. and 35 M.Sc., see Annex 7a, Table ST4). Candidates performed well (100% pass rate) and on
completion all were absorbed into NARO and MAK as research officers and lecturers. In addition, some
840 short-term training sessions were undertaken in a range of topics including: participatory
methodologies, scientific publication, management information systems, leadership, teamwork, strategic
planning, logical framework, financial management and computer use. The performance of the
component is considered highly satisfactory.
4.3 Net Present Value/Economic rate of return:
Being a first phase of a long-term research development process, appraisal considered that
conventional cost/benefit analysis was not an appropriate measure for evaluation of this project, which
focused on institutional developmente". SAR justification was based on a number of studies undertaken
in other countries that have shown strong positive relationships between spending on agricultural research
and changes in produc.ivity. As an indication of the order of magnitude of the returns of research, the
potential effects on banana production were analyzed during appraisal. The analysis indicated that if the
research program were able to increase banana yields by 10 percent starting in the year 2000, the benefits
would provide a rate of return of between 35 and 40 percent of the full cost of the six-year project and on
incremental recurrent funding requirements over 20 years. Several success stories provide indications of
positive returns. The resolution of the African Cassava Mosaic Disease (ACMD) epidemic which had a
catastrophic effect on cassava production and food security is one example. It is estimated that, between
1988 and 1993, cassava annual production had dropped by some 70%, from 3.5 to around 1 million
metric tons (equivalent to US$100 million). The subsequent development of ACMD tolerant varieties
and their dissemination covered 150,000 hectares and resulted in the recovery of the crop so that, by
1999, production exceeded pre-epidemic levels.
4.4.  Financial Rate of Return (not calculated)
4.5. Institutional development impact:
As already discussed above, the project had a highly significant impact on institutional
development and strengthening of NARO capacity to manage the national agricultural research system.
IS In 1998/99, coffee research budget amounted to some US$400,000, equivalent to just 0.15% of US$283 million, the
total value of the crop, and only 15% of the Uganda Coffee Development Authority cess in that year.
The second phase (ARTP II) invests more into research operations and an ERR has been calculated.
- 10-



5. MAJOR FACTORS AFFECTING IMPLEMENTATION AND OUTCOME
5.1  Factors outside the control of government or implemenfing agency:
NARO was unable to retain economists and finance staff, as its terms and conditions for those
positions are not competitive on the market. As a result the M&E and finance departments were
understaffed for much of the project's duration.
5.2  Factors generally subject to government control:
Political stability and economic growth combined with a strong commitment on the parts of
Government, NARO management and staff provided a positive environment for institutional reform and
development. This commitment was witnessed by the provision of adequate Government counterpart
funding (though not always timely) which eventually exceeded SAR estimates.
The absence of a clear government seed and planting material policy and a lack of private sector
interest in seed and planting material production restrict diffusion of superior crop varieties and adversely
affected research impact. In recent years, the radical reorganization of the national extension service and
chronic under-funding has rendered field level extension almost non-operational and in turn impeded
feedback from farmer to research, thus limiting technology dissemination, and adoption, and research
impact.
5.3  Factors generally subject to implementing agency control:
A well designed TA input provided critical support to NARO management in establishing the new
organization and developing operational procedures. The satisfactory outcome of the human resource
development training activities through a twinning arrangement between NARO and MAK with Ohio
State and Cornell universities was instrumental achieving the success of the training component and in
improving the capacities of NARO and MAK to fulfil their respective mandates. The continuity and
effective partnership between NARO management and the Bank Task Team were a further important
factor exerting positive influence on outcome.
The major structural salary and allowance increase of 1993, although gratifying staff at the time,
had an adverse long-term impact on morale. Effectively, it committed all salary and allowance provisions
under the Credit, leaving little scope to apply intended performance-based financial incentives,
subsequent inflation-linked salary adjustment, or even to replace key staff. Remuneration levels have
thus been largely stagnant for over seven years, diminishing NARO competitiveness; staff have not been
rewarded for good performance and morale has eroded. In addition, the delayed recruitment (or re-
deployment where feasible) to replace critical professional staff who left the organization has hampered
research implementation in several programs.
The current geographic distribution of research facilities and NAROSEC, and operational
procedures have: (a) resulted in excessive demand on transport, with related high operating costs and time
spent "on the road"; and (b) made on-farm research operations expensive and technology development for
most zones more difficult. Lack of flexibility in sharing staff resources between Institutes and Programs
has also reduced efficiency12. GOU/IDA co-financing arrangements of non-salary research operating
costs proved difficult to operate and resulted in inadequate and patchy fund releases frequently
constraining research operations, especially those on-farm.
12 Cognisant of this, NARO is considering the introduction of a project approach whereby staff and resources could be
used across programs and institutes. This would seem appropriate for specific research and outreach activities
requiring multi-disciplinary inputs, within the current program framework.
- 11-



5.4   Costs andfinancing:
Financial management and disbursement rates have been fully satisfactory. The total cost of the
six-year project was estimated at US$28.9 million, of which US$25.04 million was to be funded by IDA
(SDR 17.8 million) and US$3.8 million by GOU. The DCA was amended once in August 1997 to adjust
category allocations and disbursement percentages. The original Credit Closing Date was December 31,
2000, but it was revised to September 30, 2000 due to early project completion At project closure, total
disbursements amounted to US 25.2 million (SDR 17.8 million). The project disbursement rate has
closely tracked the SAR disbursement plan. Total GOU counterpart funding amounted to an equivalent
of US$7.0 million, far exceeding the planned contribution of US$3.8 million. Project procurement and
civil works have been completed, although there was an earlier problem in the procedures for accepting
delivery of tractors, which had been since rectified'3.
6. SUSTAINABILITY
6.1 Rationale for sustainability rating:
Sustainability is assured in the short-term by the continued IDA support under ARTP II, by
ongoing and anticipated support from bilateral donors and international agencies and by Government
commitment to provide adequate counterpart funding. However, longer-term sustainability is still to be
secured. At present, NARO is heavily donor dependent as over 60% of total expenditures are financed
from external sources (Annex 7a, Table ST3). On completion of ARTP II in 2005, the annual charges for
salaries, allowances and operating costs are estimated to be some US$4.7 million, whereas current
development budget contributions to NARO are around 30% of what would be required in five years'
time.
Similarly, as the real costs of maintaining the NARS are not readily apparent to Government (i.e.,
over 60% of costs borne by donors), a larger than sustainable organization may develop, based on a
premise of perpetual donor support. The medium-term financial and institutional sustainability of NARO
will to a large degree depend on Government capacity to increase its direct contribution, and on NARO
capacity to generate significant revenues through cost recovery on services, and in raising extra resources
through commercial activities and cess income. In the longer run, experience from other parts of the
world suggests that the development of new agricultural technology would come from a combination of
public and private sector investment. By supporting the development of a research capacity through
training and practical research experience within NARO, and by establishing a policy environment that
encourages the development of research based on private sector companies, many new technologies
would be developed with no additional government funding needed.
6.2 Transition arrangement to regular operations:
The next five years will be a critical transition period in which to address the sustainability issue.
NARO must accord high priority to revenue generation opportunities. Current rules and procedures
governing such activities should be reviewed with Government to ensure that disincentives are removed
and positive incentives put in place. Opportunities to increase research funding from cess funds should be
explored. There are opportunities to privatize coffee research and possibly increase industrial
contribution in the cotton sector. NARO should also review options for institutional consolidation and to
improve efficiency through containing its own operational and administrative costs. NARO commitment
'3 The main issue has been the procurement of 10 tractors and equipment that proved unsuitable and most of which are
now unusable (many with hardly 1000 hours on the clock). This problem was not reported promptly to suppliers and
IDA within warranty periods. Though NARO had recommended that the third lowest bidder be accepted as neither of
the lower two had well established post sales servicing, IDA guidelines required acceptance of the lowest evaluated
bidder.
- 12 -



to decentralize operations by establishing 12 Agricultural Research and Development Centres (ARDCs)
will further challenge its long-term sustainability. It is suggested that a study be undertaken to determine
the sustainable size of the NARS, including review of staff requirements, Institute/Centre numbers and
locations, current organization and operational procedures, and sustainable funding arrangements.
7. BANK AND BORROWER PERFORMANCE
Bank
7.1  Lending:
The performance of the Bank was generally satisfactory. Given the institutional complexity and
significant design changes during preparation, lending development was managed efficiently. Although
identification mission views on the need to decentralize research were not given priority attention,
preparation otherwise adequately covered major aspects giving strong emphasis to critical institutional
development. Appraisal recognized administrative weakness inherent in a newly organized implementing
agency and rightly made substantial TA provisions in initial years to support financial management and
accounts, procurement, and the development of research management systems including planning and
budgeting processes. This proved critical and was generally successful. The severe financial constraints
of GOU pertaining at that time were also recognized and an appropriate financing package was devised
whereby IDA funded 90% of total costs net of taxes, including a high proportion of NARO salary costs.
7.2  Supervision:
The Bank supervision is considered satisfactory by the ICR, but marginally satisfactory by QAG'4.
Supervision has generally been constructive and focused on the major implementation issues. However,
because of limited budgetary resources, intensive and early supervision emphasis was given towards the
establishment of research management and operation, and financial and internal control systems of
NARO, leaving minimal coverage to other aspects like the establishment of capacities for M&E, human
resource management, revenue generation initiatives, and in the general encouragement of a more
business-oriented culture within NARO management. The major increase in salary scales, introduced
unilaterally by GOU in 1993, was not identified early enough as a problem which would impact on
NARO's subsequent ability to apply performance-based financial incentives and on the early depletion of
IDA funds allocated for salaries. IDA brought the matter to the attention of the borrower, which
subsequently provided additional funds to pay salaries.
7.3   Overall Bankperformance:
Overall, the Bank performance has been satisfactory. IDA staff inputs have been consistent, with
the same task management and technical back-stopping team from preparation through completion and in
appraisal of the follow-up project. Such consistency has clear advantages and has facilitated a
constructive and collaborative working relationship. The ICR-does not share the concerns expressed in
the QAG report on the wisdom of retaining the same Task Team Leader and support team from
preparation through completion. OED has in the past been consistently critical of the disruption caused
by frequent changes in the task management of projects so an effort has been made to address this
concern. Bank supervision missions have been complemented by specialists from the Bank and outside
to ensure a "fresh and objective" look at the project. The Borrower in its report recognized the benefits of
having to deal with the same task manager over the life of the project which has allowed speedy action
and resolution of implementation issues.
4 ICR considers supervision satisfactory overall because main project objectives were achieved and because, as
recognised by QAG, supervision was constrained by limited resources.
- 13 -



Borrower
7.4  Preparation.
The Borrower managed the preparation of the project satisfactorily. It created a Working Group on
Research comprising all the relevant stakeholders to prepare a National Agricultural Research Strategy
and Plan which became the basis for ARTP. The ARTP is wholly owned by the Borrower.
7.5   Government implementation performance:
The Borrower's provision of recurrent operating costs has been sporadic at times but its total
contribution to the project exceeded its commitments. The additional amount was made available to
provide for NARO staff salaries towards the end of the project. The efficient and effective
implementation is manifested in the closure of the project 3-months ahead of the original closing date.
7.6  Implementing Agency.
NARO has implemented the project satisfactorily and completed it ahead of schedule. It has
established an efficient accounting and internal control systems, procurement and fixed assets
management procedures, and successfully managed and completed the civil works and the training
components which involved MAK.
7.7   Overall Borrower performance:
Overall, borrower performance has been satisfactory. Ownership has been strong from the outset
and although funding of non-salary research operating costs has been sporadic, overall counterpart
funding has exceeded commitments. The Borrower has performed well in establishing a national
organization and in setting up and internalizing effective operational procedures for research planning,
financial management, procurement, and training management. The Borrower has not, however,
established an effective M&E capacity to measure project impact and is still in the process of introducing
performance based financial incentives for its staff. Given current strategies to decentralize research
resources, greater emphasis should be accorded to issues of NARO long-term financial sustainability,
including opportunities to rationalize and consolidate institutional arrangements, improve financial
efficiency and minimize overhead administrative costs within the organization.
8. LESSONS LEARNED
In the course of project implementation the following lessons were learnt:
* Changing the status of a research organization (NARS) from a government department to a
semi-autonomous organization does not automatically result in more dynamic management, a
change of culture and greater efficiency. Effective research management systems,
particularly research planning and operational procedures, as well as budgeting, financial
management and controls have to be put in place. NARS management and Bank supervision
have to be pro-active from the outset and give attention to monitoring and evaluation of
performance of the research programs and staff, and the institution of an incentive framework
to reward outstanding performance.
* The genetic potential of most existing varieties is far from being fully exploited on-farm, and
substantial production gains can accrue from various approaches to improved farm
management, i.e., integrated pest management, weed management, soil, crop and animal
husbandry. To exploit this opportunities, research and extension should give as great an
emphasis to addressing farm and crop management constraints vis-a-vis plant breeding.
* As illustrated by the cassava and water hyacinth programs, focusing research resources on a
few critical production issues, the resolution of which can have rapid and substantial impact,
- 14 -



may make a more effective use of resources than dispersing them over a large number of
small activities.
*  In instances where competent staff cannot be attracted or retained (e.g., in M&E, financial
management, and socio-economics), or in cases where the institution has no internal
comparative advantage in providing a service or activity (e.g., vehicle and machinery repair
and maintenance, as well as baseline and impact studies), these activities should be contracted
out.
*  Given the typically under-funded status of many NARS, financial sustainability should not be
dependent on Government and donor support alone. Fund raising should become a
recognized function of research managers. Researchers must also do what they can to raise
funds and government should take steps to encourage the development of technologies by the
private sector. In this regard, the establishment of a research trust fund or research
foundation/endowment should be vigorously pursued.
*  Good cooperation and continuity between the implementing agency, the Bank and the key
TA contribute to a real partnership and smooth implementation; the benefits of Bank support
team continuity are exemplified by this project. Bank management should ensure that such
continuity be complemented by backstopping from other specialists within and outside the
Bank, as necessary.
9. PARTNER COMMENTS
(a) Borrower/implementing agency.
NARO prepared an Implementation Completion Report on behalf of the Borrower (November
2000), whose findings are largely in line with those described in this ICR. The report is attached as
Annex 7b. The findings of the Beneficiary Assessment carried out by the Borrower in early 2000, are
presented as Annex 8.
(b) Cofinanciers.
Other donors'"5 contribution to the project are given in Annex 7a, Table ST3).
(c) Other partners (NGOs/private sector).
The Ministry of Agriculture Animal Industry and Fisheries considers this project highly successful
in establishing NARO as a strong organization to serve as the vanguard to support agricultural
development in Uganda. ISNAR regards the process and collaborative efforts of donors, the International
Agricultural Research Centers and the Government in establishing NARO a model for other countries to
follow.
s Other donors include: DANIDA, DFID, EU, FAO, Gastsby Foundation, GTZ, IDRC, IFAD, Rockefeller Foundation,
U7NDP, USAID, and WHO aggregating to about $6.5 million over the life of the project.
- 15-



10. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Annex 1
Key Performance Indicators/Log Frame Matrix
Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                Projected in SAR                      Actual
Per capita rural income         Increased from US$ 180 to US$ 250     US$ 250
Food production and security    Yields of food crops - cassava and beans  Cassava, national average yields increased by
increased by 5%                      50% from 6.5 tons/ha in 1994 to 10 tons in
1998
Beans from 650 kg/ha to 700 kg/ha; an
increment of 7.7%
Reduction of crop imports       Maize by 50%                         No record
Agricultural exports            Coffee earnings to agricultural export  Contribution of coffee declined from 74.6%
declined to ... % (not defined)      in 1994 to 51 % in 1999
Comprehensive institutional                                           Done
framework forNARS established
Major technology constraints    n.a.16                                Contribution (part of long-term programme)
facing farmers alleviated
Output Indicators:
Research/Extension Linkages     Projected in SAR                                      Actual
No. of extension district workers   50% of district extension workers  over 1,000 trained
trained in new technologies     exposed to 10 new technologies
NARO Technical Workshops for   n.a.                                   341 stakeholder workshops
Extension Workers
No. of on-farm demonstrations   100% increment (base not defined)     108 demonstrations
No. of field days               I in two years per Institute (about 25)  656 in 5 years
No. of district planning        n.a.                                 No record
workshops attended
No. of farmers trained          n.a.                                  around 2,900
Adoption rates of ARTP          5 new technologies by 10% of          70.7% adopted improved beans. 45.7%
technologies                    beneficiaries                         adopted improved millet (Pese 1)
2-new technologies by 30% of          72% adopted improved cassava varieties
beneficiaries                         63.3% adopted I ground nut variety
66.1% of acreage under sweet potato is
reportedly planted with improved varieties in
Katakwi and Soroti districts
Effectiveness                   Projected in SAR                                      Actual
Research priorities set for all                                       Set in 1994 and validated after 1995
NARO research programmes
No. of new technologies         2 per programme                       253 technologies developed between 1993-
developed per programme                                               l998'7'
16 n.a. = not available (not defined).
17This figure, reported by NARO, is largely above target, and should be read with caution, as a number of
technologies were transferred/promoted by NARO, but had been developed elsewhere or before ARTP.
- 16 -



Outcome/Impact Indicators:
Indicator/Matrix                Projected in SAR                                      Actual
No. of annual programme         I annual meeting per Institute        I meeting per Institute for 9 Institutes since
planning meetings with                                                1995-99
stakeholder
Collaborative research          10% of all research involving external    No record
programmes                      collaborators
No. of Donor coordination       2 per year                            Less than I per year, donors met separately
meetings convened by NARO
MAK students using NARO         10 of MAK postgraduates undertake     23 MAK postgraduates received funding
facilities and staff            research in NARO                      under ARTPI, 9 of them NARO staff.
NARO staff teaching in MAK      10% of staff                          No record
No. of scientific publications  To increase by 50% (base not defined)    535 publications
10 workshop proceedings
114 articles in Bulletin/Newspaper
73 Annual Reports
150 Journal articles/Research paper/Book
chapter
Operating procedures for finance,   Procurement committee set-up      Done
procurement and M&E developed   Financial manual set-up
and tested                      Computerisation
Improved Research Capacity of NARO
No. of new PhDs in NARO         10                                    13
No. of new MSc in NARO          11                                    11
No. of women in research       Increment of 30% (base not defined)    From 16% in 1993 to 21% in 1999
NARO
Short-term training             20% staff participating each year,    840 sessions
equivalent to some 860 over six years
No. of buildings rehabilitated  Construction of NARO office and       Detailed designs prepared
rehabilitation
Staff quarters and housing           41 constructed/rehabilitated
Dormitory at MUARIK                  Continuing Agricultural Education Centre
Rehabilitation of teaching facilities at  completed in September 2000, dormitory
MUARIK                               completed
No. of laboratories rehabilitated    KARI                             Tissue culture laboratory operational
and equipped                                                          Laboratory block at LIRI completed by
LIRI, FIRI and SAARI                 September 2000
Three Institutes rehabilitated
No. of vehicles procured        n.a.                                  55 from 1993-1998
No. of computers procured       n.a.                                  54 from 1993-1998
Training in MIS for NARO        Train 22 scientists in NARO           60 scientists and technicians trained
research managers
Makerere University             Projected in SAR                                      Actual
No. of new PhDs in MAK          15                                    16
No. of new MSc in MAK           31                                    24 (7 to be completed by 2000/2001)
1/ Projections were finalized in 1998.
- 17 -



Outcome/Impact Indicators:    Projected in SAR                      Actual/Latest Estimate
Indicator/Matrix
% of female undergraduates in    30%                                18%
agriculture in MAK
Centre for Continuing Education   Operational                       Buildings completed, operational December
(Kabanyole)                                                         2000
No. of contract research projects  n.a.                             None
Contribution of contract research   Volume to increase by 2%        None
projects to budget
No. of research projects      n.a.                                  140 researchers falling under 20 projects
focussing on export commodities                                    focusing on coffee, maize, fish, cotton and
cocoa
Contribution of private funding    5% of operating costs and 20% of costs    UCDA contributed to COREC, other
to NARO budget                of export commodities financed by     commodities < 5%
private sector
No. of sustainable fund raising    At least one fund raising project for each   None
activities developed and      Institute
operationalised
Staff turnover %              Below 10%                             12%
Annex 2a
Project Costs and Financing (in US$ million Equivalent)l/
Project Component                  Appraisal Estimate            Actual             Percentage of
Appraisal
Institutional Development                  7.02                    9.96                  142%
Rehabilitation of Research Institutes      4.20                    3.67                  87%
Priority Research Programs 2/             12.34                   13.41                  109%
Agricultural Education, Makerere           5.31                    5.16                  92%
University
TOTAL                                     28.87                   32.20                  112%
1/ including taxes.
2/ Of which some US$ 10 million for NARO staff salaries and allowances.
- 18-



Annex2b
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements (in US$ Million Equivalent)
Expenditure Categories  Procurement Method Appraisa         Procurement Method Latest
Estimate                          Estimate
ICB    LCB    Other   Total   ICB    LCB    Other   Total
1. Works                          2.98              2.98            2.47               2.47
2. Goods                  2.53    0.22      0.2     2.95    2.98             0.95      3.93
3. Services                                8.63     8.63                     9.62      9.62
4. Miscellaneous              I           14.31    14.31    0.28            15.88     16.16
Total                     2.53      3.2   23.14    28.87    3.26    2.47   25.98      32.10
Annex 2c
Project Financing by Component (in US$ million equivalent)
Component                          Appraisal Estimate   Actual/Latest
Estimate 1/     Percentage of
Bank      GOU   Bank    GOU          Bank    GOU
Institutional Development            6.22      0.80     8.69     1.27     160      159
Rehabilitation of Research Institutes  4.04    0.16     3.47    0.20       86      125
Priority Research Programs           9.49      2.85     7.90    5.51       83      193
Agricultural Ecucation/Makerere      5.29      0.02     5.12    0.04       97      200
Total Project Costs                 25.04      3.83    25.18   7.02 2/    100      183
1/ Estimate of final expenditure made March 2000.
2/ Including taxes: US$1.03 million at appraisal and US$ 2.75 million actual.
Annex 3
Economic Costs and Benefits
Present Value of Flows
Economic Analysis      I Financial Analysis
Appraisal  Latest Estimates      Appraisal       Latest Estimates
Benefits                           Not Applicable
Costs
Net Benefits
|IRR/NPV      ____   _____    ____   _____    _____   ____9
- 19 -



Annex 4a
Bank Inputs: Site Visits
Stage of Project Cycle             Month/Year             No. of Persons and          Performance Ratings2/
Specialityl/
Implementation      Development
Progress            Objectives
Identification/Preparation              1989
Pre-preparation                  Mar-90                      Ag; AR                           n.a.
Preparation                      Apr-May 1991                Ag; AR; LR; FR; CR; Ex           n.a.
Final Preparation                Sep-Oct. 1991               Ag; Ex (2); Ec                   n.a.
Pre-appraisal                    Jan-Feb.1992                Ag; Ex (2); Ec                   n.a.
Second Pre-appraisal             Apr-May 1992                Ag; Ex (3); Ag; FA; Ec           n.a.
Appraisal                        Jun-July 1992               Ag; FA (2); Pr; AR; FM           n.a.
Negotiation to Effective.
l                                   ~~~~~~~~~SUPERVISIONS (SPN)
|Supervision I                   Oct 21 - Nov 11, 1993        Ag; AR
[Supervision 2                    Jun 24 - July 9, 1994       Ag; Fi                           S                 S
Supervision 3                    Jan 29 - Feb 11, 1995       Ag; FM                            S                 S
Supervision 4 (MTR)              Feb 1-22, 1996              Ag; FA; Tr (3) Ec; AR (2)         SS
Supervision 6                    March 18- April 8, 1997     Ag; AR (2) FA                     S                 S
Supervision 7                    June 24 - July 9, 1997      Ag; Ec; Tr                        S                 S
Supervision 8                    Jan 30 - Feb 10, 1998       Ag; AR; FA                        S                 S
Supervision 9                    June 24 - July 10, 1998     Ag; AR; Ec (2); AS; Ag            S                 S
Supervision 10                   Nov 9-23, 1998              Ag                                S                 S
Supervision 11                   Aug 3-13, 1999              Ag; AS                            S                 S
Supervision 12                   Feb. 2000                   Ag, Ec (2)                        S                 S
ICR                              Feb. 2000                   Ag, AS, SE                        S                 S
1/Ag = Agriculturalist           Ec = Economist              Ed = Agricultural Education
AR = Agricultural Research     FA = Financial Analyst       CE = Civil Engineer
LR = Livestock Research        Pr = Procurement             Fi = Fisheries Research
FR = Forest Research           FM = Financial Management  Tr = Training
AS = Agricultural Services
CR = Crop Research             Ex = Extension               SE = Socio-economist
2/ S = Satisfactory
- 20 -



Annex 4b
Bank Inputs: Staff
Stae Of Project Cycle                               Actual/Latest Estimate
Estimated No. SWS       UIS$ ('000)
Identification/Preparation                         162.8                319.1
Appraisal/Negotiations                              33.5                108.6
Supervision                                        189.5                702.4
ICR                                                 14.9                 63.2
Total                                              400.7              1,193.3
Note: * Also includes Bank-financed and trust fund consultants
Annex 5
Ratings for Achievement of Objectives/Outputs of Components
Objectives/Outputs             Highly       Satisfactory   Unsatisfactory  Highly         Not
Satisfactory                               Unsatisfactory  Applicable
Macro Policies                                                                             X
Sector Policies                                 X
Physical                                        X
Financial                        X                              _
Institutional Development                       X
Environmental                                                                              X
Social:
Poverty Reduction                                                                  _       X
Gender                                                                            .        X
Other (Specify)
Private Sector Development                                                                 X
Public Sector Management                        X
Other (Specify)
Notes: ** Relates to the objectives specified in the SAR
*** Relates to the outputs specified in the PAD
- 21 -



Annex 6
Ratings of Bank and Borrower Performance
Highly      Satisfactory  Unsatisfactory        Highly
Satisfactory                             ;7fUnsatisfactory
Bank Performance.
Lending                                           X
Supervision                                       X
Overall                                           X
Borrower Performance.
Preparation                  _                    X
Government                   _    _ _             X        _     X_                     _
Implementation                                    X
Performance                                       X
Implementing Agency                               X _  X
Annex 7
List of Supporting Documents and Additional Information
Annex 7a. Supplementary Tables
ST 1: NARO's Institutes And their Mandates
1. Kawanda Agricultural             Banana, horticulture, post-harvest crop losses, soils and soil fertility
Research Institute (KARI)         management and any other field as approved by the Board
2. Namulonge Agricultural           Cassava; Solanum potato; sweet potato; yams; maize; rice; beans;
and Animal Production             animal production, integrated pest management, agro-meteorology and
Research Institute (NAARI)        any other field as approved by the Board
3. Serere Agricultural and Animal   Cotton; groundnuts; sesame; sunflower; sorghum; millet; legumes,
Production Research Institute    animal production and any other field as approved by the Board
(SAARI)
4. Fisheries Research Institute (FIRI)    Capture fisheries, fishing technology, fish production processes,
aquatic environment, aquaculture, post-harvest handling, and any other
field as approved by the Board
5. Forestry Research Institute (FORI)    Natural forests, plantation forests, forest products and utilisation,
agroforestry, recreation, and any other field as approved by the Board
6. Livestock Health Research Institute   Animal health and any other field as approved by the Board
(LIRI)
7. Agricultural Engineering and     Farm power source and implements: Agricultural processing and
Appropriate Technology Research    storage; Environmentally friendly energy sources; Water harvesting
Institute (AEATRI)               structures; Soil conservation, irrigation and drainage and any other
field as approved by the Board
8. Food Science and Technology      Food quality and hygiene, food preservation, processing storage,
Research Institute (FOSRI)       marketing, nutrition and any other field as approved by the Board
9. Coffee Research Centre (COREC)    Coffee; Oil palm; Cocoa and any other field as approved by the Board
- 22 -



ST 2: Project Financing by Disbursement Category (US$ million)
IDA     GOU       IDA        GOU
1. Civil Works             2.09    0.15      1.89      0.09
2. Equip., Vehicles        2.89    0.03      3.20      0.05
3. TA/Consultants          3.66     -        3.77       -
4. Training                4.75     -        4.74
5. Studies                 0.29     -        0.40       -
Total Investment Cost      13.68    0.18    13.95       0.14
6 (a) Salaries/Allowance   8.08    2.23      8.02      3.24
6 (b) Operating Costs      3.29     0.39     3.21      0.89
Total Recurrent            11.36    2.62    11.23      4.13
Total Project             25.04     2.80    25.18      4.27
Taxes                       -       1.03      -         2.75
Total Project Taxes       25.04     3.83    25.18       7.02
ST 3: Funding of Agricultural Research (from all sources) (US$ '000)
GOU. Development Budget
ARTP (IDA)                    0.13     0.28     0.61     0.61     0.87      1.64     4.14
CSDP (IDA)                    -        0.04     -        0.07     0.06     0.06      0.23
Other Donors                  -        1.18     0.50     1.07     0.61     0.61      3.97
Sub-total                     0.13     1.50     1.11     1.75     1.54     2.31      8.34
GOU. Recurrent Budget         1.2      1.74     1.22     1.64     1.59      1.59     8.98
GOU Total                     1.33     3.24     2.33     3.39     3.113    3.90    17.32
Loans
IDA ARTP/2446                 2.26     4.67     5.87     4.01     4.31     3.92    25.04
IDA ARTPII                    -        -        -        -         -       0.15      0.15
IDA CSDP/2609                 -        0.21     -        0.21     0.73     0.55      1.70
IDA ASAC/2190"8               0.50     0.50     0.50     0.50     0.50      -        2.50
IFAD 316019                   0.25     0.25     0.25     0.25     0.25     0.24      1.49
Sub-total                     3.01     5.63     6.62     4.97     5.79     4.86    30.88
Grants                        2.40     4.10     3.40     4.50     2.00     2.60    19.00
Other Donors
Total all donors              5.41     9.73    10.02     9.47     7.79      7.46    49.88
Total all Sources             6.74    12.97    12.35    12.86    10.92    11.36    67.20
% GOU of Total                 34       25       19       26        29       34      26
Is Estimates.
9 Estimates.
- 23 -



ST 4: Comparison of Annual Salaries and Allowances°: ARTP and MAAIF
(US$ Equivalent)
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ __0707700   7S W_    L _ _ _ _   ___ ___ ___   19 3'     9 8        _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _
Categoi;-  ARTP                    ARTP             MAAIF    MAAIF    ARTP11
UR2 (i)            5,130        13,000 (153)26        420            12,700       16,120 (25)27
UR4                2,800         5,750 (105)          250            4,956         9,520 (63)
UR5 (i)             2,250        4,800 (113)          175             1,890         8,100 (68)
PR6                 1,430        3,100 (116)           175            1.862         4,320 (40)
ST 5: NARO Scientific Staffing at JULY 19998
Economics/ Socio economics             12                          6
Engineering                            8                           4
Agronomy/Agriculture                  22                           11
Animal Health/ Production             26                           14
Entomology                             7                           4
Plant Breeding/Genetics               20                           10
Horticulture                           I
Forestry/Environment                   6                           3
Plant Protection                      23                           12
Plant Production/Physiology            9                           5
Fisheries                              13                          7
Food Science                           3                           1
Natural Resources                      3                           1
Basic and Support Sciences            23                           12
Soil Science/Survey                   12                           7
Other                                  4                           2
192                         100
20 Allowances include Housing (50% Base); Education/Travel (10% of Base); and Medical (10% of Base). 20% of base
provident fund for ARTP staff is not included.
21 Exchange rate USh 1170 per US$.
22 Exchange Rate USh 1087 per US$.
23 Includes allowances paid as cash supplement. Other hidden payments may not have been captured.
24 Exchange rate USh 1340 per US$ for 1998 and 2001 proposed salaries. Salary scale for 2001 as included in ARTPII
costs.
25 Mid -point of scale.
26 % salary and allowance increase over SAR estimated costs.
27 % salary and allowance increase over 1993 scale.
28 Total NARO staff at 7/99 was 724, 28% of which are scientific and senior management and 725 technical,
administrative and support positions.
- 24 -



ST 6: Long-term Training (Ph.D. and MSc.)
Ph.D.         SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual   SAR    Actual
Overseas             10       10        9         8        19       18
Universities
Regional              -                           2        -        2
Local (MAK)           -        2        6         6        6         8
Other                          I                                     I
Total                10       13        15       16       25        29
M.Sc.
Overseas             2         1        7         7        7         8
Universities
Regional              -        2        -         4        -        6
Local (MAK)          0         7        24       13       33        20
Other                 -        1        -         -        -         I
Total                11       11        31       24       40        35
- 25 -



Annex 7b
Borrowers' ICR
IMPLEMENTATION COMPLETION REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING
PROJECT (ARTP) - IDA Cr 2446 UG
November, 2000
EVALUATION SUMMARY
Prepared by:
Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
National Agricultural Research Organisation
P.O. Box 295
ENTEBBE.
- 26 -



1.   INTRODUCTION AND PROJECT BACKGROUND29
Uganda inherited a colonial agricultural research system which was designed to serve the industries
abroad. Research was not directed to serve the national requirements in terms of food security and
development of domestic agro-industries. After independence, the system was fragmented and dispersed
among several government ministries without suitable structural and functional changes to respond to the
development needs of the newly emerged country. During the civil war in '70s and early '80s, the old
research infrastructures were virtually destroyed and the research activities were reduced to a very low
level. Since 1986, determined efforts have been made to rehabilitate and reactivate the research system.
These efforts were supported by various donors through disjointed activities as part of development
projects without addressing the total needs of the system. In recognition of the necessity of research
services to support the economic recovery program, the government decided to reorganize and restructure
the old research system into a National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) to link, plan, direct
and coordinate all agricultural research in the country.
A semi-autonomous National Agricultural Research Organization was created by an act of
parliament in 1992, as recommended in the National Strategic Agricultural Research Plan drawn up
earlier in 1991. The IDA-funded ARTP was designed to support the establishment of NARO and the
implementation of the Strategic Plan.
2.  PROJECT OBJECTIVES AND COMPONENTS
2.1    Project Objectives and Components
The project was designed to support the Government's strategy for improving productivity and
diversification in the agricultural sector through the development and transfer of improved technology.
The broad objective of the project was to develop an organizational framework and institutional processes
for agricultural research which are sustainable and efficient as well as responsive to the production
constraints facing farmers in Uganda. The specific objectives of the projects were threefold:
(a)    launch and support the key activities of NARO, including high pricrity research;
(b)    strengthen the linkages and coordination among the research system, the extension
service and the agricultural faculties of the university; and,
(c)    improve agricultural education and training capacity.
To achieve its objectives, the Project supported four components over a period of seven years:
(a)    Institutional Development of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) - US$ 7.02
million. The project provided financing for:
(i)    research management systems to improve the planning, priority-setting, and monitoring
and evaluation of research programs;
(ii)   the management and coordination of priority research programs;
(iii)   administrative and management systems and operational costs for vehicles and
equipment, and financial and accounting systems;
(iv)   the design of the Forestry Research Institute and the NARO headquarters;
(v)   the first-phase construction of the NARO headquarters office;
29   This report was compiled by the Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation Unit (MEPU) and the Finance Unit of
NARO Secretariat with assistance from staff of the other units of the Secretariat and the Institutes. The NARO team
comprised of Dr. Clesensio Tizikara, Director, MEPU; Dr. Gadi Gumisiriza, PRO (Projects); and Mr. J.B. Kanakulya,
Associate Director for Finance.
- 27 -



(vi)  the implementation of new Terms and Conditions of Service for Research;
(vii)  studies on sustainable funding for research;
(viii)  a mid-term review; and
(ix)   vehicles, and computers, audio-visual and other office equipment.
(b)    Rehabilitation of NARO Research Institutes - US$ 4.20 million. The project provided
financing to rehabilitate research offices, laboratories and staff housing at SAARI, FIRI, LIRI, the
partial rehabilitation of utility facilities (water, electricity and sewage) at KARI and the
architectural designs for the FORI at Kifu, and the NARO headquarters at Kajansi, and to provide
vehicles and office, laboratory, and field equipment.
(c)    Execution of High Priority Research Programs - US$ 12.34 million. The project provided
financing to support:
(i)    on-going, high-priority research programs;
(ii)   new research programs determined during the annual research planning process; and
(iii)  the incremental salaries and allowances of NARO staff under the new Terms and
Conditions of Service for Research.
(d)    Strengthening ofAgricultural Education and Training Capacity - US$ 5.31 million. The
project provided financing to support:
(i)    upgrading the training and managerial capacity of the agricultural faculties of MAK
under: a "twinning arrangement"with an internationally renowned university and by
supporting the training of local and foreign degree candidates from MAK and NARO;
(ii)   research support for young/newly returned professional staff;
(iii)  studies to improve the curricula of the agricultural colleges;
(iv)   the running costs of continuing education courses at MAK for MAAIF, NARO and the
private agribusiness sector;
(v)    constructing five staff houses, a classroom for continuing education and a dormitory for
postgraduate female students at MUARIK; and
(vi)   vehicles and field and office equipment for MUARIK
2.2  Special Loan Covenants/ Agreements
The list of agreements and assurances, as demanded by IDA, is indicated in the SAR (Section VII,
pp.45-47) and the DCA (articles III, IV and VI). They represent special loan covenants/agreements and
assurances that were expected to promote achievement of project objectives. IDA set a number of
conditions to be satisfied by GOU before ARTP could be declared effective, with June 1993 set as the
deadline for meeting those conditions. NARO met these conditions as indicated below:
Condition                                                                Dates
Appointment of NARO Director General                                 March   1993
Appointment of NARO Deputy Director General                          May    1993
Appointment of Financial Management Specialist (expatriate)          March   1993
Appointment of Procurement Specialist (expatriate)                   May    1993
Establishing a viable accounting system                              May    1993
Formal approval by GOU of NARO Scheme of Service                     June    1993
Signing of Subsidiary Agreement between the Government and NARO      June    1993
Opening of Project Account (dollar & local)                          June    1993
Audit report of the CMB for the period ending September 30, 1991     July    1993
Legal opinion of Attorney General on DCA and Project Agreement       August  1993
- 28 -



3.        IMPLEMENTATION ASSESSMENT
3.1    Start-up Activities and Credit Effectiveness
Implementation of ARTP I started with the preparatory activities under a project preparation
facilities (PPF) established in August 1992. This included establishment of interim NARO Secretariat,
identification of staff candidates and sending them off for post-graduate training; procurement of some
vehicles, office equipment; consultant services of a Financial Management and a Procurement Specialist,
and a Consulting Firm for civil works. Government and NARO met all the conditions for credit
effectiveness before the stipulated time, except for the legal opinion from the Attorney General which was
delayed for two months.
3.2    Achievement of Project Objectives
The revival of agricultural research in Uganda came through the creation of NARO. The 1991
Strategic Plan for Agricultural Research defined the organizational framework for the establishment of
NARO and provided guidance on its legal status, governance mechanism, and research and resource
management systems. NARO brought together a fragmented set of institutes within a single structure.
Under the institutional development component, support was provided for the establishment of
research management systems, administrative, financial and accounting systems, design and construction
of NARO headquarters (first phase) and designing of forestry research institute, implementation of new
terms and condition of service for research, sustainable funding studies and the provision of vehicles,
computers, audio-visual and other office equipment.
A Governing Board was appointed, under the NARO Statute, to guide and direct the activities of
NARO. Research planning at national level had been completed in 1991 with the preparation of a
Strategic Plan for National Agricultural Research. These priorities were revisited and updated in 1994.
An annual research planning cycle was established and monitorable guidelines for research
program formulation were provided to the institutes for the preparation of annual research proposals.
These were gradually developed into logical frameworks based on the NARO generic logframe.
Research Planning and Review Committees were established to ensure stakeholder participation in
deciding the research agenda and evaluating research outcomes. The annual research programs and
budgets were routinely prepared and submitted to IDA and GOU before the stipulated times.
An information management strategy and proposals for sustainable funding for NARO were
formulated but not implemented for lack of adequate funding. INFORM for agricultural research
management was established at each institute and staff trained in the use of reflex software program for
creating data bases and reports for research management. Mechanisms were designed for management of
physical and financial resources and supplies. NARO established a sound financial management (fully
computerised), accounting and auditing system. Procurement of goods and services was completed on
schedule. The civil works experienced initial delays but was eventually completed by project closure.
Overseas and local degree training was completed in record time, thanks to the very close
collaboration between NARO and Makerere University and the support of Cornell and Ohio State
Universities.
Research planning was strengthened by shifting focus from disciplines to commodities and
gradually to constraint-based projects. Participatory processes were adopted for prioritizing projects
based on the identified constraints and opportunities existing within a defined production system. M&E
- 29 -



of research programs were, however, not consistently carried out. Instead, annual reviews of individual
programs determined priorities and set the research agenda.
Periodic performance assessments guided NARO Secretariat and Institutes in improving
governance and management processes. An annual staff performance assessment system was introduced
and progressively updated with active staff participation. Procedures and methodologies for performance
evaluation of the organisation were developed and successfully tested. The evaluation carried out
concluded that the research restructuring effort had been largely successful. NARO is capable of
formulating, coordinating and executing research to serve most farmers. Since its creation, NARO has
focused on institutional capacity building, and has made rapid progress in releasing improved varieties for
most food crops that are crucial to improving smallholder productivity and income.
3.3    Project Costs and Financing Arrangements
The allocation of project funds per eligible category and component is indicated in Annex 2a.
The total project cost, as contained in the DCA of March 26, 1993 was US$ 28.87 million of which IDA
was to contribute US$ 25.04 million (SDR 17.8 million). GOU was to contribute US$ 3.83m of total
project costs (Annex 2c). The project has since FY1993/94 received a total of US$ 7.01 million
equivalent in direct GOU contributions and taxes (Table l) which amounts to well over 180% of the
expected contribution from Government. In addition, NARO also received from GOU a total of USh 9.83
billion (US$ 9.04 million equivalent) as recurrent budget allocations over the FY93/94 to FY98/99
period.
Table 1.  Project Costs by Source of Funds
CATEGORY                     IDA                   GOU                 TOTAL
SAR     ACTUAL        SAR     ACTUAL    SAR    ACTUAL
Civil Works                    2,382      1,785       149          89      2,531     1,874
Equipment & Vehicles           2,776      2,901        30         52       2,806     2,953
T.A/Consultants                3,658      3,614          -          -      3,658     3,614
Training                       4,683      4,785                            4,683     4,785
Studies                         289        215           -          -       289        215
Total Investment   (A)        13,788     13,300        179        141     13,967    13,441
Salaries & Allowances          8,075      7,885      2,232      3,242     10,307    11,127
Operating Cost                 3,182      3,270       384        882       3,566     5,152
Total Recurrent    (B)        11,257     11,155      2,616      4,124     13,873    15,279
Total Project Cost (A+B)     25,045      24,455      2,795      4,265     27,840    28,720
Unutilised Balance available             ****-                -          -
under IDA
Total Excluding Taxes         25,045     25,089      2,795      4,265     27,840    29,354
Taxes                              -          -      1,030      2,750      1,030     2,750
Total Including Taxes         25,045   [ 25,089      3,825      7,015     28,870    32,104
- 30 -



3.4    Key Factors that Affected Achievement of Project Objectives
Project implementation generally run very well except for a few external and internal factors.
Capacity constraints, especially in areas of livestock research and high staff turn-over in areas of
personnel management, monitoring and evaluation, and financial management were major impediments
to implementation of some activities. Because of delays in the recruitment of a civil engineer, initiation
of the civil works component stalled.. The implementation of some of the project activities related to
technology transfer heavily depended on active participation of other independent or Government
agencies and institutions which were not directly answerable to NARO. Such arrangements often resulted
in delays because of low priority rating for NARO activities relative to these agencies' own assignments,
lack of adequate capacity and general ineffectiveness of the extension service.
3.5    Assessment of Performance of IDA and GOU
3.5.1 Performance of GOU
GOU and NARO performance with respect to their obligations under the Credit agreement was as
follows:
(a) Providing NARO with operating costs: Government was expected to increase its allocation of funds
to cover operational costs for agricultural research by about 10% annually so that, by the end of year
6 of the project, GOU research budget would amount to US$2.95 million. There was substantial
increase in resource allocation, with Government contribution far exceeding what was anticipated
(Tables I & 2).
Table 2: GOU releases of funds as counterpart development budget for ARTP and
recurrent expenditure for NARO, 1993 - 1999.
Financial      Development Budget         Recurrent Budget        Exchange Rate
Year             (USh million)            (USh million)          (US$ = USh)
1993/94                 137.5                      1,310.7                1,087.50
1994/95                 270.7                      1,698.6                  974.50
1995/96                 600.8                      1,205.3                  984.50
1996/97                 643.4                      1,724.9                1,050.00
1997/98                 954.0                      1,748.2                1,100.00
1998/99                2,196.0                     2,137.9                1,340.00
Total                  4,802.4                     9,825.6
Because of operating on a cash budget, there was lack of consistency in releasing funds and failure to
maintain an attractive scheme of service for staff. In a number of cases, releases were never made or
made late, making it impossible to move by planned schedule. The availability of local resources to
effect salary increments under the approved scheme of service was a serious threat to sustainability.
A number of critical units (MEPU, Personnel, Finance) could not attract and retain high quality staff.
By the end of the project life there was clear discontent amongst staff about the remuneration
package.
- 31 -



Because of revisions in the Scheme of Service long after the project was prepared, the approved
salary levels were higher than what had been included in the cost tables. Consequently, the IDA
share was exhausted before project completion. Government met the total salary bill with effect from
July 1999.
(b) Ability of NARO to obtain incomes and contributions: Loans, grants and GOU support remained the
major sources of NARO core budget. Little was achieved in generating funds internally or attracting
stakeholders to contract the organisation or pay for the research results.
(c) Compliance with covenants and agreements: As earlier indicated, most assurances given in the DCA
and Aide-Memoire of IDA supervision missions were met within the stipulated times, except where it
was not practically possible.
(d) Commitment to the objectives of the project: The level of success in generating and disseminating
relevant improved technologies and the general public support for NARO is indicative of the level of
commitment to achieving the project objectives. NARO outputs are visibly available to a large
number of target beneficiaries. In a number of cases the impact created is far in excess of targets set
at project design. In recognition of these achievements, it was not difficult to justify the design of a
subsequent follow-on operation - ARTP 11.
3.5.2 Performance of IDA
The ARTP has been one of the few operations in Uganda that have been well and effectively
supervised. The conditionalities, assurances and clarifications often demanded were reasonably meant to
enhance performance and not to act as bottlenecks. Supervision missions provided timely advice and
technical backstopping, particularly in research management systems, financial management and human
resources development. One aspect that was found most useful was the continuity of the task manager
assigned to the project. This ensured consistency in provision of technical backstopping required and
minimized disruption usually experienced when project managers are changed.
4.    ASSESSMENT OF PROJECT IMPACT
4.1    Overall Project Benefits
It is difficult to discern the net impact of ARTP intervention due to the effect of other projects and
the generalised economic improvement due to the economic liberalisation policy. The lack of baseline
indicators, and an effective M&E system also complicate the assessment of the project impact. Despite
the above shortcomings, ARTP has made a significant contribution to the development of the NARS,
since it has been the largest programme in terms of financial contribution, and areas of intervention.
Two separate external reviews of NARO (by the Quality Assurance Group of World Bank and an
external review by ISNAR) concluded that the research restructuring effort in Uganda had been largely
successful. In 1998, NARO conducted a self-evaluation of its organizational management and research
performance to identify strengths and weaknesses as well as build its own evaluation capacity' The
results show that NARO has made considerable progress in strategic planning, priority setting,
formulating priority research projects, human resource development, perfornance evaluation and
financial management. NARO is capable of formulating, coordinating and executing agricultural research
to better serve the majority of farmers. Since its creation, NARO has correctly focused on building its
institutional capacity, and has made rapid progress in releasing improved varieties for the major food
crops that are crucial to improvements in smallholder productivity and incomes .
- 32 -



The technological advances from a stronger agricultural research service have greatly contributed
to improving the productivity and profitability of the crop and livestock husbandry practices of small
farmers. Farmers that have adopted NARO technologies have increased their income. For example, a
woman farmer in eastern Uganda, estimated that replacing K20 bean variety with K:132 boosted her
annual income by 50% to nearly half a million shillings. She used bean earnings to purchase household
items such as paraffin, soap, salt, sugar, clothes for her five grandchildren, animals (including a dairy
cow) and to pay school fees for two daughters. In 1997, Nalongo was able to pay a major medical bill.
The following year, she bought land and began constructing a tin roofed house with money from the sale
of 700 kg of K132. The higher yields of K132 improved food security in this poor home. Her family
now eat beans four times a week instead of just twice. Fast cooking K132 reduced Nalongo's fuel wood
expenditures from 6000 to 2500 shillings per month, a savings of 42,000 shillings per year.
ARTP has also contributed to change the economic climate for agricultural (crop, livestock,
fisheries and forestry) production in the country. Recent surveys by NARO and others reveal that the
majority of farmers are aware of improved new technologies in beans, cassava, potato, maize and sweet
potato; and over 85 % of the farmers have adopted them (see Table 3). Survey results also show that the
adoption levels are higher than those targeted under ARTP. Currently over 50% of the total area planted
to maize are covered by the improved variety Longe 1. New high yielding varieties and other
technologies in banana, horticultural crops, pigeon peas, finger millet, sorghum, groundnuts; and post
harvest technologies for quality improvement, soil and water management technologies, and vaccine for
immunization against East Coast Fever have reached farmers. Technologies on fishing gear and
aquaculture have been tested and released. Forestry technologies include the introduction of fast-growing
new tree species, tree management techniques and agroforestry systems and management. Many of these
technologies have been recommended and producers have started using them. A BA Survey conducted
by NARO in February 2000 confirms many of these findings.
Between 1991 and 1996, NARO's Cassava Programme through the National Network of Cassava
Workers conducted accelerated on-farm trials, training of farmers and multiplication and distribution of
mosaic tolerant varieties. Over 35,000 farmers, opinion leaders and extension agents were trained and
536 on-farm trials were conducted. The Programme worked with over 75 NGOs from all over the
country and many district and local leaders from over 32 districts. Approximately 150,000 hectares of
disease tolerant varieties were multiplied and distributed to farmers in all parts of the country by 1998.
The new cassava varieties occupy over 60% of the total area planted to cassava. Farmers are obtaining
yields of 6 -7 tons hai of the local varieties as compared to the potential of 20-25 tons hail from the new
cassava varieties. The new varieties have significantly increased production, particularly in eastern and
northern Uganda where farmers and traders are realizing increased incomes from the sale of fresh tubers
and dry chips.
4.2  Lessons Learnt
The most important findings of the project implementation experience were reviewed during the
OPA exercise30 (see report) and during ARTP II design. A summary of these is given in the ARTP II
PAD (pp. 12-13 of Report No. 19144-UG of WB). In addition, the following general observations can
be made:
(a) Project Design: The design of a project needs to be kept as simple as practicable. Parallel structures
to those existing should be avoided and since decentralization is channeling more resources and
responsibilities to the Districts, it is important that many of NARO activities are also decentralized.
30     OPA: Organisational Performance Assessment. Task Force Report Edited by T. Sengooba and D. Kisauzi,
NARO, Entebbe, Oct. 1999.
- 33 -



(b) Policy: It is important at project design stage to examine the existing policies vis-a-vis the project
interventions to be implemented and advocate for changes early enough. The success of NARO and
ARTP was closely tied to the implementation of the Agricultural Research Plan and Strategy that
ushered in radical but positive policy shifts.
(c) Funding for project activities: Resources should be channeled where the responsibility is. The flow
of funds should be consistent to maintain the implementation pace and avoid cost overruns.
(d) Co-ordination: It is desirable to coordinate activities and support into a single coherent program.
(e) Participatory Project Identification and Planning: For effective implementation of projects,
participatory planning whereby grass root implementers and beneficiaries provide their input into the
identification and regular planning and evaluation of project activities is necessary.
(f) Supervision and Publicity: Project management needs to involve beneficiaries and relevant
stakeholders in field supervision and monitoring to assess the situation on the ground and to afford
members better perception of the issues at hand in addition to rallying support for the project
activities.
Table 3: Technologies Released by NARO
FORESTRY SUB-SECTOR
l    Tree/shrubs for fodder production: Calliandra, Gliricidia
.   Tree/shrub barrier hedges for soil water conservation; Grevillea, Casuarina, Calliandra, Gliricidia, Alnus and Leucaena
. Recommendations for practices that promote natural regeneration of natural forests
. Recommendations for suitable species and varieties for planting development
. Recommendations for pest and disease management in planting forest crop: Aphids and Psyllid and termites
. Timber cutting: Improved methods and tools
. Timber seasoning/treatment: Chemicals, improved methods (stacking, shade/kiln) and time
. Charcoal production: Improved kilns
. Recommendations for appropriate timber harvesting and processing practices
FISHERIES SUB-SECTOR
. Recommendation on water hyacinth control technologies and policies
. Recommendation on conservation and management of wetlands
. Recommendations on conservation and management of water environment
. Breeding aquaculture species: Mirror carp, Crayfish
. Recommendations on economic fish farming
CROPS SUB-SECTOR
Improved varieties and Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Packages:
   Maize: OPVLonge 1, KWCA, Hybrids: 8556-6 and 8535-23 (restricted release), Control of maize stem borer using chemicals
*   Sweet potato: varieties - New Kawogo, Kyebandula, Tanzania, Nylon, Bitambi, Kisa kya bikira Maliya, Wagabolige, Ecuru, and
E29 (restricted release) IPM - Management package for sweet potato weevil
. Cassava: Varieties - NASE I & 11, Migyera, 1PM- Biological control (Wasps for Mealybug and Phytoseiids for Green mite)
* Groundnut: Igola-1, Red Beauty, ROXO
. Simsim: SERRA, S, and EM-14 (restricted release)
. Sunflower: New Sufnola
* Soya bean: Nam I and Nam 11
. Sorghum: Seredo, Sekedo, Epuripuri
. Finger millet: PESE I and 11, Serere 1, Engeny
. Peal Millet: Serere Composite
. Cotton: Varieties: BPA 89, BPA 95, SA TU 85, SATU 95 IPM - Scouting techniques, biological control (use ofparasitoids,
intercropping, safe and effective botanical pesticides - Neem and Khaya
. Fresh market tomatoes: Marglobe, Caribe, Tropic
. Banana: IPM - Use of Triadimefon Fungicide, Cultivars resistant to Fusarium wilt
.   Coffee: Clonal Coffee
- 34 -



Table 3: Technologies Released by NARO (con't.)
Agronomic packages:
* Cassava: Land preparation, planting, intercropping, weeding
* Simsim, Groundnut, Sunflower: Row planting, spacing, seed rate, time of planting
*   Sweet potato: Vine length and number per heap
*   Coffee: Nursery management packages, intercropping, control of weeds (herbicides)
* Maize: Land preparation, seed rate, spacing, intercropping, control of weeds (herbicides)
*   Cotton: Spacing and sequence, planting dates, intercropping, growth regulators (pix) and detopping
LIVESTOCK SUB-SECTOR
* Increased livestock production: Improved breeds of poultry, small ruminants, and cattle for meat
*   Early warning systems for livestock disease outbreaks
*   Recommendations on improved livestock husbandry practices
* Livestock feeds: Forages-lab lab, Silage/hay making and preparing, crop residues and use of agro-industrial by-products
*   Recommendations on management packages for rangeland
*   Recommendations on control and management packages of major livestock diseases
*   Recommendations on economic livestock production and disease control packages
*   Recommendations on marketing of livestock and livestock products
POST-HARVEST RESEARCH PROGRAMME
*   Recommendation packages for drying of: Fruits and vegetables (solar dryer), Roots and tubers (methods of eliminating cyanide in
cassava, e.g. grating)
* Recommendation package for on-farm handling of: Local purple passion fruit
* Recommendations on farm storage: Management of storage pests - Bean and pigeon pea bruchids, Sweet potato weevils, Storage
techniques for fresh cassava and sweet potato, Improved storage structures
FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
*   Recommendations on processing and diversification of utilisation of: Maize, Cassava, Sweet potato, Finger millet, Sorghum,
Bananas
* Recommendations on processing and diversification of utilisation of: Livestock products
*   Recommendations on value addition to fish and fish products
*   Recommendations on reduction of post-harvest and quality losses in fish
*   Recommendations on reduction of post-harvest and quality losses in livestock products
AGRICULTURAL PROCESSING AND STORAGE SYSTEMS
*   Improved and appropriate processing equipment:
*   Improved crop dryers (tray/crib/hybrid), Threshers/shellers/Hullers, Winnower/Sorters/Graders, Chippers/Graters, Oil
extractors/Juice extractors, Small grain mills
*   Improved and appropriate storage facilities:
*   Granaries, silos/Crips, Warehouse stores, Housing Structures for selected livestock
*   Recommendations on improved technologies for detoxification of crop residue and wastes
ON-FARM ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT AND WATER SUPPLY SYSTEMS
*   Improved household energy appliances: Cook stoves (woodfuel, biogas & solar). Lamps (biogas & solar)
*   Household water harvesting, storage and conveyance: Water tanks (above and underground), Manually operated pumps,
Aquaculture structures
*   Environmentally friendly energy sources: Improved woodfuels, Biogas, Solar, Agricultural residues, Wind
FARM POWER SOURCES AND IMPLEMENTS
*   Farm power sources: Work animals, Matched implement - animal - human system
*   Farm tools and implements: Ploughs/Planters/Weeders, Sprayers (knap sack), Harvesters (ground nut)
*   On-farm transport: Manually operated and animal drawn equipment, Improved harnesses and methods
*  Animal Traction: SAARI number I master plough, SAARI ox weeder
SOIL MANAGEMENT
*   Production efficiency without adverse environmental effects: Availability of upland rice varieties
* Recommendation packages for management and recycling of crop residues: Composting, Crop residue/manure application
*   Recommendations on use of Rhizobia to increase crop production
*   Recommendations on soil fertility management practices including fertiliser application
*   Update on fertiliser recommendations: Soil/plant analysis
*   Recommendation on appropriate soil and water conservation structure
*   Recommendations on water harvesting and conservation for irrigation
- 35 -



Annex 7c
ARTP Beneficiary Assessment Study Summary Findings
Introduction
1.   The National Agricultural Research-Organisation (NARO) was established in 1992 as a semi-
autonomous organisation with a mandate to undertake and promote research in crop, livestock, fisheries
and forestry and to ensure dissemination of research results to clients. The first six years (1993-1999) of
NARO were supported by the Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP), funded by the World
bank (WB). NARO has nine research institutes and some 200 scientists undertaking some 30 research
programmes. A Beneficiary Assessment (BA) study was carried out as an integral part of the ARTP
Implementation Completion Report (ICR). In the period under evaluation, a number of new technologies
were reportedly3 I released by NARO's following research programmes32: crop (including 53 crop
varieties), fisheries (32), livestock (8) and forestry (60). This report discusses the results of a case-study
survey undertaken by NARO.
Objectives and Methodology
2.   The objective of the BA study was to enhance NARO understanding of farmer perceptions of
technical innovations and to assess their impact on farm productivity. The BA is composed of a set of
detailed case studies undertaken by NARO Monitoring and Evaluation Planning Unit (MEPU) to track
specific technologies released under ARTP I. These include: bean varieties K132 and KI31; cassava
varieties SS4, Nase 1, 2 and 3; millet variety Pese I; banana cultural practices (sanitation and mulching);
East Coast Fever vaccine and fishpond construction and management. In the case study survey, a
purposive sampling procedure combining simple random techniques was used with a sample of 25
adopters and 15 non-adopters in each district33. Semi-structured questionnaires and PRA tools were used
to facilitate farmer interviews. In addition, focus group discussions were held with farmers and key
informant interviews with extension workers, NGOs, local government and community leaders including
women's groups.
Description of Study Districts and Characteristics of Respondents
3.   The study covered eight districts, Apac, Lira, Mbale, Palissa, Mbarara, Ntungamo, Mukono and
Kisoro, representing the major farming systems of Uganda. It is estimated that there are 2.6 million
small-scale farm families in Uganda with an average holding of 2-3 hectares, although significant
variations exist between farming systems and districts.
4.   For all technologies tracked, the majority of farmers interviewed were men34 A disproportionate
number of men (over 80%) were interviewed under the cassava technology. This is because once a crop
becomes an important cash crop, it is taken over by men. Approximately a third of the sampled farmers
were not members of an extension group. Possibly, the non-participation of Lira, Kisoro and Kiboga
3 Source: Organisational Performance Assessment (OPA) Report, NARO, 1999.
32 Programmes under the following institutes/centre: Coffee Research Centre (COREC); Kawanda Agricultural Research
Institute (KARI); Namulonge Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute (NAARI) and Serere Agricultural
and Animal Production Research Institute (SAARI).
33 The study does not claim to be statistically representative. Too few technologies and districts were covered. The in-
depth qualitative methodology of long conversational interviews employed in this BA study provides a great deal of
understanding from a relatively small number of beneficiaries.
34 There appear to have been a bias in the sampling, as men seemed to have been early adopters of the new innovations
which require some capital outlay such as fish ponds, ECF vaccine, etc.
- 36 -



districts in the AEP contributed to the low number of contact farmers. The farming community is young,
with 46% of respondents below the age of 40. Eighty-three percent of household heads had received some
form of primary education leaving only 16.7% as illiterates, although progression beyond primary level
was not significant. The Uganda mean household size is 4.8, and most heads of households interviewed
are primarily peasant farmers.
Table 1. General Characteristics of the Survey Districts and Sampled Farmers
District      Apac       Lira      Mukono   Mbale        Kisoro      Kiboga    Ntungamo   Pallisa
Sub-counties   Akalo    Amach    Mukono   Bunam-    Busanza    Kiboga    Ntungamo    Apopong
Aduku                Goma      butyo;      Nyundo    Bamusuta
Muyembe               Vvuba
Kirinya
Farming       Northern  Northern   Banana/   Montane    Montane   Banana/   Montane         Banana, millet/
systems       Millet/    Millet/    Coffee    Potatoes/   Beans/     Coffee    Banana/      cotton
Cassava   sorghum/             beans/      Potatoes!             beans/
cassava              livestock    Livestock           livestock
AEP district   Yes      No, under  Yes        Yes        No         No         Yes          Yes but not
CSDP                                                               under AEP
I________                                      funding
Av. Farm      7.9       6.8        3.9        4.8        1.5         95.4 3!    4.6         12.7
size (acres)
Average       6.6       7.3        6.6        9.4        n.a.        9.6       10.6         8.2
Household
size
Mean age      40        36         52         50         n.a.        48        52           47
Gender        81%       88.6%      42.9%      90%        n.a.        84.8%     76.7%        98.1%
% men
% contact     19         11.4      23.8       20         n.a.        n.a.      26.7         14.3
group
members
Technology    Cassava;  Cassava    Beans      Beans      Beans       ECF       Banana       Millet
tracked       Millet               K131       K131 &     K132,       vaccine    cultural    Pese 1, Cassava
Pese I               &132,    K132,        K131.                 practices
Fish      Fish
Usesofcrop"- 1,2,3       1,2,3     1,2        1,2        1,2         1,2       T            1,2,3
Awareness    61.9%      91%        100%       100%       n.a         97%        100%4'      100% Cassava,
rates                                                                                       50% Pese I
Adoption      57.1%     60%        76.2%      65%        n.a.        90.9%      100%2'      100% Cassava,
rates        I .       I_ I                                         _II _29% Pese I
1/ codes: 1. Food 2. Cash 3. Brewing
2/ Only adopters were interviewed.
3/ large areas due to commercial farms and ranches.
5.   Cropping Systems: Matoke is the most important staple crop followed by cassava. Banana
production is important in the coffee/banana and millet/banana farming systems found mainlyaround
Lake Victoria, the slopes of Mountain Rwenzori and Elgon, and the wet areas of Bushenyi, Mbarara,
Ntungamo and Hoima districts. Despite its importance, the crop has been forced into sharp production
decline by various constraints, including nematodes, Fusarium wilt, weevils and Black Sigatoka disease
which cause low yields. Today, its production is concentrated in the westem region of the country. Inter-
- 37 -



cropping cassava with beans is the most common cropping system in Uganda. Millet is an important
staple in the drier north and eastern districts. In Pallisa district, millets occupy approximately 20% of the total
cultivated area. Agricultural production is done manually using family labour, a few implements and
purchased inputs.
Survey Findings: Farmer Perceptions of Selected Technologies
6.   This section details the extent to which NARO technologies are used and this is determined by
adoption rates. In this study, adoption is defined as the uptake and subsequent use of a new
innovation/technology (Feder et al., 1985).
7.   Cassava: After the outbreak of African Cassava Mosaic Disease (ACMD) in the 1980s threatened
to wipe out the cassava crop nation-wide, NARO in collaboration with IITA sought to find disease-
resistant varieties. In 1994, three selected varieties; namely Nase 1, 2 and 3 (Migyera) were released,
followed by SS4 a year later. The survey tracked the four varieties in Apac, Lira and Pallisa districts.
8.   The improved cassava varieties are generally well known, although Nase 1, which has lower yields
than the other new varieties is less known. Only 31% of respondents were aware of Nase I compared to
Nase 2 (74%) and SS4 (57%). Seventy-two percent of the sampled farmers have adopted one or more of
the new varieties. The high levels of adoption are in line with Bua, 1996, who reported adoption levels as
high as 95% in Kumi, 75% in Lira and 70% in Luwero. Nase 2 and 3, grown by 38% and 35% of
adopters, are the most popular because of their high yield potential of 20-35 t/ha compared to 6-7 t/ha.
Twenty-one percent and only 6% have adopted SS4 and Nase I respectively. According to NARO's
OPA, the current area planted with improved cassava varieties exceeds 60% of total land under cassava
(1 999).
9.   Despite high adoption rates, 52% of adopters did not fully grasp the recommended agronomic
practices for the improved varieties. This appears to stem from a number of reasons, including limited
extension services, emphasis of the message on multiplication aspects, and distorted information transfer
from farmer to farmer. Planting in lines was generally adhered to but plant spacing and timely planting
were only adhered to by 25% of the adopters Farmers had made few adaptations to the technology
package. Only 4% of the interviewed farmers reported using a closer spacing for cassava, while 6%
practised mixed cropping.
10.  Beans: Beans are widely grown in Uganda for food and for sale. The major areas of production
are Buganda, Busoga, Mbale, Kapchorwa, Kasese and Kisoro districts. The average bean plot per farm
household is estimated to be between 0.1-0.4 ha. The NAARI Bean Programme's focus was on
increasing bean productivity. Several factors were identified as causes of low productivity including lack
of high yielding varieties, susceptibility to insect pests (aphids) and diseases (such as common bacterial
blight, bean root rot, bean common mosaic virus and angular leaf spot) and poor agronomic practices.
Apart from seed, no external inputs (fertilisers, pesticides) are used. Although the yield potential of local
varieties is estimated at 1.5 t/ha under farmer conditions, the current yields only average 0.68 t/ha.
11. In 1994, NARO released improved varieties K131, K132, OBA 1, MCM 105 and MCM 2001.
Collaboration with international organisations such as CIAT saw introduction of climbing varieties of
Umbano and Gishenyi. The new varieties (K131 and K132) tracked in this study have been disseminated
in over 30 districts and, to-date, estimates suggest that some 200 to 600 farmers have had access to them
in each of these districts. These varieties have potential yields of 2,500 kg /ha, an increase of 1,000kg/ha
when compared to local varieties.
12.  Of the interviewed farmers, 85.4% and 61% indicated that they were aware of the new K132 and
K13 1 bean varieties respectively. Seventy-one percent of sampled farmers had subsequently adopted the
- 38 -



two varieties. K132, grown by 52% of the adopters, was slightly more popular than K131. The non-
adopters were mainly growing traditional varieties such as Kanyeebwa. The bean adoption rates are
slightly lower than those reported by Mugisa, 1997, and the OPA report, 1999. Both report adoption rates
of 80, 84, 81 and 86.7% respectively, in the districts of Mukono, Mbale, Masaka and Kapchorwa.
Nevertheless, the area under improved bean varieties in the surveyed district is significant, estimated at
64% of total bean area (OPA, 1999).
13.  61 % of adopters felt they had received adequate advice on the proper adoption of bean varieties,
while 39% did not fully comprehend the recommended agronomic practices. The recommended
agronomic practices included planting in rows (adopted by 48.8% of the cases), earthing-up and weeding
(adopted by 55%), timely planting (adopted by 35%), correct spacing (17.1 %) and compost making
(adopted by only 5%). Farmers have made no marked changes to the technology package. Some 4% of
the interviewed farmers reported using a wider spacing for beans and 2.4% adapted to complete drying of
the beans in the field. Pests, diseases, shortage of labour, reduced soil fertility and unavailability of seeds,
coupled with high prices, continue to hinder increased bean production.
14. Millet: Millet is widely grown, mainly for food and brewing in Eastern, Northern and Western
Uganda. The cereals programme of SAARI released a high yielding variety, Pesel, in 1995. Awareness
and adoption rates for millet Pese I in Pallisa district are relatively low, 57.1% and 45.7% respectively,
and the area under the new variety is 20% of total area under millet production. In contrast to other
districts, NGO activity seems to be limited in Pallisa, which may explain the low awareness rates.
15.  Of the adopters, 18% discontinued, 55% were satisfied with the new variety, while 27% had
identified weaknesses, such as poor storability (Table 6). Sixty-six percent of adopters were aware of the
recommended production practices of Pese I and of these, 75% were planting in rows and 50% had
planted on time. However, 26% of the adopters have abandoned the recommended practice of planting
in rows and prefer to broadcast their seed (minimal labour required), while 3% inter-cropped the new
variety with beans. The survey revealed that there was need for more emphasis on research and/or
dissemination of information on storage pests in cereals and grain legumes.
16.  Banana cultural practices: Matoke (banana) is a major food crop in Uganda, with total acreage
estimated at 22% of all arable land. From 1.298 million hectares, a total of 7.3 million metric tonnes of
banana are produced per year. Aggregate national production data indicates productivity estimates of
around 6 t/ha in contrast to the more than 20t/ha attainable at research stations. Although NARO, in
collaboration with IITA, are undertaking variety breeding for Black Sigatoka resistance (variety may be
released in 2001), there are a number of improved agronomic practices that NARO is promoting.
17. The banana on-farm trials (OFTs) held in Ntungamo district focused on improving banana
husbandry practices, including soil and water conservation, mulching, pruning, disease and weevil control
aspects35. Data was collected on knowledge of trial purpose, expected results, role of the farmer and
guidelines on the experiments, practices adopted, advantages of participating in the trials, and suggestions
on how to improve collaboration between researchers and farmers.
18.  The majority of the 30 participants were men (76.7%), since Matoke is a cash crop, now grown by
men. Fifty percent of participants were already members of a contact/farmer group and 72% reported that
they had understood the purpose of trials, their role and the procedures to be followed. Only 23% said
they would have liked to meet with the researchers more often, perhaps once a week.
3 It should be noted that similar demonstrations and related farmers' training had been undertaken under the IFAD/WB-
funded Southwest Region Agricultural rehabilitation Project (SWRARP), which closed some three years ago, as well
as by the Swedish-funded Uganda Soil Conservation and Agroforestry Project (USCAP), followed by the Uganda
Land Management Project (ULAMP).
- 39 -



Table 2. Adoption of Banana Management Practices
Variable                    % of Farmers
Practices Adopted
Trenches and grass bands               79.2
Uprooting and splitting corms          70.8
Splitting pseudo stems                 58.3
Proper mulching                        45.8
Compost making                         33.3
Trapping weevils                       33.3
Proper pruning                         16.7
19.  The benefits from participation were highlighted as positive yield gains in terms of increased size of
banana. Weight of bunches increased by up to 50%. There was less weed infestation and soil erosion
was greatly reduced. Respondents were asked if they had subsequently adopted the management practices in
their own fields. Despite significantly higher yields obtained during the on-farm trial, subsequent
adoption of recommended management practices was poor. Compost making, trapping weevils and
proper pruning were least popular, implying labour constraints. Yet, these practices are important in
improving soil fertility and reducing prevalence of weevils and nematodes.
20. Livestock East Coast Fever (ECF) control: ECF, a tick-borne disease of cattle, is prevalent in
Uganda causing significant morbidity, mortality and loss of production. The widely used preventive
method is tick control through dipping in acaricide. In 1995, the immunisation technology, that is the
ECF vaccine was introduced from Kenya into Kiboga, Bushenyi, Masaka, Mpigi, Mubende and Mukono
districts. The proportion of total herd size immunised against ECF and the number of times the farmer
had used the service were used as proxies for farmer adoption of the technology.
21.  A total of 31 cattle farmers were interviewed in Kiboga district. Ninety-seven percent were aware
of the new ECF vaccine. Out of a total herd size of 2,101 heads of cattle, of which 1,345 were graded
animals, 537 heads of cattle had been immunised against ECF, representing 25.6% of the total herd size
and 39.9% of the graded animals. It was also reported that 45.5% of farmers had used the vaccine more
than once. The low adoption rates appear to be due to the introduction of cost-recovery (USh 5,000 per
head) and also because traditional breeds are generally not immunised against ECF, as they are
considered to be tolerant.
22.  About 93.9% of the sample farmers reported to have got advice in terms of guidelines on the proper
use of the vaccine, including information on possible side effects, recording temperatures and monitoring
of the herds. Despite low adoption rates, some benefits were realised from ECF immunisation. The
number of crossbred cattle had increased by approximately 10%. Significant reductions in mortality and
morbidity rates reduced by 26 and 30% respectively amongst vaccinated herds; and reduced tick control
costs were recorded. However, the vaccination programme is only carried out by NARO staff when they
visit an area, hence, coverage and availability of the vaccine at critical periods (i.e. when new calves are
born or bought) is limited resulting in high re-infection risks. Although the technology has been
demonstrated to be effective and acceptable to farmers, it remains largely under-utilised. Many
veterinarians are unfamiliar with the technology and should therefore be re-trained and there is also a
need to establish accessible district storage facilities (vaccine has to be stored in liquid nitrogen).
- 40 -



23. Fishpond construction and management: The FIRI fishpond construction techniques and breeds
of Tilapia and Mirror Carp species have been adopted by farmers, especially richer households with
access to capital investment. Mirror carp mono-culture, Tilapia and Mirror carp mixed culture and
Tilapia mono-culture have been adopted by 42%, 39% and 19% of farmers respectively. The Mirror carp
is the preferred species as it grows rapidly (1.5 kg within a year) and has a good taste. Although Tilapia
is a prolific breeder, it is slow growing and is often fed to other fish species such catfish or sold as
fingerings. Farmers (65%) appear to have adopted the recommended practices of slanting ponds and
weeding, although insertion of inlet and outlet sieves was only practised by 45% of the farmers. Proper
management skills, especially on feed rations for specific fish breeds and pond fertilisation were notably
absent. There were also reports of poor reproduction of Mirror carp compelling farmers to rely on
purchased fresh stock to replenish their ponds. However, lack of fry centres for districts which are far
from Kajansi Aquaculture Station (near Entebbe) and pond fishing gears limit the expansion of this fish
production system. Farmers noted the high nutritional and income benefits from fish production and
hence, special support and perhaps credit would be required to assist women and poorer households to
participate.
24.  Summary: The assessment suggests that the level of awareness and adoption of improved crop
varieties, livestock, agro-forestry, post-harvest and fish technologies was generally good among
interviewed farmers in all eight districts. However, considerable variations exist between the yields that
farmers are getting and estimated potential of the varieties on farmer fields (Table 3).
25.  Possible explanation for the yield differences include: (i) for all crops, 25 - 40% of adopters did not
grasp the entire agronomic package associated with the improved variety36 (see para 10); (ii) amongst
farmers who had full knowledge of the recommended management practices, only a few (33%) reported
to have attempted to follow all the recommendations (see para. 22), suggesting that labour shortage may
represent a major constraint; and (iii) potential estimates are generally for a mono crop, yet these crops
are grown in inter and multiple cropping systems. Practices related to soil and water conservation and
nutrient management were least adopted, likely contributing also to the gap between potential and actual
yields.
Table 3. Potential and Actual Yields of Cassava, Beans and Millets
Crop               Mean yield on farmer           Potential yields
fields (actual) kg/ha      (researcher estimate)
kg/ha
Cassava                                 1,782          3,451  (std. dev. = 4.20)
Beans                                    679            1,397 (std. dev. =2.13)
Millet                                   589             964  (std. dev. = 2.52)
36 It is not clear where the bottleneck in information lies. NARO's technology brochures clearly indicate the associated
management practices, but perhaps extension's large work-load makes it difficult for extension workers to spend
enough time supervising relevant agronomic practices. In some cases, extension workers are unavailable when needed
by farmers.
- 41 -



Factors Affecting Adoption Rates
26.  The survey gathered information on the constraints on adoption of new technologies. This
information gives insight into the decision making process that target groups of farmers go through when
new technologies are introduced.
27.  From the analysis of farmer and key informant discussions, the main factors that influence adoption
of new technologies are: (i) farmer perception of the incremental benefits to be derived from the new
technology, that is, the attributes of the technology; (ii) the availability of necessary inputs, especially
seed/planting materials and labour; and (iii) the relative ease with which the technology fits into existing
farming practices, e.g. inter-cropping and weeding regimes. Continued use of the technology, especially
in the case of crops and fish, depends on factors such as back-up extension services, storability of product,
processing requirements in terms of preparation and cooking, and palatability and taste. These factors
also determine marketability of the crop.
28.  Technology attributes (Table 6): Farmers generally appreciated the yield, pest and disease
tolerance of the new crop varieties. However, yield is not the only important criteria: palatability and
marketability are also important. Some farmers indicated that they would rather grow the new cassava
varieties for the market but not for home consumption, as they prefer the taste of the traditional varieties.
Other attributes are also valued by farmers. For instance, farmers prefer tall cassava varieties, which
allow them to inter-crop the first and second crops easily. Although SS4 has high yields, it is a short
plant making inter-cropping difficult. Farmers indicated that they would prefer to have NARO improve
the yield and disease tolerance of some of the traditional varieties, which are notably very tasty
(Namulonge Women's Group).
29.  Overall, farmers ranked highly yield and disease tolerance attributes of K13 1 and K132 varieties,
but felt variety K13 1 was inferior to the old varieties in terms of size of seed, colour, cooking time and
taste. As long as the old varieties remain somewhat tolerant to bean rot diseases, farmers will prefer
traditional bean varieties. Moreover, they are assured of seed for the old varieties.
30.  Despite the relatively low adoption rates of the Pese I millet variety, its yield and early maturing
attributes are valued by farmers. The women also appreciated the flour quality. There are however, still
reservations on storability and brewing quality, limiting its marketability.
31.  Farmer perceptions indicate that, although the new food crop varieties are strong in their yield and
disease tolerance attributes, their adoption is going to be somewhat restricted if they fall short on
palatability and storability. It appears from the findings that disease tolerance is, perhaps, the most
important determinant of whether a new crop variety is adopted or not as depicted by the ACMD. In
cases where diseases are not threatening to wipe-out the crop, e.g. beans, palatability becomes highly
important. Perhaps, the picture is different for cash crops such as coffee and cotton, where increasing
yield is certainly essential for raising incomes, but possibly quality becomes an important criterion.
32.  The timely availability of improved seed/planting materials on a regular basis at affordable prices
was reported to be a key factor influencing continued use of a technology. In the case of new bean, millet
and maize varieties, which need to be replenished every three or so years, farmers highlighted the
problems of getting clean and disinfected seeds when required. There were instances where unscrupulous
traders were selling incorrectly labelled contaminated seed, providing no advice on use of chemicals,
hence, undermining farmer confidence in the continued uptake of the varieties.
33.  Suitability of technology in existing farming systems: Existing farming systems tend to be low-
input, low-output systems (see section on production constraints). Thus, technologies that require
increased use of resources including capital may constrain adoption by resource-poor households. Also,
- 42 -



technologies that require substantial changes in terms of established seasonal cropping patterns and
cultural practices might not be favourable. Generally, farmers in Uganda inter-crop, do not plant in rows,
have defined first and second crops and male and female crops. Thus, technologies should seek to
enhance and complement existing farming/cropping systems and cultural practices.
34.  From simple correlation analysis, other factors including education level of farmer, gender of
farmer, whether a farmer is a member of extension contact/farmer group, family size and farmers'
production objectives had a positive impact on adoption rates37 In a study conducted in Iganga district on
adoption rates of improved Longe I maize variety, adopters were found to be slightly older, owned larger
farms, were more educated, had more access to extension services as well as non-farm employment. Men
were more likely than women to adopt improved varieties (Agri Forum, 2000).
35.  It was important to understand the constraints that smallholder farmers face in their wider
environment, so that research can introduce technologies consistent with farmer needs. Some of the
constraints (produce prices and extension services) are not researchable within NARO's current mandate
and have to be handled by other institutions, and have not been discussed further in this report. Some
issues like drought and land shortage are area specific.
Table 4. Production Constraints: Ranking Cited By Farmers
Constraint                       Cassava    Beans         Millet     Banana        Overall
!___________________________                                                       R anking
Shortage of labour                   1          1           1           1             1
Shortage of land                    2                                                 9
Drought                             3                       2           4             3
Lack of planting material/seeds     5           2           5                         4
Low crop prices                     6           4                       3             5
Diseases                            4           3           3           4             2
Diminishing soil fertility          8           6           4                         7
Storage Pests                       9           5                       2             6
Lack of access to agricultural      7           7           6                         8
extension services
36.   Labour: Shortage of labour to carry out timely field operations was the most predominant
constraint reported by farmers, which often leads to poor agronomic practices including untimely land
preparation, late planting and/ or no weeding and consequently low yields. Livestock keepers reported
that they generally do not undertake pasture management, slashing, and forage collection activities because
of labour shortages. The increasing rate of urbanisation, loss of productive labour to the AIDS epidemic,
lack of draught power and drudgery saving technologies severely constrain what a household is able to do
manually.
37.  Diseases: The second most frequently factor curtailing increased production cited by farmers was
pest and diseases. Reported incidences had increased recently, exacerbated by land pressure and, hence,
37 It would be useful to further characterize non-adopters and adopters in terms of: education; gender; household size; age
of household head; farm size; livestock ownership and participation in farmer groups.
- 43 -



reduction in land rotation, resulting in high yields losses.. In Mpigi districts, farmers reported that
Matoke production had moved to western districts because of the prevalence of nematodes, weevils and
the Black Sigatoka leaf spot disease. ACMD is now under control but coffee wilt is threatening to wipe-
out both traditional and new clonal varieties.
38.  Diminishing soil fertility: Coupled with the increased prevalence of diseases and pests, farmers
noted that soil fertility, including its ability to retain moisture, had progressively diminished over the
years. According to farmers in Mpigi, poor soil fertility contributed to the non-viability of Matoke in the
area. Climate change is also perceived to be a driving force of soil changes and farming systems.
39.  Low prices of output. Lack of marketing opportunities beyond the village market means that
during peak production periods, there is a glutton in the market and prices are low. The low farm gate
price of milk was highlighted as a disincentive to increased production. Because of poor storability of the
produce, farmers cannot take advantage of seasonal price changes
40.  Land appeared to be a less critical bottleneck in most of the surveyed districts, although Mbale and
Kisoro are beginning to face severe shortages, calling for an intensification of farming systems and better
utilisation of soil and water resources. Kisoro and Mbale are already showing better adoption rates for
conservation technologies, including terracing and bunding.
Dissemination of Technologies
41.  Research/extension/farmer linkages: The technology uptake pathways vary and in general wide
dissemination of new technologies benefited from the AEP, with a higher concentration of NARO
training activities and on-farm trials in AEP districts. AEP facilitated the demonstration of technologies
and improved access to planting materials (OPA, 1999). Although the benefit of participation in on-farm
trials was considered to be substantial (banana OFTs in Ntungamo district), coverage is limited. NGOs
and, in particular UNFA, as well as farmer-to-farmer transfer of technology, are currently the main
dissemination vehicles for technologies.
42. Dissemination of technologies is biased in favour of seed/planting materials. Approximately one
third of adopters had limited information on crop and disease management of the new varieties as
evidenced by the few recommended cultural practices taken-up by farmers.
43.  While field extension staff indicated that they had benefited from the technical training they had
received from NARO scientists on the various technologies, they still felt that the
farmer/extension/researcher relationship needed strengthening. It was reported that on many occasions,
researchers had conducted OFTs without clearly explaining to field staff and farmers the objectives of the
trials and the type of data to be collected and results were rarely communicated back. Coupled with that,
was lack of regular and timely follow-up of the trials by researchers, reducing morale and subsequent
adoption of the technologies (OPA, 1999). The 1997 MAAIF BA reports that 55% of Subject Matter
Specialists had rated the quality of researcher feedback to farmers as poor. It is hoped that the ARDCs
would encourage greater collaboration of all key stakeholders, including farmers.
- 44 -



Table S. Source of Technology Information Reaching Farmers (%)
Technology          Cassava    Beans         Millet       Banana        ECF         Fish
_ _ _ _               _    _                             iBanana~~   L vaccine
Source of information
Extension visit     56          55           65                         90          78
Friend/neighbour    50          30           20           -             3           53
NARO On-farm          6         30           10           100           -            6
research contact
NGO                  2           3           5                   -                   9
Radio                             3          5       .                              12
1/Note: only farmers participating to the trials were interviewed.
Impact of Technologies
44. Improved crop varieties were the most popular technologies. Women were most interested in new
food crop varieties that improve household food security'8. Other technologies for livestock and fish are
targeted at better-off households. Although agro-forestry technologies (tree species, soil conservation)
have been promoted, most farmers do not seem to value these technologies. Perhaps, labour constraints
limit the adoption of these low-cost technologies.
45. Adoption of improved disease tolerant cassava, millet and bean varieties has generally improved
household food security and increased incomes from sale of surplus production. The success of the
ACMD tolerant cassava varieties is notable in the north and east of Uganda, where farmer confidence in
the crop has been restored. However, production figures for cassava are yet to return to 1980 levels.
Prior to the ACMD outbreak in the 1980s, a total of about 3.5 million metric tonnes of crop used to be
produced annually from about 360,000 ha. Yields are still around 7 tlha, although potential is estimated at
20-25 tlha. To-date the crop occupies an estimated 342,000 ha (MFPED, 1998). The area under bean
production estimated at 630,000 ha in 1997 is projected to increase to 762,000 ha by the year 2000. Millet
production has picked up from 223,000 tonnes in the 1980s to an estimated 632,000 tonnes in 1998.
46.  A significant percentage of households operate close to the margin of survival. therefore, any yield
increases are, in the first instance, used to satisfy unmet demand for household food consumption, with
only a small surplus marketed to get cash. However, farmers could benefit more in terms of higher yield
increases from both new and old varieties if they consistently adopted recommended agronomic practices.
In view of the poor taste and other undesirable attributes of some of the new crop varieties (beans K13 1),
long-term adoption is doubtful. Moreover, doubling of yields, brought about by new varieties, may not
be sustainable if farmers do not implement measures to improve soil and water management practices,
including to replenish soil nutrients.
3 The reader may note an apparent contradiction between the popularity of crop varieties and the perception that there is
too much emphasis on breeding and not enough management. It is important to note that farmers were only
commenting on the benefits of what was provided by extension and research services and not on relative importance of
technology in relation to their perceived priority problems.
- 45 -



Lessons
47. While adoption rates are reasonably high for the technologies tracked, the associated crop
management practices appear to be ignored by a majority of farmers. This stemmed mainly from
incomplete information reaching farmers and perhaps a lack of sufficient labour as many of the abandoned
cultural practices such as compost making, timely planting are strongly dependent on the availability of
labour. Technology development needs to take into account the range of constraints faced by resource-
poor households and provide a variety of technological options, which farmers can choose from to suit
their own local circumstances. This suggests the need for NARO to pilot more participatory technology
development activities.
48.  Management guidelines and recommendations provided by NARO to extension staff through
brochures, grower's guides and researcher demonstration plots are always for pure crop stands. Farmers
rarely plant pure crops but often inter-crop 2 to 3 other crops within a main crop. Thus, existing cropping
systems should be imitated as much as possible in demonstration plots and this will provide an invaluable
opportunity to solve crosscutting issues. The need for addressing cross-cutting issues justifies the need
for an all-round cadre of researchers, e.g. agronomists, capable of handling all aspects of farm
production.
49. Technology generation is biased in favour of crop breeding and high yielding variety releases39.
While high yield is a key attribute, it is not the only criteria of interest to farmers. Palatability and relative
ease of adopting technology into current cultural practices are also valid. One of the distinctive features
of smallholder agriculture is the wide variability of production systems, which are constantly changing
over time. This variability confounds the standardised technology package approach in most cases.
Local varieties may achieve comparable yield levels to those of improved unfamiliar varieties when good
crop husbandry is practised. Perhaps the adaptation of local varieties, (e.g. improving disease resistance
of local bean varieties) and improving on what is already familiar to the farmer, taking into account the
constraints in the farming system, should be the starting point for research.
50.  Extension messages reaching farmers appear to emphasise adoption of crop varieties in isolation
and not in association with good management practices, which can enhance total farm productivity. This,
perhaps, has contributed to the persistence of high pest and disease incidences, despite variety
improvements. Increasing farm productivity is not only about getting improved varieties to farmers but
also entails placing emphasis on improving soil fertility and good crop husbandry, without which, high
yields cannot be realised. Researchers need to direct increased resources to improving and promoting
integrated soil, water, pest and disease management, that is, farm management.
51.  Post-harvest and food utilisation information and technologies should be disseminated in
association with the improved crop varieties to avoid inappropriate utilisation. Drying technologies are,
particularly, relevant in the highlands, where there is no pronounced dry season.
52.  Financing technology development in the absence of effective dissemination and input supply
mechanisms will clearly constrain widespread adoption of technologies. Strengthening researcher-
extension- farmer linkages and extension systems is essential if research is to have an impact. Other
interventions such as market development, road network improvements, development of farmer
organisations and support to private sector such as rural stockists/buying agents by providing training in
stock management and input use are also important. As long as farmers remain seed insecure (or vaccine
insecure, in the case of ECF), traditional varieties and cattle breeds will continue to be important to
farmers, undermining NARO's research efforts.
39 While farmers appreciate the high yield benefits of crop varieties, an increased focus on improving total farm
productivity will result in higher sustainable long-term benefits for the farmers.
- 46 -



Table 6. Technology Attributes
Technology         Positive                                    Weaknesses
Cassava            *  High yields; ACMD resistant (Nase 2 by all   *   Migyera, Nase '1 and Nase 2 varieties tasted
cases, SS4 by 91.7% of the cases and        bitter, Migyera is the most bitter recorded
Migyera by 88.9% of the cases);             by 100% of respondents.
*  Drought resistant;                       *   Inferior ground storability (42.1% Nase 2,
*  Early maturing (76.2% Nase 2, 83.3 SS4 and   33.3% SS4);
Migyera);                               *   Fibrous (78.9% Nase 2, 66.7% SS4)
*   Big canopies suppressing weeds.             especially when young
*   Nase 2 rots if planted in spear grass prone
areas
*   Inferior brewing quality
Beans              *  High yield                               *   K132 is not heavy and this seems to stem
*   K132 has good taste and colour              from the small seed coat. K132 does not
*   Early maturity                              store well.
*   Drought tolerance                       *   K 132 pods shatter if left for long before
*  Disease resistance                           harvesting.
*   K131 takes long to cook
*   K 131 has hard pods, making it difficult to
thresh.
*   K131 is small
Millet Pese I      *  High yielding, has bigger heads;         *   Long stems and lodges in the face of strong
*  Good taste and flour quality - good for      winds;
bread & porridge making.                *   Inferior brewing quality resulting in
*  Disease tolerant                             restricted marketability;
*   At harvesting if heads are heaped together
before threshing, Pese I often germinates.
*   Inferior drought resistance and late maturity
Banana Cultural   *  Increased bunch size and weight           *   Mulching is labour intensive
Practices          *  Increased moisture retention and less
weeds
ECF                      *  Reduced use of acaricide (90%)           *  Labour intensive in terms of
*  Reduction in mortality by 46%               monitoring temperatures
*  Reduced use of chemotherapeutic drugs          *   Some animals reacting to the disease
which necessitates treatment with
expensive drugs
*  A few animals do not develop the
expected immunity and are affected
by the disease in subsequent contacts
Fish                     *  Mirra carp has a good taste              *  Tilapia is a prolific breeder, so
*   Mirra carp attains market weight           tends to crowd and is small
within a short time
*   Tilapia - good for sale as
fingerlings or prey for other species
such as catfish
53.  Dissemination: NARO needs to pilot outreach activities, which encourage greater involvement of
other extension service providers. There is currently a plurality of extension approaches in Uganda, many
of which have proved to be successful. Notable are Africa 2000 Network, UNFA, other NGOs such as
- 47 -



CARE, AT (U), and the newly introduced Farmers'-Field School, amongst many others. A participatory
approach involving these stakeholders would enhance understanding of farmer problems and encourage
dialogue and feedback.
54. Impact assessment: Although NARO set socio-economic research priorities, it appears not to have
done enough technology assessment and adoption studies to provide feedback into the research system. It
is advisable for NARO to consider contracting some of the assessment work to external agencies. A
baseline survey is urgently required so as to have a concrete basis for evaluating ARTP II.
Implications
55. NARO would need to update its priority research programmes in response to farmer priorities and
identified key bottlenecks in farming systems. Areas of attention include measures to reduce disease and
pests incidence; improving soil fertility and water management; developing drought tolerant
varieties/crops; and post-harvest information and technologies.
56. The new priority areas for research are crosscutting, calling for a shift from a single commodity
focus to a multidisciplinary problem solving approach which recognises agro-ecological zone diversity.
A learning process between farmers and researchers should be established so that priority development
needs of farmers are better articulated and farmers fully participate in identifying solutions. The
obligation is on NARO to stress the importance of good land, crop and livestock husbandry (i.e. good
management practices) as prerequisites to increasing and sustaining farm productivity.
57. In view of existing labour shortages, NARO should develop and introduce labour saving
technologies consistent with existing production systems, gender and other socio-economic factors. The
development of no-tillage systems would contribute to address both the land productivity and the labour
shortage issues.
58. The economic viability of the new technologies within current farming systems should be tested and
guidelines on usage updated.
Bibliography
Agri-Forum, January 2000 'Impact of maize and Wheat Research In Eastern Africa: Results of Recent
Studies' Quarterly Newsletter of the Association for Strengthening Research in Eastern and Central
Africa.
Bua, A.; G.W. Otim-Nape; B. Byabakama; G. Acola and Y.K. Baguma "The uptake of Improved
Varieties in Six Gatsby project districts of Uganda",
MPED, 1997: Statistical Abstract
MPED, 1996: Uganda's Export Statistics 1990-1996.
Organisational Performance Assessment (OPA), 1999: NARO Task Force Report. Edited by T.
Sengooba and D. Kisauzi.
- 48 -



Figure 1. NARO Organizational Chart during ARTP I (1999)
National Agricultural Research Board
(NARB)
Secretariat
Director General
Internal Audit~
Deputy DirectorGeneral
Administrative     W         Finance                             MEPU                            RELU                              NADIC
Unit                      Unit                 Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning     Research-Extension       National Documentation and Information
Unit                          Liaison                            Centre
RESEARCH INSTITUTES
KARI  | | SAARI |3NAARI                              LIRI             FIRI              FORI             FOSRI            AER               COREC
KARI= Kawanda Agricultural Research Institute
ASSOCIATE RESEARCH INSTITUTES                                                   SAARI= Serere Agricultural Research Insdttue
Makerere University                                                                                                o E               NAARI_  NamnultgeAgricuural andEAnimal Production
Agricultural Research Institute, Kabanyolo                                                          Uganda Institute                           Research Institute
LIRI= Livestock Health Research Institute
FIRI= Fisheries Research Institute
FORI= Forestry Research Institute
FOSRI= Food Science and Technology Research Institute
AEATRI= Agricultural Engineering and
Appropriate Technology Research Institute
_ 49 -                                         COREC= Coffee Research Centre






IBRD 241 1 1
300                                             32^                                            34-                                             36'
SUDAN                                                                         UGANDA
4-4                                                                                                  /   (a                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND TRAINING PROJECT
~%g   MOYO a,wd iOpi                                                                   Research Institutes
\Keokol °Yumnbo                                                              K leboro
KITOUM                                r"                       0  KAWANDA AGRICULTURAL
0. Aiok '   '                                                              0NAMULONGE AGRICULTURAL AND
/Afho.ibo,                                                  ANIMAL PRODUCTION
-ARUA                                      NOR iHERN                  KOTIDO                            9   SERERE AGRICULTURAL AND
Enu'bo                                                                                                     ANIMAL PRODUCTION
/                                -AULUo :/   '.   _   "   6'   . Adiloog          '                        °0  FORESTRY  at Kifu
/ r--                                                        ' \ . MOROTO \  ^ 9t LIVESTOCK HEALTH at Tar,ra
ZAI RE             NEBBIN      act PIano.o                                                                                  o   FISHERIES at Jinja
o0  FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
~~~~~~~~~ ~~~~~~~at Kampala
urn                  0 4    .   X       >1                   \          MUARIK at Kabanyolo
-2-  f w/  1   t  ,}  _APAC  ,  Jr   \   1   Npoilotuk0                                                  2
PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
j     /       J  MASINDI                  K,oono                     $ -OTI S      SoLo                            PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
7      4   /p5                           Leon"';t ^  T-  No /~5    el3         \ 1KUMIl t              /               RAILROADS
7 /    / <7IMAi Bukedec- v                                                                               i9.,=iw ) tNo-m58;t t;AP R o    SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
7  '0O\  1ttokoeon2ol,  LbA   P\LS Kkr > SIP       /4                   DISTRICT CAPITALS
No-mo.god   StFPN    y                                       NATIONAL CAPITAL
YNESTLiI?N             KIBOGA            IA    -ULI                   <E        1
*iKIBuICe i     l                iLUER  MbuOd g           OL>tir>M-. toI  Moo                             DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
B5 DIB°6ujuniUGYO                 miro          ,'. KowngoO                           Busento . b                                   REGION BOUNDARIES
Bu~~~~~jr,                                 0No~~~~~~~kono    TORORt~
F . PORT    °   0            )           ,MUBENDE     6B-t 9         >      AO    -oeX          kMoo-    INTERNATIONAL BOUNDARIES
D,otict --meo coinciide with DiStTiCt Copifolo, ath one
aception  Fort Portal in the Donnint Capitol of Kbe I Dor io O,to
B en      ' KASESE                                                                                               KENYA
/         ~~~BUSHENYI      Lo    j6t;                                               0 |<S                                                  UA       
Ql     KKaj
o          h,                    MRSAKA_ tuoo
1Lake  /~~~~~~~~~~~~~~AM I
Edwar~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~i
to0     This sop Thooenprp'dh-
RWANDA            iodament b nge- Y   . _a34' tTANZANIA                     3 6°
NOVEMBER 1992



