Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 11238-UG
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
NOVEMBER 23, 1992
Agriculture and Environment Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Region
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit   =       Uganda Shillings (USh)
US$1            =       USh 1,170 (June 1992)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
Metric System
GOVERNMENT FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
ARTP            -       Agricultural Research and Training Project
ASAC            -       Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit
CIAT            -       International Center for Tropical Agriculture
CIR             -       Country Implementation Review
CTB             -       Central Tender Board
EAC             -       East African Community
EC              -       European Community
ELU             -       Extension Liaison Unit
ERP             -       Economic Recovery Program
EFMP            -       Economic and Financial Management Project
FAF             -       Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, Makerere University
FAO             -       Food and Agriculture Organization
FS              -       Faculty of Science, Makerere University
FVM             -       Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Makerere University
GOU             -       Government of Uganda
GTZ             -       German Agency for Technical Cooperation
HARE            -       Headstart Agricultural Research and Extension Program
[ARC            -       International Agricultural Research Center
IDA             -       International Development Association
IDRC            -       International Development Research Center
IFAD            -       International Fund for Agricultural Development
IlTA            -       International Institute for Tropical Agriculture
INIBAP          -       International Network for Improvement of Bananas and Plantain
ISNAR           -       International Service for National Agricultural Research
MAAIF           -       Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries
MCIC            -       Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives
MFAD                    Manpower for Agricultural Development Project
MFEP            -       Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
MPS             -       Ministry of Public Service
MU              -       Makerere University
MUARIK          -       Makerere University Agricultural Research Institute at Kabanyolo
MWMEEP          -       Ministry of Water, Minerals, Energy and Environment Protection
NADIC           -       National Agricultural Documentation and Information Center
NARB            -       National Agricultural Research Board, or NARO Board
NARO            -      National Agricultural Research Organization
NARS            -       National Agricultural Research System
NARSP           -       National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan, or Research Master Plan
PAPSCA          -       Project for the Alleviation of Poverty and Social Costs of Adjustments
PIU             -       Project Implementation Unit
PPF             -       Project Preparation Facility
SAC             -       Structural Adjustment Credit
SOE             -       Statement of Expenditures
UNDP            -       United Nations Development Program
USAID           -       United States Agency for International Development



FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Table of Contents
I. BACKGROUND                          ......................................    1
A.       Economic Setting  .....................................    1
B.       Major Development Issues   ...............................    2
C.       General Institutional Issues  ...............................    2
D.       Bank Assistance Strategy   ................................    3
E.       Lending Program  and Economic and Sector Work  .................   3
F.       Aid Coordination  .....................................    5
G.       Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned ..................    6
H.       Rationale for IDA  Involvement .............................    7
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR  ..................................    8
A.       Salient Features  ......................................    8
B.       Recent Performance ....................................    8
C.       Sectoral Objectives  ....................................    9
D.       Sources of and Constraints on Growth   ........................    9
E.       Public Expenditures and Sectoral Management  ...................   11
F.       Sectoral Development Strategy  .............................   11
HI.  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH  AND  TRAINING   .......................   12
A.       Background and Current Status .............................   12
B.       Agricultural Research and Education Issues and Constraints  ....                    .......   16
C.       The National Agricultural Research Strategy   ....................   17
IV. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT  .........                                             ... 18
A.       Project Rationale and Objectives ............................   18
B.       Detailed Features  ...........                   ..........................   19
C.       Project Costs and Financing ...............................   24
D.       Procurement          .        .....................................   27
E.       Disbursement    ............                    ..........................   29
F.       Accounting, Auditing and Reporting   .........................   30
This report is based on the findings of an appraisal mission which visited Uganda in July 1992. The mission consisted
of E. Quisumbing (Agriculturist/Task Manager), J. Coates (Sr. Financial Analyst), T. Eisemon (Education Specialist)
and C. Balina (USAID, Civil Engineer). Contributions based on previous missions were also made by V. Mackrandilal
(Sr. Economist), V. Venkatesan (Sr. Extension Specialist), S. Bhlttacharya (Sr. Procurement Specialist), A. Bolar
(Consulant, Financial Analyst), P. Boekstcgen (Resarch Specialist, FAO/CP) and D. Corbetr (Consultant, Research
Specialist). The lead adviser was A. Spurling (Principal Agriculturist), and peer reviewers were N. Colletta (Sr. Gen.
Education Specialist) and C. Pattanayak (Sr. Agriculturist). Messrs. J. Shivakumar and F. Colaco are the managing
Division Chief and Department Director, respectively, for this operation. Mmes. C. Jones, J. Bekker, B. Mudd, M.
Gunawardane, and M. Hileman provided assistance in editing, computing and document processing.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



V. ORGANIZATIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS ....                           .......  31
A.    Overall Project Arrangements  .............................  31
B.     Research Arrangements  .................................  34
C.    Education and Training Arrangements  ........................  39
D.    Initiatives for Women  ..................................  40
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS, AND RISKS  .........................  40
A.    Main Benefits and Beneficiaries  ............................  40
B.     Economic Justifications  .................................  41
C.    Sustainability and Financial Implications for Government ....     ......... 42
D.    Project Risks    ......................................  43
E.     Environmental Impact ..................................  44
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION   .........................  45
A.    Assurances and Agreements ...............................  45
B.     Recommendation  .....................................  47
list of Annexes
l.    Cost Tables
2.    Estimated Disbursement Schedule
3.    Detailed Budget for Identified Activities under the PPF
4.    Technical Assistance
5a.   Terms of Reference - Agricultural Economist
Sb.   Terms of Reference - Agricultural Extension Education Specialist
5c.   Terms of Reference - Architectural and Construction Supervision Consultant
5d.   Terms of Reference - Financial Management Specialist
Se.   Terms of Reference - Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
Sf.   Terms of Reference - Procurement Specialist
5g.   Terms of Reference - Research Fund/Foundation Consultant
6.    Donor Funded Research Projects in Uganda
7.    Agricultural Education and Training Component
8.    Summary of Degree Training
9.    Distribution of Female Researchers
10a.  Implementation Plan
10b.   Schedule of Key Activities
1 la. Procurement Schedule for Civil Works
1 lb.   Procurement Schedule for Equipment and Material
12.    Financial Management
13.    Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
14.    Annual Work Program and Project Supervision and Implementation
15.    Documents in the Project File
16.    Staff Recruitment Plan
Map No. IBRD 24111: Agricultural Research Institutes



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINIG PROJECT (ARTP)
Credit and Project Summary
Borrower:             Government of Uganda (GOU)
Beneficiaries:        National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO)
Makerere University (MU)
Amount:               SDR 17.80 million (US$25.04 million equivalent)
Project Objectives:    The project would support the Government's strategy for improving productivity
and diversification in the agricultural sector through the development and transfer
of improved technology. The broad objective of the project is to develop an
organizational framework and institutional processes for agricultural research
which are sustainable and efficient as well as responsive to the production
constraints facing farmers in Uganda. The specific objectives of the project are
threefold: (a) launch and support the key activities of NARO, induding high
priority research; (b) strengthen the linkages and coordination among the
research system, the extension service and the agricultural faculties of the
university; and (c) improve agricultural education and training capacity.
Project Description:    The project would provide financial assistance to support four broad sets of
activities. First, the project would support the institutional development of the
National Agricultural Research System (US$7.02 million). The project would
finance the activities of the NARO Board and Secretariat, develop and implement
improved administrative, evaluative and priority-setting systems for research
programs, and upgrade the capacity of researchers to implement the priority
research programs. Second, the project would support the rehabilitation of
research Institutes (US$4.20 million) at Serere, Tororo, Jinja and Kifu, and
provide the requisite vehicles and research equipment. Third, the project would
support the Implementation of the high-priority research programs (US$12.34
million) by providing payments for incremental recurrent operating costs,
including salaries and allowances under the newly introduced Terms and
Conditions of Service for research. Fourth, the project would support
strengthening agricultural education and training capabilities (US$5.31 million)
at Makerere University. Specially, it would support the domestic and foreign
based education of degree candidates and staff, the upgrade of facilities and
equipment at three faculties-Agriculture and Forestry, Veterinary Medicine, and
Science--and improved curricula for the programs at the Colleges of the Ministry
of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries.
Project Benefits:     The technological advances from a stronger agricultural research service would
improve the productivity and profitability of the crop and livestock husbandry
practices of small farmers. Farmers would increase their income. Agricultural
output would be augmented and diversified, thus expanding food supplies and
exports. The sustainability of agricultural growth would further be enhanced by
the project's education and training component, which would improve the
proficiency and availability of trained researchers and technicians.



- Hi -
Risks:                  The uncertainty associated with depending on funding from the Government
budget and potential weaknesses with project management are the primary
constraints against the successful implementation of the project. To address the
funding constraint, IDA is pursuing several measures at the macroeconomic and
project levels to support the Govermment's efforts. These measures include
enhancing revenue collection, reprioritizing budgetary allocations, improving the
efficiency of Government's financial management, diversifying the sources of
research funding, and gradually curtailing IDA's contribution to the incremental
recurrent costs of the project. The effectiveness of project management would be
enhanced through training, technical assistance and improved monitoring and
control systems. A midterm review would be undertaken before the end of year
3 to assess difficulties, if any, and adjust the project design, if necessary.
Project Costs
Local       Foreign       Total       % Foreign      % Total
Component                                (US$ million)               Exchange    Base Cost
A,. Institutional Development      2.22          4.07          6.30            65           25
B. Rehabilitation of               0.86          2.59          3.44            75           14
Research Institutes
C . Implementation of High-        9.95          0.96         10.91             9           43
Priority Research                                                   __
D. Agricultural Education and      1.65          3.04          4.69            65           19
Training
Total Baseline Costs           14.68         10.66         25.34           42           100
Physical Contingencies          0.20          0.46          0.67           69            3
Price Contingencies             1.81          1.05          2.86           37            11
Total Project Costs            16.69         12.17         28.87           42           113
Financing Plan:
Foreign            Local           Taxes         Total
Funding Source                                    (US$ million)
IDA                             12.17               12.87                         25.04
GOU                                                 2.80            1.03          3.83
Total                           12.17               15.67           1.03          28.87
a/ Numbers may not add up due to rounding.
Estimated IDA Disbursement (US$ million)
IDA Fical Year      93        94      9S         96        97        98        99         00
Annual         0.20     0.97     4.53       6.28      5.03     3.57       2.76      1.70
Cumulative     0.20     1.17     5.70      11.98     17.01    20.58      23.34     25.04
Economic Rate of Return: Not applicable.
Map No: IBRD 24111: Agricultural Research Institutes.



REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
I. BACKGROUND
A. Economic Setting
1.1    Uganda is well endowed with natural and human resources. It has abundant, fertile land
and favorable climatic conditions for agricultural growth, and it once had a relatively well-
developed manufacturing sector and an effective transportation system. In 1990 the agricultural
sector accounted for 60 percent of Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Agriculture provides over 90
percent of the country's export earnings and is a major source of government tax revenue.
1.2   The first years after Independence clearly demonstrated the economic potential of the
country. GDP grew by about 6 percent annually from 1963 to 1973. However, starting in 1970,
political turmoil and economic mismanagement radically threatened to arrest the progress. As a
result, real GDP declined by about 20 percent during the 1970s. In early 1981 the Government
initiated a recovery program with the assistance of donors, including the World Bank and the
International Monetary Fund (IMF). The recovery was short-lived, and beginning in 1984 a
renewed cycle of instability escalated expenditures, accelerated inflation and overvalued the
currency, leading to further reductions in GDP. A military coup, followed by civil war,
eventually brought the economy to a standstill.
1.3   The National Resistance Movement (NRM) Government, which assumed power in
January 1986, inherited an extremely poor infrastructure, a grossly underutilized manufacturing
sector, rampant inflation and a huge external debt that required a total debt service of over half
the 1984/85 export earnings. After a gradual return to political stability, the Government initiated
an Economic Recovery Program (ERP) in 1987, backed by a Structural Adjustment Facility from
the IMF, an Economic Recovery Credit (Cr. 1844-UG) from the International Development
Association (IDA) and other donor financing. In 1989, the Government obtained an Enhanced
Structural Adjustment Facility from the IMF and a second Economic Recovery Credit II) from
IDA to accelerate the reforms. The Fund program supported further demand-management
initiatives, while the IDA credit supported further structural measures, particularly those that
promoted the stabilization objectives.
1.4   Continued support for the ERP is being provided under the Structural Adjustment Credit
(SAC), approved in November 1991. The two primary goals of SAC are to (a) remove the
remaining constraints on the private sector and create an environment in which private initiatives
can flourish and thus enable so that Uganda to realize its comparative advantage, and (b) improve
the effectiveness of the Government.
1.5   The performance of the economy under the ERP has been good. GDP has increased
more than 6 percent annually, albeit from a low base, and per-capita income has risen at 3.5
percent annually. With improved access to donor-funded foreign exchange, imports rose at the
beginning of the period, but then leveled off in the face of the declining value of exports. The
balance of trade has gone deeply into deficit, largely because the price of coffee, Uganda's main
export, began to drop sharply in international markets in 1987. Uganda's imports of goods and
services in FY1990/91 were US$674 million, against exports of US$216 million.



- 2 -
B. Major Developmental Issues
1.6    Uganda faces six major structural, institutional and financial problems that must be
addressed during the next three years. First, underlying structural problems, primarily in the
financial and coffee sectors, continue to impede stabilization. Second, although government
expenditures have increased somewhat in recent years, government revenues are still very low (16
percent of GDP). Therefore, resources for economic and social services remain inadequate, thus
making increased efforts to strengthen and mobilize revenue a priority. Third, while the ERP has
reduced inflation, more efforts are required to reduce inflationary pressures. Fourth, the sharp
decline in the export prices of coffee during the past two years and the petroleum price increases
after the Gulf War again highlight Uganda's vulnerability to adverse external events. Thus, its
export base must be diversified. Fifth, a stepped-up program of institutional strengthening,
including parastatal and financial-sector reform, is required. Sixth, a major reform of the civil
service is urgently required to achieve a streamlined, efficient, effective and manageable
organization.
1.7    The policy framework of the Govermnent's ERP for the next three years, as well as the
Bank;s assistance strategy, will support executing these developmental priorities. The policy
dialogue in key areas--financial intermediation, public expenditures, civil service reform, export
diversification and environmental management--is being intensified through economic and sectoral
work. Policy reforms in these and ancillary areas could be supported through structural and
sectoral-adjustment lending. The Government's ongoing efforts to rehabilitate the country's
infrastructure and essential public services could be supported with direct investment lending.
C. General Institutional Issues
1.8    Uganda's recent political turmoil has left the country with very weak institutions. The
civil service, the main employer in the formal sector, has grown beyond the needs of the country
and is characterized by inefficiency, a lack of financial discipline and obsolescence. Support
institutions, such as the university and training and research agencies, have deteriorated
dramatically since independence, and are neither self-reliant nor financially viable. During the
past few years donor agencies and the IDA have helped the Government implement several
measures to remedy these weakness, but these efforts have fallen far short of a comprehensive and
sustained program of institutional reform. The institutional development strategies have relied
largely on short-term foreign expertise in the form of technical assistance and ad hoc overseas
training. Vital progress has been made at maintaining key operating systems in important
agencies, but at the cost of perpetuating dependency.
1.9    The Government recognizes the weaknesses of Ugandan institutions and has demonstrated
its commitment to tackle the problems. A candid report of the Public Service Review and
Reorganization Commission (PSRRC) provided the basis for a reduction in the number of
ministries and self-accounting units (from 46 to 23) in 1991, and for continued reductions in the
civil service. The Government has also established a secretariat to develop a national capacity-
building plan to strengthen Ugandan self-reliance and to train the managers, professionals and
technical staff required to improve both public- and private-sector performance. However,
completing a comprehensive and systematic institutional reform program could be a complex and
long-term process. Action is being initiated with IDA support to strengthen key agencies
---------  --  -- ---------



-3-
responsible for economic and financial management and developmental planning, thus enabling
them to be at the vanguard of the larger civil service reform program.
D. Bank Assistance Strategy
1.10   The overall objective of the World Bank's assistance strategy for Uganda is to shift the
emphasis from addressing the short-term needs for security, stability and rehabilitation to creating
an economic environment conducive to reducing poverty by promoting long-term sustainable
growth and improving basic living conditions. The overall approach would be to strengthen
essential Government institutions, policies and functions in a manner that nurtures private-sector
participation in both agriculture and industry and improves the delivery of essential social
services.
1.11   The Bank will continue to play a lead role in helping the Government design and
implement its ERP to move the economy toward sustainable long-term growth, and in mobilizing
the required financial resources to support the Government's development program. The Bank
will fulfill this role by supporting policy dialogue with economic and sector studies, by designing
a lending program that would balance adjustment and investment lending and by improving the
coordination of aid.
E. Lending Program and Economic and Sectoral Work
1.12   The IDA and the IMF supported an initial effort of economic stabilization and recovery
during the early 1980s. In June 1981, the Government adopted a comprehensive Recovery
Program. IDA committed the Reconstruction H and HI Credits in 1982 and 1984, respectively, as
well as an Industrial Rehabilitation Credit in 1982 and an Agricultural Rehabilitation Credit in
1983. The initial experience was encouraging, in terms of both stabilization and the recovery of
output. However, in 1984, the economic program went off track, and security conditions again
began to deteriorate. Inflation accelerated to 125 percent in 1985, and the recovery effort was
overwhelmed by the intensification of civil strife.
1.13   To date, the cumulative total of Bank Group lending to Uganda stands at US$1.68 billion.
Of this amount, six IDA credits, five supplements, and two Africa Facility Credits totalling
US$676.1 million have been in the form of quick-disbursing assistance, including an Agricultural
Sector Adjustment Credit (ASAC) in FY91. The current portfolio consists of 27 projects,
totalling US$1.16 billion; six projects totalling US$228 million are in the agricultural sector.
Through the technical assistance credit (FY88), IDA has strengthened the administrative and
institutional capacity of the key ministries responsible for implementing the recovery program.
Other credits have helped the Government rehabilitate the nation's essential infrastructure; still
others have improved productive capacity and bolstered basic social services. The recently
approved SAC (November 1991) continues quick-disbursing support to the Recovery Program
while also attempting to remove constraints on the private sector and improve the efficiency of
Government.
1.14   During the next three years, the Bank's economic and sectoral-work program and its
lending operations will be used to implement the Bank's assistance strategy. Lending operations
will build on the foundation of knowledge accumulated during the past few years and will cover



the industrial and financial sectors, transport, the private sector and key export-oriented crops.
The macroeconomic measures necessary for establishing the base for sustainable long-term
development have also been identified through this work. A study of public expenditures--
identified as an area of utmost priority- was prominent in these efforts. A second Public
Expenditure Review (PER), undertook in FY92, sought to improve public expenditure
management. The Bank has also completed a paper that recommended an export diversification
strategy for Ugandal/. Pending the overall restructuring of the financial sector, which would
be supported by a planned FY93 financial-sector adjustment operation, the Enterprise
Development Project (EDP) (FY92) supports preshipment export financing as part of a package of
initiatives to realize the objective of diversifying exports. The measures necessary for supporting
continued growth in agriculture have been identified in a World Bank MemorandumJ2.
Building on the agriculture-sector-study, an operation planned for FY94 would support the
continued liberalization and restructuring of production, processing and export marketing in the
cotton sector. Congruent with the recommendations of the "Agricultural Sector Memorandum,"
this operation would provide additional support to agricultural research. Agricultural extension
would be strengthened by the Agricultural Extension Project, which is expected to become
effective in January 1993. A smallholder development project would promote agricultural growth
in ikey smallholder-dominated crops, such as cotton and dairy products.
1.15   The Bank's activities in human resources would seek to improve access to basic social
services. Education V would focus on education, and Health II would continue efforts to
strengthen basic health services, as well as the ability of the Government to respond to the
manifold economic and social impacts of the AIDS disease. Education V is based on several
subsectoral studies that have influenced the development of the Ministry of Education's Five-Year
Investment Program (1992-1997). Both operations will be linked to the human resources study
initiated in FY92. An issues paper on women in development has identified key aspects of the
status of women that must be addressed immediately and will provide the basis for integrating
these aspects into other parts of the Bank's human resources and agriculture work programsl/.
1.16 To help alleviate poveily, the Bank's assistance strategy consists of four elements. First,
the lending program to promote growth and diversification described earlier would offer
opportunities for using labor productively; including labor available within the poorer segments of
society. The broad participation of smallholder farmers in the production of both food and export
crops would support overall efforts to distribute the benefits of agricultural growth to the rural
poor. Second, dialogue on the public expenditure program would focus on increasing
expenditures by the Government for basic social services in the health and education sectors.
Third, the Bank, through policy dialogue and lending, would support strengthening social-sector
ministries to enable public programs to expand the delivery of social services. Fourth, the Bank
is supporting the Government's special project for the Alleviation of Poverty and Social Costs of
Adjustment (PAPSCA). PAPSCA, initiated in 1990, seeks to provide support to the poorest in
1/    The World Bank. 'Uganda: Export Diversification Strategy." Eastern Africa Department,
July 3, 1991.
eTh World Bank. 'Uganda: Agricultural Sector Memorandum." Report No. 10715-UG, Agriculture and
Environment Division, Eastern Africa Department, June 8, 1992.
The World Bank. "Uganda: Women in Development: Current Issues and Agenda for Further Research."
Population and Human Resources Division, Eastern Africa Department, June 28, 1991.



-5-
Uganda's society and to mitigate the adverse effects of adjustment on the poor. Poverty and
growth issues would be the focus of the forthcoming country economic memorandum (FY93).
1.17  Institutional weaknesses limit the Government's ability to implement the policy agenda,
and impede the implementation of projects. Thus, capacity building and institutional refonn
figure prominently in planned lending operations. The Bank's strategy is to address central policy
measures in the context of structural adjustment lending. Complementary assistance to improve
the Government's economic and financial management and to support reform at the sectoral level
would be provided in the form of technical assistance to freestanding operations or to sector-
specific operations. Moreover, a major study is being undertaken to develop an action plan for
removing constraints on the effective use of available talent within the civil service, for preparing
a medium- and long-term training program to address key skill gaps, and for elaborating a
strategy and framework for future Bank initiatives in capacity building.
1.18   The recently approved Economic and Financial Management Project (EFMP) addresses
problems in the core agencies that are responsible for economic and financial management and are
expected to play key roles in the overall public service reform programs (para. 1.9). Significant
resources will be allocated to strengthening the capacity of the Ministry of Finance and Economic
Planning (MFEP) and the Bank of Uganda to formulate and implement effective economic-
development policies.
1.19   The pressures on the environment are not as severe in Uganda as they are in other Sub-
Saharan countries, but they could become serious and must be addressed if economic growth is to
be sustained. The Bank is supporting efforts by the Government to prepare an Environmental
Action Plan that would call for strengthening public institutions responsible for environmental
management and monitoring. The Bank would offer technical assistance to the Government in
establishing an appropriate institutional and legal framework for environmental protection and to
develop cost-effective information systems. The Bank would also support strengthening
environmental research at Makerere University.
F. Aid Coordination
1.20   During the next three years, the Bank's activities would also focus on strengthening and
coordinating donor support for Uganda's reform efforts. Discordant and contradictory activities
by donors are distinct threats that could undermine the reform program. More action is required
to increase the support of other donors for reform. Of course, responsibility for coordinating aid
rests primarily with the Government, but the Bank is willing to help improve the Government's
capacity in this area.
1.21   The Bank would foster the coordination of donor support by (a) promulgating to donors
its own views on necessary reforms, expected performance by the Government, and financing
needs, (b) explaining to donors its own proposed activities for supporting of the reform program,
(c) encouraging donors to support areas of the reform program in which they have specific
expertise, and (d) flagging systemic issues that may impinge on the effectiveness of donor
support. The bank would pursue this four-pronged strategy within the framework of the Special
Program of Assistance and the Consultative Group process (with meetings planned every 12 to 18
months). Coordinating donor support effectively also requires frequent contact with donor
representatives and the regular dissemination of information on policy developments and project



- 6 -
activities. The role of the Bank's Resident Mission has been expanded to facilitate this exchange.
Regular meetings with local donor representatives will be used as a vehicle for intensive
consultations with the main donor agencies. IDA and the IMF have collaborated closely on the
design, implementation, and monitoring of Uganda's ERP. This collaboration has been
particularly helpful at enabling the Government to focus on key macroeconomic stabilization
measures, as well as on long-term structural reform.
G. Implementation Experience and Lessons Learned
1.22   The implementation of IDA-financed projects slowed down during the civil disturbances
in 1985 and 1986, but since the return of peace and stability in much of the country has shown
steady progress. Disbursements rose to US$77.7 million in FY86, declined slighdy to US$63.3
million in FY87, and then increased sharply to US$107.1 million in FY88, reflecting the more
rapid disbursements under the first Economic Recovery Credit (ERC I). Disbursements in FY89
were US$99.9 million, rising to US$164.9 million in FY90 and to US$169.0 million in FY91. In
FY82, disbursements were US$122.30 million. The lending program for Uganda has increased
dramatically from two operations in FY87 to five in FY88, to seven in FY89, to six in FY90, and
to five in FY91, including two African Facility Credits, three supplements to ERC I and one
supplement to ERC II. The FY92 program included four operations, one of which was a
Structural Adjustment Credit.
1.23   The implementation experience of agricultural projects has been mixed, and some useful
lessons have been learnt and applied to the design of the proposed project. The major constraints
on implementing the project are inadequate and tardy counterpart funding, poor salaries and weak
management and financial systems. These issues are being addressed at the macro, sectoral and
project levels. Regular public expenditure reviews and a stronger revenue collection capacity are
being supported under SAC. A general Public Sector Reform Program is underway. Staffing
structures are being streamlined and incentive arrangements are being rationalized with support
from SAC and EFMP.
1.24  In January 1991, a special implementation review mission examined counterpart funding
in greater depth. This mission concluded that the problems had been created by a combination of
(a) excessive control and delay at the central level and (b) inadequate procurement planning and
poor budgeting within beneficiary agencies, particularly the consolidated Ministry of Agriculture,
Animal Industry, and Fisheries (MAAIF). Thus, the design of the proposed project calls for
specific actions to strengthen financial and other management systems for agricultural research by
establishing a National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO). The budgetary process and
linkages with the MFEP were reviewed at the Country Implementation Review in May 1992, and
agreement was reached on measures for releasing of funds promptly and responding to the
financial requirements of projects more effectively. Agreements between the Central Tender
Board and the sector ministries were also reached on streamlining procurement procedures.
1.25   A review of the implementation experience in agricultural research and extension (R&E)
in Africa, Asia and Latin America has also provided useful lessons.4/ In these regions, the
The World Bank. 'Strengthening Agriculturml Research and Extension - The World Bank Experience."
Opeations and Evaluation Dcpartment, September 1, 1983.



-7-
more successful research organizations have displayed some combination of the following
characteristics: (a) a strong central organization, with overall responsibility for most aspects of
national research and the funding control necessary to back it up; (b) a degree of autonomy from
the routine bureaucratic structure of the Ministry of Agriculture; (c) solid links to national
planners and policymakers, despite the semi-autonomous or autonomous status of the
organizations; (d) the existence of service units-either part of or closely related to the central
research organization--that perform important planning, monitoring and evaluation functions; (e)
the decentralization of regional research; and (f) the active participation of farmers, the extension
service and other clients in applying and communicating research results to users. The design of
the proposed project has incorporated these characteristics.
1.26   The implementation of R&E projects has faced six major constraints: (a) the lack of
clarity in national objectives for agriculture, marked particularly by an inadequate allocation of
resources to R&E; (b) limited input by the Government in the design of research components or
projects; (c) inadequate coordination between the research activities financed by the Bank and
other developmental activities in the sector; (d) limited sector- or economy/wide work on issues
affecting agricultural R&E; (e) weak linkages between research and extension; and (f) the lack bf
clarity or agreement on the definition of various stages in the process of technological
development and transfer. The Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP) has been
designed to address these issues. All agricultural research currently financed by the Bank will be
consolidated into the proposed ARTP, and an effective mechanism for coordinating the activities
of other development agencies involved in agricultural research will be established. The NARO
Secretariat and Makerere University will develop analytical capacity to support agricultural-sector
policymaking and research planning, identification, design, implementation and dissemination will
be clarified and streamlined.
1.27   The project would also address weaknesses that have been observed in other research
projects funded by the Bank- the absence of a supportive and conducive environment for
agricultural research; the lack of feedback from farmers and other clients; inadequate support for
human resource development (specifically for technical and methodological skills) and
administrative and other support services; and weak monitoring and evaluation (M&E)
capabilities, thus diminishing the accountability of research organizations; and ill-defined channels
for communicating research results. Previous projects have focused more on monitoring
quantifiable parameters (expenditures, disbursements, civil works and so forth) than on ensuring
the quality of programs and the applicability of results. Thus, the proposed project would support
developing an M&E system that would provide periodic assessments of the quality of programs,
the applicability of results, and the costs and benefits of research (Annex 13).
H. Rationale for IDA Involvement
1.28   IDA has supported the Government's economic recovery program and is helping to
expand the agricultural-sector reform program under ASAC. Smaller, more focused investment
projects are also required to restore the effectiveness of key agricultural support services, and
additional assistance is necessary to strengthen sectoral management, refurbish R&E services, and
accelerate and rationalize personnel training. IDA's direct involvement in this project is essential
for: (a) encouraging a greater focus on efficiency in restructuring the national agricultural
research system; (b) promoting strong linkages among research, extension, and agricultural
faculties and clients; (c) applying the experience of neighboring and other countries in



establishing, managing and sustaining national agricultural research systems; (d) coordinating
planned IDA involvement in the other key support services; and (e) facilitating the coordination of
other donor support to the national agricultural research system. The project would build on the
experience of previous and current donor support to agricultural research and extension and
complement other ongoing and proposed IDA/International Fund for Agricultural Development
(IFAD) operations.
II. THE AGRICULTURAL SECTOR
A. Salient Features
2.1    Agriculture dominates Uganda's economy, accounting for 60 percent of GDP, over 95
percent of export earnings, 80 percent of employment, and 40 percent of government revenues.
Its contribution to the economy is even greater given that it provides the economic base for much
of the manufacturing and service industries. The country is endowed with some of the finest
agricultural land in Sub-Saharan Africa. It has a favorable climate, with ample rainfall and little
temperature variability. Some 30 percent of a total arable land area of 17 million hectares is
cultivated, predominantly by smallholder farmers, with prominent participation by women and an
average cultivated area per family of 1.3 hectares.
2.2    The bulk of land cultivation in Uganda represents a "low-resource' agricultural system in
which labor is the principal input, entailing relatively few cash costs and low productivity per unit
of labor and land, and thus generating limited marketed surplus. Farmers reduce risks by
diversifying their crops and integrating livestock into the crop production system. Food crops
also dominate the contribution of agricultural production to GDP. Coffee accounted for over 95
percent of all export earnings in 1989 and 80 percent in 1990. Thus, the Government
consequently assigns high priority to diversifying the agricultural export base.
2.3    With support from the Economic Recovery Program (ERP), the agricultural sector is
recovering from the devastation of the almost two decades of political instability and economic
mismanagement. Production levels have generally returned to 1965-70 levels, but the population
has increased by more than two-thirds. Thus, output per capita is now considerably lower than it
was in the late 1960s. Further growth in production depends on a political and financial
environment conducive to private-sector initiatives and supported by adequate infrastructure and
sound agricultural support services.
B. Recent Performance
2.4   From 1981 to 1989 the agricultural sector (including food and cash crops, livestock,
forestry and fishing) contributed an average of 63 percent of GDP. In 1990, food crops
accounted for 74 percent of agricultural GDP; livestock products, 16 percent; forestry and
fishing, 6 percent; and cash crops, 4 percent. During the same period, GDP growth in
agriculture averaged 2.8 percent annually, with the rate of growth rising to an average of 5.4
percent annually during the 1986-89 period. Although real output from cash crops showed
marginal growth over the past decade, food crops have grown at an average rate of 3.3 percent
since 1981 and 5.9 percent since 1986. The growth registered during the past four years is due



- 9 -
primarily to the more secure political and financial environment and specifically to an improved
transport system. The liberalization of trade and foreign-exchange allocations have made
agricultural inputs more readily available, also contributing to the recent growth.
2.5    The recovery of food crop production since 1986 reflects an expansion in the area
cultivated rather than increased yields per unit area. The expansion was facilitated by the
rehabilitation and cultivation of abandoned or new lands; a more secure environment and greater
economic opportunities; the restoration of rural marketing services; and the removal of obstacles
to trade in food crops-namely, simplified licensing practices and more open export-trade
regulations for the private sector. The livestock subsector had seriously been affected by looting
and by deteriorating animal health services, but since 1986 a marked growth in dairy production
aided the subsector's recovery.
2.6    Cash crops have been affected adversely by low farmgate prices. Only sugar and tobacco
production grew significantly during the past four years. A slow return to security in the north,
the absence of incentives for producers, inadequate seed supply and distribution systems, and an
inefficient and financially weak processing subsector have hampered the reactivation of the once-
flourishing cotton industry. Thus, the Government's decision to liberalize the internal marketing
of lint has had little impact on the industry. The production of tea increased in the latter half of
the 1980s, after the Government introduced trade incentives by offering exporters foreign-
exchange retention privileges.
C. Sectoral Objectives
2.7    The Government's sectoral goals are to diversify agricultural production, processing and
the export base, while achieving food self-sufficiency and improving the well-being of the rural
population. Increased resource productivity is a primary objective; the Government hopes both
to increase yields and to continue expanding the area cultivated with traditional farming methods.
It must also diversify exports to reduce the vulnerability of the economy to a volatile international
coffee market. The coffee subsector must perform strongly while also responding to stabilization
objectives that call for developing nontraditional exports gradually. Achieving these objectives
will require overcoming severe constraints-- inadequate incentives for producers, inefficient
financial and marketing systems and institutions, a poor infrastructure, weak agricultural support
services, an inefficient use of public resources in the agricultural sector, and weak planning
capabilities in the agricultural sector. The Government's strategy is to establish an environment
that is conducive to growth and development by providing required agricultural support services;
improving the transport, processing and marketing infrastructure; adopting coffee subsector
policies that help keep the economy on a stable track; and improving the efficiency of the public
expenditure program and sectoral planning.
D. Sources of and Constraints on Growth
2.8    The Government expects the agricultural sector to be the main source of growth, although
it recognizes the need to diversify the economy. With improved production technologies and
current long-term projections for crop prices, Uganda's comparative advantage rests with the
traditional export crops-coffee, cotton and tea--and in such new areas as sesame, hides and skins,
spices, vanilla and horticultural crops. Some of the food crops currently produced are regionally



- 10-
competitive. However, Uganda's landlocked position limits international competitiveness given its
high transport and handling costs.
2.9    Short- to medium-term prospects for recapturing lost export markets for the traditional
export crops offer important opportunities for growth. Tea exports in 1989 represented only
about 20 percent of annual exports in the early 1970s, with less than half of the 20,000 hectares
under tea being harvested. Improved prospects for international prices and recent actions to
liberalize tea exports and grant foreign-exchange retention privileges should encourage the
rehabilitation of both tea estates and smallholder farms and a return to improved husbandry
practices. The remaining constraints are inadequate incentives for smallholder farmers, weak
extension services, the inefficient parastatal ownership and management of tea factories, and the
unresolved ownership of expropriated estates.
2.10   Growth in cotton production depends on increasing the low average yield (around 400
kg/ha) and the area under cultivation. Yields of up to 1,000 kg/ha can be obtained with existing
coaonseed varieties; further yield increases can be attained if improved seed varieties are
developed, provided that farmgate prices are raised relative to prices for competing food crops.
The necessary research to realize this potential should be initiated now. Better husbandry
practices will improve the quality of and increase yields for coffee production. They include
replacing old Robusta coffee trees with improved, high-yielding Robusta clones or with higher-
value Arabica clones wherever feasible.
2.11   The recently introduced export-import scheme for noncoffee products is encouraging the
development of nontraditional exports. Beyond the weak agricultural research and extension
services, the key constraints on export diversification are the inadequate policy and financial
environments and an insufficient infrastructure to move agricultural products from primary
production centers to the international transport network. Considerable progress has been made
toward restoring the private sector's confidence in the Government's ability to manage the
economy, but the private sector is still hesitant and uncertain about the Government's intentions
and policy initiatives.
2.12   Growth with diversification includes iuport substittion in addition to export
diversification. Prospects for import substitution rest in dairy, sugar, tobacco and edible-oil
production. The main challenge in dairy production is to improve the efficiency of fresh-milk
collection and processing, which is presently controlled and operated by a parastatal agency.
Growth in sugar production depends on completing the rehabilitation of sugar estates, making the
necessary foreign-exchange accessible to sugar companies, and creating a pricing policy that
encourages efficient import substitution. Developing the domestic production of edible oil will
require improving support services, marketing, and extension and research for the domestic
production of oilseeds.
2.13   Sustained sectoral growth will require that farmers adopt improved production
technologies and the development of nontraditional exports. Improved technical information is
already available for some crops, such as maize and beans, which can substantially raise yields,
provided that the extension system is made more efficient. Funding constraints, fragmented
extension services, and the dilapidated state of support facilities must be addressed. In addition,
an expanded program for food crop research is essential for raising production and productivity.
Appropriate technologies and practices for seeds and planting material, soil management, weed
management, pest control, postharvest handling, storage and marketing must also be developed.



- 11 -
The main impediment is the absence of an organizational framework within which a prioritized
national agricultural research plan can be developed and implemented cost effectively.
2.14   The adoption of improved agricultural practices and diversification in production and
exports will require that farmers adjust their production strategies and invest in new technology.
These adjustments and investments must be supported by effective agricultural support services,
including research and extension, as well as by efficient markets for the transfer of land
ownership. The effectiveness of agricultural research and extension has been eroded by the
destruction of infrastructure, the loss of skilled personnel due to low wages, and inadequate
operating funds. The challenge is to create lean and sustainable organizations for research and
extension that address the main technological constraints facing farmers.
E. Public Expenditures and Sectoral Management
2.15   Expenditures in the agricultural sector are spread over production, marketing and service
activities. Recurrent expenditures are allocated heavily to salary costs due, primarily to the 
overstaffing of unskilled personnel. Thus, essential support services are ineffective. The
agricultural sector investment program must to be revised to make it compatible with objectives
for public sector interventions and implementation capacity, including the availability of funding
for recurrent costs.
2.16   Weak institutions for agricultural-sector planning, project implementation and monitoring
contribute to low returns on public expenditures in the sector and constrain its development.
Responsibility for sectoral management is spread over several ministries, making coordination by
the Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning (MFEP) difficult. However, the fundamental
problems within these institutions are the same as those facing the country's civil service as a
whole: inadequate salaries, a shortage of skilled personnel, an excess of unskilled personnel, and
the insufficient funding of operating and maintenance costs. If the efficiency of agricultural
services is to be improved and sustained, these problems must be addressed through
comprehensive civil service reform, including the rationalization of ministerial functions and
programs. The Government must also improve coordination between MFEP and the line
ministries responsible for the agricultural sector: the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and
Fisheries (MAAIF); the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives (MCIC); and the
Ministry of Water, Minerals, Energy and Environmental Protection (MWMEEP).
F. Sectoral Development Strategy
2.17   The Government's strategy for agricultural development would address the issues raised in
this section. As was stated in its Letter of Agricultural Policy under ASAC, the Government
intends to:
(a)    Establish and maintain an efficient incentive and regulatory environment
predicated on the principles of market-determined prices and less public-sector
involvement in marketing
(b)    Strengthen its agricultural support services, particularly in the areas of research,
extension and education



- 12 -
(c)    Promote export growth and diversification, by streamlining incentive policies for
coffee, cotton and tea, consistent with the country's stabilization objectives
(d)   Improve the efficiency of the public expenditure program and concentrate public
investments and expenditures in areas whose returns cannot be captured directly
by the private sector, such as agricultural research and extension, preventive
veterinary services and natural resource conservation
(e)    Strengthen sectoral planning and project implementation by upgrading planning
skills and coordinating the planning process.
2.18 The Government also intends to continue to improve the infrastructure that supports the
transport, processing and marketing of agricultural products.
III. AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING
A. Background and Current Status
History
3.1    Uganda has enjoyed a long research tradition, starting with the early colonial period when
reputable and outstanding research stations at Kawanda, Namulonge, Serere and Entebbe were
developed. A series of improved plant and animal materials and technologies flowed from these
stations and helped make Uganda one of the foremost East African countries in the production of
food and export commodities from the 1950s until the early 1970s. The Faculty of Agriculture
and Forestry (FAF) of Makerere University (MU) commenced research in agriculture in 1957,
and has just celebrated the sixty-eighth anniversary of its founding. It is the oldest institution of
higher learning in agriculture in Africa, offering many research programs. Uganda also served as
the host country for the East African Community (EAC) research institutes for trypanosomiasis
and tsetse control and for fisheries research, and established research stations with major
responsibilities for sorghum, millet, sugarcane and cotton improvement within the EAC.
3.2    Uganda's research system during the colonial era and the EAC period was designed to
serve the needs of the large farmers in the EAC. After Independence and the breakup of the
EAC, the system was not rationalized to meet national objectives within the resources then
available. Instead, the components of the old system were retained intact until today. The
mandates of some research institutes and stations, including the Uganda Trypanosomiasis
Research Organisation (UTRO) and the Uganda Freshwater Fisheries Research Organisation
(UFFRO) have not changed since the demise of the EAC.
The Agricultural Research System
3.3   The current National Agricultural Research System (NARS) comprises 9 research
institutes, 11 research stations, 4 regional veterinary laboratories and 65 variety-testing centers
operated by MAAIF, MWMEEP, MCIC, and MU. The overall condition of these research
establishments is now very poor. Research in crops, livestock and fisheries is implemented by the
MAAIF; in forestry by the MWMEEP; and in food technology by the MCIC. The agriculture-



- 13 -
related faculties of MU-FAF, the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine (FVM) and the Faculty of
Science (FS)--also conduct research on the same commodities and disciplines. Coordination is
poor, and some unnecessary duplication of efforts has created unsatisfactory technologies for
farmers and producers. The situation is exacerbated by inadequate and unstable research funding,
which has almost completed rated active research. Without better agricultural research support,
the Ugandan farming community is unlikely to be able to meet the challenges of rapid economic
recovery, increased productivity and sustainable environmental management.
3.4    Since 1986, determined efforts have been made to rehabilitate and reactivate the research
system. These efforts have been financed by various donors as components of various projects,
and thus do not address the total needs of the system. The physical infrastructure of the
Namulonge Agricultural Research Institute has been substantially rehabilitated under the USAID-
financed Manpower for Agricultural Development Project (MFAD). The Kawanda Agricultural
Research Institute has also been rehabilitated with the assistance of USAID, the European
Community, the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and the International Center for
Tropical Agriculture (CIAT), but additional facilities will be required as the research programs
are rationalized and reorganized in accordance with the National Agricultural Research Strategy
and Plan (NARSP). The physical infrastructure and the laboratory equipment of the Animal
Health Research Station at Entebbe have been rehabilitated by the German Agency for Technical
Cooperation (GTZ).
3.5    The field, office and research equipment required for these institutes has been supported
minimally under the existing projects, and much rehabilitation is still required. The physical
infrastructure of these institutes and stations that are not supported by donors must also be
rehabilitated and will require major inputs of field, office and laboratory equipment; library and
documentation facilities; experimental farm development; transport; the rehabilitation of existing
staff houses; and the construction of new staff houses. Major rehabilitation is required at the
Serere Agricultural and Animal Production Research Institute, the Fisheries Research Institute at
Jinja, and the Livestock Health Research Institute at Tororo. A NARO headquarters building
(including staff housing) must be constructed, as must the Forest Research Institute at a new site
in Kifu.
3.6    Research Projects. Several crop, livestock, fisheries and forestry research projects in the
agriculture sector ministries and at Makerere University are currently being funded by various
donors (Annex 6). These projects use adaptive research to support rural development projects
directly. New operations, such as a proposed project for diversifying smallholder cotton
production supported by IDA/IFAD, will have research components. However, several high-
priority commodities and disciplines have little or no support currently available. Support for
research programs in livestock, fisheries and forestry is also very limited as it is for research in
cassava, sweet potatoes, millet, soil fertility, farming systems, food science, and farm power and
mechanization. Some assistance is expected from the Regional Outreach Research Station of the
International Institute of Tropical Agriculture (ITA), which is being established in Uganda with
USAID funding to carry out research in root crops, banana and plantain.
3.7    Human Resource Development. In general, donor-funded projects have provided little
support for postgraduate degree training. An exception was the USAID-financed MFAD project,
which provided long-term training for Ph.D. (12 MU and 10 MAAIF) and M.Sc. (16 MU and 33
MAAIF) degrees. MFAD has significantly increased the number of well-trained scientists
available to the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). As of November 1990, 19



- 14 -
percent and 56 percent of the 279 professional staff members of NARS have Ph.D. and M.Sc.
degrees, respectively. In the line ministries, very few women are involved in research only 17 of
210 researchers. In extension, 1,006 of a total of 4,026 are women. Most of the female
researchers are in crop production, and only a few work in the areas that are directly relevant to
female farmers, such as food technology, postharvest handling and rural sociology. In the
1991/92 academic year, FAF and FVM enrolled 735 students, of which 234 were women. The
M.Sc. program enrolled 45 students, of which 13 were women.
3.8   Institutional Development. Establishing and operating of a comprehensive agricultural
research organization to link and coordinate all agricultural research (including crops, livestock,
fisheries and forestry) has been under consideration since the early 1980s. All major reports on
strengthening national agricultural research in Uganda (IDRC, 1982; FAO, 1985; Uganda Task
Forces (Working Group 4) 1987; ISNAR/USAID, 1988; FAO/CP, 1991; and Uganda Working
Group 9a, 1991) have called for a national agricultural research organization with the autonomy
and flexibility to organize and manage agricultural research for the benefit of the entire
agricultural industry.
3.9    A statute to create a National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO) has been
approved by Government. The proposed IDA-funded Agricultural Research and Training Project
(ARTP) will provide funding for operating NARO, for developing effective research management
systems (particularly in research planning, programming, budgeting, supervision, monitoring and
evaluation), and for coordinating donor funding.
Agricultural Education and Training
3.10   Since the early 1970s, FAF and MU-FVM facilities have deteriorated, and the number of
trained faculty has declined. FAF operated a successful postgraduate training program until the
mid-1970s, but staff shortages, limited research funds and inadequate facilities led to a decline in
the number of postgraduate students from 70 in 1974 to 20 in 1990. The FAF Agricultural
Research Institute at Kabanyolo (MUARIK) deteriorated during the same period, and its standards
for effective teaching and research and extension functions are now unacceptable.
3.11   However, in FAF alone, actual student enrollment from 1989 to 1991-1992 and projected
enrollment from 1992/93 to 1993/94 show a continuing increase (Table 3.1). The projection
assumes an annual intake of 120, 25, 35 and 25 students for the B.Sc. in Agriculture, B.Sc. in
Agricultural Engineering, B.Sc. in Forestry and B.Sc. in Food Science, respectively. FAF also
has teaching commitments in two other faculties, Social Sciences (B.A. Economics) and
Veterinary Medicine (B.V.M). Postgraduate training was reactivated, starting with an enrollment
of 10 in 1988/89 and increasing to 45 at present, with plans to increase to 70 by the 1993/94
academic year.
3.12   Both FAF and FVM have a critical shortage of faculty members to respond to the
increasing number of students. Almost 18 percent of the established positions in FAF and 42
percent in FVM are vacant. Of the filled positions, over 28 percent of the staff in FAF and 19
percent in FVM are currently in training. Developing FAF graduate programs in Agricultural
Extension Education, Food Science and Technology, Agricultural Engineering and Forestry will
require filling seven of the established positions.



- 15 -
Table 3.1. Actual and Projected Number of Undergraduate and Postgraduate Students
at FAF and FVM
Course                         89/90     90/91      91/92    [92/93    | 93/94I
B.Sc. Agriculture                350        360       380       480        480
B.Sc. Forestry                   100        100       100        100       100
B.Sc. Food Science                25        50         75       100        100
B.Sc. Agric. Engineering          50        75        100        100       100
B.Sc. Veterinary Medicine         40        40         40        40         40
| B.A. (Econ/Ext.)                40        40         40        40         40
|_Undergraduates                  6         C05  |860 6  5                           lso
r Postgraduates                    20        35         45        55       J 70
Total                      [625      1700       1780        9 15      930
9I Projected student enrollment.
3.13   The number of female students at Makerere is expected to increase from 18 percent to
over 30 percent of the total student population by 1994. Female students will need postgraduate
degrees if they are to compete for senior positions in the agricultural ministries. Increasing the
number of female students will require additional housing for women at MUARIK.
3.14   A new Department of Agricultural Extension Education was created in FAF to prepare
graduates for placement in MAAIF as extension officers, or as teachers in secondary schools. It
will also provide in-service training for senior extension staff and agriculture teachers in
the agricultural colleges of the ministries and in secondary schools. Continued and uninterrupted
technical assistance to the Department of Agricultural Extension Education is critical to the
success of the education and training component of the project. The department is expected to
take an active role in managing and operating the proposed continuing education programs of
FAF and FVM, and the in-service training programs for staff from the agriculture-sector
ministries. In addition, all agricultural postgraduate degrees offered at MU should incorporate the
management/leadership, program development, and implementation and evaluation courses taught
by the department.
Certificate and Diploma Training
3.15   The certificate and diploma-granting colleges of MAAIF and MWMEEP provide pre-
service and in-service training for the extension workers, agricultural teachers and technicians
employed by the Government. These colleges grant certificates and diplomas in agriculture,
animal husbandry and health, fisheries, and forestry. Until recently, certificate and diploma
agricultural courses were offered only in the Bukalasa Agriculture College, which has been
partially rehabilitated under the USAID's MFAD project. Bukalasa enrolls 60 students for the
certificate course, 50 or more of whom normally pass, and 30 for the diploma course, 28 to 29 of
whom usually pass. These are sufficient for MAAIF requirements, but are not sufficient for a



- 16 -
growing demand from the private sector. The National Personnel Survey conducted for MFEP in
1989 reported a shortage of 1,660 skilled agricultural and fisheries workers and 1,030 technicians
in both the public and private sectors. Around 266 professional posts were also vacant.
3.16   The physical infrastructure at all the agricultural colleges has deteriorated significantly.
Most of the movable equipment and furniture was looted in 1979 and 1986 and has not been
replaced. Utilities such as electricity and water have not been restored at most campuses. Land
owned by these colleges has been allowed to revert to natural vegetation, and little of it has been
returned to production. Under the Agricultural Extension Project, the Bukalasa Agricultural
College will be rehabilitated.
B. Agricultural Research and Education Issues and Constraints
Issues
3.17   Research suffers from a lack of well-qualified scientists and adequate equipment. Thus,
the quantity and quality of research output have been declining. Approximately 70 scientists in
the research institutes are qualified at the B.Sc. level only; however, graduate training (M.Sc. and
Ph.D.) at MU-and thus the ability to upgrade existing staff--has declined in recent years (70 in
1974; 10 in 1990). FAF, FVM, and--to a limited extent-FS, are the only institutions that grant
B.Sc. degrees in general agriculture, forestry, food science and technology, fisheries, agricultural
engineering and veterinary medicine. The current output of graduates is adequate for the short-
term requirements of the ministries but is insufficient for reestablishing an active agricultural
industry. While the number of students continues to rise, the number of academic staff is
declining due to attrition. Therefore, the ability of MU to provide high-quality B.Sc. degree
training has significantly diminished.
Constraints
3.18   Investment in agricultural research and training, largely Government supported, has been
meagre in Uganda. Donor support has been uncoordinated and has not necessarily focused on
national priorities. The Government has not made a concerted effort to establish a national
agricultural research system. The research service has remained fragmented, inefficient and
ineffective, with many institutional and structural constraints. The proposed project would
address the following major constraints:
(a)    The absence of a comprehensive institutional framework for the operation,
administering and financing research, thus leading to (i) inefficient planning and
priority setting for the site-specific demands of farmers and private enterprises for
new technologies, (ii) a proliferation of independent, uncoordinated donor-
financed projects, and (iii) little priority for agricultural research when resources
are limited.
(b)    Inadequate research facilities and a lack of operating funds.
(c)    A poor salary structure and inadequate career development and training
opportunities for scientists.



- 17 -
(d)    Poor contact among Ugandan, regional and international research institutions, and
weak linkages with universities, the extension service, farmers and private
industries.
C. The National Agricultural Research Strategy
3.19   The Government has taken steps to rationalize and strengthen agricultural research to
address the four major constraints. Since 1987, the Government has undertaken several studies
that formed the basis for a National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan (NARSP)5/ in
1991. NARSP called particularly for establishing an institutional framework for the efficient,
rational and sustainable administration, operation and financing of all agricultural research in the
country. The strategies for achieving these objectives were identified in NARSP as follows:
(a)    Establishing NARO to improve the management and implementation of the
national agricultural research program, including systems for monitoring the
relevance and cost-effectiveness of research activities;
(b)    Determining national research priorities that respond to Uganda's objectives in
agricultural development, subject to routine assessment in response to a rolling
Five-Year Research Plan and annual work programs;
(c)    Improving conditions of service and career-development opportunities in
agricultural research organizations;
(d)    Rehabilitation research institutes, providing vehicles and equipment, and meeting
recurrent operating costs;
(e)    Improving mechanisms for providing priority programs with adequate and timely
funding;
(f)    Improving linkages among research, extension and education, and with national,
regional and international agricultural research organizations, and enhancing the
coordination of donor-funded agricultural research activities;
(g)    Improving the training and research capability of MU's three agriculture-related
faculties.
3.20   The project would support the Government's effort to implement this strategy. The
design of the project was predicated on lessons from the Bank's experience in implementing
research and extension projects in Africa, Asia and Latin America (paras. 1.25 to 1.27), and on
the principles enunciated in the Framework for Action for agricultural research developed under
5/     Uganda Woricng Group 9A, Agricultural Policy Committee. "National Agricultural Research Strategy and
Plan.' Vol. 1: "Strategy, Organization and Management," and Vol. 11: "Priorities and Programs." The
Hague, ISNAR, 1991.



- 18 -
the auspices of the Special Program for African Agricultural Research (SPAAR))6/. This
framework proposed: (a) a centralized definition of national research priorities; (b) an "enabling
environment" for agricultural research staff; and (c) the application of a consolidated funding
mechanism to ensure that funds would be allocated rationally.
3.21   The location of project entities and the NARO research institutes that would be supported
by the project are shown in IBRD Map 24111.
IV. THE AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
A. Project Rationale and Objectives
4.1    For the foreseeable future, agriculture will remain the most important sector in the
Ugandan economy, providing food, employment and export earnings. With a rapidly growing
population (at 3 percent annually) but limited opportunity for increasing the area under
cultivation, a key element of Uganda's strategy for agricultural growth will be to increase the
productivity of existing farms. Thus, output from the crop, livestock and fisheries subsectors
must be increased substantially, and the technology to attain these increases must be developed
now. Therefore, the overall goal of the project is to promote agricultural growth and the
diversification of the production, processing and export base through the development and transfer
of improved technology.
4.2    The specific objectives of the project would be to (a) launch and support the key
activties of NARO, induding high priority research; (b) strengthen the linkages and
coordination among the research system, the extension service and the agricultural faculties of
the university and agricultural colleges; and (c) improve agricultural education and training
capacity.
Project Description
4.3    To achieve its objectives, the project would comprise four primary components,
implemented over an eight-year period:
(a)   Institutional Development of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS)
(US$7.02 million). The project would provide financing for: (i) research
management systems to improve the planning, priority-setting, and monitoring and
evaluation of research programs; (ii) administrative, financial and accounting
systems; (iii) the management and coordination of priority research programs,
including vehicles and office equipment, (iv) the design of the Forestry Research
Institute and the NARO headquarters; (v) the first-phase construction of the
NARO headquarters office; (vi) the implementation of new Terms and Conditions
of Service for Research; (vii) studies on generating funding for research; (viii) a
SACCAR/SPAAR Task Force. SACCAR/SPAAR Fmmework for Action in A2ricultural Research in the
SADCC Rczion. Washington, D.C.: World Bank, April 5, 1991.



- 19 -
midterm review; and (ix) vehicles, and computers, audio-visual and other office
equipment.
(b)   Rehabilitaton of NARO Research Institutes (US$4.20 million). The project
would provide financing to rehabilitate research offices, laboratories and staff
housing at Serere (Agricultural and Animal Production), Jinja (Fisheries), Tororo
(Animal Health) and Kifu (Forestry), and to provide vehicles and office,
laboratory, and field equipment.
(c)    Execution of High Priority Research Programs (US$12.34 million). The project
would provide financing to support (i) on-going, high-priority research programs,
(ii) new research programs determined during the annual research planning
process, (iii) the incremental salaries and allowances of NARO staff under the
new Terms and Conditions of Service for Research.
(d)    Strengthening of Agricutura Education and Training Capacity (US$5.31
million). The project, would provide financing to support (i) upgrading the
training and managerial capacity of the agricultural faculties of Makerere
University under: a "twinning arrangement' with an internationally renowned
university and by supporting the training of local and foreign degree candidates
from MU and NARO, (ii) research support for young/newly returned professional
staff, (iii) studies to improve the curricula of the agricultural colleges, (iv) the
running costs of continuing education courses at Makerere for MAAIF, NARO
and the private agribusiness sector, (v) constructing five staff houses, a classroom
for continuing education and a dormitory for postgraduate female students at
MUARIK, and (vi) vehicles and field and office equipment for MUARIK.
B. Detailed Features
Institutional Development of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS)
4.4    Istitutional Framework. The Government has decided that the institutional framework
for the rational and sustainable organization, management and financing of agricultural research
would be a National Agricultural Research Organisation (NARO) (paras. 3.8 and 3. 19a). The
project would provide financing for launching and operating NARO and its Secretariat, and
undertaking studies on strategies for generating additional funds to support agricultural research
(para. 4.13) and to provide facilities (para. 4.14). It would also provide financing for establishing
the new Terms and Conditions of Service for Research and recruitment of NARO staff. The
Government has already legally established NARO and appointed the members of the NARO
Board.
4.5    Mnagemient Systems and Capacity Development. The project would provide financing
for supporting short courses and workshops, and providing technical assistance in research
management (3 person years), finance and accounting systems (3 person years), procurement (18
person months), monitoring and evaluation specialist (12 person months), and personnel
management (9 person months). It would also finance short-term, internationally recruited
specialists in various fields and disciplines (44 person months) to support development of research
programs and improvement of research management systems, and improvement of the



- 20 -
administrative and financial/accounting procedures necessary to achieve operational efficiency and
effectiveness. In addition, it would provide long-term local consultants (11 person years) and
short-term local consultants (48 person months) on crops, livestock, forestry and fisheries, and for
various studies (72 person months). Financing would focus particularly on preparing standard
operating manuals, establishing procedures for preparing the Rolling Five-Year Plan and the
Annual Research Program and Budget; and training NARO staff to implement the procedures. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that a Research Management Manual, satisfactory to
IDA, on the management of the agricultural research programs would be approved by the NARO
Board by September 30, 1993, and that NARO staff training in the research management system
be completed by June 30, 1994 (para. 7. lb). Manuals on personnel management (para. 5.17),
financial reporting and accounting (para. 4.41), and procurement procedures (para. 5.2) will also
be prepared by the NARO Secretariat, with corresponding training on these procedures completed
by June 30, 1994.
4.6    Technical capacity would also be developed under the project. The critical areas of
NARS that require staff at the M.Sc. or Ph.D. levels are shown in Annex 8. The project would
provide financing for training 10 Ph.D. and 11 M.Sc. degree candidates. The placement of and
support for these candidates will be made under a "twinning arrangement" between Makerere
University and a foreign agricultural education institution (para. 4.21). In addition, the project
would finance study tours and attendance in scientific seminars, workshops and training courses.
4.7    Strengthening research-extension-education linkages is a key part of the systems and
capacity-building program. The project would promote closer interaction among the research
institutes extension services and the university by supporting joint diagnostic surveys;
collaborative effects in planning and implementing training programs and on-farm adaptive
research trials; and the operation of extension liaison units and program review committees.
Additional details on arrangements to reinforce research-extension-education linkages are
discussed in paras. 5.19 to 5.21.
4.8   Improved capacity for development communications will be carried out through continued
support for the development of the National Agricultural Documentation and Information Center
(NADIC) of the NARO Secretariat. The project would finance the expansion of the present
coverage of NADIC to include the following functions: (a) information and documentation support
services; (b) reprographic and photocopying services; (c) training services for professional and
support staff; (d) local library and information services; and (e) the production of prototypes of
information materials that can be mass-produced by the extension service, The project would
provide computers, audio-visual and other office equipment.
4.9    The project would also provide financing to support establishing and publishing an
agricultural research journal as a forum for the staff of MU, NARO, MAAIF, and others to
publish and share their research results in Uganda. A section of the journal would be devoted to
abstracts of relevant research conducted in other countries in Africa and elsewhere. The journal
would be managed and guided by an editorial board comprising staff from MU, NARO (NADIC)
and MAAIF. At the mid-term review of the project, a decision would be made on the best
arrangements for supporting the continued publication of this journal.
4.10   Terms and Conditions of Service for Research. The project would provide financing to
support establishing and implementing a new Terms and Conditions of Service for Research. The
project would cover incremental recurrent costs, including salaries and allowances that are high



- 21 -
enough to permit staff to dedicate themselves fully to professional agricultural research activities.
The salaries and allowances proposed under the project are based on the remuneration schemes
used in other parastatals and comparable institutions. The proposed scheme of service should
help attract and retain high-quality scientists. Given the importance of well-trained scientists to
the success of the proposed project, the proposed Term and Conditions of Service for Research
were reviewed during negotiations. It was agreed that the Terms and Conditions of Service for
Research, satisfactory to IDA, would be approved by the Government prior to credit effectiveness
(para. 7.4b). NARO staff would be recruited according to a recruitment plan acceptable to IDA
(paras. 5.19, 5.20 and 7.1c).
4.11   The terms and conditions of service would permit NARO scientific personnel to hold joint
appointments at MU and other universities. The terms and conditions of these joint appointments
would be determined in negotiations with university officials. Joint appointments would facilitate
interaction between the two institutions and diminish the potentially negative effect of research
system staffing on the university, since many MU staff may transfer to NARO. Under this
arrangement, NARO staff would be able to support MU's academic programs by teaching courses
and supervising thesis research, if required.
4.12 Studies and Facilities. One of the objectives of the structural redesign of the agricultural
research system is to enable member research institutes to identify research requirements beyond
the public sector and to generate private-sector financial support for agricultural research--for
example, the coffee-related research currently provided by the Uganda Coffee Development
Authority from funds obtained from the coffee export cess, and the contribution from the
Agricultural Research Trust Fund, once established (para. 4.13). Given the shortage of
Government resources, NARO would be required to seek such funds actively to supplement those
received from the budget.
4.13 NARO would to undertake a study on establishing an Agricultural Research Trust Fund
and other mechanisms for generating additional funds for research. Detailed terms of reference
for the consultant who would undertake the study are provided in Annex 5g. The study's
recommendations would be presented to IDA for its review and comments during the midterm
review of the project. Each research institute would also undertake studies to assess opportunities
for augmenting its financial resources for contract research with private-sector funding, or for
such service activities as the production of breeder seed and improved planting stock on demand.
The results of these studies are to be provided to IDA by June 30, 1995. The success of each
institute at garnering private-sector contracts would be assessed during the midterm review. At
negotiations, assurances were obtained that arrangements, acceptable to IDA, would be made to
allow NARO to use income and contributions from private-sector sources and other donors as
incremental resources for implementing priority research programs (para. 7.3a). These
arrangements would take into account the fact that the Government is expected to bridge the
funding gap for NARO's recurrent costs by the end of the project. The arrangements would be
examined during the midterm review (para. 5.10). The project would provide seven person
months of external technical assistance to support the midterm review (Annex 4).
4.14   The project would provide financing for designing a new Forestry Research Institute at
Kifu and the NARO headquarters office at Kawanda. Funds for constructing these two facilities
would be arranged by the Government at a later date. In the meantime, the project would fund
the first-phase construction of a 300 square meter NARO headquarters that would initially house
some of the key staff of the NARO Secretariat.



- 22 -
Rehabilitation of Research Institutes
4.15    Research Infrastructure. Under the NARO Act, six research institutes and two
research stations would be integrated under NARO. The project would finance the rehabilitation
of facilities (offices, laboratories and staff houses) at the Fisheries Research Institute at Jinja, the
Livestock Health Research Institute at Tororo, and the Agricultural and Animal Production
Research Institute at Serere. A study has been completed on the essential rehabilitation
requirements of the research institutes. Based on the study's findings, the rehabilitation program
of each institute and its cost estimates have been determined. Under the project, NARO would
hire an architectural consultant firm to prepare detailed plans and drawings, the bill of quantity
required for each institute, and the necessary bid documents for the rehabilitation work.
4.16   Ofce, Laboratory and Fleld Equipment. The project would finance the installation of
the equipment and vehicles required by the research institutes, the NARO Secretariat, NADIC and
Makerere University. Critical equipment for implementing the various research programs
assigned to the research institutes has been identified. Bid documents for procuring vehicles and
equipment are under preparation and will be made available for IDA's review at the project
launch workshop scheduled on March 1993. The procurement schedules for civil works and
equipment and material are provided in Annexes 1 Ia and 1 Ib, respectively.
Execution of High-Priority Research Programs
4.17   During the first two to three years of implementation, the project would provide financing
to support ongoing high-priority research programs in bananas, root and tuber crops (cassava,
sweet potato and white potato), aquaculture, agroforestry, animal health (tsetse and
Trypanosomiasis), smallholder dairy production, cotton and horticulture. The project would
complement the support provided by IDA under the Headstart for Agricultural Research and
Extension (HARE) Project and by other donors (including EC, FAOIUNDP, USAID,
International Development Research Center (IDRC), CIAT, IITA and the Rockefeller
Foundation). It would finance incremental recurrent costs, including salaries and allowances
under the new Terms and Conditions of Service for Research, and the provision of vehicles,
laboratory equipment and supplies. Current research programs being funded by donors are listed
in Annex 6. However, the scope and scale of research that could be supported by the NARS
during the first two years of implementation would be limited. The project would focus initially
on setting up NARO and establishing its operations and management systems, training staff, and
rehabilitating research institutes.
4.18   NARSP has identified the national agricultural research priorities for the key agricultural
commodities. As NARO's research management system becomes established and the capacity of
its staff to implement research programs is developed, research on additional priority areas would
be initiated. The project would finance priority research in areas that will be selected according
to an annual review and evaluation of research programs and the rolling Five-Year Research Plan
to be developed by NARO. The project would focus on providing support to carry out research
in priority commodities and disciplines that have not received sufficient attention: (a) maize,
sorghum and millet; (b) farming systems; (c) soil erosion and soil fertility; (d) food science;
(e) farm implements and tools development; (f) plantation forest management and utilization; (g)
lake fisheries; and (h) the breeding, health and nutritional aspects of dairy and beef production. If
funding from other donors becomes available for any of these programs, IDA funds would be
shifted to other priority areas as necessary. The allocation of research funding to programs would



- 23 -
be decided during an annual systemwide planning exercise involving IDA and other donors. At
that time, the funding commitments of donors and the Government would also be indicated.
4.19   The project would provide some funds for contract research to promote broader
participation by the private sector and Makerere University. Guidelines, satisfactory to IDA, on
the use and operational arrangements for these funds will be developed by June 30, 1995 (para.
7. lb). Funding would focus initially on proposals from newly trained M.Sc. and Ph.D. graduates
of Makerere University and NARO. As additional funds become available from the Government,
parastatals and other donors, research proposals would be accepted from a wider clientele. An
annual review of the performance of contract research would be made by the NARO Secretariat.
Strengthening of Agricultural Education and Training
4.20   The project would provide financing for training staff in key areas, as well as for
developing training capabilities at Makerere University. Technical training for NARS was
described in para. 4.6. The project would support Ph.D., M.Sc., and short-term training, both
locally and, abroad, to deal with specific skill gaps in important technical disciplines, and in
research planning, research management, development communications and financial
management. The critical areas of NARS that require staff at the Ph.D. or M.Sc. levels are
shown in Annex 8. For FAF, FVM and FS, the project would finance staff training in the
academic departments that do not yet have postgraduate training capabilities and whose programs
are central to the future work of the agricultural research institutes and efforts to strengthening the
extension system. These departments are Extension Education, Food Science, Agricultural
Engineering and Agricultural Economics. The project would finance 19 Ph.D. and 9 M.Sc.
scholarships in foreign institutions and 6 Ph.D. and 39 M.Sc. scholarships at Makerere
University. The first year training plan was discussed during negotiations and has now been
finalized. Future Annual Work Programs will include an ex-post evaluation of the preceding
year's training program, which would form the basis for defining the following year's training
program (para 7.1g).
4.21   The project would finance a "twinning arrangement" (para. 7.2b) with an internationally
renowned university whose primary responsibility would be to: (a) place and support Ugandan
staff in degree programs in overseas universities, as well as in short-term overseas training
courses; (b) provide technical assistance to the departments of FAF and FVM for curriculum and
program development and evaluation; (c) organize follow-up support for the professional
development of graduates returning to positions at MU and at the national agricultural research
institutes; (d) supply experts to conduct peer reviews of staff research projects and proposals as
requested by the NARO Secretariat and NARB; and (e) provide external examiners for FAF, FS,
and FVM postgraduate programs. The project would also provide financing to support NARO
contract research by the staff of MU and other agencies.
4.22   Training at Makerere University. The project would provide financing to strengthen the
ability of FAF, FVM, and FS to offer degree training and continuing education courses. The
project would support training for Ph.D. and M.Sc. candidates at MU; the acquisition and
installation of computers, audio-visual and office equipment; and the construction of five staff
houses, a dormitory for female postgraduate students, and a training facility for undergraduate
teaching and continuing education at MUARIK. The training facility at MUARIK would support
the in-service training of agricultural research and extension staff. A brief description of the



- 24 -
education and training component is provided in Annex 7. The strategy and arrangements for
these activities are discussed in paras. 5.25 to 5.28.
4.23   Continuing Education Programs. The project would provide financing for nondegree
training courses for agricultural college staff and the agribusiness sector, in support of the
continuing education program to be established by the FAF, FVM, and FS. The project would
also support the running costs of short courses and workshops at Bukalasa and/or MU on such
topics as farm management, agricultural pricing and marketing systems, the principles of
agroforestry, low-input production techniques, the ecologically safe and efficient use of
agricultural chemicals and fertilizers, and livestock and dairy husbandry, as well as on curriculum
design and teaching methods. The continuing education program would first offer a few short
courses on a pilot basis. A facility for seminars and workshops at MUARIK would be
rehabilitated for this purpose under the project. The midterm review of the project would
evaluate the continuing education program, and a decision will be made on how it should be
managed, operated and supported.
4.24   Improving the Curriculum of Agricultural Colleges. The project would provide
financing to address the need for improving the diploma and certificate-level training offered by
agricultural colleges. Funds would support an initial study to revise the curriculum of the
Bukalasa Agricultural College so that qualified diploma graduates may receive full credits and
lateral entry into the B.Sc. programs in agriculture or veterinary medicines at FAF and FVM.
Subsequent studies will be carried out to improve the curricula of the other agricultural colleges.
Staff of the agricultural colleges would upgrade their skills through special courses in agronomy,
animal husbandry, agricultural extension, basic biological sciences, farm management, marketing,
and envirommental sciences. The project would support the running costs of this training, which
would be offered as M.Sc. or continuing education courses organized by the Department of
Agricultural Extension Education. Funds for the rehabilitating of the Bukalasa Agricultural
College and for training its teaching staff are provided under the Agricultural Extension Project.
C. Project Costs and Financing
Project Costs
4.25   The total cost of the six-year project is estimated at US$28.87 million, about 42 percent
of which (or US$12.2 million) is in foreign exchange. Total contingencies are 13 percent of base
costs, based on 1992 prices, with physical and price contingencies accounting for 3 and 10
percent, respectively. All base costs, local and foreign, have been calculated in US$ according to
the exchange rate of USh 1,170 per dollar. It is assumed that corresponding adjustments in the
Uganda shilling exchange rate would compensate for the effects of domestic inflation. Physical
contingencies are estimated at 20 percent for civil works, 7 percent for office and laboratory
equipment and furniture, and 10 percent for vehicles.
Project Financing
4.26   The proposed IDA Credit of US$25.04 million would finance 90 percent of the total cost
of the project net of taxes. The Credit would finance 100 percent of foreign-exchange costs and
between 80 and 85 percent of incremental operating costs and salaries. To ease the financing of
local costs in the early years of the project, IDA would finance 100 percent of selected local cost



- 25 -
expenditures (incremental salaries, allowances and operating costs) for the first two years of the
project. Thereafter, IDA financing would be reduced to 70 percent of staff emoluments and 70
percent of operating costs. The proceeds of the credit would be made available by GOU to
NARO under a subsidiary agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 7.3b).
The signing of this agreement is a condition of credit effectiveness.
4.27   An advance from the Project Preparation Facility (PPF) of US$1.5 million has been
approved to complete project preparation and to undertake key start-up activities before the
project is effective. Activities to be funded under the PPF are provided in Annex 3. They
include the retention of a financial management specialist and a procurement specialist, a local
architectural consultant firm, and a locally recruited procurement specialist and an accountant.
An agricultural economist and an agricultural extension education specialist would also be
recruited. (Terms of References for these consultants are provided in Annexes 5a and Sb,
respectively). M.Sc. and Ph.D. training and short-term courses in specially selected fields would
be arranged as part of the "twinning' arrangement with an internationally renowned university
(para. 4.21). Urgently needed vehicles and laboratory and office equipment would be purchased.
4.28 An important issue is ensuring that the Government allocates adequate funds to support
NARO's salaries and operating costs after IDA funding is complete. The full annual financial
requirement for staff emoluments and operating costs in year 6 is estimated at US$2.95 million.
Real annual growth of 10 percent in the current allocation for agricultural research activities in
the Government budget-a realistic expectation for a high-priority activity--would provide
sufficient funding to support agricultural research once IDA funding had been exhausted.
Assurances were obtained at negotiations that the approved salaries and emoluments of staff
under the new Terms and Conditions of Service would be regularly adjusted according to a
formula acceptable to IDA. The formula should ensure that salaries wiil be consistent with the
Government's overall civil-service reform program policy to provide adequate remuneration for
highly qualified staff (para. 7.3d). The salary adjustments would be reflected in the annual work
program and budget, to be reviewed by IDA (para. S. 11).
4.29   Tables 4.1 and 4.2 summarize project costs and the proposed financing plan by
component; Table 4.3 presents the proposed financing plan of foreign exchange and local costs.
Additional summary tables on project costs by year, by component and by cztegory are presented
in Annex 1.



- 26 -
Table 4.1. Project Cost Summary
Local     Foreig        Total  Percent    Percent
Component                         (USS million)           Foreign     Total
l ________________________   __________   __________   _________   Exchange   Base   Costs
A. Institutional Development     2.22         4.07       6.30        65            25
B. Rehabilitation of Research     0.86        2.59       3.44        75            14
Institutes
C. Implementation of Priority    9.95         0.96       10.91        9           43
Research Programs
D. Agricultural Education/        1.65        3.04       4.69        65            19
Training
Total Baseline Costs         14.68        10.66      25.34        42          100
Physical Contingencies        0.20         0.46       0.67        69            3
Price Contingencies           1.81         1.05       2.86        37           11
Total Project Costs          16.69        12.17      28.87        42          113
Table 4.2. Proposed Financing Plan by Project Component.
IDA         GOU            Total
Component                              (USS million)                      Percent
A. Institutional Development        6.61          0.41           7.02            24
B. Rehabilitation of Research       3.67          0.53           4.20            15
Institutes
C. Implementation of Priority       9.66          2.68           12.34           43
Raesarch Programs
D. Agricultural Education/          5.10          0.21           5.31            18
Training                     _
Total Project Costs             25.04          3.83           28.87          100
Table 4.3. Proposed Financing Plan of Foreign Exchange and Local Costs.
Foreign            Local           Taxes
Funding Source                          (US$ million)                   Total
IDA               12.17               12.87           -            25.04
GOU                 -                 2.80            1.03          3.83
Total             12.17               15.67           1.03         28.87
Note: Numbers may not add up due to rounding



- 27 -
D. Procuremnent
4.30    Table 4.4 summarizes the project elements, their estimated costs, and proposed methods
of procurement.
Table 4.4 Summary of Proposed Procurenent Arrangements
(US$ million)
Project Elements                           Procurement Method
ICB           LCB            Others A/      Total
1.  Works                                                      2.98                         2.98
(2.38)                      (2.38)
2.  Goods                                                                                   2.95
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ (2 .7 7
2.1 Equipment/Tools/Furniture/               1.41           0.22            0.10
Audio Visual/Computers                  (1.41)          (0.08)         (0.06)
2.2 Vehicles & Spares                        1.12                           0.10
(1.12)                         (0.09)
3.  Consulancies and Training h/                                                            8.63
______________________________________              ____________   (8.63)
3.1 Capacity Building                                                      2.56
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(2 .5 6 )
3.2 Project Preparation and                                                1.37
Implementation Support                                                (1.37)
3.3 Training, study tours                                                  4.71
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(4 .7 1 )_ _ _ _ _ _ _
4.  Miscellaneous                                                                           14.31
1(11.26)
4.1 Incremental Recurrent Costs                                            3.96
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(3 .1 8 )
4.2 Incremental Salaries & Allowances                                     10.35
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _   _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _(8 .0 8 )
Total                          2.53           3.20            23.15        28.87
_   (2.53)         (2.46)           (20.05)      (25.04)
Note: Figures in parentheses are the respective amounts to be financed by the proposed IDA credit.
(a) Includes US$1.5 million financed under the PPF.
(b) Services will be procured in accordance with World Bank Guidelines: Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by the World Bank as Executing Agency (Washington D.C.: World Bank, August 1981).
4.31    In many projects, unfamiliarity with IDA and Government procurement procedures has
seriously delayed project implementation. This problem was reviewed and addressed satisfactorily
during the May 1992 Country Implementation Review (CIR). Remedial measures were agreed
upon during the CIR. To expedite procurement, assurances were obtained at negotiations that
the NARO Secretariat establish a Procurement Committee before June 30, 1993 with



- 28 -
representatives from the Central Tender Board (CTB) Secretariat, MFEP, Ministry of Justice, and
research institutes, including Makerere University as required (para. 7.2a). A procurement
specialist would be appointed prior to credit effectiveness to assist the Procurement Committee in
the preparation of the Procurement Manual, take charge of the procurement process, and training
NARO staff to eventually take over procurement responsibilities (para. 7.4c). Details of the
procurement arrangements are discussed in paras. 5.2 to 5.6.
4.32   Civil Works. Civil works estimated at US$2.9 million (including contingencies) would
include (a) the construction of a NARO office and the rehabilitation of various offices,
laboratories and staff quarters of research institutes; and (b) the construction of staff housing and
a dormitory, and the rehabilitation of a teaching facility at MUARIK. Consulting firms to be
appointed by NARO in accordance with IDA guidelines would supervise all engineering, design
and construction of these works; construction supervision consultants would be appointed before
construction begins.
4.33   The NARO Secretariat would manage the bidding and contract award process. When
plans for these works have been approved by the NARO Secretariat and contractors have been
selected, the respective institutes and FAF will be responsible for supervising the civil works
programs with the assistance of a short-term architectural consultant firm(s) to be hired by the
NARO Secretariat. A Project Engineer would be engaged by NARO to review and supervise all
civil engineering components. Rehabilitation works would be grouped into four convenient
packages, based on their location. Given the relatively low estimated cost of each package
(US$0. 175 to US$0.600 million) and the dispersed location of the sites, procurement would be
subject to Local Competitive Bidding (LCB) according to IDA guidelines. A procurement
schedule for civil works construction projects is provided in Annex II a.
4.34   Goods. The procurement of IDA-financed vehicles (US$1.12 million) would be subject
to International Competitive Bidding (ICB). The procurement of urgently required vehicles would
be procured by local shopping procedures through local dealers, not to exceed an aggregate
amount of US$90,000. NARO may use the United Nation's Inter-Agency Procurement Services
Office (IAPSO) or UNDP as a source for shopping at economical prices. Field, laboratory and
office equipment (US$1.73 million) would be grouped into convenient packages of US$100,000
or more and procured by ICB. This equipment includes computers and software, audio-visual
equipment, measuring tapes, cameras, typewriters, projectors, and so forth. Eligible domestic
manufacturers would receive a margin of preference of up to 15 percent or applicable duty,
whichever is lower, according to Bank guidelines. Procurement contracts for furniture and other
small items totaling about US$80,000, required over a period of time and locally available at
competitive prices and for which foreign firms would not be interested, would be subject to LCB.
Goods contracts, each estimated at US$20,000 or less and not to exceed US$60,000 would be
procured through local shopping or through IAPSO/UNDP. Most of the equipment will be
procured in the first year under ICB, according to the procurement schedule in Annex 1 lb. The
Government has agreed that IDA-financed ICB procurement would exclude any price verification
by any surveillance firm, although such a firm would inspect the quality and quantity of goods.
The cost estimates for the procurement of goods were based on the assumption that the
importation of project vehicles and equipment would be exempt from duties and taxes.
4.35   Consultandes and Training. A list of major contracts for consultants appears in Annex
4. Contracts for all consultants would be awarded according to IDA guidelines, requiring prior
review and no objection from IDA. Terms of reference for, the qualifications of, and conditions



- 29 -
of service for consultants would be subject to IDA approval. It was agreed at negotiations that
specialists in procurement and financial management satisfactory to IDA would be recruited to
help establish satisfactory systems for financial, accounting, procurement and other administrative
procedures; and that the services of the research management specialist would be continued for at
least three years (para. 7. lh ). A "twinning" arrangement between internationally renowned
universities and Makerere University would be organized under the education/training component
(para 4.21). The Government has requested and was given approval by the Association, for sole
source procurement for securing a "twinning arrangement". IDA was informed that negotiations
are in an advanced stage between Makerere University and Ohio State University in consortium
with Cornell University. Details of the relationship between Makerere and two universities would
be provided for IDA's review and comments by May 31, 1993. The training requirements of
NARO, MAAIF and the university are indicated in Annex 8.
4.36   Incremental Recurrent Costs. Incremental recurrent costs associated with project
activities are estimated at US$14.31 million (including contingencies), about US$11.26 million of
which is to be financed by IDA. These costs include about US$3.18 million for vehicle operating
costs; building and equipment maintenance; office and field supplies and other consumables; and
about US$8.08 million for salaries and allowances of all NARO staff under the new Terms and
Conditions of Service for Research approved by the Government. Procurement of spares, fuel,
office and field supplies, and other consumables would be through local shopping. The relative
annual shares of IDA and GOU for financing the incremental recurrent costs are shown in Table
6.1. These costs would be in addition to GOU's present annual expenditure of US$1.0 million
for research and GOU's counterpart for donor-funded research projects listed in Annex 6.
Procurement Review by IDA and Contract Reporting
4.37   All contracts for the procurement of works estimated at US$100,000 or more and for the
procurement of goods estimated at US$50,000 or more would be subject to IDA's prior review
procedures. These reviews would cover about 95 percent of the total value procured. Selected
postreviews of contracts below these thresholds would be made during project supervision
missions. All contracts for consultants would be subject to IDA's prior review at each stage of
the procurement process. The Naro Secretariat would report all procurement information to IDA
every six months, as part of the progress reports; the reports would indicate the status of contracts
awarded in the past and balances, and provide updated cost estimates and plans for future
procurement.
E. Disbursemnent
4.38   The disbursement schedule is shown in Table 4.5. The IDA Credit of US$25.04 million
is expected to be effective by April 1, 1993. The project is designed to be implemented over six
years but given the historical disbursement experience in Uganda, the completion date has been
set at June 30, 2000. Including PPF disbursements in FY92, the Credit would be disbursed over
eight years, up to the closing date of December 31, 2000. The eight year disbursement period for
the project is shorter than the historical profile of nine years for agriculture and rural development
projects in Uganda. This timeframe is considered to be realistic since: (a) NARO has gained
experience in implementing the HARE Project under ASAC; (b) the research management
specialist is in place; (c) architectural consultants, an agricultural extension education specialist,
and financial and procurement specialists would be appointed under the PPF, (d) negotiations



- 30 -
between Makerere University and the selected university on arrangements for "twinning' and
technical assistance are underway; and (e) recruitment of the financial controller and procurement
specialist are underway.
4.39  In order to facilitate project implementation and to reduce the volume of withdrawal
applications, NARO would open a Special Account for the project with a commercial bank on
terms and conditions acceptable to IDA. This account would be operated by NARO. The initial
deposit into this account out of the IDA Credit proceeds would be US$0.5 million to cover
eligible expenditures for about three months. Withdrawals from this account would be
replenished monthly according to established IDA disbursement procedures. Each request would
be fully documented, except for incremental recurrent expenditures and for contracts of less than
US$20,000 or equivalent, which would be made under the IDA procedures covering Statements of
Expenditure (SOE). All supporting documents, would be retained by NARO and made readily
available for review by IDA supervision missions and external auditors. Wherever possible,
withdrawal applications would be aggregated in amounts of not less than US$50,000. NARO
would be responsible for the preparation and submission of withdrawal applications. Assurances
on these arrangements were obtained at negotiaotins (para. 7.3e).
F. Accounting, Audidng, and Reporting
4.40   NARO would receive the bulk of its funding from the Government budget, in the initial
years. To facilitate these transactions, accounting officer status will be formally conferred on the
Director General of the NARO Secretariat, as is the case with heads of other parastatals, to
permit funds to be channeled directly from the Treasury to NARO. In addition, assurances were
obtained that a separate NARO line item (vote) be established in the Recurrent and Development
Budgets starting with FY93/94 (para. 7.3c), thus ensuring funding for the agriculture research
system.
4.41   The NARO Secretariat will develop the Financial Reporting and Accounting System, as
soon as possible, complete with forms and procedure manuals that indicate the frequency of
reporting, accounting documentation, and disbursement and accounts submission among the
Treasury, the Secretariat and member institutes. Key aspects of the system include a quarterly
disbursement and reporting period between the Secretariat and the institutes, and a high degree of
financial autonomy of the institutes. It was agreed that the appointment of a financial controller,
satisfactory to IDA, and the establishment and approval of a viable project accounting system
would be conditions for effectiveness of the IDA Credt (para 7.4c). Assurances were obtained
at negotiations that the NARO Board approve manuals to describe the operation of the NARO
financial accounting and reporting system, satisfactory to IDA, by September 30, 1993, and that
NARO staff be trained to operate this system by June 30, 1994 (para. 7. lb).
4.42  It was agreed that NARO would open, pnior to Credit effeciveness, separate Project
Account in a local commercial bank into which the Government's contribution for project
activities would be deposited and maintained until the completion of the project (para. 7.4e). It
was also agreed at negotiions that the Government's contribution will be deposited to the
Project Account on a quarterly basis as determined and approved during the annual work program
and budget review process. The accounts of the project would be audited by independent auditors
acceptable to IDA. The audited reports would comprise the auditor's report on statements of the
Project Account, Special Account and SOEs, the signed statements account-namely, the balance
- - - -_- -_- -_



- 31 -
sheet, operating expenditure statement and source and application of funds--and a long-form
report. The auditor's report, together with these documents, would be submitted to IDA within
nine months after the end of the fiscal year of the first year of the project and within six months
after the close of the fiscal year in subsequent years. Quarterly financial progress reports and
semiannual progress reports would be submitted to IDA within 30 days after the end of each
reporting period (para. 7.3f). It was also agreed at negotiatons that the Government wifl
provide IDA with the Audit Report of the Coffee Marketing Board for the period ending
September 30, 1991 prior to Credit Effectiveness (para. 7.4f).
Table 4.5. Summary of Disbursnent Schedule
Amount of Credit    Percent of Expenditures to be Fmanced
Category             (USS million)
Civil works                      2.09           100% foreign and 70% of local
Vehicles and Equipment            2.45          100% foreign and 50% of local
Technical Assistance              3.20          100%
Training                          4.15          100%
Studies                          0.25           100%
Incremental Recurrent Costs:
(a) Salaries & allowances       7.10           100% of expenditures up to December 31, 1995, and
70% thereafter
(b) Field Operations            2.80           100% of foreign; 100% of local up to December 31,
1995 and 70% of local thereafter
Refund of PPF Advance             1.50          Amount due
Subtotal                         23.54
Unallocated                       1.50
Total                            25.04
V. ORGANIZATIONAL AND IMPLEMENTATION ARRANGEMENTS
A. Overall Project Arrangemnents
Project Management
5.1    NARO, acting through its Board and Secretariat, will have primary responsibility for the
management and implementation of the proposed project. NARO will enter into a Project
Agreement with IDA, covering NARO's responsibilities and obligations in carrying out the
proejct (para. 7. la). The Board will provide policy guidelines, review overall progress of
implementation and make decisions on substantive issues that will be brought to its attention by
the Secretariat. The NARO Secretariat, headed by a Director General, will coordinate the
implementation of project activities, monitor and review project progress, prepare semiannual
reports for the Bank, coordinate with Makerere University on matters such as training and



- 32 -
contract research, prepare required financial reports, and submit disbursement applications to
IDA. The proposed Implementation Plan and Schedule of Key Activities of the project are
provided in Annexes lOa and lOb. Implementation arrangements for the research components are
described in more detail in paras. 5.11 to 5.24 and the education and training component in paras.
5.25 to 5.28.
Procurement
5.2   The procurement of consultant services, civil works, and equipment and vehicles financed
by the IDA credit would be centralized in the NARO Secretariat. Before the Secretariat is
established formally, procurement would be managed by the HARE - Project Implementation Unit
(PIU), to ensure that IDA procurement procedures are followed. A procurement specialist,
satisfactory to IDA, would be appointed under the PPF to help NARO develop its procurement
guidelines and procedures. The terms of reference, qualifications, and conditions of service for
the procurement specialist are provided in Annex 5g. He/she would help prepare a Procurement
Manual to guide procurement under the project, be responsible for procurement under the PPF,
and provide on-the-job staff training. Assurances were obtained at negotiations, that a
Procurement Manual, satisfactory to IDA, would be approved by the NARO Board by June 30,
1993, and that staff be trained in procurement procedures by December 31, 1993 (para. 7. lb).
5.3   The Procurement Committee of NARO (para. 4.31) would be responsible for the
procurement process, ensuring that IDA guidelines are followed, and reviewing proposals for
technical assistance, goods and civil works, as necessary. The committee would review and
recommend approval of contract documents, tender awards and payment requests prior to their
submission to the Central Tender Board (CTB) and eventually to IDA for review. The committee
would monitor and clear procurement documentation with IDA at all stages of the procurement
process, according to IDA guidelines and prior-review thresholds. However, the committee
would seek formal approval of the CTB before seeking IDA's "no objection" for contract awards.
5.4   The research institutes would initiate the procurement process by preparing terms of
reference for works and technical assistance, and by providing specifications for the goods to be
procured. They would also help evaluate relevant tenders. The NARO Secretariat would
consolidate and finalize procurement documents. All capital goods and supplies would be
procured according to the procurement procedures detailed in Schedule 3 of the Development
Credit Agreement.
5.5   The committee would select architectural and engineering consultants or firms, and review
designs, cost estimates and tender documents in close collaboration with the relevant research
institute. The committee would also select construction firms for renovation works and the
construction of new buildings. The commitee would also recommend payment to the local
architectural consultant firm(s), and contractor(s); the committee would comprise representatives
from each relevant research institute for this purpose.
5.6   The Ministry of Lands, Housing and Urban Development would be involved only in
reviewing the overall design and plans of sites to ensure that constructions conforming with
national or town planning requirements. Any further project review or design requirements
would be the responsibility of the architect/project engineer to be appointed by the NARO
Secretariat for contract management purposes. The Bank's Sample Bidding and Contract
Documents would be used to develop Standard Bidding Documents for goods, works and



- 33 -
consulting services. Adequate bidding time (at least 30 days) would be allowed for carrying out
local competitive bidding (LCB) procurement. The bidding documents would delineate bid
evaluation and award criteria explicitly and foreign firms would be allowed to participate; LCB
contracts for goods and works would be awarded to the lowest evaluated of the responsive
bidders. A detailed list of bidding documents would be provided for IDA's review and no
objection. Assurances on these arrangements were obtained at negotiations (para. 7.2a).
Monitoring and Evaluation
5.7    A monitoring and evaluation (M&E) system would be designed and implemented to
provide research management at each level with timely information on the progress and
effectiveness of the various programs and on implementation bottlenecks that require immediate
attention. M&E would be undertaken by the Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit of the
NARO Secretariat, relying on staff from MU and the research institutes who would be designated
and trained as M&E officers. Project objectives would be translated into a set of key monitorable
indicators for each year during the project's implementation. These indicators should preferably
be quantitative to permit assessment of project outputs and results: e.g., number of returning
trainees adequately utilized, number of women trained and carrying out agricultural research,
number of diagnostic surveys and on-farm trials carried out. An important aspect of the Unit's
responsibility would be documenting the relevant research results generated by NARS and
evaluating their effectiveness at and impact on increasing the production and income of small
farmers in Uganda. A list of monitorable indicators were agreed upon during negotiations. This
list will be expanded as the M&E system is developed, finalized and put into operation by
September 30, 1993 (para. 7. 1i). The Unit would work closely with NADIC and the M&E Unit
of the MAAIF. It would compile a current research information database similar to the one
maintained by the SPAAR Secretariat. Technical assistance will be financed under the project to
help design the M&E system for agricultural research, including separate donor project activities,
and to train staff in the implementation of the M&E system. Details of the planned M&E
activities of NARO, including an initial list of monitorable indicators are provided in Annex 13.
Coordination of Donors
5.8   The NARO Board would report on the allocation of financial resources and inform donors
of the progress of the project towards attaining its objectives. In 1992, ten donors provided about
US$3 million for agricultural research (Annex 6). The NARO Board acting through its
Secretariat, would coordinate the involvement of donors in agricultural research in Uganda. The
Director General would arrange a meeting with donors at least every six months, at which time a
report prepared by the NARO Secretariat on the progress of ongoing research activities would be
presented and discussed, and implementation problems resolved. NARO would report on
research results at these meetings and keep donors informed of the Government's research
priorities, the rolling Five Year Strategic Research Plan and the annual work programs, and, in
the process, identify the critical gaps that require support from donors. An annual research report
on the achievements and status of the various research programs would be provided to IDA and
other donors financing agricultural research within six months after the end of the program year.
5.9   The effective coordination of donor financing in agricultural research is a key
responsibility of NARO. When NARO is formally established, all future participation by donors
in agricultural research in Uganda would be discussed and cleared with the Board through the
Secretariat (para. 4.4), to ensure that priority areas are addressed, that unnecessary duplication



- 34 -
and fragmentation are avoided, and that scarce human and financial resources are allocated
effectively. It is understood that, with the assistance of IDA, the Government would continue to
seek additional support for the research program from donor agencies. The Planning, Monitoring
and Evaluation Unit of the Secretariat would have primary responsibility for providing relevant
reports on the progress and bottlenecks of implementation.
Midterm Review
5.10   A midterm review would be held in the third year of project implementation (around
January 1996), with the participation of relevant Government and donor agencies. At the review,
the relevant entities would assess implementation status and redesign the project as necessary to
ensure that its objectives can be attained in an effective and efficient manner. The studies
required to support the midterm review would be provided to IDA by June 30, 1995. The studies
would assess whether project objectives are being met and whether the project is being managed
effectively; they would also provide recommendations for refining the design of, and
implementation procedures for, the project. The midterm review would entail assessing (a) the
performance of the Government at generating revenues for its operations; (b) the ability of NARO
to obtain income and contributions for contract research (para. 5.13); (c) the actual operating
costs of NARO, including salaries and allowances, vehicle operating costs and maintenance of
equipment and buildings; (d) the experience with the implementation of the training program and
the arrangements associated with it; and (e) actual progress during project implementation, with
particular reference to achieved outputs and results, compared to key monitoring indicators agreed
during negotiations. The midterm review would also entail ascertaining the capability of the
Government to support the recurrent operating costs of NARO (para. 4.13), and the configuration
of a follow-on project to continue funding support for strengthening agricultural research in
Uganda, if justified. Assurances were obtainedfrom the Government on these arrangements.
(para. 7.le).
B. Research Arrangements
Annual Work Program and Budget
5.11   The NARO Secretariat and member research institutes would be responsible for
supporting the institutional development of the NARS, rehabilitating research institutes and
implementing the high-priority research programs. The research institutes/stations that would
implement the research programs are provided in Table 5.1. The key to planning agricultural
research would be the preparation of the Annual Research Work Plan. NARO would initiate the
process, indicating the national research priorities and resources available for the system, and
tentative allocations by program. Each institute would submit its proposal, appending programs,
budgets and monitorable outputs for the forthcoming budget year. The proposals would be
consolidated by the NARO Secretariat to comply with the National Agricultural Research Master
Plan and the projected availability of resources. At negotiations assurances were given by the
Government that the NARO Secretariat will consolidate and prepare an Annual Work Program
and Budget (AWPB), based on the programs and budgets prepared by the research institutes, and
submit it to IDA for clearance by December 31 of the preceding year, prior to its final review
and approval by the NARO Board (para. 7. Id). The AWPB would include details of the annual
training plan for each of the project entities. A key requirement of the AWPB would be to
indicate the funding requiredfrom IDA and the Government to pay recurrent costs, and the
_ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ---   ---



- 35 -
(adjusted) salanes and allowances under the newly introduced Terms and Conditons of Service
for Research (para. 4.28).
Table 5.1. Research Institutes of NARO and Their Mandated Research Areas
Research Institute                               Filds of Resarch
Kawanda Agricultural Research      Perennial cash and food crops; farming systems; crop protection; soils;
Institute (KARI)                   plant introduction and quarantine service; other fields as approved by
the Board.
Namulonge Agricultural and Animal    Annual industrial and food crops; crop/livestock rmnagement systems;
Production Research Institute      pastures; other fields as approved by the Board.
(NAARI)
Serere Agricultural and Animal     Cereals, root crops, legumes and oils seeds for semiarid areas; semi-
Production Research Institute      arid production systems; eed research and production; pastures, range
(SAARI)                            management and livestock management systems; other fields as
approved by the Board.
Forestry Research Institute (FORI)  Natural forests and plantation forests; forest products and utilization;
agroforestry; other fields as approved by the Board.
Livestock Health Research          Animal health and breeding; animal diseas; other fields approved by
Institute, Tororo (LIRI)           the Board.
Fisheries Research Institute, Jinja  Freshwater fisheries; fish technology; aquaculture and fish production
(FMRI)                             systems; other fields as approved by the Board.
Food Science and Technology        Food preservation, processing, storage and marketing; dietetics and
Research Institute, Kampala (POSRI)    other fields as approved by the Board.
Agricultural Engineering and       Farm mechanization, crop processing and storage, soil and water
Approprite Technology Research     engineering, and appropriate technology development
Institute, Namalere
5.12   It was confirmed at negotiations that under the NARO Statute, all physical Oand, buildings,
vehicles, and equipment) and financial assets of research institutes comprising NARO (Table 5.1) will
be tranferred from the ministries concerned to NARO. This is essential for the implementation of the
research components of the project which will be carried out as follows:
(a)    Institutional development of the NARS would be managed by the NARO Secretariat,
which would develop the improved systems (in consultation with the institutes
concerned) and provide the training and adjustments necessary to ensure that the
systems are adopted and then operationalized successfully.
(b)     The rehabilitation of NARO research institutes would be the responsibility of each
institute, within the framework and guidelines provided by the Secretariat.
(c)    The promulgation and execution of high-priority research programs would be the
responsibility of each institute, within the framework of the rolling Five-Year
Strategic Plan and the Annual Work Plan.



- 36 -
(d)    Arrangements for the flow of funds directly to project entities (research institutes and
Makerere University) would be the responsibility of the NARO Secretariat.
Funding Arrangements
5.13   Developing the agricultural research capacity of Uganda will require continued support for 10
to 15 years or more. However, because research priorities will change as progress is made and in
response to the dynamic demands of the agriculture sector over time, the project is designed as the
first six-year phase of a much longer commitment to support the Research Master Plan. Assured
funding is one of the most critical requirements for sustaining a viable and effective agricultural
research system in Uganda. NARO would develop procedures for coordinating external assistance to
agricultural research in order to support high-priority programs and eschew less useful research.
NARO would also propose and justify to the Government any appropriate measures for generating
revenues specifically for agricultural research, such as a levy on exports of agricultural commodities,
the undertaking of contract research, and the creation of an Agricultural Research Trust Fund.
5.14   The Financial management structure and financial systems of the NARO Secretariat would be
established with the assistance of a financial management specialist appointed under the PPF; the
specialist would help the Secretariat prepare a financial management procedures manual, and provide
staff training.
The Appointment of NARO Staff
5.15   The proposed Terms and Conditions of Service define the criteria for evaluating the
accomplishments and qualifications of professional staff. In addition to emphasizing research ability
over seniority, promotion criteria would emphasize the ability of staff to develop research programs
that are relevant to the needs of small producers. Thus, a Personnel Manual would be prepared to
ensure the transparency of personnel management policies and practices, and their consistent
application within the agricultural research system. The manual would formalize the procedures
outlined in the approved scheme of service. At negotiations, assurances were obtained that a
Personnel Manual, satisfactory to IDA, be approved by the NARO Board before September 30, 1993,
and that systemwide training courses on the personnel management system be completed by June 30,
1994 (para. 7. lb). Attitudinal surveys would be conducted periodically by NARO to ensure that
appropriate personnel policies are adopted and implemented.
5.16   Staffing of the NARO Secretariat and research institutes would be initiated when the new
organization is legally established and the financial, accounting and personnel management systems
are in place. System design and the preparation of appropriate manuals, would require substantial
work and would be undertaken by the HARE-PIU, acting as interim NARO Secretariat, with the
assistance of consultants. A plan for the orderly transition from the HARE-PIU to the NARO
Secretariat was agreed upon during negotiations. The appointment of senior, professional and support
staff for the Secretariat and research institutes under the newly created NARO must be undertaken in
a transparent and systematic manner to ensure a competent, efficient organization. The appointment
of the NARO Director General and Deputy Director General, with experience and qualifications
satisfactory to IDA, would be a condition for Credit effectiveness (para. 7.4a). Assurances were
obtained at negotiations that all key project management personnel (NARO director general, deputy
director general, financial controller, and research institute directors) would be satisfactory to IDA at
all times during project implementation (para. 7. If).



- 37 -
5.17   Of 210 scientists currently employed in the agricultural research units of MAAIF and
MWMEEP, only about 155 research scientists would be recruited for the new organization. The
recruitment process would be managed by a Staff Selection Committee, appointed by the NARO
Board and chaired by the Director General. Staff would be recruited according to a competitive staff
selection process, delineated in a Staff Recruitment Plan (Annex 16), which was discussed and
agreed upon at negotiations. The plan details the NARO staffing process as follows:
(a)    The positions available in each institute, and in the Secretariat, would be made public
(b)    Research unit staff of MAAIF, MWMEEP and MCIC who wish to be appointed to
NARO would present their candidacy and compete with candidates from other
institutions.
(c)    Candidates would initially be screened according to minimum criteria: age,
educational achievements, character and experience.
(d)    Potential candidates for each class of position would then be evaluated by the Staff
Selection Committee according to (i) achievements and demonstrated capability to
date, and (ii) performance in an oral interview with the Staff Selection Committee,
whose members would include a scientist in the candidate's field of expertise.
5.18   To screen and evaluate applicants for advertised NARO positions, NARO would seek the
assistance of an institution, with qualifications and experience acceptable to IDA. The recruitment
will be carried out according to the Staff Recndtment Plan. Assurances were obtained at
negotiations that personnel actions described in the Staff Recruitment Plan would be completed within
one year after credit effectiveness (para 7. 1c).
Research Extension Education Linkages
5.19   A review of IDA-funded agricultural research and extension projects shows that a major
constraint on implementing projects effectively and realizing their benefits fully has been the weak
linkages that exist between the research and extension services. The project's design addresses this
problem by proposing that:
(a)    The directors of Agriculture and Animal Resources in MAAIF and the Vice-
Chancellor of MU would be members of NARB, and that the head of the extension
liaison unit (ELU) in the NARO Secretariat be a member of the Secretariat's
Management Committee.
(b)    ELUs to be established in the NARO Secretariat and the research institutes, and be
staffed by extension personnel seconded by MAAIF. These units would help private
farmers and extension agents gain access to relevant information and assistance from
the research system, and would coordinate joint activities, such as on-farm trials, field
days, the preparation of extension publications, and the participation of researchers in
regular meetings with extension staff. The design and implementation of on-farm
trials that address concerns specific to female farmers and women's groups would be
undertaken by female researchers in collaboration with female extension workers.



- 38 -
(c)    Each research institute would have a program review committee, whose members
would include a representative from the extension service. In addition, the committee
would consist of farmers, nongovernment organizations and donors. Efforts would be
made to select female representatives from the extension service and other client
groups represented in the committee. The committee would review the annual work
program and budget of the institute and send its recommendations to the NARO
Secretariat. The committee would ensure that research programs are relevant to the
production systems of the area. It would consider feedback from the regular
extension meetings and from periodic joint research-extension diagnostic surveys on
production constraints.
(d)    Research staff be under contractual obligation to participate in extension activities.
Promotion would be linked to performance in this area, as well as to scientific
achievements.
5.20   SPAAR's Framework for Action in Research has noted that due to the poor linkages between
local agricultural universities and the research and extension services, well-trained personnel who
could contribute significantly to generating and disseminating improved technologies have been used
ineffectively. The project would therefore finance various measures to promote linkages among these
agencies. The project would provide research grants to MU staff to implement research projects
associated with high-priority programs identified by NARO. These grants, totalling about $5,000 per
research project, would be awarded on a competitive basis. Research would be adaptive or applied,
depending on national needs and the comparative advantage of FAF, FVM and FS. Universities have
also failed to take advantage of the availability of technically competent staff in research institutes for
teaching courses and supervising student research projects. The project would make arrangements to
permit NARO scientific personnel to hold joint appointments at MU (para. 4.7).
5.21   MU would play a significant role in strengthening the necessary linkages among the
agricultural education, research and extension, and agricultural communities. The new M.Sc.
program to be developed by the Department of Agricultural Extension Education would be designed
primarily for the staff of Bukalasa and other agricultural training colleges. It would offer a
foundation in the theory of and methods for agricultural extension combined with coursework in
relevant fields in agriculture, forestry and veterinary medicine, environmental sciences, and applied
social sciences, particularly agricultural economics and rural sociology. M.Sc. students would
participate in revising the curricula and preparing the course syllabi of Bukalasa, possibly in partial
fulfillment of the practicum component in the M.Sc. program, under the direction of MU staff.
lInkages with International Research Centers
5.22   Linkages between NARS and Regional and International Agricultural Research Centers
(1ARCs) have been weak. The project would help NARO strengthen these links by providing support
to NARO staff to: (a) attend short courses, seminars and workshops organized by the IARCs; (b)
participate actively in regional research networks coordinated by the IARCs and regional research
centers; and (c) undertake collaborative research with IARCs.



- 39 -
C. Education and Training Arrangements
5.23   A Training Committee of the NARO Board, comprising representatives from the FAF, FVM,
and FS of Makerere University, and the NARO Secretariat, chaired by the Dean of FAF, would be
responsible for implementing the education/training component. The committee would coordinate
those aspects implemented by FAF, FVM and FS-Fisheries. The three faculties would also be
responsible for undertaking research programs within NARS and for defining the terms of reference
for the "twinning" arrangements between MU and a foreign university. The committee would
coordinate MU's participation with MAAIF in assessing the status of the diploma and certificate-level
agricultural education system and the demand for its graduates. The committee would review and
approve all candidates for foreign training under the project.
5.24  In FAF, the project would support the efforts of the departments of: (a) Food Science; (b)
Agricultural Education and Extension; (c) Agricultural Engineering; and (d) Forestry in developing
M.Sc. programs in collaboration with other departments to produce graduates for employment in high
opportunity areas. For example, the Department of Food Science might collaborate with the
departments of Agricultural Economics and Agricultural Engineering in programs leading to
specialization in food marketing and processing. Undergraduate and postgraduate training in the
environmental sciences would also be strengthened, largely through collaboration with other faculties
and institutes.
5.25  In FVM, the project would focus on restructuring the undergraduate and M.Sc. programs
radically in light of the privatization of government veterinary services and the declining demand for
graduates in the public service. Doing so would require introducing courses in livestock economics
and small business management at the undergraduate level and course-based postgraduate programs
with concentrations in particular species of domestic and wild animals, as well as in specialties for
which greater employment opportunities exist in the private agribusiness sector, such as animal health
and nutrition. Developing new courses and programs will require consultation with FAF and other
faculties in the university. At FS, the project would provide some assistance for postgraduate and
short-term staff training in the fisheries program. The project would support short- and long-term
degree training for MU staff in accordance with annually revised faculty five-year development plans.
FAF has prepared such a plan with USAID support, and GTZ is helping FVM produce a plan for
academic and staff development during the first year of the project.
5.26   Strengthening research and teaching programs will require additional support services-
adequate transportation, communication facilities, and computers and software, and improved support
staff skills. A small reference library would be established at MUARIK, which will have CD-ROM
(Compact Disc-Read Only Memory) facilities to acquire core agricultural literature available from the
developed countries. The facilities will give academic staff access to previous and current literature
from various scientific journals and books on agricultural economics and rural sociology, agricultural
engineering, animal sciences and diseases, plant protection and improvement, food science and human
nutrition, soil science, and forestry and silviculture. Additional references would be obtained as they
become available on CD-ROM. The project would give priority to providing the laboratory and
office equipment necessary for research and training in the areas assigned by the project to Makerere.
Computers would be provided for desktop publishing and for teaching, and to support studying
research results. The feasibility of using satellite links for information exchange would be explored.



- 40 -
D. Initiatives for Women
5.27   As discussed in para. 3.7, the number of women in NARS has been limited. The current
distribution of female researchers in the Uganda NARS is provided in Annex 9. Training additional
female staff has been difficult, because Makerere University lacks adequate housing at its Entebbe and
Kabanyolo campuses. To remedy this situation, an undergraduate student dormitory for women is
being built at Kabanyolo under the MFAD project. The proposed project would complement this
activity by providing a postgraduate wing for about 20 to 25 postgraduate female students. A study is
currently being undertaken to determine the in-service training required to upgrade the technical skills
of existing research staff, focusing particularly on female researchers. The study will support design
of study tours, and in-service and continuing education training courses.
5.28   Appropriate Technology for Female Farmers. Women provide 68 and 53 percent of the
labor for food crop and cash crop cultivation, respectively.7/ To be useful, the technologies
developed under the project must be appropriate for women. Thus, the project calls for: (a)
conducting diagnostic surveys to identify the technologies necessary to enable female farmers to
optimize their contribution to agricultural enterprises; (b) appointing women to the process of
planning and identifying research programs of the research institutes; (c) identifying special economic
activities, such as beekeeping, mushroom cultivation, fish farming, agroforestry, vegetable gardening,
food processing and sericulture, that have high returns and are generally carried out by women; and
(d) developing improved, appropriate technology for those activities.
VI. BENEFITS, JUSTIFICATIONS AND RISKS
A. Main Benefits and Beneficiaries
6.1    Agricultural research plays a vital role in supporting agricultural growth. For resource-poor
smallholder farmers, technological change embodied in inexpensive, higher-yielding, disease-resistant
planting materials, in improved chemical inputs, or in more effective husbandry techniques can
provide one of the few ways to raise income and output. In the export industries, where international
competitiveness is being determined by farm-level efficiency, research results that increase
profitability by raising yields, reducing input costs, increasing disease resistance or improving crop
quality are of fundamental importance. Research will also be essential to support the profitable
development of nontraditional agricultural exports.
6.2    The project is expected to have a significant impact on agricultural productivity and output in
Uganda through improvements in the development and transfer of relevant technology. The
efficiency of the management of research would be considerably enhanced through the establishment
of NARO and the other organizational arrangements to be introduced under the project. Processes
would be put in place to ensure efficient allocation and use of research funds and timely response to
the needs of farmers.
7/    Jarawan, Eva. Women in DeveloDment: Current Issues and Agenda for Further Research. Working Paper,
Population and Human Resources Division, Eastem Africa Department. Washington, D.C.: The World Bank,
June 28, 1991, p. 21.



- 41 -
6.3    The Ugandan small farmer would be a major beneficiary of the project. The linkages among
research, extension, and farmers would be strengthened and institutionalized to ensure that farmers'
concerns will receive priority in the design of the adaptive research programs of the various NARO
research institutes. A key feature of these linkages is the membership of both the extension staff and
farmers in the program review subcommittee of various NARO research institutes. In collaboration
with the Agricultural Extension Project, the project would support field days of research institutes and
on-farm adaptive trials that would show farmers improved technologies applicable to their unique
situations and production systems. It is expected that research output will increase, and that research
will be more relevant to country needs. Furthermore, extension workers would have the benefit of
regular in-service training and appropriate technologies for farmers and other clients.
6.4    The project addresses poverty directly and indirectly. It focuses primarily on assisting small-
holder farmers. Since small farmers constitute the economy's major producing sector, their improved
efficiency and increased production would increase the availability of food to the urban poor, and
would also increase export and tax revenues.
6.5    The primary expected benefit of the education and training component of the project is the
enhanced capability at the local level to provide qualified Ugandan staff with the technical skills
required by the researchers, extension workers and teachers in the agricultural sector. The skills of
key staff and the departments of the agricultural faculties (FAF, FVM and FS-Fisheries) of Makerere
University (MU) would be reinforced with training and the provision of essential equipment and
supplies. The project would support the involvement of MU staff in agricultural research and
development activities, as well as in the continuing education courses required by MAAIF and the
agribusiness subsector. NARO staff would also be involved in teaching academic and continuing
education courses at MU.
B. Economic Justification
6.6    A series of recent studies measured the impact of expenditures for agricultural research and
extension on agricultural production. All of them showed a strong positive relationship between
spending on agricultural research and changes in productivity, implying high rates of return. A
recent study indicates that, on the margin, investments in public agricultural research in the United
States have had a rate of return of more than 45 percent (1950 to 1982). Privately funded agricultural
research has also had a positive return. The study disaggregated investments into pretechnology
research and applied research, showing that the returns to the former are much higher than to the
latter.J/
6.7    Additional work on the sources of total factor productivity growth in India, Bangladesh and
Pakistan demonstrates that public sector expenditures on research and extension have significant
positive effects on productivity. For India, it has been estimated that over 30 percent of total factor
productivity growth in crops between 1956 and 1985 was due to public spending on agricultural
research. Another 25 percent of the increase in total factor productivity was due to publicly financed
I/     Huffman, W.E., and R.E. Evenson. 'Contributions of Public and Private Science and Technology to U.S.
Agricultural Productivity' American Journal of Anricultural Economics, Vol. 74, No. 3, August 1992, p. 751.



- 42 -
extension. Marginal internal rates of return from investments in agricultural research in these three
countries were estimated to be above 50 percent.2/
6.8    A study on Africa in 1986 showed that expenditures on national agricultural research have a
larger and more consistently positive effect on the productivity of several commodities (wheat, rice,
maize, sugar, potatoes, sweet potatoes and groundnuts) in Eastern and Southern Africa than in
Western Africa. Another study of 24 other developing countries confirmed the effects of research
expenditures on the agricultural productivity of various commodities.lOt
6.9    A more responsive research system would be able to resolve production problems more
quickly and support higher yields than the existing system. The project would provide considerable
resources both for establishing the institutional framework for optimizing the benefits from research
and for strengthening the research capacity of existing institutions. Agricultural research would be
coordinated more effectively, and unnecessary duplication would be minimized. A new Terms and
Conditions of Service would be adopted for NARS, with corresponding improvements in salaries and
allowances. Thus the professional staff of research institutions would be more motivated and to find
solutions to the major production constraints of small farmers. An M&E capability would be
developed within NARO to track the cost-effectiveness of different programs and produce estimates of
returns and impacts during project implementation. Periodic program assessments, starting with the
midterm review, would be conducted on the basis of consultant studies.
6.10   The potential returns from the proposed project are high. As an indication of their order of
magnitude, the potential effects on banana production were analyzed. Banana yields have been
declining annually and are now two-thirds of those obtained in the early 1970s. A cost-benefit
analysis indicated that, if the research program were able to increase per hectare banana yields by 10
percent starting in the year 2000, the benefits would provide a rate of return of between 35 and 40
percent on the full cost of the five-year project and on incremental recurrent funding requirements
over 20 years.
C. Sustainability and Finandal Implications for Government
6.11   The institutional sustainability of the project would be assured given the strong emphasis on
developing human resources and the attention given to operating systems and processes. During the
first two years, the project would concentrate on establishing NARO and its research management
system. The project would focus particularly on research planning and priority setting, personnel
management, budgeting, financial operations and accounting, and other administrative procedures.
The participation of extension workers and farmers in developing the annual research program would
be institutionalized. Local staff would have primary responsibility for implementing the project.
Internationally recruited specialists would assist and train these staff during the initial years of the
project.
2/     Rosegrant, M.W. and R.E. Evenson. 'Agriculture Productivity and Sources of Growth in South Asia" American
Journal of A2ricultural Economics, Vol. 74, (3), 1992, P. 757.
IQ/   Evenson, R.E. 'Agricultural Rsearch and Extension in Eastern and Southern Africa: Comparisons with West
Africa and Other Developing Countries." Paper prepared for a Workshop on Eastern and Southern Africa,
Nairobi, Kenya, December 11-16, 1986, p. iii.



- 43 -
6.12   The most serious threat to the sustainability of the project pertains to the availability of local
resources for maintaining the salary levels and allowances under the new Terms and Conditions of
Service for Research, and to the minimum level of recurrent operating funds to sustain the momentum
achieved in technological development and adaptation. The project will focus heavily on identifying
sources of incremental research funding-including the possible establishment of a Research Trust
Fund--identifying contract research opportunities from the Government and the private agribusiness
subsector, and optimizing donor contributions to the NARS.
6.13   The incremental operating costs from the project are provided in Table 6.1. During the
project period, the Government would be expected to increase its allocation for research by about 10
percent annually, roughly the amount necessary to support increased expenditures under the project,
so that by the end of year 6 the GOU research budget will amount to US$2.95 million. In year 7,
when IDA financing will cease, the Government must allocate an additional US$2.06 million from its
own resources to sustain research activities at the levels reached in 1998.
Table 6.1. Phasing of Incremental Recurrent Expenditures
(US$ million)
Project Year     1          2        3        4         5        6         7
Calendar Year   1993      1994      1995     1996     1997     1998      1999
IDA           1.040      2.220    1.76      1.91     1.99     2.06     0.00
GOU           0.005      0.005    0.75     0.83      0.86     0.89     2.95
Total          1.045      2.225    2.51     2.74     2.95      2.95     2.95
6.14   The project would require that the Government contribute US$3.83 million from its own
resources over six years, including taxes of about US$1.03 million. For FY91-92, the budgetary
allocation for the MAAIF was equivalent to about US$10.5 million, of which US$6.7 million was for
recurrent expenditures, US$1.2 million for capital expenditures and US$2.6 million for counterpart
funding of externally funded projects. Of this amount, about US$1 million was allocated to support
the recurrent costs of agricultural research. Funding for capital development was negligible.
D. Project Risks
6.15   The project is subject to institutional, financial and macroeconomic risks. Developing
NARO's research management system may take some time, funding fQr agricultural research may not
be increased adequately, and research findings may not be relevant. Safeguards against institutional
risks have been included in the project by ensuring that considerable resources will be devoted to
developing human resources and strengthening management capacities, particularly research
management, administrative and financial management, and procurement. Financial risks would be
minimized through arrangements that would allow NARO to seek additional sources of funds more
effectively, and through financial management procedures that would support the more effective
utilization of financial resources. Linkages with the extension service would be strengthened to
ensure that research priorities reflect the concerns of farmers. Training would be provided to local
professional staff in technical disciplines. Support staff would be trained in personnel management,
procurement, finance and accounting procedures, and other administrative tasks.



- 44 -
6.16   An M&E system would be established, and the operation of administrative support units
would be improved. Delays and the dilution of focus on project objectives would be overcome
through timebound action plans and through the regular monitoring of tangible benchmarks of
operational improvements and project accomplishments. The effectiveness of research and extension
linkages would be monitored and improved continuously. Financial risks would be minimized
through a phased approach that calls for reducing the Government's share of recurrent operating
expenditure during the first two years of the project, and IDA financing of incremental recurrent
costs. The rationalization of Government expenditures is being pursued through structural adjustment
operations and annual reviews of public expenditure. The macroeconomic risks would be addressed
with adjustment operations (SAC and ASAC) whose purpose is to ensure that unfavorable market
prices and a lack of inputs will not constrain the incentives of farmers to adopt new technological
packages.
E. Environmental Impact
6.17   The project is expected to have a beneficial impact on the environment. Research would be
undertaken to develop the following: (a) appropriate crop and animal husbandry practices; (b)
sustainable soil management practices through the proper use of green manures and the composting of
crop residues; (c) soil erosion-control practices; and (d) integrated pest management practices
employing biological controls and the judicious use of chemical insecticides. Further details on the
research agenda are provided in the National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan. None of the
environmental issues in the project is classified as Category B. The potential problems from
increased soil erosion due to intensive cultivation and from an increase in the use of chemical
fertilizers and pesticides would be addressed under the project. Bank guidelines on pesticides would
be followed, including clearance procedures for procuring chemicals.



- 45 -
VII. ASSURANCES AND RECOMMENDATION
A. Assurances and Agreemnents
7.1    Assurances on Project Implementation
(a)    NARO will enter into a Project Agreement with IDA, covering NARO's -
responsibilities and obligations in carrying out the project (para. 5.1).
(b)    Manuals, satisfactory to IDA, for personnel management (para. 5.15), financial
reporting and accounting (para. 4.41), research management (para. 4.5) and
procurement procedures (para. 5.2) will be approved by the NARO Board before
September 30, 1993, and systemwide training courses on the manuals shall be
completed by June 30, 1994.
(c)    NARO shall seek the assistance of an institution, acceptable to IDA, in the staff
selection and recruitment process; recruitment shall be undertaken according to a Staff
Recruitment Plan, satisfactory to IDA and all personnel actions described in the Staff
Recruitment Plan would be completed within one year after Credit Effectiveness
(paras. 5.17 and 5.18).
(d)    The NARO Secretariat shall consolidate and prepare the Annual Work Program and
Budget, indicating required amounts and the timing of IDA and Government funding,
and submit them to IDA for clearance by December 31 of the preceding year, prior to
its final review and approval by the NARO Board (para. 5.11).
(e)    A midterm review of the project shall be held by January 31, 1996; studies for
supporting the midterm review will be undertaken by NARO and provided to IDA by
June 30, 1995 (paras. 4.13 and 5.10).
(f)    All key project management personnel (NARO director general, deputy director
general, financial controller, and research institute directors) would be satisfactory to
IDA at all times during project implementation (para. 5.16).
(g)    Annual Work Programs should include an ex-post evauluation of the preceding year's
training program and would form the basis for defining the following year's training
program (para. 4.20)
(h)    Specialists in procurement and financial management satisfactory to IDA would be
recruited to help establish satisfactory systems for financial, accounting, procurement
and other administrative procedures; and the services of the research management
specialist would be continued (para. 4.35).
(i)    Key monitoring indicators of the project's progress were identified at negotiations.
Appropriate measures will be taken by NARO to complete the M&E system, which
will include a more comprehensive list of key monitoring indicators, and put it into
operation by September 30, 1993 (para. 5.7)



- 46 -
(j)    A Training Committe of the NARO Board, comprising representatives from the
FAF, FVM, and PS of Makrere University, and the NARO Secretariat, chaired by
the Dean of FAF, shall be responsible for implementing the education and training
components of the project (pa. 5.25).
7.2    Asuranw on P, Co llukancy Servi  and Reporting
(a)    The NARO Secretariat shall establish a Procurement Committee before June 30, 1993
(para. 4.31); and procurement of works, goods and services, and appointment of
consultants would be according to Bank Guidelines using Standard Bidding Documents
satisfactory to IDA (pOr. 5.2 and 5.6).
(b)    Details of the 'twinning' arrngement betweon Makerere University and an
internationally renowned university, acceptable to IDA, shall be provided for IDA's
review and comments by May 31, 1993 (paras. 4.21, 4.35 and 5.23).
(c)    The NARO Secretariat shall provide IDA with an annual report that describes
progress in implementing the project, and a review of the status of the various
research program  hndled by NARO, within six months after the close of each year
(para. 5.8).
7.3    Assuranc  on Financial Arrangmuts
(a)    Arrangements shall be made, satisfactory to IDA, to allow NARO to use income and
contributions from private sector sources and other donors as incremental resources
(para. 4.13);
(b)    The proceeds of the credit would be made available to NARO under a subsidiary
agreement with terms and conditions satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.26).
(c)    A separate NARO Line Item (Vote) shall be established in the Recurrent and
Development Budgets starting with FY93-94 (para. 4.40); and the Government's
contribution will be deposited to the Project Account on a quarterly basis as
determined and approved during the annal work program and budget review process
(para. 4.42).
(d)    Salaries and allowances under the newly introduced Terms and Conditions of Service
for Research shall be adjusted regularly according to a formula, satisfactory to IDA
(para. 4.28).
(e)    Disbursement arrangements would be satisfctory to IDA; a Special Account would be
opened at a Commercial Bank; and SOEs would be subject to external audit and IDA
review (para. 4.39).
(f)    Annual financial statements shll be audited by auditors, satisfactory to IDA; audited
statements shall be provided to IDA within nine months after the end of the first fiscal
year of the project and within six months after the close of the fiscal year in
subsequent years (para. 4.42).



- 47 -
7.4    Conditions of Credit Efetlvenen
(a)    Appointment of the Director General and Deputy Director General of NARO (para.
5.16).
(b)   Formal approval by Government of Terms and Conditions of Service for Research,
satisfactory to IDA (para. 4.10).
(c)    Appointment of a financial controller (para. 4.41) and procurement specialist (para.
4.31), satisfactory to IDA, and establishment of a viable accounting system (para.
4.41), satisfactory to IDA.
(d)    A subsidiary Agreement between the Government and NARO (para. 4.26)
(e)    Opening of Project Accounts into which the Government contribution to the project
would be deposited (para. 4.42).
(f)    The Audit Report of the Coffee Marketing Board for the period ending September 30,
1991 will be provided to IDA (para. 4.42).
B. Recomnmndation
7.5   Based on the above conditions and agreements, the project is suitable for a credit to the
Republic of Uganda of SDR 17.80 million (US$25.04 million equivalent) on standard IDA terms with
forty years maturity.



UGANDA
AG IaCULT WAL RESEARCII AND tRAINING PIJECT
SL.ry Accoints by TY r
Totals Inctuilr Cantinnucla                                                   Totals Includinr Contihancles
tlSh                                                                          tMS
...................... .. .................... . .............. ..  ..... .... , . . ---....... .......... ................. ........................... .......
1993      1994       1995       196        199?      1996      Total          1993      1994       1995       1996      199?       1ws       Totct
1. INVSTMENT COSTS
....................
A. CIVIL INKS                        0.000   2816.736   19e9.197     0.000      0.000      0.000   480S.933        0.000      1.849     1.129      0.000      0.000      0.000     2.978
*. OFFICE (WAIF & ftIMITURE        171.67    '450.240   354.576    117.394     25.283    30.340   1149.809         0.133     0.296      0.201      0.058      0.011     0.011      0. 09
C. LA8 AMI FIELD EWUIPPEINT          0.000    529.359    635.230   6U5.204      0.000      0.000   1809.793        0.000     0.348      0.360      0.316      0.000      0.000     1.024
0. VEIICLES                        267.857    728.953   S72.955    M8.724    79.so6    95.40?  2030.401            0.20?      0.479     0.325      0.140      0.034      0.035     1.220
E. TECI. ASSISTARICE               876.623   1119.690   1247.103   1505.790   889.574   1067.489   6706.269        0.678     0.735      0.76       0.738      0.37       0.391     3.627
F. TRAINING                        38s.859   1803.087   2706.271   1970.963    e45.6s2  1014.r2   8726.614         0.299      1.184     1.535      0.966      0.358      0.372     4.714
C. STUIAES                          39.488    144. 78     48.262    81.081    111.197    133.436    S58.251        0.031     0.095      0.02?      0.040      0.047      0.049     0.239
............. .................... ..... . ...... . . -.---..... -. ... ....... --.............. ............. ............... . ..     ............. ................. .... .....
Total IHVSTS"ET COsTS             174I.SOI  rs92.852   7353.095   4606.15?   1951.212   2341.454  25767.071        1.348     4.96es     4.206      2.25.8     0.827      0.8sr    14.560
it. RECORENT CO1S
......... ............ . . .
A. SALARIES                        449.536   1066.368   1287.SS7   1545.068   1854.062   2224.89a   8427.506       0.348     0.700      0.o.n      o.ns5      0.786     0.815      4.136
S. IOUSING ALLOWICE                280.773    617.543    813.051    975.662   1170.794   1404.953  S322.M          0.217     0.445      o.461      0.478      0.496     0.514      2.612
C. TRAVELLIIIG ALLWUCE             201.390    483.196   s59.835   699.046    838.855   1006.626   3806.948         0.156     0.317      0.329      0.343      0.355     0.369      1.869
0. MEICAL ALLOWACE                 139.838    346.769    416. 123   499.34a    599.217   719.061   2720.357        0.108      0.228     0.236      0.245      0.254     0.263      1.334
E. FIELD TRIALS                     11.451     62.339    102.510    151.506    186.811    224.173    78.89         0.009     0.041      0.058      0.074      0.079     0.082      0.343
F VEEICLE OPERATION                 67.761    236.100   432.276    58. 78?    723.891   668.669   Z917.486         0.052     0.155      0.245      0.289      0.307     0.318      1.366
C. LAOATORY OPERATI[ON              26.325    183.390    314.671   479.536    57s.443    690.532   2269.906        0.020     0.120      0.179      0.235      0.244     0.253      1.0s1
N. DOOJNIENIAT10N                  101.3S1    102.960    123.552    101.930    122.316    146.760   696.690        0.078     0.068      0.070      0.050      0.052     0.054      0.372
I. SLPLtIES AltD  AINTEMANCE        55.34a    202.783    338.e99   493.SS2    592.262    710.714  2393.55a         0.043     0.133      0.192      0.242     0.251      o.Z60      1.121
J. UILDING NAINIENAIICE              7.89      17.696    32.06      43.784     ss.042    66.051    222.517         0.006     0.012      0.018      0.021      0.023     0.024      O.0s     I
Totat REC.AtRENT COSTS            1341.6n3  3379.152   4440.523  5578.28   6718.714   862.456 29520.735           1.038     2.218      2.519      2.73s      2.847     2.952    14.309   O
....t=s.........----.-........... ---....... s-----.z.--.----..................................... ..... . ... ........ .- .... --.----.--sst-sssassso . sss. . .sw
TOtaL PROJECT COSTS               3083.174  10972.004  11994.418  10184.374    669.926  10403.911  55307.806       2.386     r.203      6.3 5      4.993     3.673      3.809    280.70
*...x.aus.flaSnS.tssW=stn..ssu=snbsSaseSunnfsflSfSSRlS SsssssssU*SS*SSinnfltUflSfllll                                                       iSUSS fls.so.ssso
Valum Scated by 1000000.0 10/5/1992 17:52
ID m
x
0



AGRIOATUIAL 6ESECII Ami lININi PliC ECI
Projects Copts b, *Tar
Totals lIncIling Contl encfee                                             Totals Including Conti lScl
USh                                                                        MIRS
1993      1994      199S      1996      199?       19W      Total         1999                1993       19%       199       1996      Total
....-- - . --......................  ...... .----------------o--- -                                        ........... .... .
A. IlSlITUTIlt DEVE0EOIENT
1. N                           e 51.274  1759.603   626.365  1390.702   1O47.5S3  1257.015  ro32.472       0.659      1.155     0.w        0.612     0.44      o460      4.323
2. IESECac  IISTITUTES           2.698  1162.592   1692.56   1265.790   390.023   466.027  SOO0.697         0.002     0.776     0.960      0.621     0.165     0.171      2. 96
Sib-Total                          853.972  2942.195  331.931  26S6.492  1437.S36   7M.043  12934.169          0.o61      1.932     1.863      1.302     0.609     0.632     7.018
. ItEi OF itESEAtCI IIIST
I. CRPs - KAIWAN                15.633   227.938   191.966    45.550    61.158    13.390   615.65S         0.012      0.150     0.09       0.022    o0.026     O.O2      0.3W
2. CiOP/LIVESIOCK-AIULOE         59.069   206.4S9   274.46    250.502    18.347    22.017   630.659         0.046     0.136     0.156      0.123     0.006     0.006      0.476
3. aOP/LIVESTOCK-SERERE          41.063   727.213   189.794   16s.861     0.000      0.000  1823.9S2        0.032     0.177     0.505      0.061     0.000     0.000      1.095
4. FISH - JINJA                  14.225   636.797   666.089    71.133      0.000     0.000  1388.244        0.011     0.418     0.378      0.035     0.000     0.000      0.842
S. LIVESTOCK HEALTH - TOMSO       6.696   494.324   637.756   107.306    10.411    12.493  1266.965         0.005     0.325     0.362      0.053     0.004     0.005      0.753
6. FORESTRY - KIFU                0.000   6a3.1(i3   253.078   194.365     0.000     0.000  1130.626        O.ODO     0.449      0.144     0.095     o.ooo      0.000     0.617
SUb-Total                           136.707  2975.913  2913. I8   834.717    89.917   107.900  7058.321        0.106      1.954      .653      0.409     0.038     0.040     4. 99
C. PRIORITY RESEARCi PROGRA
1. CROPS - KAWAMDA              199.314   532.385   696.217   888.835  1079.946  129S.935  4682.633        0.146      0.350     0.395      0.436     0.458     0.474     2.259
2. CROP/LIVESTOCKi- WALOHGE     192.370   484.047   635.683   013.483   980.183   1176.220  4281.986        0.149     0.318     0.361      0.399     0.415     0.431      2.072
3. CROP/LIVESTOCK-SERERE        218.967   572.652   743.515   930.789  1116.947  1340.336  4923.206         0.169     0.376     0.422      0.456     0.473     0.491      2.388
4. FISHERIES - JINJA            147.760   382.064   511.720   634.450   763.841   916.610  3356.443         0.114     0.251     0.290      0.311     0.324     0.336      1.626
S. LIVESTOCK HEALTH - TORmO     138.925   400.341   556.084   703.162   843.795   1012.554  3654.860        0.107     0.263     0.315      0.345     0.358     0.371      1.759
6. FORESTRY - KIFU              135.871   384.768   486.857   616.336   744.607   893.529  3261.968         0.OS     0.253     0.276      0.302     0.315     0.327      1.579
7. iNAKERERE UNIVERSITY         45.931    124.973   185.295   287.312   344.n74   413.729  1402.013         0.036     0.082     O.1OS      0.141     0.146     0.151      0.661
sub-Total                          1069.137  2881.229  3815.371  4874.367  5874.093  7048.912  25563.110       0.827      1.892     2.165     2.390      2.489     2.sa;    12.343
D. AItCUiLTURAL EDUCATIOI Ni      1023.358  2172.667   1946.948  1818.797  1268.380  1522.056  9752.207       0.792      1.426     i.105      0.892     0.537     0.557     5.309
Total PIOJECTS COSTS              3083.174  10972.004  11994.418  10184.374  8669.926  10403.911  SS307.8106   2.386      7.203     6.8105    4.993      3.673     3.l09    28.870  I
Values Scaled by 1000000.0 10/5j1992 17:52
3P
IQ.
(D m
0
I-.



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Eamned Sdds of Cedi Dl.wuenwt by IDA Fc  Ye andSu    al
(USS Mo)
ID FY    ESTIMATED    ESTIFTED   CL. DIS8URS.  STAMRD   CUI DIS8URS.
AND      DISRS.   CUMATIVE   ASA% OF    DE8RS.  ACCORDlNG TO
SEIESTER    W           DESS.  VACRffT  PDUcd  SMo.PILE                                              DISBURSEMENT PROFILE
FYM3 I            0.00         0.00         0%           0%         o.00              24.00
FY93N            02          02           1%           6%          1.50             2.00 
18.00
FYB41             0.30         0.50         2S          14S         3.51            21800 OD
FY94 N            0.67         1.17         5%          18%         4.51              16.00
FYB51             1.17         2.34         9%          26%         6.51              12.00
FY96 N            3.36         5.70        23%          34%         851            i2.0w
FY96 1            3.36         9.06        36%          38%         9.52               8.0
FY9611            2.92        11m          48%          54%         13.52              4.00
FY971             2.92        14.90        6D%          66%         16.53              20     _
FY97 N            2.11        17.01        68%          70%         17.53              00
FY98I             2.11        19.12        76%          78%         19.53                                             _ 3
FY98 N            1.4f        2D.58        82%          86%        21.53                                 _  _o
FY99 1            1.48        22.04        88%          90%        22.54                               I         YEAR AND SEMESTER
FY99 n            1.30        23.34        93%          90%        22.54
FYOOI             1.00        24.34        97%          94%        23.54                                   ESTI  TED w_           STANDARD
FYa0 N            0.40        24.74        99%          94%        23.54                                                          PREDILE
FYQ11             0.30        25.04       100%          98%        24.54
FYO1 N                                      0%         100%        25.04
at CIeUR dffsctrmin, c bion  d   ing dem   e      dto be April,1993,Ju  30,2000,d Deombe 31,2000 iupects.,
b/IDA FY93   miss bAnd 11 hckde esfimMed dlsbum r do US$1.5 ikon # PPF.
cdSource COOMO  dd    Dlset Prols or Uga  AgdcUbu Sedw (June 1992.                                                                                     x
Absoke Vaum for IDA Fnacin                25.04



- 51 -
Annex 3
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
DETAILED BUDGET FOR IDENTIFIED ACTIVITIES UNDER THE PPF
Tranche
1            2
A. Technical Assistance
a)  For Civil Works                                                  $ 37,SS0        12,450
Master Plan of NARO Headguarters CoWnlex
o      Site plan for NARO office and housing,
including schematic design and landsaping                $  6,000
o      Detailed architectural drawings of NARO headquarters
building                                                 $ 17,550        12,450
Master Plan for forest Research Institute at Kifu
o      Site plan for FRI buildings and housing, including
schematic drawings and landscaping design                S  8,000
Makerere University at Kabnvolo
o      Detailed drawings for rehabilitation of both continuing
education facility and postgraduate women's hostel       $  6,000
b) Institutional Development and Project Management                  S     1S8.400  120.20
o      Financial Management Specialist (E)        10 p/m         $ 50,000       50,000
o      Procurement Specialist (E)                 10 p/m         $ 50,000       50,000
o      Research Mgt. Info. System Specialist       7 p/m         $ 50,000       20,000
o      Project Accountant (N)                     12 p/m         $  8,400
c) Agricultural Education/Training                                   S 120.000     1i,LOI
o      Agricultural Extension Education Specialist  12 p/m       $ 60,000       60,000
o      Training Specialist                        12 p/m         $ 60,000       60,000
o      Food Science Program Evaluation             2 p/m                        20,000
o      Ag. Engineering Program Evaluation          2 p/m                        20,000
B. Staff Training/Study Tour                                            S 207,        140.000
o Long-Tenn Training (NARO)
Plant Virology (PhD)                        1 p/y        $ 15,000        10,000
Soil Fertility (PhD)                        1 p/y        S 15,000        10,000
Forestry (PhD)                              I P/y                     $ 25,000
Animal Virology (MSc)                       I P/y                     S 25,000
Forest Ecology (MSc)                        1 p/y                     $ 25,000
Fish Breeding (MSc)                         1 p/y                     S 25,000
o Long-Terrn Training (FAF)
PhD (in disciplines to be identified)       2 p/y        $ 30,000        20,000
MSc (in disciplines to be identified) (L)   4 p/y        S 10,000
o Short-Term Training (NARO)
Monitoring and Evaluation (3)               9 p/m        $ 46,800
Personnel Management (2)                   4 p/m         $ 20,800
Local training in personnel management                   $ 30,000



- 52 -
Annex 3
Page 2 of 2
Tranche
1             2
B. Staff Training (con't)
o Study Tour (NARO)
Visit to 3 countries by 7 senior research
managers to gain first-hand experience in
organizing and managing national research
systems                                                                    35,000
o Study Tour (MU)
Visit of FAF Dean to U.S. to discuss details of
twinning arrangement with 2 U.S. universities               $  5,000
C. Civil Works                                                             S 25.          150.
o      Construction of 1st phase NARO headquarters building                       150,000
o      Renovation of temporary office of NARO Secretariat at
MAAIF, Entebbe, next to the office of Secretary for Research  $ 25,000
D. Vehicles, Ofrice Equipment, Furniture and Supplies                      $ 225.000
a)  2 unit Sedan car for NARO                                          $ 32,000
2 unit 4-WD Vehicle (NARO, FAF)                                    $ 52,000
1 unit 21-seater passenger bus for NARO                            $ 50,000
b)  7 unit desktop computer (486/33, 4MB RAM, 80MB HDD,
VGA monitors, 3.5 & 5.25 floppy drives) (NARO-3, MU-4)             $ 35,000
Computer supplies, UPS, voltage regulator                          $ 15,000
4 unit Laser printers (NARO-2, MU-2)                               $ 10,000
I unit photocopier for NARO                                        $  4,000
E. Operating Costs                                                         $ 46.40        44504
a)  Salaries of interim NARO Secretariat staff (I cashier,
5 drivers)                                                         $  3,100         3,100
b)  Allowances for interim NARO Secretariat staff                      $  4,100         4,100
c)  Task force meetings                                                $  2,750         2,750
d)  Vehicle operating costs                                            $  5,000         5,000
e)  Office operating costs, supplies, repair and maintenance           $ 31,000        31,000
F. Contingency                                                                            51.100
Total                       $ 820,000        680,000



- 53 -                                  AnnAex 4
UGANDA
AGRICLUA RESEARCHANTRINGPOEC
TECHNICAL ASSISTA
[Pemon Ithas       Procurement        Base Costa
_____  dure a/   (USS milion)
A. CAPACITY BUILDING SUPPORT
(To be Provided Under a Twinning Arrangment)
1. Extension Specialist (MU)                         36           Under twinning         0.360
2. Agricultural Economist (MU)                       36           arrngement h/          0.360
3  Food Science Specialist (MU)                       4             -ditto-              0.040
4. Agricultural Engineer (MU)                         4             -ditto-              0.040
5. Curriculum Development (MU)                        4             -ditto-              0.040
6. Development Communications (MU)                    4             -ditto-              0.040
7. Continuing Education Specialist (MU)               s             -ditto-              0.080
B. Various disciplines - Graduate Teaching (MU)  Lump Sum           -ditto-              0.248
(To be Provided to NARO)
9. Research Advisor (NARO)                           36           International          0.360
10. Various disciplines - Supervision/Studies     Lump Sum         Local                  0.072
11. Various disciplines (Kawanda Ag. Research Inst.)  12           Interntional           0.120
12. Various disciplines - Crop Sciences (KARI)    Lump Sum         Local                  0.024
13. Fisheriea Biologist (Fisheries Rescarch Inst.)     6           International          0.075
14. Fisheries Biologist (Fisheries Research Inst.)  Lump Sum       Local                  0.024
15. Agroforestry (Forest Research Inst.)               6           International          0.075
16. Silviculturist (Forest Reearch Inst.)             24           Local                  0.024
17. Livestock Specialist (NARO)                       36           Local                  0.100
18. Fisheries Specialist (NARO)                     '36            Local                  0.100
19. Agronomist/Crop Protection Specialist (NARO)      36           Local                  0.100
Subtotal       2.258
B. PROJECT PREPARATION AND
IMPLEMENTATION SUPPORT
1. Procurement Advisor                               18           International          0.180
2. Financial Management Specialist                   36           International          0.360
3. Monitoring & Evaluation Specialist                 12          International          0.120
4. Mid-term Review                                    7           International          0.070
S. Various studies                               Lump Sum         International          0.290
6. Engineer/Architect - Design and Supervision
of NARO-HQ, Makerere University                Lump Sum        Local                  0.100
7. Engineer/Architect - Design of PORI           Lump Sum         Local                  0.050
8. Personnel Management Specialist                    9           International          0.090
9. Research Truat Fund Consultant                     6           Inteantional           0.060
10. Curriculum Development (Bukala)                    S           International          0.050
Subtotal               1.370
TOTA .ource. ..  fo t  t                    g                        . .r
Al 'Intcrnational' means internatonally recruied; 'local' nmean locally recruited '''
k/ Sole source procuremnent procedure for the twinning arrangement has been cleared by the regional procurement advisor.



- 54 -
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Agricultural Economist
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the Makerere University Faculty of
Agriculture and Forestry for an Agricultural Economist to assist in the implementation of the
Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP). ARTP would support the organization and
operations of a National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), set up appropriate management
systems for the NARO Secretariat and its member research institutes, and strengthen the capacity of
agricultural faculties of Makerere University to provide trained manpower for research and extension.
OBJECTIVES
2.    The Agricultural Economist would provide technical advice to and train the staff of the
Agricultural Economics Department of FAF to complete the development of the M.Sc. program in
agricultural economics, and provide leadership in the design and implementation of economic research
projects.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.    The consultant would undertake the following tasks in collaboration with local counterparts,
and in the process provide on-the-job training in various activities:
a)    Coordinate the graduate program in agricultural economics and review existing
undergraduate and graduate curricula.
b)    Advise on short and long-term training needs in agricultural economics in the Ministry
of Agriculture, Animal Industries and Fisheries and related institutions.
c)    Collaborate with the faculty of the Department of Agricultural Economics in teaching
undergraduate and graduate courses of the department.
d)    Advise agricultural economics graduate students in their thesis research.
e)    Liaise with agricultural policy units located in GOU ministries and other agencies, and
with economists working in other donor-funded agricultural development projects, to
identify and design relevant economic research projects.
f)    Collaborate with and give technical guidance to MAAIF researchers in farming
systems research, focusing particularly on social, economic and policy constraints
agricultural production.



- 55 -
Annex Sa
Page 2 of 2
QUALIFICATIONS
4.    The consultant should have a Ph.D. degree in Agricultural Economics or Economics, with
experience in teaching, research, and the development of academic programs in agricultural
economics. Experience in curriculum development for postgraduate degree training is desirable. The
consultant should have extensive experience in working with educational institutions in developing
countries, particularly in Africa.
DUTY STATION
5.    The consultant would be responsible to the Dean, FAF, in his capacity as the Chairman of the
Training Committee of the NARO Board, which would oversee the education and training component
of ARTP. The consultant would work out of the office assigned to the Training Committee. The
Dean, FAF, would provide administrative and logistical support (office space, secretarial assistance,
telephone, vehicle, and office equipment). If required, the Dean of FAF may assign the consultant to
serve as chairman of the Agriculture Extension Education Department before suitable staff are
recruited for the position.
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
6.    The duration of the assignment would be for 24 months, with a possible extension of another
12 months. The first 10 months of the assignment would paid under the Project Preparation Facility
(PPF).



- 56 -
Annex Sb
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Agricultural Extension Education Specialist
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the Makerere University Faculty of
Agriculture and Forestry for an Agricultural Extension Education Specialist for the implementation
of the Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP). ARTP would support the organization
and operations of a National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), set up appropriate
management systems for the NARO Secretariat and its member research institutes, and strengthen the
capacity of the agricultural faculties of Makerere University to provide trained personnel for research
and extension.
OBJECTIVES
2.    The Agricultural Extension Education Specialist would provide technical advice to and train
the staff of the Agricultural Extension Education Department of FAF to complete the development of
undergraduate courses in agricultural extension, and initiate the development of an M.Sc. program in
agricultural extension.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.    The consultant would undertake the following tasks with local counterparts, and in the process
provide on-the-job training in various activities:
a)    Prepare terms of reference and a work program to improve the curricula and human
resource development of agricultural training colleges.
b)    Conduct an assessment of training needs for agricultural-sector ministries,
agricultural-related nongovernmental organizations, and the faculties of Agriculture
and Forestry, and Veterinary Medicine.
c)    Conduct a human resource survey of agricultural-related governmental and
nongovernmental personnel to identify potential training resource persons to
incorporate into eventual training programs.
d)    Prepare action plans for program coordination and staff development at FAF, FVM
and FS (Fisheries) and other cognate units and Institutes at Makerere University.



- 57 -
Annex Sb
Page 2 of 2
e)    Assist in the formulation of a comprehensive training plan for MU and NARO, and in
the selection and placement of students in foreign universities.
f)    Assist the Agricultural Extension Education Department in the development and
implementation of the 4-year undergraduate curriculum with specialization in
agricultural extension education.
QUALIFICATIONS
4.    The consultant should have a Ph.D. degree in agricultural extension education or related
fields, with experience in developing academic programs in agricultural extension. Experience in
curriculum development for postgraduate degree training is desirable. The consultant should have
extensive experience in working with educational institutions in developing countries, particularly in
Africa.
DUTY STATION
5.    Tle consultant would be responsible to the Dean, FAF, in his capacity as Chairman of the
Training Committee of the NARO Board, which would oversee the education and training component
of ARTP. The consultant would work out of the office assigned to the Training Committee. The
Dean, FAF, would provide administrative and logistical support (office space, secretarial assistance,
telephone, vehicle and office equipment).
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
6.    The duration of the assignment would be for 10 months, to be funded under a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). Based on an evaluation of the consultant's performance and the
requirements of the Agricultural Extension Education Department, the contract may be extended for
an additional 26 months. The Terms of Reference may need to be modified at that time.



- 58 -
Annex 5c
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAIlNING PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Architectural and Construction Supervision Consultant
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the NARO Secretariat for engaging
Architectural Consultant firms to assist in the implementation of the Agricultural Research and
Training Project (ARTP) . ARTP would strengthen agricultural research, education and training
services by establishing a National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO) and by improving the
capacity of Makerere University's graduate programs to support national research and extension
programs. ARTP would rehabilitate the physical infrastructures (office buildings, staff houses and
other support structures) of the crops, livestock and fisheries research institutes at Serere, Tororo and
Jinja, respectively, and prepare designs and drawings for the construction of a NARO headquarters
buildings at Kawanda and the Forestry Research Institute complex at Kifu, a dormitory for female
graduate students, staff housing, and buildings for a Continuing Education Centre.
However, as a first step to meet the immediate requirements, HARE must build its own office at the
site of the future NARO headquarters. This office would be used by NARO when it is in place.
Thus, HARE must appoint a Consulting Firm to enable it to assess the quantity of works and the
associated resource requirements for a complete NARO building plan, where HARE offices can be
constructed as a part of a future NARO headquarters.
OBJECTIVE
2.    The purpose of this assignment would be to prepare designs, drawings, bid documents, bills
of quantities and specifications prior to the actual rehabilitation works and the construction of new
buildings, including budget estimates and an implementation schedule to enable the NARO Secretariat
to coordinate, manage and supervise the works effectively, and to liaise with other concerned
Ministries, contractors, donors and Government authorities.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.     The consultant would undertake the following:
a)     Conduct an initial survey and prepare maps and site plans, wherever necessary.
b)     Prepare detailed architectural and related engineering designs and drawings with
specifications, bills of quantities and cost estimates for the construction of the
HARE/NARO office building, a women's hostel and the Continuing Education
Centre. The estimated floor area is for the HARE/NARO office building, the



- 59 -
Annex Sc
Page 2 or 2
women's hostel and the Continuing Education Centre. The design of the
HARE/NARO office block should be allowed for phased construction.
c)     Prepare bidding documents that contain tender/bid notice, instructions to bidders,
general and special conditions of contract, detailed specifications, drawings and other
forms for guarantees, etc., to be approved by the Government and IDA in accordance
with applicable guidelines.
d)     Prepare a detailed work plan and schedules based on implementation programs for the
timely completion of works.
e)     Liaise with the concerned Ministries/bodies (such as the Ministry of Lands, Housing
and Urban Development, CTB, etc.), as necessary, in various approval processes,
such as designs, drawings and clearances for awards, as required.
f)     Assist the Government as may be required to evaluate the bids received from the
bidders according to evaluation criteria specified in the bidding documents.
g)     Assist the Government in negotiations with the award and contractor(s) where
necessary.
h)     Following contract award hy the Government, the consultant would act on behalf of
the Government for the contract and until the completion of the defect liability period.
The consultant would supervise construction and carry out all other responsibilities
required of a consultant for the employer, such as measurements, certification of
payments due to the contractor, and inspection of the quality and quantity of works,
ensuring conformity with the contract document.
i)     Assist the Government in the administration of the contract.
j)     Impart on-the-job training to the Government personnel assigned for this purpose.
The consultant would meet all other obligations implicit in the design and supervision of this
contract.
QUALIFICATIONS
4.    The Consultant Firm(s) should have demonstrated experience in undertaking works of similar
nature of not less than 5 years. The evaluation criteria with particular reference to such factors as the
quality of personnel proposed for the assignment would form an integral part of the consultant's
qualifications, which will have been specified in the Letter of Invitation.



- 60 -                                Annex 5d
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Rererence
Financial Management Specialist
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the National Agricultural Research
Organization (NARO) for a Flnancial Manugement Specialist (FMS) to provide technical advice to
and train the staff of the Finance Section of the NARO Secretariat and research institutes. The FMS
would report to the Director, HARE-PIU, acting as the interim NARO Secretariat, and eventually to
the Director General of NARO once it is constituted. The FMS would be based in the NARO
headquarters, and would be required to visit Makerere University and various NARO research
institutes to interact with project personnel.
OBJECTIVE
2.    The objective of this assignment would be to finalize the financial management manual and to
train staff in its implementation. The manual would be designed for NARO's use to guide the
financial operations of the NARO Secretariat and the research institutes under NARO. The manual
would also be utilized for the ARTP. The FMS would assist in establishing the Administration and
Finance Division of the NARO Secretariat and provide on-the-job training to the staff who would be
recruited to occupy the office.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.    The FMS would have the following responsibilities:
a)     Design and install an effective system of Financial Management for NARO, which
would receive funds from the Government and local and international donor
organizations.
b)    Interact with the other units/offices of the NARO Secretariat and research institutes to
procure project requirements, including stock or supply inventory record keeping and
control, with a view toward developing procedures for the automatic replacement of
fast-moving office/laboratory and research supplies.
c)    Develop and install a tailor made system of management accounting, covering budgets
linked with the annual work program for each research institute, including Makerere
University. For Makerere University, the financial management procedures
to be developed for ARTP activities should be consistent with the existing accounting
and financial management system used by the University.



- 61 -
Annex 5d
Page 2 of 3
d)    Introduce cost-accounting procedures to reflect the cost of an individual project
activity or "cost center" at the research-institute level. Develop a simplified and
timely system for collating the accounting data from various research institutes to
provide easy-to-understand financial status reports to NARB, the Treasury and donors.
e)    Establish financial accounting records for the use and regulation of funds from GOU
and donors. Prepare various reports for internal control and annual audit.
f)     Arrange a mechanism for the regular scheduling of statutory audits of Books of
Accounts by IDA-approved auditors, nominated by the Auditor General.
g)    Introduce the concept of Project Accounting into the system to reflect expenditures
under each major project component, identified with different sources of funding.
h)    Interact with the unit/division heads for resource allocation to maximize the cost
effectiveness of various expenditures.
i)    Train the local staff to implement the accounting procedures, with a view toward
handing over the responsibilities to local personnel at the end of the assignment.
j)     Assist in developing streamlined procedures for operating the Special Account of the
project. These procedures should be consistent with IDA guidelines for various types
of financial transactions.
4.     The financial management system and accounting system would be developed with a view
toward computerizing the system when the bugs have been worked out.
5.     The FMS would also assist in developing financial controls as they relate to the procurement
process. He would assist in developing financial systems and procedures related to international and
local procurement, following the guidelines of the World Bank, and would train staff accordingly.
The FMS is expected to train project personnel on the financial aspects of the procurement process,
particularly those related to the opening of Letters of Credit, and various modes of the disbursement
and reimbursement of expenditures.
6.    The FMS would liaise closely with the Procurement Committee of the NARO Secretariat and
provide the necessary technical advice on IDA-approved procedures for the issuance of tenders, bid
evaluations and the award of contracts.
7.    The FMS would introduce a stores accounting and inventory control system for project inputs,
set minimum and maximum stock levels and ensure the smooth replenishment of stocks, and train
local staff accordingly.
8.    The FMS would liaise with the consultant for establishing a research trust fund and would
provide assistance in the financial and accounting systems that would be required.



- 62 -
Annex Sd
Page 3 of 3
QUAUFICATIONS
8.    The FMS should have the following qualifications and experience:
Professional qualification in Accountancy, cost accounting or finance from a recognized
institution.
Postqualification experience of not less than 15 years, at least 5 of which at a senior
management level in projects financed by IDA in developing countries, preferably in Africa.
The person should have a proven track record, with leadership qualities. He should be able
to interact with various ministries of GOU at the senior management level.
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT AND DUTY STATION
9.    The assignment would be for an initial period of 10 months, to be funded under a Project
Preparation Facility (PPF). The performance of the FMS and progress of his work would be
evaluated. Based on this assessment, the FMS may be requested to continue the assignment for an
additional 14 months, plus periodic visits during the third to fifth years of the project. The FMS
would be based at the NARO headquarters and would travel to various research institutes, as
necessary, to interact with project personnel. The FMS would be responsible to the Director General
of NARO or his designated representative.



- 63 -
Annex 5e
Page I of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government has obtained funding from IDA throuigh the Agricultural Sector Adjustment
Credit (ASAC) for a Headstart for Agricultural Research and Extension (HARE) Project. Its Project
Implementation Unit has been designated as the interim NARO Secretariat and would be responsible
for the start-up activities of the proposed Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP) to
strengthen Uganda's agricultural research, education and training services. ARTP would support the
organization and operations of a National Agricultural Research Organization (NARO), and support
setting up the appropriate management systems for the NARO Secretariat and its member research
institutes.
2.    The NARO requires the services of a Monitoring and Evaluation Specialist (MES) to
provide technical advice to and train the staff of the Planning Section of the NARO Secretariat and
research institutes. The MES would report to the Director General of the NARO Secretariat through
the head of the planning unit. The MES would be based in the NARO headquarters, and would be
required to visit Makerere University and various NARO research institutes to interact with project
personnel.
OBJECTIVE
3.    The objective of the assignment would he to design a monitoring and evaluation system for
agricultural research activities to be used hy the NARO Secretariat. In addition to developing a
system for tracking the technical aspects of research implementation, the MES would develop relevant
support activities, such as finance, accounting and procurement. In designing the monitoring and
evaluation system, the MES would take into account the management information needs for decision-
making at various levels of project implementation.
SCOPE OF WORK
4.    The MES would be expected to undertake the following tasks and provide the required
training to NARO staff to operate the M&E system:
a)    Assess the management information needs of the personnel involved at various levels
of project implementation (the Treasury, the NARO Board, the NARO Secretariat,
research institutes and the funding agency).



- 64 -
Annex Se
Page 2 of 2
b)     Design and standardize performance criteria for monitoring information on process
and impact variables and build an appropriate database at the NARO Secretariat and
research institutes.
c)     Prepare a pro forma design and procedures for a biannual survey on impact variables,
particularly the adoption and readoption rates for improved technologies made
available to farmers and the extension service.
d)     Design a management information system to disseminate the relevant information in a
regular and timely manner to guide decisionmaking at various levels.
e)     Strengthen the capabilities of M&E staff in collecting, processing and reporting data.
This task may require assisting in the organization of training courses for M&E staff
and the managers who would use the information provided.
f)     Standardize the flow of information from the procurement and finance division of the
NARO Secretariat and research institutes for meeting the needs of project managers,
researchers and IDA.
QUALIFICATIONS
5.     The MES should a Ph.D. degree in management, with experience in developing and executing
of M&E systems for national agricultural research systems. He should have demonstrated skills in
developing and executing M&E systems for agricultural projects, and the proven ability to conduct
field surveys and rapid rural appraisals, perlorm data processing and use personal computers.
DUTY STATION
6.    The MES would work out of the HARE-PIU office. It is presently located at Entebbe,
Uganda, but would be transferred to Kampala or Kawanda.
REPORTING
7.     During the interim period when the NARO Secretariat has not yet been established, the MES
would report to the Chairman of SCORE of the Agricultural Policy Committee, who is the Secretary
for Research of the Ministry of Agriculture (MAAIF), through the Director of the HARE-PIU. The
director of HARE-PIU would provide day-to-day supervision of the work of the MES and
administrative support (office space, secretarial assistance, telephone, vehicle and office equipment).
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
8.    The duration of the assignment would be for 6 months, with a possible extension of another 6
months.



- 65 -
Annex Sf
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCII AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms of Reference
Procurement Specialist
INTRODUCTION
1.    The Government of Uganda has identified a need in the National Agricultural Research
Organization (NARO) for a Procurement Specialist to provide services in the procurement of goods
and works, and contracts for consultant services. The appointment of a procurement specialist would
be an effort to strengthen the capability to handle the procurement activities of projects executed
under the newly formed NARO.
OBJECTIVE
2.    The objective of this assignment would be to assist NARO in carrying out procurements
covered under the proposed Agricultural Research and Training Project (ARTP). The assignment
would enable NARO to coordinate and manage the procurement functions of all project entities
effectively by working under the general directives of the Government of Uganda and liaising with
other concerned ministries, contractors, donors and governmental authorities.
SCOPE OF WORK
3.    The procurement specialist would:
a)    Formulate timely procurement plans for each year of implementation and an overall
indicative plan for five years for the ARTP.
b)    Review in detail the existing procedures of all entities participating in the project, and
suggest methods for improving, planning and management. Coordinate timely
procurement according to the projects' implementation schedules.
c)    Carry out the daily operation of procurement functions for the ARTP, including the
preparation of invitations to bid, action on advertisements, the preparation of bidding
documents, technical and price evaluations of bids, recommendations for awards,
contract awards, the monitoring of delivery schedules, and the performance of
contracts until expiration of warranty/defect liability period(s) and payments to
contractors. Develop systems and procedures to ensure that procurement is carried
out according to World Bank guidelines and IDA-approved procedures.
d)    Develop, install and maintain reporting systems and up-to-date information on all
procurement activities under the project. Submit reports as required by NARO and
IDA.



- 66 -
Annex Sf
Page 2 of 2
e)    Coordinate the efforts of consultants, contractors and project officials in procurement
functions.
f)    Liaise with accounts in preparing withdrawal applicatiohs before forwarding them to
IDA.
g)    Monitor the commitment and disbursement of project components.
h)    Assist NARO in handling all contractual issues or disputes with contractors that arise
under contracts.
i)    In the process of undertaking para. 3c, provide hands-on training to NARO Secretariat
staff to impart the correct procurement procedures to be followed and provide
assistance to other project entities as designated by NARO.
QUALIFICATIONS
Education and Experience
The procurement specialist should hold a university degree in any one of the following fields:
(a) engineering; (b) economics; (c) accounting; (d) law; or (e) procurement. He should also
have demonstrated skills and seven years of experience in procurement, reflecting a high level
of managerial responsibility and the following skills:
(i)     An ability to develop and operate procurement reporting systems on
computers
(ii)     Good communication skills in the English language
Work experience in developing countries and a knowledge of World Bank procurement
procedures would be an added advantage.
REPORTING
4.    In the interim period before the NARO Secretariat has been constituted, the Procurement
Specialist would report to the Director, HlARE Project Implementation Unit. When the NARO
Secretariat is constituted, the Procurement Specialist would report to its Director General through the
head of the appropriate office of the Secretariat. The HARE-PIU/NARO Secretariat would provide
the work space, secretarial assistance and telephone and office equipment to be used by the
Procurement Specialist.
DUTY STATION AND DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
5.    It is envisaged that the assignment would be for 12 months. This position will eventually be
assumed by the appropriate official of NARO, who would be the understudy of the Procurement
Specialist during the duration of his assignment.



- 67 -
Annex Sg
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Terms or Rererence
Research Fund/Foundation Consultant
INTRODUCTION
1.    Under the IDA/GOU-funded Agricultural Research and Training Project, a study would be
undertaken to determine the feasibility of establishing mechanisms for generating sustainable sources
of incremental funding for agricultural research activities in Uganda, such as an Agricultural Research
Trust Fund (ARTF) or a nonprofit foundation. The legal and financial issues related to establishing a
research trust fund/nonprofit foundation requires the services of a Research Fund/Foundation
Consultant with experience in setting up and operating trust funds or nonprofit foundations in the
context of developing countries such as Uganda.
OBJECTIVES
2.    The consultant would prepare a comprehensive study for establishing a research trust or
foundation to support the national agricultural research system through the generation of funds and
other activities. The consultant would also evaluate the comparative advantages of a trust fund and a
nonprofit foundation under existing laws in Uganda.
SCOPE OF WORK
Ile consultant would undertake the following:
a)    Draft the legal documents, including articles and by-laws, for establishing a
trust/foundation.
b)    Develop, in collaboration with the financial management consultant, the financial
management system for the trust/toundation, which would address the following
issues: (i) fund raising options, strategies and opportunities; (ii) financial reporting
guidelines; (iii) asset management guidelines; (iv) taxation and regulatory issues; (v)
disbursement procedures; (vi) accounting and auditing procedures for the management
of the trust/foundation; and (vii) standard operating and administrative procedures for
the trust/foundation and an indicative budget required.
3.    To attain these objectives, the consultant may need to examine the following concerns:
a)    How the trust/foundation shall be established and funded, and how it shall generate
and invest income.



- 68 -
Annex 5g
Page 2 of 2
b)     Activities to be undertaken by the trust/foundation to support the national agricultural
research system and how tlhese activities will be determined.
c)     The legal and regulatory requirements to he complied with by the trust/foundation.
d)     The conditions for the management, investment and the accounting/auditing of the
trust/foundation and for the disbursement of proceeds or income obtained from the
investments.
e)     The rights and legal obligations of contributors to the trust/foundation.
f)     Standard operating modalities of the trust/foundation, including the selection
procedures to be followed.
g)     The management structure of the trust/foundation.
h)     Establishment of auditing, evaluation and performance criteria for the
trust/foundation.
QUALIFICATIONS
4.    It is essential that the consultant possess sufficient legal background for the assignment. He
should have prior experience in setting up trusts or nonprofit foundations in developing countries,
particularly in Africa, and be familiar with tile administrative operations of trusts and foundations.
DUTY STATION
5.     The consultant would be under the supervision of the Director, HARE-PIU, during the
interim period before the NARO Secretariat is for mally established. The HARE-PIU, acting as the
interim NARO Secretariat, would provide oftice space and administrative and other logistical support
to the consultant. Once the NARO Secretariat is established and operational, the consultant would be
responsible to the Director-General of the NARO Secretariat.
DURATION OF ASSIGNMENT
6.     The assignment would be for a duration of 3 months. During this period, the consultant
would be expected to produce a draft report in English. With the assistance of HARE-PIU, the
consultant would organize a seminar involving representatives from appropriate agencies to discuss
the report, after which it would be revised accordingly and finalized.



-69 -
Annex 6
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
DONOR-FUNDED RESEARCH PROJECTS IN UGANDA
Donor
Project Title                                  Total Cost          US S            Start         End
CROPS
Gcnetic Improvement of Crops                      86,000          FAO/IAEA          1989          1991
Sweet Potato Research                            300,000           GTZ              1989          1992
179,000          USAID            1991          1992
Banana Cropping System                           231,490          IDRC            I19             1993
Biol. Control of Banana Wcevil                   500,000          RFF/IITA         1991           1993
Grain Lcgume Production through BNF              234 350           IAEA            1991           1993
Horticulure                                    1.098,580           UNDP/FAO        1989           1993
1,020,000          EEC              1988          1993
National Biological Control Progrmm              220, 120         GTZ               1991          1993
Root Crops (Causava)                             210,998          IDRC             1984           1994
302,376          GATSBY           1991          1994
Postharvest Food Loss                            100,000          EEC(Ph. 1)       1992           1994
667,000          UNDP             1992           1995
45.000          AGROTECH         1992          1995
10,000          FAO              -             -
Couon Research                                  625,1010          IDA (HARE)    1991              1995
Groundnut and Sesame Rescarch                    322,790          IDA (HARE)    1991              1995
On-Farm Grain Storage                            576,100           IDA (HARE)       1991          1995
Coffee Farming Systems                         1,267,476          EEC              191            1996
Plant Quarantine                                  35,000          RFF              1992          -
Subtotal                                       8,031,389
LIVESTOCK
Tsetse and Trypanosomiasis                       106,627          WHO/TDR           1988          1992
Research                                          14,000          WHOITDR           1988          1992
80,000          OAU/IBAR         1990          1992
48,500          IAEA             1989          1992
38,000          WHO/TDR          1991          1993
14,200          FAO              1992          1994
260,000          EEC              1989          1995
Diagnosis of Animal Diseases                   5,786,528           GTZ              1987          1995
Smallholder Dairy Prodn.                         278,440           IDA (HARE)    1991             1995
Vaccine Production Unit                          185,800           GERCOM          1990
Subtotal                                       6,812,095



- 70 -
Annex 6
Page 2 of 2
Donor
Project Title                                Total Cost         US $            Start         End
FISIIERIES
Lake Productivity                            99,093             IDRC            1989          1993
Nile Perch Project                          131,559             IDRC            1987          1993
E.A. Grcat Lakes                            102,000             MAAIF           1991          1994
Freshwater Fisheries Research               400,000             IDA             1991          1994
Aquaculture                                 230,550             IDA (HARE)    1991            1995
Fish Commodities Systems                    225,748             IDRC            1992          1995
Fishing Practices (Lake Victoria)           301,660             IDA (HARE)    1991            1995
Regl. Fisheries Project                     600,000             EEC             1991
Subtotal                                  2,090,610
FORESTRY
Production & Utilization                    279,290             IDA (HARE)    1991            1995
of Forest Plantation
Agro-Forestry Program                       245,590             IDA (HARE)    1991            1995
1,000,000            USAID            1992         1996
Subtotal                                  1,524,880
TOTAL                                    18,458,974



- 71 -
Annex 7
Page 1 of 4
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRADINIG PROJECT
Agricultural Education and Training Component
1.        The overall objective of the agricultural education and training component is to provide
trained personnel for research, extension, private-sector farming enterprises, agroindustry, and other
development programs. The specific objectives are to (a) strengthen MU's capacity to produce trained
personnel for agricultural research and extension systems, and for the agribusiness sector in the country;
(b) to facilitate the participation of agriculture faculties, such as the Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry
(FAF) and the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine (FVM), in research and extension activities to support the
agricultural sector; and (c) to improve the quality and relevance of training programs at MU and
agricultural colleges to meet agricultural sector needs.
2.         Under the project, a Training Committee of the NARO Board (NARB) would be constituted.
It would comprise the Dean of MU-FAF as chairman, and representatives of FVM, Faculty of Science
(FS) and the NARO Secretariat as members. The committee would be responsible for identifying
professional staff of NARO and MU for short- or long-term training to be undertaken at MU or at
regional or overseas institutions. The number of trainees and the levels and kinds of training required
would be determined in light of the staff development plans of the various institutes and for the
agricultural research and extension systems as a whole. These should be updated annually, modified
according to the availability of resources and placements, and approved by the NARB. Individuals would
be nominated for staff the development by the administrators of their institutions, who would provide
justification for the nominations and the training proposed.
3.         The NARB would avail itself of the services of the institution that would have twinning
arrangements with MU (see below) for the placement of staff in overseas or regional institutions, the
administration of financial support and the monitoring of academic progress. These arrangements would
include a training coordinator/team leader of the twinned university and other short-term technical
assistance. The NARO Secretariat would provide administrative support to the committee to facilitate
its work.
4.         A second focus of the project's training component is to strengthen degree programs at MU
faculties of Agriculture and Forestry, Veterinary Medicine (FVM) and Science (FS), primarily through
the staff development of departments. In the context of the planned reduction of the professional staff
of the agricultural research system, priority for allocating training funds for MU would be given to those
departments that do not as yet have postgraduate training capabilities and whose programs are the most
central to the future work of the agricultural research institutes and to strengthening the extension system.
In the FAF, these are the departments of (a) Food Science; (b) Agricultural Education and Extension; and
(c) Forestry. They would be assisted in developing M.Sc. programs in collaboration with other
departments in FAF, producing joint specializations in domains of high employment opportunity. For
example, the Department of Food Sciences might collaborate with the departments of Agricultural
Economics and Agricultural Engineering in programs leading to specialization in food marketing and



- 72 -
Annex 7
Page 2 of 4
processing, and so on. In addition, the undergraduate and postgraduate training provided in these and
in other fields must be strengthened, especially through coursework in environmental sciences. However,
it would be preferable to develop such expertise within existing and proposed departmental programs and
through collaboration with other faculties and institutes rather than to establish a new academic unit for
this purpose.
5.         The expansion of the training capacities of MU to serve the needs of the agricultural research
and extension systems more effectively would be done in close collaboration with the relevant institutes
and ministerial departments and in ways that generate reciprocal benefits. This process would involve,
for example, greater use of the staff of the Government research institutes for teaching and thesis research
supervision.
6.         In FVM, priority is being placed on a radical restructuring of the undergraduate and M.Sc.
programs in light of the privatization of government veterinary services and the declining demand for
graduates in the public service. Restructuring would require introducing courses in livestock economics
and small business management at the undergraduate level, and course-based postgraduate programs
allowing concentration in particular species of domestic and wild animals, as well as in specialties such
as animal health and nutrition for which there are increasing employment opportunities in the private agri-
business sector. The development of new courses and programs would require consultation with FAF
and with other faculties and institutes in the University to strengthen the programs of FVM.
7.         In FS, the project would address the needs of the fisheries program. The project would
support short and long-term degree training for MU staff in accordance with faculty five-year
development plans, revised annually. FAF has prepared such a plan with USAID support, and FVM
would produce a plan for academic and staff development during the first project year, with assistance
from GTZ of Germany. Departmental plans for establishing new M.Sc-level programs in food science,
agricultural education and extension and forestry would be developed, and staffing and staff development
requirements would be identified prior to project implementation. This activity would include designating
staff of the agricultural research institutes to be ciross-appointed to these departments and specifying the
terms and conditions of their affiliation.
8.         Overseas training and program development would be supported under the auspices of a
twinning arrangement with a foreign university, which would liaise with other universities for particular
project activities and services as may be appropriate.  A foreign university would have overall
responsibility for (a) placing Ugandan staff in degree programs in overseas universities, as well as for
short-term overseas training placements and the administration of financial support; (b) providing
technical assistance to departments of FAF and FVM for curriculum and program development and
evaluation; (c) organizing follow-up support for the graduates returning to positions at MU and at the
national agricultural research institutes in connection with the project component supporting the
professional development of young (returning) staff; (d) supplying experts to peer-review staff research
projects and proposals as requested by the NARO Secretariat and NARB; and (e) providing external
examiners to FAF, FS and FVM for postgraduate, particularly doctoral, programs. A foreign university
may subcontract with others for any of the above purposes or enter into ad hoc arrangements.
9.         A foreign university would be contracted to provide a training coordinator/team leader based
in FAF for the length of the project. He would participate in the academic programs of the Faculty
where appropriate. The training coordinator would manage all project-related short and long-term degree



- 73 -
Annex 7
Page 3 of 4
training activities in collaboration with a designated counterpart, under the supervision of the Dean of
FAF.
10.        The third focus of the training component would seek to improve diploma and certificate-
level training offered by Bukalasa Agricultural College, which has been consolidated with the Veterinary
Training Institute. The programs of this institution are to be strengthened with staff recruitment and the
upgrading of the academic qualifications of the present staff and in-service training in agronomy, animal
husbandry and agricultural extension, and also in the basic biological sciences, farm management and
marketing, and the environmental sciences.
11.        The new M.Sc. program to be developed by the Department of Agricultural Extension
Education at Makerere would be designed primarily for the staff of Bukalasa but, in addition, would
recruit students from the other agricultural, forestry and veterinary training colleges. It would offer a
foundation in theories and methods of agricultural extension combined with coursework in cognate fields
in agriculture forestry and veterinary medicine, the environmental sciences and the applied social sciences
(especially, agricultural economics, rural sociology and education). M.Sc. students would participate
in the revision of the curricula and the preparation of the course syllabi at Bukalasa, possibly in partial
fulfillment of the practicum component of the M.Sc. program, under the direction of MU staff.
12.        Nondegree training would be offered to college staff as part of the continuing education
program to be established by FAF and FVM. This training would consist of short courses and workshops
at Bukalasa and/or at MU on such topics as farm management, agricultural pricing and marketing
systems, principles of agro-forestry, low-input production techniques, the ecologically safe and efficient
use of agricultural chemicals and fertilizers, and livestock and dairy husbandry, as well as on curriculum
design and teaching methods.
13.        The nondegree training programs in continuing education would serve four clientele: (a)
college staff; (b) staff of the national agricultural extension system; (c) agricultural professionals
employed by agribusiness firms in Uganda and elsewhere in the East African region; and (d) the
personnel of a large number of nongovernmental organizations operating in Uganda, most of which are
active in rural development. The continuing education program would operate out of the Department of
Extension Education but would eventually have a full-time director and support staff. During the project,
a feasibility study for establishing and operating a continuing education program for both FAF and FVM
would be undertaken. This study should include a clear rationale and statement of objectives, an
assessment of the training needs of various clientele, running costs, and management and operating
arrangements.
14.        The continuing education program would start by offering a few short courses on a pilot
basis. This would require a facility for seminars and workshops at MU's experimental station at
Kabanyolo, where during vacation periods participants could be placed in student residences. A facility
has been identified for this purpose and plans would be drawn up for its rehabilitation prior to project
implementation. The facility would be made available to departments in FAF and FVM for regular
instruction when not in use for continuing education courses. In addition, the facilities of FAF or FVM
on the University's main campus would be used for those activities, necessitating a more central location.
15.        Expert instructional resources for the proposed activities would be drawn from the various
faculties and institutes of MU, as well as from the agricultural research institutes, extension system, the



- 74 -
Annex 7
Page 4 of 4
private sector, regional and nongovernmental organizations, donor agencies and other sources. The
project training coordinator would also help identify visiting expatriate staff for possible participation in
continuing education activities.
16.       A comprehensive training needs assessment and an inventory of expert resources would be
carried out in conjunction with the continuing education program's requirements. Particular importance
would be given to the needs of nongovernmental organizations for training in project management, the
development of instructional materials, new production techniques, agricultural marketing, farm
management, rural sociology and other domains of expertise possessed by the University. The continuing
education program would be a self-financing and possibly income-generating activity insofar as its
operating costs are concerned.
17.       FVM established an office for continuing education with support from UNDP in 1990, which
subsidized the costs of training the staff of the Government veterinary services at the MU campus and
in the experimental stations operated by the Faculty. Full support for the Faculty's continuing education
activities has terminated, and it now intends to charge fees for training services. The project would
support planning future continuing education programs, some of which may be carried out in
collaboration with FAF at its facility in Kabanyolo.
18.       During the preproject implementation phase, FAF, FS and FVM would prepare a training
plan for continuing education, to be reviewed by the training committee. The training plan would take
into account the results of the needs assessment survey of the agribusiness sector, nongovernment
organizations and the agriculture-related ministries (para. 16). This plan would cover the first two years
of the project. The implementation of the continuing education training plan would be reviewed during
the midterm review of the project.



- 75 -
Annex 8
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
SUMMARY OF DEGREE TRAINING REQUIRED BY FAF, FVM AND FISHERIES TO
STRENGTHEN MU'S CAPACITY TO TRAIN RESEARCH AND EXTENSION STAFF IN HIGH-
PRIORITY AREAS
FAF               ___       _FWN                           Fisheries
Existing        Additional    Existir           Additional    ExIstins        Additionsl
Discipline                 PhD      NSc    PhD    NSc    PhD    NSc   PhD           NSc   PhD   NSc   PhD   "Sc
Plant Breeding                I      1       2        1
Agronomy                      3      1       2        2
Plant PathoLogy               1              1        2 _
Entomology                    1              1        1
SoiLs                         4      3                2      =            
PLant Protection                                      2
Parasitic Diseases                                           1       4       4       6
Infectious Diseases                                          2       7       2
Animal Reproduction                                                  4       1       1
Ani. Res. Prod. Sys.          2                       2       _
Ani. Res. Range Mgt.          1              1        2                                            _
Forage Utilization           3       1                2
I Fish Siolo 1gy                                                                                              2     1
Fresh Wster Ecology
Limnology                                                                I                           1      1     1
Fish Breeding                                                                                               1    2
Fisheries Technician
Mat al Forest pro.            1      1       1        2
Sys.
Matlal Forest Prod.           1                       2                                                   _       _
Pi Forest Prod. Sys.                 1       1        1
Pi Forest Products            1                       1
A. ForestSs.                  1                       1
Forest Technician
Ag. Extension                        4       2        2
Food Science                  1      5       2        1
Ag. Engineering               2      2       2        1
Economic/Biomet               1      5       2        3   I
Total                       24      24      18       30      3      15       7      13       2       1      4     5



- 76 -
Annex 8
Page 2 of 2
9UIUARY OF TRAINING REUIRSEENTS OF NAKERERE UNIVERSITY
Abrod                                           Local
_______________   _ Ph          USC             NGe              PhD hSc                          NDe
FAF                 15             4               15               3               26              10
FVN                  4             6               15               3                7              10
FM                  4             0               10               0                5               0
Ttal       ~       23             10              40                6              38               20
ND. *ondegree training (person months)
TRAINING TO BE PROVIDED tNDER THE PROJECT
Unit        Degree          1993          1994          1995          1996          1197          TotaL
FAF, FVM      PhD(F)            2             4             3                                          9
FS            PhD(L)            1             4              1                                         6
HSc(F)            2             2             3                                         7
;_________   MSc(L)              8              8             7             7                          30
NARO                                                                                                   -
NADIC                                                                                                  -
KARI          PhD(F)             1             1                                                       2
MSc(L)                          1             1                                         2
NAARI         PhD(F)            1              1             ;                                         2
SAARI______   MSc(L)                                                                                   2 1  ;  2
SAARI         PhD(F)            1                                                                      2
_Sc(L)                                                                                  2 1  1  .  .  2
FIRI          PhD(F)            1              1                                                       1
NSc(L)                                                                                   1  1
FORI          PhO(F)            1                                                                      I 2
MSc(f)                          1             1                                         2
Note:   F - training at a foreign university
L - training at Makerere University



- 77 -
Annex 9
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Distribution of Female Researchers in Crops, Livestock, Fisheries and Forestry
in the Uganda NARS
Field
BSc              SPhD
CrOD Science
Aeronomv                                         2              4
Plant Breedine                                   2              4
Biometrics                                                      1
Patholoev                                                       3
Nematolo2v                                                      2
Entomolo2v                                       I
Taxonomy                                                        1 _  I
Dcvelopment Communications                       3
Veterinary Medicine                          _                               ____________
Virology                                                        I
Bactcrioloev                                                    I
Pasture Aeronomy                                 3
Protozoology                                                    I
Remote Scnsin_                                                                    _ I
Forestry                                      _____________
Wood Utilization                                 I
Enerey Conservation                                             I
Tree Breedine                                                   1
Freshwater Fisheries Research                __
Limnoloev                                        2
Bioloevy                                         I
Socioeconomics                                   I
Development Communications                       I
Source: Officc of the Secretary for Research, MAAIF, 1992.



- 78 -
Annex 10a
Page I of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Implcmentation Schedulc
Progmm                                           Implcmenting Body                 Time Table
Start-up and Procurement Activities
Setting up the interim office of                    APC/SCORE                        Aug. 15, 1992,
NARO Secretariat (HARE-PIU) to
manage PPF
Prepartion of request for PPF                       APC/SCORE/MFEP                  July 15, 1992
Initiation of procurement process                   SCORE/Interim NARO              July 15, 1992
for civil works architects                          Secrctariat
Prparation of standard pro-                         SCORE/interim NARO              Aug. 15, 1992
curement documents for goods                        Secrctariat
Preparation of detailed annual                      SCORE/Interim NARO              Aug. 15, 1992
work progrm and budget of ARTP                      Secretariat
(NARO Secretariat, research ins-
titutes and MU)
Appointment of consultant                           SCORE/Interim NARO              Aug. 15, 1992
trin/institution (local) to                         Secrctariat
prepare contour maps, site plan,
architectural drawings, cost
estimates and bid documents for
ARTP civil works component
(NARO-HQ, FORI-Kifu, MUARIK
and research institutes)
Submission of detailed cost                         Consultant                      Mar. 15, 1993
estimates and bid documents
for renovation works
Submission of consultant                            Consultant                      April 15, 1994
reports on new construction
(NARO HQ, MUARIK and Kifu-
FORI)
Approval of consultant reports                      NARO Secretariat                May 15, 1994
Approval of cost estimates                          NARO Secretariat                April 30, 1993
and bid documents                                   IDA



- 79 -
Annex lOa
Page 2 or 3
Program                                           Implcmenting Body                   Time Table
Preparation of procurement                        NARO Secretariat,                   June 1993
schedule for civil works                          research institute and MU
Procurement of initial                            NARO Secretariat                    July 1993
equipment and supplies
Prequalification and awarding                     NARO Secretariat,                   May-June 1993
of contract to construction                       research institutes
firm/firms for renovation works                   and IDA
Completion of renovation works                    NARO Secretariat, MU                June, 1994
& rcscarch institutes
Approval of ARTP annual work                      NARB                                Mar. 15, 1993
program and budget (FY 93)
Agricultural Research Component
Enactment and promulgation                        GOU-NRC                             Oct. 1S, 1992
of the Statute establishing NARO
Design and establishment of                       NARO Secretariat &                  Oct.-Dec. 1992
research, administrative and                      rescarch institutes
financial management systems
Establishment of NARB                             MAAIF                               Dec. 15, 1992
Appointment of sr. management                     NARB                                Before projcct
and key staff of NARO Secretariat                                                     cffectiveness
and research institutes
Approval of NARO Scheme of Service                NARB                                Before project
effectiveness
Transfer of research institute                    MAAIF/MWMEEPI                       Before project
assets, programs and budgets to NARO              MCCM                                 effcctiveness
Prepare staff development plan
for personnel in ag. res. system                  NARO                                September 1992
Review and evaluation                             Interim NARO                        Jan.-Mar. 1993
of on-going research                              Secrctariat, MU,
programs/projects, and                            rescarch institutes,
identification of programs/                       IARCs, and donors
projects to be continued



- 80 -
Annex lOa
Page 3 of 3
Program                                          Impliementing Body                Time Table
Identification of research                       NARO Secretariat,                  Jan.-Mar. 1993,
priorities and planning                           rescarch institutes,
of research programs                              MU, and clients
Design and establishment of                      NARB, NARO Secretariat             October 1993
mechanism for coordinating
donors involved in funding
agricultural research
Establishment of NADIC                           NARO Secretariat                   November 1994
Education and Training Component
Preparation of plans for rehab-
of Cont. Education Facility                       FAF                               October 1992
Preparation of plans for expansion
of postgrad women dorm                           FAF                                October 1992
Prepare staff development plan
for priority programs in FAF                     FAF                                September 1992
Prepare staff dev. plans for
priority programs of Fac. Vet. Med                FVM/FS                            September 1992
and Faculty of Science (Fish.)
Draft contract twinning arrangement
with foreign university                           FAF                               September 1992
Needs assessmentUinventory of resource
persons and preparation of proposal to
establish continuing education programs in
FAF and Fac. Vct. Medecine.                      FVM/FAF                            September 1992
Develop a plan to improve
curricula of agricultural collegcs                FAF/FVM/FS/MAAIF                  September 1992
Plans for collaboration among Faculties
of Agriculture and Forestry, Vet. Mcdicine,
Science, and University Institutes in
undergraduate and postgraduate training
and the continuing education programs of
these three faculties.                            FAFIFVM/FS                        September 1992



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Schedule of Key Activities
PjetYewar                  PPF                 .         2                3                4                5               6
Cahadw Year         1992        1993             1994             1995             1996             1997            199
3IRD F,a Year
3 93           FY 94    FY 94   FY 95   FY 95    FY 96    FY 96   FY96     FY 97   FY 97  FY91   FY91
*                                                                            I-     I  I              I_  I   I1
_   213141112 LIili!1213l4I 2 I314112  3 4 I                                            2 L  4 I        2
I
N
I
x~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
,~~~~~~~~~~~ x, J, _   ... x    
x
I
X~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ X
I~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
X                                                I   I
*0.X                                                            I                           
*1X  It II                                                              I            
I XI                                               I   I I  I  I  I  I  I
X
*~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~o I
x
o o
rh -0



AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Schedule of Key Activities
Projet Yewr             PPF              1                    2                    3                    4                   5
CaMdarYw                 1992           1993                 1994                 1995                 1996                 1997
IBRD Ful Yeaw
FY93    FY 93      FY 94      FY 94     FY 95      FY 95     FY 95      FY 96     FY 96     FY 97      FY 97
- 2    3    4 _                  3    4 -        2    3    4   _      2    3    4   _     2    3    4 -        2
D. READ _  A_ O I4STflTr|ES
E A"O. do-imp A T-
- A-; W docwTst
NARO HQ                                           x
MUADIC K.yoIs                                          I
SAARL,Soga.                                                                                           I
FRI, Mojae
FOJt. Kib 
LI, Totem                                                                   I
NARtO HQ                                          I    I    I    I    I
MUARIC K.absyoI                                        a    a    a    a    a
SAARI. Soon .
FMI. Jaqjs                                                             I    I    I    I
FORt. Kilo o a    a    a
E. AG. EDUC. & IhAIN1O
*Appoaim Exn. Edwsaia SpecimE      a
-Set of 'r,aam. Cennie             a
-FWAmliz TiMmAg Men, PM.                a
*MSc aPhD Traimi%                       1    1    1    1    1    1    1    I    I    I         
*Shmtlcouman                            I    I    I    x    I
- WY am epeaaur                              I          I                           
I    I         a
o o
1h O



- 83 -
_     g    _    _ _     _ _    _ _     _ _    _ _     _I_
2: -                                                           Annex lOb
*3    1::    *                                       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~Page 3 a  3
EE~~~                   N
3H        - _________________i'



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR CIVIL WORKS
CONSTRUCTION                          T    1T _ _ : _                                                                                   19,8
No      FVRSPROC      UR   GMr 
CONSTRUCTION
ci1   AF  HAT4   LCB    0251  REVISED             I    2314        . 7  19              2  
H cEAT DQU2ARTERS    a        EEF-lEACTUAL
C  AT A I CNTUTIONAPAIS
C-2      OF FIRI      LCB    0.52  FwvSw                   1    12341 15      Bl 91  1    l l
AT -ANJA                   ATA6
REHIABILITATIONAPPI
FMR AT KIFU                  ATA
REHABILITATION                 APVSLO
URI AT TORORO                  ATA 
REHABILITATION                 APAA
OF          C     056Fv                                                  111!
CA      SAMR AT
SERERE                       ATA
7 aC E C F_~~~APRASA
F caVr                                                                                                       eu
I ISiE P~~ft~1N OFWECFI ACT UAL  ofWT           *~4          5             ~     l()~
2 TRNMIT PE SFS F1U 8MU S1 DOCNSNTO DOUEM               CON4STRUCTION 0% COMAETE      ME1O OFCOPII1CUSQEMI
2 TEmmf St.EAAcS rfOF  IAIND MD DQOCUMENTSlTo IDA        CNSTRUCTION 5I% COMPEJE
18me I~NYffIN TO MD                                   iaONTJTM  MOMLT                     ce - LOCAL. cOOMPrwN SMOUG
5 OPBENam                                                                                 FA - FOFCE ACOOOi
* TRMSMW EWALUAr  FOrf AND AWAFI REOMNAI TOID
7IACEAAC OFRIDMEInos
a AWAMUOOflRAC                                                                                                                        ELA2inss



UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
PROCUREMENT SCHEDULE FOR EQUIPMENT AND MATERIALS
OFLxm        MM    Om:  41 l  1t
co     _oPl 1 UCS 11X 
-~ mm   P"            A1XXW111111111
VEHICLES AND             APPPW1AAL
E-1    SPARES      iCa   1.16  W&Vmo                        ?
4FIC      _ EAPMENT      A
E-2  AUDIO VISUAL,  IC    .62  faUU
COMPUTERS                ATA
c.~~~~~  ~~~~    1GB"KWNA
Mlwo~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~f
L04w_rnxe__wAF
704sA
E-7   cUMM R
4 USW SMW'~~i TO iA                                                   M- F ACS 1COL                               M
* Opine -~AVO
* i~iiUIT ~1W  TNS~ RIOiACIn TO 
- -7                     APu p   mmICn ARKmS
a - cct4mAcrAW"



- 86 -
Annex 12
Page 1 of 3
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCIH AND TRAINING PROJECT
FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT
1.    The problem of financial management has been one of the major factors responsible for delays
in project implementation in Uganda. To address the problems of poor performance of various
externally funded projects, which were slow to start and are lagging behind their implementation
schedules, the GOU and IDA have agreed to take appropriate measures to remove most of the
impediments and ensure the timely implementation of projects.
2.    NARO would be an autonomous body. It has thus been agreed that the Director General
(DG) of NARO would be given the status of Accounting Officer to the Government, and he would be
one of the GOU signatories to the Credit Agreement, so that upon signing of the Agreement by GOU
and IDA the DG could receive IDA funds directly for disbursement with written intimation to the
Treasury. This arrangement necessitates establishing a clearly defined financial guideline and a sound
financial management system at both the NARO headquarters and its research institutes, which would
conform with GOU and IDA financial management requirements.
3.    The major functions of the financial management system would include budgeting and annual
planning, cost accounting, financial accounting and project accounting. The detailed procedures of
each of these functions would be developed within the financial codes of the Government by the
NARO Secretariat with the assistance of a Financial Management Consultant. The procedures would
be compiled as a NARO Financial Management Manual duly cleared by GOU and satisfactory to
IDA.
4.    Management responsibility. As an accounting officer, the NARO Director General would
have overall responsibility for the management, utilization and accounting of project funds. He would
be accountable to both the Government and IDA for the proper utilization of project funds.
5.    Opening or special account. Upon signing of the agreement the DG would establish a
Special Account in the name of the project.
6.    Opening and operation of local account. The DG would take appropriate steps to open a
local project account and appoint Accounting Ol'ficers and Accountants for its operation. Two
officials each would be designated as Part A or Part B authorized signatories, as indicated below.
Part A:      2 officials from Technical Administration
Part B:      2 officials from Accounts and Finance Section.
7.    Payment vouchers, purchase orders and cheques would be signed jointly by any one signatory
from Part A with a person from Part B. The same procedure would also be followed at the research
institutes.



- 87 -
Annex 12
Page 2 of 3
8.    Budgeting and annual plan. Annual budgets would be prepared by individual research
institutes based on a cost center. For the purpose of budgeting and accounting in NARO, a sub-
program (for example, an experiment/assignment) of a research program under a particular
commodity/discipline would be considered a cost center. In the same manner, budget estimates would
be prepared for capital expenditures for the various components of the project. The institutes would
also prepare annual work plans to support the budget proposals. This exercise would be completed
within a target date fixed by NARB for each fiscal year. The MU faculties would prepare their
budgets and annual work plans, to be examined by the Training Committee of the education and
training component of the project. Each institute and MU would submit the budget proposal to the
NARO Secretariat, along with the Annual Work Plan (AWP). These budget proposals would be
discussed between the Institute Director and the NARO DG/DDG, and modified, if necessary.
NARO HQ, as well as NADIC, would also prepare its own annual budget and work plan in the
prescribed form. The individual budgets would be consolidated into the NARO Annual Budget and
presented to the NARO Board. NARB would review the AWP and budget and approve the same
with or without appropriate modifications and endorse it to the Treasury. The Treasury would
approve the budget with or without modifications after discussion with NARO and include it in the
Annual National Budget for discussion in the NRC under,a separate vote for NARO. The NRC-
approved NARO budget would be communicated to the individual institutes by the NARO Secretariat.
The institutes would modify their budgets, if necessary, in line with the approved budget.
9.    Flow of funds. According to existing practice, the Treasury releases funds on a quarterly
basis. Thus, the research institutes would submit their quarterly requirements to the NARO
Secretariat, which would consolidate them and submit the cash-flow statement to the Treasury,
incorporating the approved annual budget figures. The Treasury would release the funds to the
NARO Secretariat, which in turn would release the same to the research institutes as per the amounts
approved for them. For the first quarter, NARO would submit cash flows for July-September to the
Treasury by July 10, based on final budget submitted by October 10. The funds would be released
by October 15. The cash flow for the third quarter would be submitted along with actual
expenditures for the first quarter. The fourth-quarter release would be contingent on the submission
of the actual expenditures of the second quarter. The second-year first-quarter cash flow would be
submitted along with the actual expenditures of the third and fourth quarters of the first year. This
cash-flow cycle would be followed throughout the project period. No disbursement would be made
place beyond the budgetary limits fixed in the quarterly/annual budget.
10.   Accounting procedure. The maintenance of accounts would be decentralized at the institute
level, with centralized accounting records at the NARO Secretariat. The Secretariat would also
maintain the overall accounts of the project. The Institute Directors would be the accounting officers
of their institutes. They would be accountable for the funds disbursed to them by the NARO
Secretariat. Details of these arrangements and procedures would be spelled out in the Financial
Management Manual.
11.   Audit of accounts. Accounts of all units of NARO, including MU, would be subject to audit
by the Office of the Auditor General. NARO units would prepare the annual accounts in the format
prescribed by the auditor. Accounts at the program level would also be subject to internal audit,
which would be carried out by an independent auditor, appointed by the Government. The internal
auditor will, interalia, report to the project management on the following issues:
a)    The effectiveness of the accounting and financial control systems



- 88 -
Annex 12
Page 3 of 3
b)     Adherence to the regulations/rules of financial authorities and the accounting
procedures as prescribed for the project
c)     Observation on test checks of payment vouchers
d)     Assessment of achievements under various programs, with reference to costs incurred
e)     Evaluation of procurement procedures, including the purchase of such items as
stationary, at the program level.
12.   Accountability. The NARO DG would be accountable to the Government and IDA for the
management and utilization of project funds. The individual institutes would be accountable to the
NARO DG for the management and utilization of the funds they would receive from the NARO
Secretariat under the project. Every quarter, when they submit cash-flow statements, they would be
required also to submit the actual expenditures, with vouchers and payment records, and reconcile
quarterly and annual expenditures with funds received. The NARO Secretariat would follow the same
procedures for the submission of project accounts to the Treasury both quarterly and annually. The
DG would also provide funds utilization statements to IDA as required.
13.   The same procedures would be followed by NARO in managing funds provided by other
donors to support national agricultural researcih program. Together with project implementation
issues, financial management issues would also he reviewed in the donor coordination meetings.



- 89 -                       Annex 13
Page 1 of 7
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning
1.    Monitoring, evaluation and planning would be undertaken by the NARO Secretariat
through the Monitoring, Evaluation and Planning Unit (MEPU) under the Office of the Deputy
Director General. The Unit would be staffed by three Principal Research Officers (crops,
livestock/fisheries and forestry), one Senior M&E Economist, one Rural Sociologist, one Cost
and Management Accountant (program budgeting), one Research Information Management Officer
and five support staff. Responsibility for monitoring and evaluating NARO activities and overall
project activities would rest with this Unit. MEPU would utilize designated M&E officers at the
research institutes to provide the required information to the process.
2.    The main responsibilities of the MEPU would include:
o      Monitoring and evaluating the activities of all research projects of NARO,
whether funded locally or by external donors.
O      Monitoring the implementation of research and training activities at each research
institute and MU in relation to program plans and resource allocations.
o      Evaluating the performance and productivity of research on specific research
themes in relation to (a) assessment criteria established at the start of the project,
and (b) resource utilization and impact, (actual and potential).
o      Assessing the relevance and effectiveness of components of the research
management system (for example, the research planning and implementation
cycle, human resource management, training, financial systems, etc).
o      Preparing strategic plans for the research system (for example, updating priorities,
systemwide development plans, etc.).
o      Preparing budgetary and human resource plans for NARO.
O      Preparing and designing projects for funding.
O      Providing secretarial services and technical inputs for donor coordination.
O      Liaising with the regional and international research centres.
O      Establishing research management information systems.
O      Establishing of NARS data base.



- 90 -                      Annex 13
Page 2 of 7
Monitoring
3.     The monitoring function would require the developing a set of indicators that measure the
progress of project implementation, as well as research activities and changes in the agricultural
sector generally. Assessments would be made of the impacts of these changes on the expected
costs and benefits of specific research themes, which would help guide decisions by NARB and
NARO senior management on priorities and resource allocations to programs. An important
feature of the monitoring process would be analyses of demand and demand projections for the
various commodities. These would provide important inputs into the research planning process
and in the determination of research priorities. A partial list of monitorable indicators are
provided in Attachment 1. This list will be expanded as the M&E system is developed.
4.     As a rule, MEPU would not maintain staff at each institute, but would make quarterly
visits to each institute to assess progress in relation to plans and expenditures. During the year,
MEPU would primarily examine any major deviations from plans, and work with programs in
making adjustments to plans and resources available where called for. NARO would maintain a
contingency fund to assist the adjustment process and would look to MEPU for advice on its
utilization. A major concern of MEPU would be to facilitate the implementation of approved
research activities in an effective and timely fashion.
Evaluation
5.    A comprehensive internal evaluation of each major research program and project activities
would be made every other year by MEPU, or more frequently for some projects, as required by
NARO management. The internal evaluation would focus on the following questions:
a)     Were the project activities carried out in accordance with the activity schedule?
What is the outcome and what were the problems encountered?
b)     Was the research implemented in accordance with plans and resource allocations?
c)     Were the results produced, tested and reported properly?
d)     What interactions with clients took place before, during and after the initiation of
the research? What were the results of these interactions?
e)     What adjustments are in order?
6.     With respect to interactions with clients about research programs, MEPU would consult
with its Research-Extension Liaison Unit (RELU), but responsibility for ensuring that the
interactions take place in accordance with NARO policies would rest with the management of the
relevance research program and the institute research committee. The role of RELU would be to
assist the programs and institutes in interacting successfully with clients by providing advisory and
backstopping services. RELU would not take responsibility away from the programs and
institutes in strengthening and supporting these linkage functions. MEPU would focus its efforts
on programs and institutes that are having implementation difficulties, and would assist them in
devising solutions.



-91-                  Annex 13
Page 3 of 7
7.    Besides the midterm review, the project and each program would be subject to a major
evaluation every five years, which would involve MEPU staff, as well as external reviewers
drawn from Ugandan and foreign institutions. With this evaluation, NARO would assess progress
and direction in relation to objectives, and adjust research themes and criteria, focusing on long-
term strategic issues for each program. Major evaluations of research programs would consider
the following factors: the dimensions of the research program (general characteristics, human
resources and budgets), improved technology developed, the transfer and adoption of the
improved technology, the structure of and changes in the agricultural sector that may have
resulted from the project, and changes in the policy environment that may be required. The latter
area would include possible changes in research priorities that may be required as a result of the
project.
Assessment of Research Management System
8.     MEPU would periodically assess specific components of the management system to be
established for NARO under the project on behalf of NARO's senior management and NARB,
and recommend changes in policies and procedures related to management system components, on
the basis of these assessments. Systematic monitoring (including data collection and analysis)
related to the operations of support services, would be the responsibility of NARO sections
responsible for specific functions (for example, accounts, internal audit, personnel and training).
MEPU would assist sections and units in designing monitoring and data collection/analysis
systems that are intended to facilitate the efficient management of each component.
Strategic Planning
9.     MEPU would be responsible for the initiation of strategic planning for NARB and NARO.
This activity would guide and draw extensively on the major evaluations of programs described
above. Interactions with planning units in related Ministries and with clients would also be made
to facilitate the coordination of NARO program directions and policies with GOU priorities and
developments in the agricultural sector.
Financial Planning
10.   MEPU would assist NARO management, institutes, and programs with the preparation
and review of annual and prospective (multiple-year) budgets. In support of this function, MEPU
would analyze costs and the cost structure of each NARO components (institutes, programs and
support services) in relation to the services performed on a continuing basis in collaboration with
the accounts section to provide guidance in the budgeting process. MEPU would also assist
NARO management in the design and monitoring of a series of mechanisms to regulate cash flow
in accordance with priorities and program budgets.
Reports
11.   Detailed procedures for all these activities, particularly details of the monitoring and
evaluation system, would be prepared by the M&E Consultant.



- 92 -                  Annex 13
Page 4 of 7
Donor Coordination
12.   Donor coordination would be made by the NARO Secretariat. The Director General of
NARO would perform this function directly, with the assistance of MEPU. A bimonthly donor
coordination meeting would be organized on a regular basis at the NARO Secretariat. The
proceedings of the meetings would be recorded and minutes produced and made available.



93 -                      Annex 13
Page 5 of 7
Attachment 1
REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
List of Monitorahle Indicators
Project impact indicators (medium and long term):
Macro Benefits
1.1   increasing per hectare yields for priority crops
*      average of _  per cent
*      between __% and _% for export commodities
*      reduction of some crop imports, e.g. maize
1.2   diversification of agricultural exports
*      proportion of coffee earnings to total agricultural export earnings to
decline to __%
1.3   reorganization of national agricultural research system to enhance sustainability
*      minimally, maintaining national investment in NARO, public and private,
at real 1993 levels
*      increase private national investment in non-operating research costs of
NARO to __% of total research expenditures, including donor research
investments
*      increase private financing for NARO activities from all sources to average
of _ % of all operating costs, up to _% for those institutes engaged in
research on export commodities
1.4   increased effectiveness of NARO
*      training for extension workers to cover __% of all workers by mid term
review and __% by project completion (at least one course/seminar),
__% to receive some training annually by project completion
*      number of team research projects involving collaborators external to
NARO system to increase
*      number of research projects installed and completed in each research
institutes



Annex 13
Page 6 or 7
*     number of improved technologies developed, tested (in VTCs, DFIs, and
farmers' fields), and adopted
*     volume of contract research (all sources) to increase to _% of NARO
research budget
*      number of farm trials at experiment stations to increase by _% per year
for NARO system as a whole
*      number of contact farmers demonstrating new varieties/production
techniques developed by NARO to increase to __%  of all contact farmers
by mid term and _% by project completion
1.5   increase scientific staff to hold postgraduate degrees by project completion
*      __% of NARO scientific staff to hold Ph D degrees by project completion
*     _96 of NARO staff participating in some form on non-degree
professional training each year by project completion
*      amount of competitive research awards to NARO staff to increase in real
terms by _% per year up to _% by project completion
*     volume of research outputs (including grey literature) to increase by  %
*      volume of mainstream scientific research to increase to FAF level by end
of project
*      all NARO staff to be supervising at least one extension activity by mid
term project review
*     __% of senior NARO staff to be cross-appointed to Makerere by end of
project
*     _G% of Makerere postgraduate students in agriculture, veterinary medicine
and fisheries biology to undertake some research training/supervision in
NARO system by project completion
*     number of women in research and extension service to increase by _
by midterm review and by _% by project comletion
2.     Makerere University
*     studies for the revision of diploma program at Bukalasa to be initiated in
19_ for phased implementation in 19_/19_
*      intake of students from Bukalasa into FAF to increase by _% by mid
term review to a maximum of _ students by project completion



- 95 -
Annex 13
Page 7 of 7
*      work begun on revision of curricula of other agriculture colleges by mid
term review with implementation by project completion
*      skilled agricultural and fisheries workers in public and private sectors to
increase by _% by mid-term review
*      postgraduate programs to be established and staffed in the priority areas
(e.g. food science, agriculttiral extension, agricultural engineering) by mid
term review, __% of students to complete programs in the stipulated
length of time by project completion; at least half of external evaluations
of theses and dissertations to he very good or excellent
*      at least _% of all compulsory postgraduate coursework in new programs
to be offered by staff outside the sponsoring department
*      plan for revision of undergraduate program of faculty for veterinary
medicine to be prepared by 1993 for phased implementation beginning in
1993/94, including compulsory coursework in small business, etc.
*      reduction of staff vacancies in FAF and VM by _% by project
completion
*      proportion of MU staff with Ph.D. degrees in FAF and FVM to increase
by _% by completion of project
*      continuing education programs of FAF and FVM to be self-financing by
mid-term review and income generating by project completion
*      proportion of women students in FAF to increase by _% by mid-term
review
*      estabishment of a research journal, and number of issues published per
year



_ 96 -
Annex 14
Page 1 of 2
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
ANNUAL WORK PROGRAM AND PROJECT SUPERVISION AND IMPLEMENTATION
Annual Work Program and Budget
The Annual Work Program (AWP) and Budget would be prepared by project entities (NARO
Secretariat, research institutes and Makerere University). It would be consolidated by the NARO
Secretariat and submitted to IDA for comments and no objection by November I of each preceding
year, prior to its presentation and approval by the NARO Board. The AWP would include details on:
a)    The training program for the year, which would include MSc and PhD training and
short-courses locally and abroad, study tours and in-service training to be given to
extension and research staff. This training program would be in accordance with a
Training Master Plan prepared jointly by NARO and MU in consultation with
MAAIF. For local training, details would be provided on the type of training, date,
venue, numbers to be trained and the resource persons who would be involved in the
training. Assistance to be provided by a foreign university would be specified,
including any short-term technical assistance required.
b)    Actions to be taken with regard to establishing administrative, financial and research
management procedures. This would include schedules of seminars and workshops to
familiarize staff on the procedures developed.
c)    Plans for strengthening research/extension linkages, including the meetings to be held
by the Program Review Committees of the research institutes and steps to be taken to
encourage the active participation of farmers, extension workers and other clients in
reviewing the activities of research institutes to ensure their relevance. Schedules of
diagnostic surveys of field problems, the on-farm trials programs and research
institute field days would be specified and details of the costs involved indicated.
d)    Studies to be undertaken during the year and target dates for the approval of terms of
reference of consultants, selection, appointment, execution of the study and
completion date.
e)    Expenditures by quarter, funding required from GOU and IDA, and the target dates
for the release of such funds to the project.
Supervision Missions
Supervision mission schedules are given in the following Table. They do not include
supervision time spent for reviewing progress reports, procurement actions, correspondence, and so
forth, estimated at 4 staff weeks a year for the first 3 years and three staff weeks per year thereafter.



- 97 -
Annex 14
Page 2 of 2
SCHEDULE OF IDA SUPERVISION MISSIONS
Staff Input
Approximate                                       Expected Skill               (staff-
Date           Activity                           Requirements                  weeks)
2/93           Project launching.                 Task Manager                       7
Review progress on procurement of   Proc. Specialist
vehicles, equipment & civil work.    Education/Training Specialist
Review of first annual program &   Financial Analyst
budget, staff training and
research/extension linkages.
8/93           Supervision mission                Task Manager                       4
Research Specialist
Financial Specialist
Procurement Specialist
2/94           Supervision mission                Education/Training                 4
Civil Engineer
10/94         Supervision mission                 Task Manager                      6
Research Specialist
Education/Training Analyst
3/95           Midterm project review             Task Manager                      12
Research Specialist
Education Training
Financial Analyst
Civil Engineer
10/95         Supervision mission                 Education/Training Specialist     3
2/96           Supervision mission                Research Specialist                2
10/96         Supervision mission                 Task Manager                      4
Education/Training Specialist
2/97           Supervision mission                Task Manager                       3
10/97         Supervision mission                 Task Manager                      2
2/98           Project completion mission         Agric. Economist                  16
Research Specialist
Agr. Education Specialist
Financial Analyst
Civil Engineer



- 98 -
Annex 15
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
DOCUMENTS IN THE PROJECT FILE
A. Project Identification and Preparation Docunents
1.     Agricultural Policy Committee. 1991. National Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan. Vol. I.
Strategy, Organization, and Management, and Vol. 11. Priorities and Programs. Report of Uganda
Working Group 9a.
2.     Ashworth, V. A. 1991. Food Crops Production and Marketing. Working Paper for the Uganda
Agriculture Sector Memorandum prepared by IDRD and GOU.
3.     FAO Investment Centre. 1991. Preparation Report. Agricultural Research and Extension Project -
Research Sub-Project. Report prepared for the Government of Uganda.
4.     Gava, H. N. and F. N. Sewankambo. 1992. Coordination and Harmonization of Externally Funded
Projects in the Ministry of Agriculture, Animal Industry and Fisheries. Report prepared for the Office
of the Secretary for Research, MAAIF.
5.     Hartmans, E. 1989. Five Year Food Crops Research Plan (1989-1994) and Recommendations for
Strengthening Research Extension Linkages. MFAD Project Report.
6.     IBRD. 1992. Uganda Agricultural Sector Memorandum. Main Report. Prepared with GOU.
7.     Martin, C. L., W. T. Willis and W. J. French. 1992. Management Plan for Kawanda, Namulonge
and Kabanyolo Research Institutes. Report prepared for the Office of the Secretary for Research,
MAAIF through the MFAD Project.
8.     MU-FAF. 1991. Five Year Development Plan for the Makerere University Faculty of Agriculture and
Fisheries.
9.     Zuidema, L. 1990. Agricultural Research Manpower in Uganda. ISNAR Consultant's Report.
B. Implementation Documents and Working Papers
10.    Bolar, A. 1992. Manual on Financial Management. Consultant's Report.
11.    Detailed Cost Tables of the Project and PPF Budget Allocation.
12.    Draft Procurement Documents
13.    Rahman, M., J. Okedi and J. Mukiibi. 1992. Management of Research Programs. Headstart PIU
Report.
14.    Rahman, M., J. Okedi and J. Mukiibi. 1992. Terms and Conditions of Service for NARO. Headstart
PIU Report.



- 99 -
Annex 16
Page I of 11
UGANDA
AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND TRAINING PROJECT
NARO Recruitment Plan
I.    BACKGROUND
1.1    According to current policy the agricultural research staff in Uganda are regarded as part
of the Ugandan civil service, and they are recruited by the Public Service Commission following
the traditional recruitment procedures for civil servants. This method of recruitment and
promotion gives priority to seniority over individual merit and creativity, which is not in line with
the requirements of a research service. In research, creativity is more important than age and
mere length of service.
1.2    NARO will be an autonomous organization. Its policy will be to attract and retain high
quality creative scientists who will not just provide general service to NARO but create new
technologies and discover new techniques to increase the country's agricultural production.
NARO, therefore, needs to establish its own recruitment policy and procedures to create the
means to perform the responsibilities assigned to it by the Government under the NARO Statute.
NARO's policy is to select the most qualified the staff currently engaged in research under the
various ministries.
1.3    Although NARO will consist of the existing research units, the staff currently engaged in
these units will not be automatically eligible for NARO positions. All NARO positions will be
open to qualified Ugandans, regardless of their current employment status and will be filled on
the basis of merit. Performance, as well as qualifications, will also be an important criterion by
which NARO staff will be recruited, deployed, retained and promoted. Staffing will proceed in a
fashion and at a pace which will be designed to ensure that NARO staff are of high quality.
Approved Stafring Level
1.4                  Table 1: Approved StaMng Level for NARO
NARO Grade
NARO Unit    URI   UR2    UR3    UR4    UR5    UR6   UR7   UR8   Total
Secretary       2               8       12      8       16      13     21      80
Kawanda                 4       7       10      33      33      30     28    145
Namulonge               2       5       12      24      31      30     35    139
Serere                  4       6       17      32      34      37     28    158
AHRI                    2       2       7       18      23      19     26      97
Fisheries               2       2       7       20      27      27     34     119
Forestry                2       2       6       21      23      22     26     102
Total           2       16      32      71      156     187    178    198    840



- 100-
Annex 16
Page 2 or II
Purpose and Overview of Recruitment Plan
1.5    The purpose of the recruitment plan is to show how NARO can move from 840 vacancies
at the start of recruitment to a full compliment of staff within the shortest possible time. The plan
is designed to show a progression of actions that will make recruitment logical, transparent, and
manageable.
1.6   In the next section, procedures to make direct recruitment transparent are described.
Following this discussion, section 3 discusses responsibilities for recruitment. Section 4 describes
the criteria that will be used to ensure the most capable staff are retained. Section 5 concludes
this report with a discussion of strategy and schedule for implementing the plan.
II.    RECRUITMENT POLICY
2.1    The general policy for recruitment of NARO staff, as indicated at para 1.3, has also been
spelt out in various the documents pertaining to the establishment of NARO, such as The National
Agricultural Research Strategy and Plan (NARSP), the NARO Statute, and the NARO Scheme of
Service. The Recruitment Plan was designed taking into account specific policy issues
regarding staff recruitment
2.2    The National Agricultural Research System (NARS) of Uganda is not new. It has been in
existence with a reasonable size of active research programs and staff (210 scientists and about
1300 administrative and support staff) funded by the Government and various local and external
donors. It is being restructured and reorganized to make it more effective and responsive to
national development needs. It is, therefore, important to adopt a recruitment policy that will not
disrupt the current research activities and create confusion, resentment and tension in the system
but facilitate smooth transition.
2.3    The recruitment of the full compliment of NARO staff has to be completed in a quick
manner (12-18 months) in order to maintain the tempo of the current research activities and also
to minimize the tension that is likely to be created by the reorganization.
2.4     When NARO is established, all the NARO positions will be treated as vacant. Most of
the positions will be filled by direct recruitment (open recruitment method). However, some
staff, particularly the scientific staff of the institutes, will be recruited following a rigorous review
process.
2.5    The NARO Secretariat will be a new organization and all its positions will be newly
created. These positions will be filled through direct method. The position of director of the
research institutes and all other newly created administrative positions in the institutes will also be
filled by direct method. For other positions, particularly the scientific slots, the scientists in
position will be considered on merit through a special and transparent review process to be
approved by the NARB.
2.6    Payment of NARO salary to newly recruited scientists will not be made until majority of
the NARO scientific staff are recruited and deployed. They will, however, enjoy some of the
project facilities such as transport, travel allowance, etc.



- 101-                           Annex 16
Page 3 of 11
2.7    Some of the scientists who will not qualify for NARO positions will remain with the
ministries for absorption in other positions, particularly in subject matter specialist (SMS)
positions for which qualified personnel are not currently available.
III. DIRECT RECRUITMENT PROCEDURES
3.1   In general, recruitment will include six steps. These procedures are designed to make
recruitment transparent and provide a mechanism to recruit the best available candidates.
Vacancy Announcement
3.2    The first step is to prepare a vacancy announcement describing each position to be filled.
A position description differs from a job description: a job description details general staff duties
and qualifications (e.g., a job description for Research Officer I) and a position description details
specific duties and qualifications (e.g., a position description for Research Officer I -
Entomology). Job descriptions have been prepared for the NARO's Scheme of Service; position
descriptions will be prepared for recruitment. Each vacancy announcement will have five parts.
3.3    Position title: taken from the staffing plan; there are approximately 120 position titles on
this plan.
3.4    PmI)u: summary of general responsibilities from job description and specific
responsibilities from the research program description; include reporting relationships; these
qualifications may be simplified for lower-level staff (UR6 - UR8).
3.5    Oualifications: education qualifications (level from job descriptions, discipline from
position title or program; e.g., MS in Soil Chemistry); years of relevant experience (number of
years from job descriptions, experience in specific discipline from program description); proven
ability to work in a research team; evidence of skills (experimental design, writing, statistics,
other); sound understanding of discipline, Uganda research problems, etc.; these qualifications
may be simplified for lower-level staff.
3.6    Conditions of Appointment: organization (work location); type of appointment, appointing
authority, length of appointment, anticipated start-date, probationary period, other conditions
(salary, benefits, etc.)
3.7    Application Procedures: what to submit (letter of application specifying position sought,
how to contact applicant, curriculum vitae (education history including discipline, post-graduate
training courses, employment history including level, discipline and special projects, publications,
citations and awards); example of relevant publication(s), three references); where to submit
application; deadline for submission; these procedures may be simplified for lower-level staff.
Advertisement
3.8    Vacancy announcements will be issued internally for those positions which will be filled
by direct method and externally for higher-level positions (URI - UR3). Internal announcements
will be made by posting vacancy announcements on notice boards in the research institutes and
government offices. External issue will include publication of announcements in Ugandan
newspapers, and selected international journals.



- 102-                          Annex 16
Page 4 of 11
Receipt and Review of Applications
3.9    Submitted applications will be checked for completeness (according to the vacancy
announcement. If complete, the applicant will be sent a letter of acknowledgement; if incomplete,
a letter will be sent requesting further submission and date required. An applicant file will be
opened containing the documents submitted.
3.10   Late applications will be rejected and a letter of explanation sent to the late applicant.
Applicant Screening
3.11   Selection Committee(s) will be established by NARO Board to screen applicants (see
section 3). The objective of screening will be to prepare a short-list of plus or minus 3 candidates
to be interviewed for the position.
3.12   The applicant files will be circulated to the committee for screening. The criteria for
selection of short-list candidates will include qualifications specified in the position announcement.
3.13   The committee will request a letter from the references of each short-listed candidate and
gather information that exists in the personnel files of the candidates including confidential records
and performance evaluations.
Interview and Recommendation
3.14   The appointed committee(s) of the NARO Board will conduct interviews for each short-
list candidate (see section 3). The objective of interview will be to rank short-list candidates and
recommend top rank for appointment. Ranking will be based on criteria specified in the position
announcement and will include review of reference letters and confidential records, etc.).
Appointment
3.15   Appointment will be made according to the level of the position (see section 3).
IV.   RESPONSIBILITIES FOR RECRUITMENT
4.1    Recruitment responsibility will be different for different groups of staff. The NARO staff
have been divided broadly into three groups for the purpose of designing the recruitment plan: (a)
Senior managers (DG, DDG, Institute Directors) and mid-level managers (UR2ii - UR3), (b)
professionals staff (UR4 - UR5ii), and (c) technical and administrative support staff
(UR6 - UR8). The NARO Board will be responsible for the recruitment of top and mid-level
managers. Recruitment of professional groups will be done by the DG; and the support staff by
the Institute Directors.



- 103 -
Annex 16
Page 5 of 11
4.2               Table 2: Responsibility for Recruitment by Staff Level
Recruitment of
Responsibility            Managers          Professionals        Support     Total
URl-UR3            UR4-UR5            UR6-UR8
NARB                         50                                     -        50
Director General              -                 233                 44        277
Inst Directors                                                     513        513
Total                        50                 233                557        840
4.3    Recruitment of Senior: The Board will appoint a Selection Committee (Selection
Committee I) for recruitment of staff in this group. One member from the Public Service
Commission will be included in the Committee. The Board may also invite expatriate specialist(s)
to assist in evaluating the candidates. This Committee will make the preliminary selection and
prepare a short list of 2-3 top-ranking candidates for each of the positions of DG, DDG and
Institute Directors. The short listed candidates will be interviewed by the Board and the best
candidate for each position will be selected for appointment. The appointment will be made by
the Board under the signature of the Chairman.
4.4    Recruitment of Mid-Level Mana2ers: In this case, in stead of the Board, Committee I
will interview the candidates and make recommendations for appointment. The Board will
empower the Committee to co-opt specialist(s) (national and expatriate) to help evaluate the
candidates. This will be necessary, because the staff in this group will be active researchers and
part of their responsibilities will be to conduct research in addition to managing and supervising
the execution of research programs. The Committee will prepare short lists, interview the short
listed candidates and recommend to the Board 2-3 names for each position in order of merit. The
Board will review the recommendations and approve the appointment. The appointment will be
signed by the Board Chairman.
4.5    Recruitment of Professional Group: The Director General, on the approval of the Board,
will appoint a Selection Committee (Selection Committee 11) which will include a member from
the Public Service Commission. When the recruitment is done for a particular research institute,
its Director will sit in this Committee as a member. The Committee will have the power to co-
opt specialist members (national and expatriate) who will assist in evaluating the potential
candidates. The DG or the DDG will be the Chairman of this Committee. The Committee will
prepare short lists, interview the short listed candidates and make selections for appointment. The
appointment will be made by the DG.
4.6    Recruitment of Support Staff: This will be done by the respective institutes. NARO
Secretariat will recruit its own staff in these grades. The Institute Directors, on the approval of
the DG, will appoint their own Selection Committees (Selection Committee III). The NARO
Secretariat must be represented in these Committees. The Institute Director or his representative



- 104 -
Annex 16
Page 6 of 11
will chair the Committee. All appointments in these grades will be made by the Institute
Director.
4.7    The Director General should sit in all the interviews for the positions of DDG - UR3 as a
member of the Selection Committee 1. The Board will, therefore, have to appoint the Director
General first.
4.8    The interim NARO Secretariat will provide the secretarial and other supports to the
Selection Committee I and II.
4.9   Specific actions and responsibilities with regard to recruitment of all categories of NARO
staff are detailed in tables 4.10 - 4.13.
4.10                   Table 3: Recruitment of Senior Managers
Action                 NARB              Interim             Selection
NARO Secret.          Committee I
Appoint Selection         x
Committee I
Prepare and                                x
Announce Vacancy
Receive and Scrut.                         x
Applications
Letters to Incomp.                         x
and Late Applicants
Prepare Short Lists                                         x
Interview and             x
Select Candidates
Process                                    x
Recommendations
Appoint DG, DDG and       x
Institute Director



- 105 -                        Annex 16
Page 7 of 11
4.11                      Table 4: Recruitment of Mid-Level Managers
Action                    NARB              Interim          Selection
NARO Secret.   Committee I
Prepare and                                 x
Announce Vacancy
Receive and Scrut.                          x
Applications
Letters to Incomp.                          x
and Late Applicants
Prepare Short Lists                                          x
Interview and Select                                         x
Candidates (2-3/position)
Prepare Recomd. for NARB                                     x
Make Appointments         x
4.12                      Table 5: Recruitment of Professional Staff
Action                    DG                Interim          Selection
NARO Secret.   Comm 11
Appoint Selection Committee II x
with Board Approval
Prepare and Announce Vacancy                                 x
Receive and Scrutinize                      x
Applications
Letters to Incomplete and                   x
Late Applicants
Prepare Short Lists                         x
Interview and Select                        x
Candidates for each position
Prepare Recommendations                     x
Make appointments         x



- 106 -                          Annex 16
Page 8 of 11
4.13                       Table 6: Recruitment of Support Staff
Action                     DG/ID             Secret/           Selection
ID Office        Comm III
Appoint Selection Committee III  x
with Approval of DG
Prepare and Announce                             x
Vacancy
Receive and Scrut.                               x
Applications
Prepare Short Lists                              x
Interview and Select                             x
Candidates
Prepare Recommendations                          x
Make Appointments             x
V.    SELECTION CRITERIA
5.1    As discussed in section 2, selection criteria will be qualifications specified in the Vacancy
(Position) Announcement prepared by the Interim NARO Secretariat, the NARO Secretariat, and
the Offices of Institute Directors according to the level of the staff being recruited (see tables 4.10
- 4.13).
5.2    There will be two levels of criteria for each position. The fist level criteria include
minimum education and years of experience. These qualifications are specified in the job
descriptions of the NARO's Scheme of Service.
5.3    The second level criteria are special knowledge, skills, and experience required for
specific positions. Such requirements may include, among others, specific disciplines, scientific
abilities, administrative or management capability, creativity, productivity, etc.
5.4    These criteria are especially important for top management positions (DG, DDG, Institute
Directors, Sr. Administrators). Given the responsibility of starting NARO within a short period
under scrutiny of the Government of Uganda and international agencies, and with the employment
of current and future staff at stake, these officers must have excellent people-handling skills as
well as management and administrative talent.



- 107  -                           Annex 16
Page 9 of 11
5.5    Special criteria are also important for research and research management positions.
Criteria for these positions will be developed according to the requirements of the research
programs.
5.6   In addition to the criteria specified in the vacancy announcements, there will be two
important guidelines for selection. The first is that the managers responsible for recruitment will
endeavor to maximize the distribution of age and gender at each level of the NARO. The second
guideline is if two candidates for a position are equally qualified, a candidate from the current
research organization will be selected in preference to a candidate from outside the current
organization.
VI.  STRATEGY AND SCHEDULE FOR IMPLEMENTATION
Implementation Strategy
6.1    The recruitment of the majority of the professional staff will be spread over 12-18 months
to make the task expeditious and manageable. The strategy is to start with limited number,
recruiting key management staff in an initial period of four months, the majority during a middle
period, and finish with a limited recruitment during a final period.
6.2    Recruitment will be divided into 6 stages: the initial period occupies stages 1-2, the
middle period 4-5, and the final period 6.
6.3    The recruitment strategy is to recruit staff in tandem for each of NARO's institutes.
Recruitment of Secretariat staff will precede recruitment of staff for the Institutes by one stage
and thus will conclude earlier (table 6.4 to be modified).
6.4               Table 7: NARO Recruitment By Stage (to be modified)
Recruitment Stage
Institute          1    2       3     4      5      6       7      8     9     Total
Secretariat        1    8      8      9      15    14    10    15                80
Kawanda                  1    11    24       42     24     19    17    7        145
Namulonge                1     7      18    36      39     19    10    9        139
Serere                   1     9      27     49     23     21     18    10      158
AHRI                     1     6      13    25      16     16    13    7         97
Fisheries                1      7     14    26      25     24     15    7       119
Forestry                 1      7     15    25      15    17    15    7         102
Total              1    14    55    120   218    156    126    103   47         840
6.5    The strategy will be to recruit top management and administrative staff first, followed by
experienced scientists and technicians to plan and organize the research programs, then by
supervisors and middle management thereby opening these ranks to the experienced scientists
recruited earlier (Table 6.6 to be modified).



- 108  -                             Annex 16
Page 10 of 11
6.6    Table 8: Strategy and Target for Recruitment Stages (to be modified)
Stage                   Strategy                            Recruitment Target
I     Initiate recruitment of senior managers   Director general, deputy director
general, research institute directors
2      Build the capacity at Secretariat for    NARO administrative and finance
major recruitment, initiate recruitment in  officers, program managers, some
Institutes                               support staff
3      Build the capacity in the Institutes for  Institute administrative and finance
major recruitment, establish program     officers, Procurement Officers, mid-
management capacity in Institutes, initial  level program managers (PRO I), RO II
intake of scientist-trainee cadre
4      Establish the research teams in Institutes,  Senior research officers (RO I) and
complete intake of scientist-training    technicians (Tech 1), RO II, additional
cadre                                    administrative and support staff
5      Build up research teams, establish       PRO II and SRO, Technician II,
supervisory and middle management,       additional administrative officers and
opening these ranks to scientists        assistants
recruited in stage 4, begin the large
intake of administrative and support staff
6      Major intake of administrative and       Administrative officers and support staff
support staff
7      Complete research teams                  Technician II
8      Complete administrative management       Administrative officers
9      Complete support staff                   Support staff
Recruitment Schedule
6.7    The schedule for recruitment will balance the need to establish NARO as soon as possible
with the need to maintain a reasonable pace of recruitment that can be maintained by
management.
6.8    Recruitment will begin as soon as the NARB is appointed. Its stages will be measured
from this date. The schedule target is to recruit most of the staff within 15 months and to
complete recruitment within 18 months (Table 6.9 to be modified accordingly, as necessary).



log9  _                            Annex 16
Page 11 of 11
6.9    Table 9: Schedule for Recruitment Stages (to be modified)
Stage     Duration    Intake this Stage     Completion Target         Cumulative
(mos)                            (NARB + mos)             Recruitment
No 
1          2               1                 NARB + 2               1       0.1
2          2               14                NARB + 4               15       1.8
3          2              55                 NARB + 6               70       8.3
4          6              120               NARB + 12              190      22.6
5          12             218               NARB + 24              408      48.6
6          6              156               NARB + 30              564      67.1
7          6              126               NARB + 36              690      82.1
8          6              103               NARB + 42              793      94.4
9          6              47                NARB + 48              840       100
Plan Implementation and Monitoring
6.10   The recruitment plan for each position in NARO including officers responsible for
appointment, receiving institutes and units of the recruits, and the grade of each position is being
finalized.
6.11   The plan will be a dynamic document. It will be necessary to alter it as the stages
progress in order to make adjustments for contingencies that become apparent during recruitment.
Recruitment data have be computerized in order to facilitate alteration of the plan.
6.12   To maintain the effectiveness and efficiency of the plan, recruitment will be monitored
routinely and the plan corrected as necessary. Monitoring will be based on specified targets for
each recruitment stage: the number of vacancy announcements issued, the number of interviews
conducted, and the number of appointments made. Failure to meet any of these targets will
trigger corrective action by the managers responsible for recruitment (NARB Chair, Director
General, Institute Directors). As soon as they are appointed, these officers will establish
procedures to monitor recruitment.






IBRD 24111
30,                                        3?2                                       3                                          31.
SUDAN                                                                 UGANDA
4'                                                                                       /   5                   AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH
AND TRAINING PROJECT
-/\2/  MOMdi? Op.                                                             Research Institutes
/  .   KITGUM                     L- k@0  KAWANOA AGRICULTURAL
NAMULONGE AGRICULTURAL AND
ANIMAL PRODUCTION
<  . ARUA                             NORTHERN                KOTIDO        \              e   SERERE AGRICULTURAL AND
NORTHERN GULUDO                                      0  ANIMAL PRODUCTION
o  FORESTRY at Kifu
0   LIVESTOCK HEALTH at Tororo
ZAIRE            NEBBI.  0Pk-h                   )                                                                 FISHERIES at Jinja
o   FOOD SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY
LIPA                                   ~~~~~~~~~~~~~at Kampala
o  MUARIK at Kabanyolo
2'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~2
PRIMARY BITUMEN ROADS
.   2 /  , 7 MASINDt                  Ki.         RO        L                     -    PRIMARY GRAVEL ROADS
-  ~~~~~KUMI ~~~~~~RAILROADS
/   HOIMA   f   ,f   X     e 13  - NGO  KAPC C  SELECTED TOWNS AND VILLAGES
INoko.o-gOle  1v]   i^ffi55  PLLISA X  0% 05ufoW0    /     *   DISTRICT CAPITALS
i MBALE   ~ ~ ~        NATIONAL CAPITAL
! WESTERN  ?  .KIBOGA   ILUWERO   M MSTERN   WALEX               DISTRICT BOUNDARIES
BUNDIBUGYO B  i  )4umiro \  )~SX  /<;yyv                                                                              REGION BOUNDARIES
F ORTA              5 .UENDE          Eow>4po\O@b                              f $\INTERNATIONAL 130UNDARIES
.oc.ption For PoftI is the* Distict Coptol of Jtabomois oir,d.
B         Y                                                                                    KENYAI
| e~~~ ooyoo ,voony.onwof                         -3*1TPk_A IO \l
>  TN                  A  8          =>              3           A 9 Z  N A9                 



