Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2446 UG
                         Project Agreement
           (Agricultural Research And Training Project)
                              between
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                                and
            NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
                       Dated March 26, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2446 UG
                         PROJECT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1993, between INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the Association) and NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL
RESEARCH ORGANISATION (NARO).
      WHEREAS: (A) by the Development Credit Agreement of even date
herewith between the Republic of Uganda (the Borrower) and the
Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the
Borrower an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,800,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the
Development Credit Agreement, but only on condition that NARO agrees
to undertake such obligations toward the Association as are set
forth in this Agreement;
      (B)   by a subsidiary agreement to be entered into between the
Borrower and NARO, the proceeds of the credit provided for under the
Development Credit Agreement will be made available to NARO on the
terms and conditions set forth in said Subsidiary Agreement; and
      WHEREAS NARO, in consideration of the Association's entering
into the Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed
Page  2
to undertake the obligations set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
                            Definitions
      Section 1.01. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement and in the
General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings
therein set forth.
                            ARTICLE II
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 2.01. (a) NARO declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to the
Development Credit Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the
Project with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with
appropriate administrative, financial, engineering and agricultural
research practices, and shall provide, or cause to be provided,
promptly as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other
resources required for the Project.
      (b)   Without limitation upon the provisions of paragraph (a)
of this Section and except as the Association and NARO shall
otherwise agree, NARO shall carry out the Project in accordance with
the Implementation Program set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement.
      Section 2.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
      Section 2.03. NARO shall carry out the obligations set forth
in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07 and 9.08 of the General
Conditions (relating to insurance, use of goods and services, plans
and schedules, records and reports, maintenance and land
acquisition, respectively) in respect of the Project Agreement.
      Section 2.04. NARO shall duly perform all its obligations
under the Subsidiary Agreement. Except as the Association shall
otherwise agree, NARO shall not take or concur in any action which
would have the effect of amending, abrogating, assigning or waiving
the Subsidiary Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 2.05. (a) NARO shall, at the request of the
Association, exchange views with the Association with regard to the
progress of the Project, the performance of its obligations under
this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement, and other matters
relating to the purposes of the Credit.
      (b)   NARO shall promptly inform the Association of any
condition which interferes or threatens to interfere with the
progress of the Project, the accomplishment of the purposes of the
Credit, or the performance by NARO of its obligations under this
Agreement and under the Subsidiary Agreement.
                            ARTICLE III
                 Management and Operations of NARO
      Section 3.01. NARO shall carry on its operations and conduct
its affairs in accordance with sound administrative, financial and
agricultural research practices under the supervision of qualified
and experienced management assisted by competent staff in adequate
numbers. To this end, NARO shall: (a) at all times during Project
implementation, maintain key management personnel whose
qualifications are satisfactory to the Association, including the
Page  3
Director General, the Deputy Director General, a financial
controller and directors of NARO Research Institutes; and (b) at
least during the first three years of Project implementation retain
a research management advisor.
      Section 3.02. NARO shall at all times operate and maintain its
plant, equipment and other property, and from time to time, promptly
as needed, make all necessary repairs and renewals thereof, all in
accordance with sound engineering and financial practices.
      Section 3.03. NARO shall take out and maintain with
responsible insurers, or make other provision satisfactory to the
Association for, insurance against such risks and in such amounts as
shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) NARO shall maintain records and accounts
adequate to reflect in accordance with sound accounting practices
its operations and financial condition.
      (b)   NARO shall:
            (i)    have its records, accounts and financial
                   statements (balance sheets, statements of income
                   and expenses and related statements) for each
                   fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than: (A) nine months
                   after the end of each such year, for the first
                   year of Project implementation; and (B) six
                   months after the end of each such year in
                   subsequent years: (1) certified copies of its
                   financial statements for such year as so
                   audited; and (2) the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested; and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records, accounts
                   and financial statements as well as the audit
                   thereof, as the Association shall from time to
                   time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                   Effective Date; Termination;
                    Cancellation and Suspension
      Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect
on the date upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes
effective.
      Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the
Association and of NARO thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of
the following two dates:
            (i)    the date on which the Development Credit
                   Agreement shall terminate in accordance with its
                   terms; or
           (ii)    the date fifteen years after the date of this
                   Agreement.
      (b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in
Page  4
accordance with its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)
(ii) of this Section, the Association shall promptly notify NARO of
this event.
      Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall
continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any cancellation
or suspension under the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VI
                     Miscellaneous Provisions
      Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to
be given or made under this Agreement and any agreement between the
parties contemplated by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such
notice or request shall be deemed to have been duly given or made
when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail, telegram, cable,
telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or
at such other address as such party shall have designated by notice
to the party giving such notice or making such request. The
addresses so specified are:
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      For NARO:
            39 Berkeley Road
            Entebbe
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   ___________________      _______________
                   ___________________      _______________
      Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken,
and any document required or permitted to be executed, under this
Agreement on behalf of NARO may be taken or executed by the Director
General or such other person or persons as the Director General
shall designate in writing, and NARO shall furnish to the
Association sufficient evidence of the authority and the
authenticated specimen signature of each such person.
      Section 6.03. This Agreement may be executed in several
counterparts, each of which shall be an original, and all
collectively but one instrument.
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                   INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
Page  5
                   By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                   NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH ORGANISATION
                   By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                           SCHEDULE 1
               Procurement and Consultants' Services
Section I: Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A:     International Competitive Bidding
1.    Except as provided in Part C hereof, goods shall be procured
under contracts awarded in accordance with procedures consistent
with those set forth in Sections I and II of the "Guidelines for
Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank
in May 1992 (the Guidelines).
2.    To the extent practicable, contracts for field, laboratory and
office equipment shall be grouped into bid packages estimated to
cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more.
3.    Goods to be procured through international competitive bidding
shall be exempted from pre-shipment price inspection by a third
party.
Part B:     Preference for Domestic Manufacturers
      In the procurement of goods in accordance with the procedures
described in Part A.1 hereof, goods manufactured in Uganda may be
granted a margin of preference in accordance with, and subject to,
the provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Guidelines and
paragraphs 1 through 4 of Appendix 2 thereto.
Part C:     Other Procurement Procedures
1.    (a)   Civil works, and (b) items or groups of items for
furniture available in Uganda at competitive prices estimated to
cost up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $80,000, may be
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of competitive
bidding, advertised locally, in accordance with procedures
satisfactory to the Association.
2.    (a)   Vehicles required urgently, estimated to cost up to an
aggregate amount equivalent to $90,000, (b) other items or groups of
items estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or less per
contract, up to an aggregate amount equivalent to $60,000, and
(c) spares, fuel and other consumables estimated to cost the
equivalent of $3,180,000 may be procured under contracts awarded on
the basis of comparison of price quotations obtained from at least
three suppliers eligible under the Guidelines, in accordance with
procedures acceptable to the Association.
Part D:     Review by the Association of Procurement Decisions
1.    Review of invitations to bid and of proposed awards and final
contracts:
      (a)   With respect to each contract: (a) for civil works
Page  6
estimated to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, and (b) for
goods estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the
procedures set forth in paragraphs 2 and 4 of Appendix 1 to the
Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such contract are to be
made out of the Special Account, such procedures shall be modified
to ensure that the two conformed copies of the contract required to
be furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 2 (d)
shall be furnished to the Association prior to the making of the
first payment out of the Special Account in respect of such
contract.
      (b)   With respect to each contract not governed by the
preceding paragraph, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 3 and 4
of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply. Where payments for such
contract are to be made out of the Special Account, such procedures
shall be modified to ensure that the two conformed copies of the
contract, together with the other information required to be
furnished to the Association pursuant to said paragraph 3, shall be
furnished to the Association as part of the evidence to be furnished
pursuant to paragraph 4 of Schedule 4 to the Development Credit
Agreement.
      (c)   The provisions of the preceding subparagraph (b) shall
not apply to contracts on account of which withdrawals from the
Credit Account are to be made on the basis of statements of
expenditure.
3.    The figure of 10% is hereby specified for purposes of
paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines.
Section II: Employment of Consultants
      In order to assist NARO in the carrying out of the Project,
NARO shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience and
terms and conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the
Association. Such consultants shall be selected in accordance with
principles and procedures satisfactory to the Association on the
basis of the "Guidelines for the Use of Consultants by World Bank
Borrowers and by The World Bank as Executing Agency" published by
the Bank in August 1981.
                            SCHEDULE 2
                      Implementation Program
Project Coordination
1.    NARO shall be responsible for the overall implementation of
the Project. The Board of NARO, acting through the Director General,
shall coordinate the implementation of Project activities, monitor
and review progress in Project implementation, prepare and furnish
to the Association semiannual reports, prepare financial reports,
submit disbursement applications to the Association and liaise with
Makerere University on matters such as training and contract
research.
2.    The Director General of NARO shall be responsible for the
preparation of annual reports on the progress achieved in the
implementation of Project objectives, including a review of the
status of various research programs. Such reports shall be submitted
to the Association within six months of the close of the program
year.
3.    NARO shall take appropriate measures to prepare manuals,
satisfactory to the Association, relating to personnel management,
financial reporting and accounting, research management and
procurement procedures which shall have been adopted by the Board of
NARO by September 30, 1993. NARO shall complete system-wide training
courses in the use of these manuals by June 30, 1994.
4.    In order to carry out the appointment of senior, professional
Page  7
and support staff for NARO and the research institutes under it in
a transparent and orderly manner, NARO shall adopt a staff recruit-
ment plan, satisfactory to the Association, and recruit staff with
the assistance of an institution, satisfactory to the Association,
which will screen and evaluate applicants for advertised positions.
NARO shall take all necessary measures to fully implement all
personnel-related actions referred to in the staff recruitment plan
by not later than twelve months after the Effective Date of the
Development Credit Agreement.
Annual Work Programs
5.    NARO, through its Director General, shall be responsible for
the preparation of annual work programs and budgets based on the
programs and budgets submitted by NARO research institutes, and
submission to the Association by December 31 of each year, with
effect from December 31, 1993, prior to its final review by the
Board of NARO. The annual program and budget shall include: (a)
details of the annual training plan for each of the entities
involved in Project implementation, indications of funding required
from the proceeds of the Credit; (b) the Borrower's allocations for
recurrent operating costs and salaries and allowances payable in
accordance with the Terms and Conditions of Service for research
adopted by the Borrower; and (c) an ex-post evaluation of the
preceding year's training program which will form the basis for
defining the ensuing year's training program.
6.    NARO shall take all necessary measures to ensure that the
approved salaries and emoluments of staff under the Terms and
Conditions of Service for research are regularly adjusted based on
a formula, satisfactory to the Association, which will ensure that
such salaries are consistent with the Borrower's policies under the
overall civil service reform program of providing adequate
remuneration for highly qualified staff.
Procurement
7.    In order to ensure that procurement of consultants, goods and
works required for the implementation of the Project are carried out
expeditiously, NARO shall: (a) employ a procurement specialist and
establish a procurement committee by June 30, 1993, with repre-
sentation as required from the Borrower's Central Tender Board
Secretariat, Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning, Ministry of
Justice, NARO's Research Institutes and Makerere University; and
(b) adopt standard bidding documents for all procurement under the
Project.
Education and Training
8.    A training committee of the Board of NARO comprising
representatives from Makerere University's faculties of Science,
Agriculture and Forestry and Veterinary Medicine, and the
Secretariat of NARO, under the chairmanship of the Dean of Makerere
University's Faculty of Agriculture and Forestry, shall be
responsible for the implementation of the education and training
components of the Project, and for defining the terms of reference,
which shall be satisfactory to the Association, of a twinning
arrangement between Makerere University and a foreign university to
be furnished for the Association's review by April 1, 1993.
Mid-Term Review
9.    NARO shall carry out a mid-term review of the Project by
January 31, 1996, to assess implementation of the Project and to
propose any changes in Project design that may be needed for a more
efficient and effective attainment of Project objectives. In order
to facilitate this review, NARO shall prepare appropriate studies
which assess the fulfillment of Project objectives, the efficiency
of Project management, and recommend appropriate adjustments in
Project design and implementation procedures. These studies shall be
completed and furnished to the Association by June 30, 1995.
Page  8
10.   The mid-term review shall, inter alia, assess: (a) the
performance of the Borrower in providing NARO with operating costs;
(b) the ability of NARO to obtain incomes and contributions for
carrying out contract research; (c) the actual operating cost of
NARO, including salaries and allowances, vehicle operating costs and
maintenance of equipment and buildings; (d) experience with
implementation of the training program including the arrangements
associated with its implementation; (e) actual progress achieved
during Project implementation, with particular reference to outputs
and results compared to targets established in monitoring indicators
satisfactory to the Association which NARO shall complete and
furnish to the Association by September 30, 1993; and (f) the
justifications and the design of a subsequent project to support and
strengthen agricultural research capacity in Uganda.
