Page  1
                                                    CONFORMED COPY
                                             CREDIT NUMBER 2446 UG
                   Development Credit Agreement
           (Agricultural Research and Training Project)
                              between
                      THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                                and
               INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                       Dated March 26, 1993
                                            CREDIT NUMBER 2446 UG
                   DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
      AGREEMENT, dated March 26, 1993, between THE REPUBLIC OF
UGANDA (the Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (the
Association).
      WHEREAS: (A) the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the
feasibility and priority of the Project described in Schedule 2 to
this Agreement, has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project;
      (B)   the Project will be carried out by National Agricultural
Research Organisation (NARO) with the Borrower's assistance and, as
part of such assistance, the Borrower will make available to NARO
the proceeds of the Credit as provided in this Agreement; and
      WHEREAS the Association has agreed, on the basis, inter alia,
of the foregoing, to extend the Credit to the Borrower upon the
terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
      NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
                             ARTICLE I
Page  2
                  General Conditions; Definitions
      Section 1.01. The "General Conditions Applicable to
Development Credit Agreements" of the Association, dated
January 1, 1985, with the last sentence of Section 3.02 deleted (the
General Conditions) constitutes an integral part of this Agreement.
      Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the
several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have
the following meanings:
      (a)   "Project Preparation Advance" means the project
preparation advance granted by the Association to the Borrower
pursuant to an exchange of letters dated August 11, 1992 and August
20, 1992 between the Borrower and the Association;
      (b)   "Special Account" means the account referred to in
Section 2.02 (b) of this Agreement;
      (c)   "Subsidiary Agreement" means the agreement to be entered
into between the Borrower and NARO pursuant to Section 3.01 (b) of
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time, and
such term includes any schedules to the Subsidiary Agreement;
      (d)   "Project Account" means the account referred to in
Section 3.05 of this Agreement;
      (e)   "NARO" means National Agricultural Research Organisation
established pursuant to the National Agricultural Research
Organisation Statute, 1992; and
      (f)   "NARO Research Institutes" includes the following:
            (i)    Kawanda Agricultural Research Institute;
           (ii)    Namulonge Agricultural and Animal Production
                   Research Institute;
          (iii)    Serere Agricultural and Animal Production
                   Research Institute;
           (iv)    Forestry Research Institute;
            (v)    Livestock Health Research Institute, Tororo;
           (vi)    Fisheries Research Institute, Jinja;
          (vii)    Food Science and Technology Research Institute;
                   and
         (viii)    Agricultural Engineering and Appropriate
                   Technology Research Institute.
      (g)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the
Association and NARO, of even date herewith, as the same may be
amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules and
agreements supplemental to the Project Agreement.
                            ARTICLE II
                            The Credit
      Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower,
on the terms and conditions set forth or referred to in this
Agreement, an amount in various currencies equivalent to seventeen
million eight hundred thousand Special Drawing Rights
(SDR 17,800,000).
      Section 2.02. (a) The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Page  3
Schedule 1 to this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the
Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable
cost of goods and services required for the Project described in
Schedule 2 to this Agreement and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
      (b)   The Borrower shall, for the purposes of the Project,
open and maintain in U.S. Dollars a special deposit account in a
commercial bank on terms and conditions satisfactory to the
Association, including appropriate protection against set-off,
seizure or attachment. Deposits into, and payments out of, the
Special Account shall be made in accordance with the provisions of
Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
      (c)   Promptly after the Effective Date, the Association
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit Account
and pay to itself the amount required to repay the principal amount
of the Project Preparation Advance withdrawn and outstanding as of
such date and to pay all unpaid charges thereon. The unwithdrawn
balance of the authorized amount of the Project Preparation Advance
shall thereupon be cancelled.
      Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 2000, or
such later date as the Association shall establish. The Association
shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
      Section 2.04. (a) The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
commitment charge on the principal amount of the Credit not
withdrawn from time to time at a rate to be set by the Association
as of June 30 of each year, but not to exceed the rate of one-half
of one percent (1/2 of 1%) per annum.
      (b)   The commitment charge shall accrue: (i) from the date
sixty days after the date of this Agreement (the accrual date) to
the respective dates on which amounts shall be withdrawn by the
Borrower from the Credit Account or cancelled; and (ii) at the rate
set as of the June 30 immediately preceding the accrual date or at
such other rates as may be set from time to time thereafter pursuant
to paragraph (a) above. The rate set as of June 30 in each year
shall be applied from the next payment date in that year specified
in Section 2.06 of this Agreement.
      (c)   The commitment charge shall be paid: (i) at such places
as the Association shall reasonably request; (ii) without
restrictions of any kind imposed by, or in the territory of, the
Borrower; and (iii) in the currency specified in this Agreement for
the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions or in such
other eligible currency or currencies as may from time to time be
designated or selected pursuant to the provisions of that Section.
      Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a
service charge at the rate of three-fourths of one percent (3/4 of
1%) per annum on the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and
outstanding from time to time.
      Section 2.06. Commitment charges and service charges shall be
payable semiannually on March 1 and September 1 in each year.
      Section 2.07. (a) Subject to paragraphs (b) and (c) below, the
Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit in semi-
annual installments payable on each March 1 and September 1
commencing March 1, 2003, and ending September 1, 2032. Each
installment to and including the installment payable on September 1,
2012, shall be one percent (1%) of such principal amount, and each
installment thereafter shall be two percent (2%) of such principal
amount.
      (b)   Whenever: (i) the Borrower's gross national product per
capita, as determined by the Association, shall have exceeded $790
in constant 1985 dollars for five consecutive years; and (ii) the
Bank shall consider the Borrower creditworthy for Bank lending, the
Association may, subsequent to the review and approval thereof by
Page  4
the Executive Directors of the Association and after due
consideration by them of the development of the Borrower's economy,
modify the terms of repayment of installments under paragraph (a)
above by requiring the Borrower to repay twice the amount of each
such installment not yet due until the principal amount of the
Credit shall have been repaid. If so requested by the Borrower, the
Association may revise such modification to include, in lieu of some
or all of the increase in the amounts of such installments, the
payment of interest at an annual rate agreed with the Association on
the principal amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from
time to time, provided that, in the judgment of the Association,
such revision shall not change the grant element obtained under the
above-mentioned repayment modification.
      (c)   If, at any time after a modification of terms pursuant
to paragraph (b) above, the Association determines that the
Borrower's economic condition has deteriorated significantly, the
Association may, if so requested by the Borrower, further modify the
terms of repayment to conform to the schedule of installments as
provided in paragraph (a) above.
      Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is
hereby specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General
Conditions.
                            ARTICLE III
                     Execution of the Project
      Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the
objectives of the Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this
Agreement and, to this end, without any limitation or restriction
upon any of its other obligations under this Agreement shall cause
NARO to perform, in accordance with the provisions of the Project
Agreement, all the obligations of NARO therein set forth, shall take
and cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds,
facilities, services and other resources, necessary or appropriate
to enable NARO to perform such obligations, and shall not take or
permit to be taken any action which would prevent or interfere with
such performance.
      (b)   The Borrower shall make available as a grant the
proceeds of the Credit to NARO under an agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and NARO, under terms and conditions which
shall have been approved by the Association.
      (c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the
Subsidiary Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of
the Borrower and the Association and to accomplish the purposes of
the Credit, and except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the
Borrower shall not assign, amend, abrogate or waive the Subsidiary
Agreement or any provision thereof.
      Section 3.02. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree,
procurement of the goods, works and consultants' services required
for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 1 to the Project
Agreement.
      Section 3.03. The Borrower and the Association hereby agree
that the obligations set forth in Sections 9.03, 9.04, 9.05, 9.06,
9.07 and 9.08 of the General Conditions (relating to insurance, use
of goods and services, plans and schedules, records and reports,
maintenance and land acquisition, respectively) shall be carried out
by NARO pursuant to Section 2.03 of the Project Agreement.
      Section 3.04. The Borrower shall take all measures necessary:
(a) to establish, with effect from the fiscal year 1993/94, a line
item in its recurrent and development budget, and allocate
appropriate funds to support NARO's activities; and (b) to make
arrangements, satisfactory to the Association, to enable NARO to use
income and contributions from sources other than the Borrower, as
Page  5
incremental NARO resources.
      Section 3.05. The Borrower shall: (a) establish and maintain,
until the completion of the Project, a separate Project Account with
a commercial bank, into which it shall deposit its contributions to
the Project, in accordance with established budgetary procedures
acceptable to the Association; and (b) at the beginning of each
quarter deposit into said Project Account the amount required to
cover its contribution during such quarter.
                            ARTICLE IV
                        Financial Covenants
      Section 4.01. (a) For all expenditures with respect to which
withdrawals from the Credit Account were made on the basis of
statements of expenditure, the Borrower shall:
            (i)    maintain or cause to be maintained in accordance
                   with sound accounting practices, records and
                   accounts reflecting such expenditures;
           (ii)    ensure that all records (contracts, orders,
                   invoices, bills, receipts and other documents)
                   evidencing such expenditures are retained until
                   at least one year after the Association has
                   received the audit report for the fiscal year in
                   which the last withdrawal from the Credit
                   Account was made; and
          (iii)    enable the Association's representatives to
                   examine such records.
      (b)   The Borrower shall:
            (i)    have the records and accounts referred to in
                   paragraph (a) (i) of this Section and those for
                   the Special Account and the Project Account for
                   each fiscal year audited, in accordance with
                   appropriate auditing principles consistently
                   applied, by independent auditors acceptable to
                   the Association;
           (ii)    furnish to the Association as soon as available,
                   but in any case not later than: (a) nine months
                   after the end of each such year for the first
                   year of Project implementation; and (b) six
                   months after the end of each such year in
                   subsequent years, the report of such audit by
                   said auditors, of such scope and in such detail
                   as the Association shall have reasonably
                   requested, including a separate opinion by said
                   auditors as to whether the statements of
                   expenditure submitted during such fiscal year,
                   together with the procedures and internal
                   controls involved in their preparation, can be
                   relied upon to support the related withdrawals;
                   and
          (iii)    furnish to the Association such other
                   information concerning said records and accounts
                   and the audit thereof as the Association shall
                   from time to time reasonably request.
                             ARTICLE V
                    Remedies of the Association
      Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (h) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified;
      (a)   NARO shall have failed to perform any of its obligations
Page  6
under the Project Agreement.
      (b)   As a result of events which have occurred after the date
of this Agreement, an extraordinary situation shall have arisen
which shall make it improbable that NARO will be able to perform its
obligations under the Project Agreement.
      (c)   The Statute establishing NARO shall have been amended,
suspended, abrogated, repealed or waived so as to affect materially
and adversely the ability of NARO to perform any of its obligations
under the Project Agreement.
      (d)   The Borrower or any other authority having jurisdiction
shall have taken any action for the dissolution or disestablishment
of NARO or for the suspension of its operations.
      Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (d) of the General
Conditions, the following additional events are specified:
      (a)   any event specified in paragraph (a) of Section 5.01 of
this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of sixty
days after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association
to the Borrower; and
      (b)   any event specified in paragraphs (c) and (d) of
Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
                            ARTICLE VI
                    Effective Date; Termination
      Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional
conditions to the effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning
of Section 12.01 (b) of the General Conditions:
      (a)   the Borrower has approved NARO's Terms and Conditions of
Service for Research, the contents of which shall be satisfactory to
the Association;
      (b)   NARO has appointed a financial controller and has
established a comprehensive accounting system satisfactory to the
Association;
      (c)   the Subsidiary Agreement has been signed by the Borrower
and NARO;
      (d)   the Borrower has opened the Project Account referred to
in Section 3.05 of this Agreement, and deposited therein the Uganda
Shillings equivalent to $5,000;
      (e)   NARO has appointed the Director General, the Deputy
Director General and a procurement specialist; and
      (f)   the Coffee Marketing Board Ltd.'s audited accounts for
the year ending on September 30, 1991, have been submitted to the
Association pursuant to Section 3.05 of this Agreement for the
Agricultural Sector Adjustment Credit dated December 19, 1990,
between the Borrower and the Association.
      Section 6.02. The following is specified as an additional
matter, within the meaning of Section 12.02 (b) of the General
Conditions, to be included in the opinion or opinions to be
furnished to the Association, namely, that the Project Agreement has
been duly authorized or ratified by NARO, and is legally binding
upon NARO in accordance with its terms.
      Section 6.03. The date ninety (90) days after the date of this
Agreement is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 12.04 of
the General Conditions.
                            ARTICLE VII
Page  7
            Representatives of the Borrower; Addresses
      Section 7.01. The Minister responsible for Finance is
designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
      Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the
purposes of Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:
      For the Borrower:
            Ministry of Finance and Economic Planning
            P.O. Box 8147
            Kampala
            Uganda
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   FINSEC                    61170
                   Kampala
      For the Association:
            International Development Association
            1818 H Street, N.W.
            Washington, D.C. 20433
            United States of America
            Cable address:                 Telex:
                   INDEVAS                   248423 (RCA)
                   Washington, D.C.           82987 (FTCC)
                                              64145 (WUI) or
                                             197688 (TRT)
      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
duly authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be
signed in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United
States of America, as of the day and year first above written.
                         THE REPUBLIC OF UGANDA
                         By /s/ Stephen K. Katenta-Apuli
                                         Authorized Representative
                         INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
                         By /s/ Edward V.K. Jaycox
                                           Regional Vice President
                                                            Africa
                            SCHEDULE 1
             Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.    The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit, the allocation of the
amounts of the Credit to each Category and the percentage of
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
                             Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                             (Expressed in       Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
Page  8
(1) Works                     1,480,000         100% of foreign
                                                expenditures and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
(2) Vehicles and              1,740,000         100% of foreign
    Equipment                                   expenditures and
                                                50% of local
                                                expenditures
(3) Consultants'              2,280,000         100%
    services
(4) Training                  2,950,000         100%
(5) Studies                     180,000         100%
                            Amount of the
                           Credit Allocated          % of
                            (Expressed in        Expenditures
     Category               SDR Equivalent)     to be Financed
(6) Incremental
    Recurrent Costs:
    (a) salaries and           5,050,000        100% of local
        allowances                              expenditures up to
                                                December 31, 1995,
                                                and 70% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                thereafter
    (b) operation and          2,000,000        100% of foreign
        maintenance                             expenditures; 100%
                                                of local expendi-
                                                tures up to Decem-
                                                ber 31, 1995, and
                                                70% of local
                                                expenditures
                                                thereafter
(7) Refunding of               1,060,000        Amounts due
    Project                                     pursuant to Sec-
    Preparation                                 tion 2.02 (c) of
    Advance                                     this Agreement
(8) Unallocated                1,060,000
                              __________
    TOTAL                     17,800,000
                              ==========
2.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "foreign expenditures" means expenditures in
the currency of any country other than that of the Borrower for
goods or services supplied from the territory of any country other
than that of the Borrower;
      (b)   the term "local expenditures" means expenditures in the
currency of the Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the
territory of the Borrower; and
      (c)   the term "incremental recurrent costs" means
expenditures for salaries and allowances for NARO staff, vehicle
operating costs, and maintenance of equipment and buildings.
3.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no
withdrawals shall be made in respect of payments made for
expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement.
Page  9
                            SCHEDULE 2
                    Description of the Project
      The broad objective of the Project is to improve the
effectiveness of the agricultural research service in managing
research programs and in responding to the production constraints
facing farmers. In particular the project will strengthen the
National Agricultural Research System by launching NARO to: (i)
provide a rational and sustainable institutional framework for
organization, administration, financing, and implementation of
agricultural research programs that respond to Uganda's agricultural
development objectives; (ii) support effective implementation of
research programs; and (iii) strengthen the linkages and
coordination among the research system, the extension services, and
the agricultural and agricultural-related faculties of Makerere
University.
      The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such
modifications thereof as the Borrower and the Association may agree
upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A:     Institutional Development of the National Agricultural
            Research System
1.    Strengthening the capacity of NARO to: (i) improve the
management systems for research programs, including administrative
and financial procedures; and (ii) improve the capacity of
researchers to implement priority research programs.
2.    Preparation of designs for buildings to house the Forestry
Research Institute and the design and construction of the first
phase of headquarters for NARO, including the acquisition of
vehicles, computers and office equipment and supplies.
3.    (a)   Establishment and maintenance of favorable terms and
conditions of service for research; and (b) studies on the
generation of funding for research.
Part B:     Rehabilitation of Research Institutes
      Rehabilitation of offices, laboratories and staff housing at
research institutes at Serere, Jinja, Tororo and including the
acquisition of vehicles, and office, laboratory and field equipment
and supplies.
Part C:     Execution of High Priority Research Programs
      Carrying out on-going and new high priority research programs
and the acquisition of vehicles and laboratory equipment and
supplies.
Part D:     Strengthening of Agricultural Education and Training
            Capacity
1.    Strengthening of training and management capacity of the
agricultural and agricultural-related faculties of Makerere
University and support for local and foreign training of Makerere
University and NARO staff.
2.    Construction of staff houses, classrooms and a post-graduate
women's dormitory at the Makerere University Agricultural Research
Institute, Kabanyolo, and the acquisition of vehicles and field,
laboratory and office equipment and supplies.
                               * * *
      The Project is expected to be completed by June 30, 2000.
                            SCHEDULE 3
Page  10
                          Special Account
1.    For the purposes of this Schedule:
      (a)   the term "eligible Categories" means Categories (1)
through (6) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to
this Agreement;
      (b)   the term "eligible expenditures" means expenditures in
respect of the reasonable cost of goods and services required for
the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the Credit
allocated from time to time to the eligible Categories in accordance
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; and
      (c)   the term "Authorized Allocation" means an amount
equivalent to $500,000 to be withdrawn from the Credit Account and
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 3 (a) of
this Schedule.
2.    Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively
for eligible expenditures in accordance with the provisions of this
Schedule.
3.    After the Association has received evidence satisfactory to it
that the Special Account has been duly opened, withdrawals of the
Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to replenish the
Special Account shall be made as follows:
      (a)   For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the
Borrower shall furnish to the Association a request or requests for
a deposit or deposits which do not exceed the aggregate amount of
the Authorized Allocation. On the basis of such request or requests,
the Association shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the
Credit Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount or
amounts as the Borrower shall have requested.
      (b)   (i)    For replenishment of the Special Account, the
                   Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   requests for deposits into the Special Account
                   at such intervals as the Association shall
                   specify.
           (ii)    Prior to or at the time of each such request,
                   the Borrower shall furnish to the Association
                   the documents and other evidence required
                   pursuant to paragraph 4 of this Schedule for the
                   payment or payments in respect of which
                   replenishment is requested. On the basis of each
                   such request, the Association shall, on behalf
                   of the Borrower, withdraw from the Credit
                   Account and deposit into the Special Account
                   such amount as the Borrower shall have requested
                   and as shall have been shown by said documents
                   and other evidence to have been paid out of the
                   Special Account for eligible expenditures.
All such deposits shall be withdrawn by the Association from the
Credit Account under the respective eligible Categories, and in the
respective equivalent amounts, as shall have been justified by said
documents and other evidence.
4.    For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special
Account, the Borrower shall, at such time as the Association shall
reasonably request, furnish to the Association such documents and
other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for
eligible expenditures.
5.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 3 of this
Schedule, the Association shall not be required to make further
deposits into the Special Account:
      (a)   if, at any time, the Association shall have determined
Page  11
that all further withdrawals should be made by the Borrower directly
from the Credit Account in accordance with the provisions of
Article V of the General Conditions and paragraph (a) of
Section 2.02 of this Agreement; or
      (b)   once the total unwithdrawn amount of the Credit
allocated to the eligible Categories, less the amount of any
outstanding special commitment entered into by the Association
pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions with respect to
the Project, shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the
Authorized Allocation.
Thereafter, withdrawal from the Credit Account of the remaining
unwithdrawn amount of the Credit allocated to the eligible
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Association shall
specify by notice to the Borrower. Such further withdrawals shall be
made only after and to the extent that the Association shall have
been satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the
Special Account as of the date of such notice will be utilized in
making payments for eligible expenditures.
6.    (a)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any payment out of the Special Account: (i) was made for an
expenditure or in an amount not eligible pursuant to paragraph 2 of
this Schedule; or (ii) was not justified by the evidence furnished
to the Association, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from
the Association (A) provide such additional evidence as the
Association may request, or (B) deposit into the Special Account
(or, if the Association shall so request, refund to the Association)
an amount equal to the amount of such payment or the portion thereof
not so eligible or justified. Unless the Association shall otherwise
agree, no further deposit by the Association into the Special
Account shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence
or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be.
      (b)   If the Association shall have determined at any time
that any amount outstanding in the Special Account will not be
required to cover further payments for eligible expenditures, the
Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Association, refund to
the Association such outstanding amount.
      (c)   The Borrower may, upon notice to the Association, refund
to the Association all or any portion of the funds on deposit in the
Special Account.
      (d)   Refunds to the Association made pursuant to paragraph 6
(a), (b) and (c) of this Schedule shall be credited to the Credit
Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance
with the relevant provisions of this Agreement, including the
General Conditions.
