$ ex A t ; y -l~~~~ E S T R I C T E D
Report No.  PTR-53
This report was prepared for use within the Bank and its affiliated organizations.
They do not accept responsibility for its accuracy or completeness. The report may
not be published nor may it be quoted as representing their views.
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
APPRAISAL OF
A FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
IRAN
June 1, 1970
Transportation Projects Department



Currency Equivalents:
Currency Unit      - hals (his)
US$ 1.00           - liala 75
US$ 0.013          - Rials 1.00
US$ 13,333.33      a Rlials 1,000,000
Fiscal Year:
March 21 to March 20
Units of Weights and Measures: Metric
Metric: British/U Equivalents
1 kilometer (klm)       - 0.62 mile (xi)
1 meter (m)             a  3.28 feet (ft)
1 hectare (ha)          a 2.47 acres
1 liter (1.)            a 0.26 US gallon (gal) *
0.22 imperial gallon (IO)
1 metric ton (z.t.)     0 1.10 US short tons (sh tn) -
0.984 ton (tn)
Abbreviations:
Government   -  Imperial Governmnt of Iran
Ministry     -  Ministry of Comnmications and Roads
PO           a  Plan Organization
Fourth Plan  -  Iran's Fourth National Development Plan
BCEOM        U  Bureau Central pour L'Zquipment d'Oatre-MSr
EXIM Bank    -  Ecport-Import Bank of Washington
BPR          a  US Bureau of Public Roads
vpd          a  vehicles per day



IRAN
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Table of Contents
Page No.
SUMMARY                        ........ 
1.   INTRODUCTION ............... .....  ...............1
2.   BACKGROUND ...........  .......  .....                                2
A. General 2......#.2
B.   Transport Planning and Coordination.                             2
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR.                                                     5
A. The Highway Network....                                           5
B. Highway Administration....                                        5
C.   Highway Financing .        . ..................... . ..          6
D.   Highway Engineering and Construction          . . .              7
E. Highway Maintenance....                                            8
F.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic.                      9
4. THE PROJECT....  10
A.   General Description ........ ... . .................,          10
B.   Highways to be Constructed or Improved..                        11
C.   Road Maintenance Equipment .            .                       12
D. Consultants' Services               . . .12
(i)  Management Consultants; Transport Coordination            12
(ii)  Management Consultants; Review of Ministry                13
(iii)  Maintenance Consulting Services            . .            13
(iv)  Tehran Transportation Study             . . .14
(v)  Feasibility Studies and Detailed
Engineering of Additional Roads        .    .15
E.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Component         . . .15
F. Project Execution and Financ ng   .... 17
G.   Disbursements ..                  ...    ..............         18
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION                  ....19
A. Road Projects .19
B. Maintenance Equipment                      .       .              20
C.   Tehran Transportation Study                  . .                21
6. RECOMMENDATIONS                    ....21
This report was written by R. Mulligan (Engineer) and H. Schlechtriem
(Economist) assisted by V. Hogg (Economics Adviser)



Table of Contents - Cont'd
TABLES
1.   Data on Transport System, 1968
2.   Changes in Lengths of Road Categories by Surface Types, 1964-1969
3.   Development Budget and Annual Budgets of Ministry of Communications
and Roads
4.   Revenues from Road User Related Taxes, 1967/68 to 1969/70
5.   Highway Design Standards
6.   Motor Vehicle Importation and Production, 1963-1968
7.   Fuel Consumption, 1960-1968
8.   Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings
9.   Schedule of Individual Road Contracts and Packages of Contracts
ANNEXES
I    Previous Bank Projects
2    Additional Information on Project Roads
CHART
Organization of the Ministry of Communications and Roads
MAP
Iran - Highway Projects



IRAN
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
SUMMARY
i.        The Government of Iran has asked the Bank to finance a highway
project, the total cost of which is US$85 million equivalent, and for which
the proposed loan is US$42 million equivalent to cover the foreign exchange
costs.
ii.       Iran is a vast country equal to the combined size of France, the
Federal Republic of Germany and Spain. Deserts and mountains cover half of
the country resulting in widely separated concentrations of population and
economic activity. Iran's economy, which is based principally on agriculture,
petroleum production and a young industrial sector, has progressed rapidly
in recent years. While population is increasing at about 3% per annum, the
economy has been growing at an annual rate of about 8% and per capita income
now stands at about US$280. The outlook for a continued high level of eco-
nomic growth is favorable.
iii.      This rapid growth in the economy has been accompanied by growing
volumes of freight and passenger movements, the bulk of which has been borne
by road transport. In addition, the Government has recently adopted a
policy of decentralizing industry and promoting regional development which
will modify traffic flows and require new transport facilities, many of which
will be in the highway sector. Transport coordination and planning has been
poor, but fortunately the demand for transportation has been so great that,
with a few exceptions, there have been no serious misallocations of invest-
ments. This fortunate situation, however, is rapidly coming to an end. Al-
though the Government has emphasized improvements in the highway sector
(currently 60% of public sector investments in transport are allocated to
roads), there is a need for improved transport coordination and a better basis
for selection of investment priorities among the various modes.
iv.       There are two separate Government agencies concerned with highway
transport; the Plan Organization (PO) and the Ministry of Communications and
Roads (Ministry). The PO is responsible for the planning, survey and design
of roads and the Ministry's role is confined to execution and maintenance.
Coordination between these two agencies is poor and the PO presently performs
several functions which should be done by the Ministry. However, the present
organization of the Ministry is not effective and major changes are necessary
before it could carry out additional functions efficiently. The quality of
road maintenance has deteriorated badly in the past few years and, if this
trend is allowed to continue, it will soon reach a critical stage. Increased
maintenance funds, additional equipment and major improvements in organiza-
tion and operation of the maintenance department are necessary to correct the
situation.



- ii -
v.        The project will assist in completing some of the priority road
elements in Iran's Fourth National Development Plan and will also focus on
improvements in transport coordination and in the organization and operations
of the highway department, particularly road maintenance. It will also provide
for (a) feasibility studies and detailed engineering of further roads and;
(b) a transportation study of the Tehran Metropolitan Area, both of which
would identify possible projects for future Bank consideration.
vi.       The Bank has made four loans for highway projects in Iran total-
ling US$125.2 million equivalent. These loans, which financed construction
of main and feeder roads and engineering for future road projects, were
made in 1959, 1964 and two in 1965. The projects financed under the first
two loans have been completed satisfactorily: however, there have been
major delays in execution under the last two loans caused primarily by
arrears averaging four months in Government payments to contractors. During
loan negotiations the Government informed the Bank that it has now arranged
with the Central Bank of Iran, credit facilities to provide against any
temporary shortfall in project funds. A condition of loan signing is the
receipt by the Bank of a letter from the Government giving details of these
financial arrangements.
vii.      Contracts will be awarded on the basis of international compe-
titive bidding and in lots of sufficient size to attract foreign bidders.
However, as the domestic contracting industry is both well-developed and
short of work, it is probable that domestic bidders will continue to be
successful in obtaining all contracts. On the basis of all construction
work being executed by Iranian contractors, the foreign exchange com-
ponent of project cost is estimated to be US$42 million equivalent.
viii.     The Bank's two-part strategy for improvement of the transport
sector is first to set up a transport coordinating authority and an effect-
ive highway department and, in the second stage, to tackle problems in
other parts of the transport sector in the context of lending for expected
projects. This project is intended to accomplish the first step.
ix.       The principal economic benefits deriving from the project are
savings in vehicle operating costs on the roads to be improved; these
savings will yield rates of return between 17% and 27% on the investments.
x.        The project provides a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$42
million equivalent, An appropriate term would be 25 years, including a
five year grace period.



IRAN
APPRAISAL OF A FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01      The Government of Iran has requested a loan from the Bank to help
finance a highway project consisting of: (a) the construction and improve-
ment of 550 km of main roads; (b) the purchase of maintenance equipment;
and (c) consulting services to: (i) advise on organizational changes need-
ed for effective transport coordination and an improved highway authority,
(ii) recommend and implement improvements in the road maintenance organi-
zation and its operations, (iii) prepare feasibility studies and detailed
engineering of selected roads, and (iv) make a comprehensive transportation
study for the Tehran Metropolitan Area. The cost of the project is estimated
at US$85 million and the requested loan would meet the foreign exchange costs
of US$42 million, which is 49% of the total.
1.02      This would be the fifth Bank project in the transportation sector,
all for highways. The first four loans (for details see Annex 1) totalled
US$125.2 million equivalent and financed the foreign exchange costs of: (a)
the construction of about 4,900 km of main roads and about 1,800 km of feeder
roads; (b) the purchase of equipment for road maintenance and for materials
testing; and (c) the engineering of further road programs. The engineering
of some of the roads to be improved in this project was financed in part
from these earlier loans. The first highway loan was signed in May 1959
and two of the highway projects have been satisfactorily completed. How-
ever, for the two projects still under construction (Loans 410 and 411-IRN),
progress of work has been adversely affected by the Government's delays in
paying contractors. Steps have been taken to avoid a similar problem in this
project (para. 4.21).
1.03      The roads to be constructed and improved in this project are pri-
ority roads in Iran's Fourth National Development Plan (Fourth Plan) 1/, which
are part of a larger list of roads submitted for Bank consideration during
1968 and 1969. Certain of the roads submitted are not economically justified
for execution at this time; others require further study and engineering and
therefore have been excluded from the proposed project.
1.04      This report was prepared by Messrs. R.J. Mulligan (engineer) and
H.J. Schlechtriem (economist) on the basis of an appraisal mission in
October-November 1969, and a reappraisal by FAO experts in February 1970
on two road sections related to proposed agricultural schemes. Chapter 2,
"Background", was contributed by Mr. V.W. Hogg, who headed the Bank's
Transport Sector Review Mission to Iran in November 1969.
1/   Plan period is March 1968 to March 1973.



-2-
2. BACKGROUND
A.   General
2.01      The Iranian economy has been growing at about 8% per annum since
1962 and thus has provided rising per capita incomes (US$280 in 1968) for
the population which is increasing at about 3% per annum. The Bank's
latest Economic Mission Report suggests that the outlook is ravorable for
a continued highi level of growth, provided the foreign debt annual repay-
ment burden can be eased and important administrative and policy changes
can be made. 1/  A number of these latter issues are to be tackled within
the Bank's lending program, with n start being made in thi- proposed plo-
Ject.
B.   Transport Planning and Coordination
2.02      Iran's Fourth Plan envisages total expenditures of Rls. 480 billion
(US$6.8 billion). Of this, 17% or US$1.12 billion is for transport. At the
Government's request a Bank mission reviewed the progress in the transport
sector in late 1969. 2/  The coxclision of the review was that the overall
financial and physical targets for transport in the Fourth Plan, which were
based on a major transport survey undertaken by French consultants, Bureau
Central pour l'Equipment d'Outre-mer (BCEOM), were reasonable and acceptable.
2.03      Progress and performance in the transport sector, however, were
considered to be poor. Projects were ill-prepared, sound economic evalua-
tions were few and project costs were underestimated in some important cases.
In others, the proposals were excessive or ill-timed. Cost over-runs on some
very large projects within and outside the transport sector, and the large,
unforeseen commitments for defense expenditures, had diverted funds from some
transport projects in the Fourth Plan and delayed the execution of others.
2.04      Achievement of the planned physical taIgets in the transport sector,
therefore, are not now possible. While vigorous action is needed to prepare
sound projects for future financing, major steps are necessary to improve
policies, institutional arrangements and efficiency in all parts of the
sector; otherwise the Fourth Plan's development objectives will not be
attained.
2.05      There is no single agency responsible for transport planning and
coordination. For example, the Ministry of Finance is responsible for
ports and coastal shipping as well as taxation on the transport sector; the
1/   Economic Situation and Prospects of Iran (SA-8a), December 31, 1969.
2/   The main data concerning Iran's transport system is in Table 1.



Ministry of Communications and Roads (Ministry) for project execution, main-
tenance and operation of roads, railways and airports; the Ministry of In-
dustry for the prices of motor vehicle products; IRANAIR for civil aviation;
the Plan Organization (P0) for pre-investment studies, their evaluation and
eventual financing. In addition, the military, the Gendarmerie, the Pro-
vincial Governors and some operating ministries are closely associated with
transport matters.
2.06      While the P0, as the main supplier of investment funds, has con-
trol over transport programs, it is ill-equipped to evaluate and coordinate
investments so as to allocate resources efficiently within the transport
sector. In addition, it has little influence over the operational effi-
ciency and pricing policies of the operating agencies to which it provides
large sums for capital works.
2.07      Fortunately, the rapidly growing and widely diffused demand for
transport in the recent past has, with a few exceptions, meant there have
been no serious misallocations or mistimings of investments. This good
fortune, however, cannot continue as the size of projects grows and new
directions take place in the economy. For example, under the Government's
industrial policy new "poles of development" are being created by forbidding
the construction of new industrial plants within 120 km of Tehran and by
the provision of tax and other incentives to bring this about. Some of
the new industries will replace imports and others are export oriented. 1/
As a result, the direction of existing traffic flows will be modified and
new investments in transport for construction and equipment will be necessary.
Since much of the traffic may be on the highways, it will also increase main-
tenance needs and require a careful programming of maintenance work.
2.08      In agriculture, important developments are taking place (with
which the Bank is associated). These are intended to meet the needs of
growing urban populations and of industry for raw materials, as well as
exports, or to reduce imports. Traffic flows can be expected to increase
and change in pattern. Here again, and as illustrated by the construction
items in this project, new investments in transport and particularly roads
will need careful planning.
2.09      The railway is paralleled by main roads over most of its system.
There is no traditional road-rail coordination problem since the railway
has largely been abandoned by the commercial community. It relies on Go-
vernmental traffic for 75-80% of its freight volume, which has been fairly
steady over the past ten years. Its passenger traffic is declining because
of competitive bus fares and shorter travel times by bus and air. Never-
theless, important new developments make it vital that Iran have an efficient
1/   The Bank Group is associated with the industrialization progress
through its assistance to the Industrial and Mining Development Bank.



-4-
railway system. An 840 km line is being built to carry coal and iron ore
from the Kerman area to the USSR-financed steel mill at Esfahan; a link with
Turkey is being completed with USAID assistance; and the USSR is reportedly
prepared to improve a short link in Iran that joins its own network.
2.10      Iran has ports on the Persian Gulf and the Caspian Sea.  As a
result of the closure of the Suez Canal and an increased number of trade
agreements with Eastern bloc countries, growing volumes of traffic are
moving through the northern ports, as well as by road from Europe. These
trends introduce new problems in port planning.
2.11      A major effort to increase foreign tourism into Iran by air is
about to start. This necessitates new policies and possible investments
in airports and other civil aviation requirements.
2.12      The urban transport problems in and around Tehran are reaching
crisis proportions. Numerous and often contradictory proposals have been
made to relieve the problems but they have not been systematically analyzed
or related to overall development in the metropolitan area. A metropolitan
land use and planning study was recently completed but it did not provide
a sufficient basis for evaluation of various transport proposals. An area-
wide transport study is necessary to determine investment priorities and
define specific implementation programs.
2.13      Given the need, therefore, to improve and coordinate planning
in all parts of the transport sector, and particularly in highways wihich
account for 60% of the planned allocations to the sector, the Bank con-
siders that what is most urgent is to set up a transport coordinating
authority and an effective highway authority. This is the first stage
of a two-part strategy for improvement in the transport sector generally.
The second stage is to tackle the problems in the other parts of the sec-
tor in the context of lending for expected projects and by continuing ex-
pert advice. Accordingly, a crucial element in this proposed project is
the provision of consulting services to provide the basis on which effective
authorities for transport coordination and highways can be established.
These are necessary not only to ensure a sound use of resources in the sector
but also to generate well prepared, priority projects for future foreign
financing.



-5-
3. THE HIGHWAY SECTOR
A.   The Highway Network
3.01      The Highway network in Iran totals some 35,800 km, of which
10,200 km (28%) are surfaced, 20,000 km (56%) are graveled, and the re-
maining 5,600 km (16%) are earth roads and tracks. Highways in Iran are
not formally classified for administrative purposes and the Ministry of
Communications and Roads (Ministry) maintains an inventory of the paved
roads only. Details of changes in the categories as a result of new
construction and improvements over the last five years are given in
Table 2.
3.02      In the western half of Iran the main road network is generally
adequate, and the network in the eastern half is presently being raised
to a satisfactory level with assistance from Bank-financed projects.
Growth in traffic is generally creating a continuing need for improve-
ments, particularly in the vicinity of the population centers. These
and investments necessary to adapt the system to the changing needs of
the economy are proposed in the Fourth Plan (para. 2.07).
3.03      The use of public roads is normally not restricted.  Although
there is a tendency for truck operators to overload their vehicles, this
is kept reasonably in check by 34 weighing stations located at key points
on the paved road network. Control of vehicle weights will become more
effective when the additional weighing stations, for which US$2 million
equivalent is provided in the Fourth Plan, have been completed. During
loan negotiations the Government confirmed that it will continue to
enforce the regulations controlling vehicle weights and dimensions.
B.   Highway Administration
3.04      There are two separate Government agencies concerned with highway
projects. The Plan Organization (P0) is responsible for the planning, sur-
vey and design of road projects and is the channel through which the Minis-
try of Finance issues the project funds. The PO, however, performs these
tasks in almost complete isolation from the Ministry of Communications and
Roads (Ministry), the other agency concerned with highway projects. The
Po selects and pays the consultants for studies up to and including de-
tailed engineering, but it lacks sufficient qualified and experienced
staff to evaluate critically the results of these studies, although there
has been some recent improvement as a result of new recruitments to its
staff. The PO also awards consultants' contracts for construction super-
vision (but is not responsible for actual supervision), thereby presenting
the Ministry with a "fait accompli" situation for project execution and
making it little more than the P0's paymaster. The PO's materials labora-
tory exercises all quality control over the actual construction and accepts
or rejects work completed by the contractor. The P0 controls the National
Cartographic Center, which is responsible for all mapping in Iran, includ-
ing the preparation of the contour maps for road design. Because of over-
commitments, both the Cartographic Center and the materials laboratory have



been the cause of major delays in project preparation by consultants. During
loan negotiations the Government agreed that the National Cartographic Center
and the P0 Materials Laboratory would make adequate arrangements (including
sub-contracting work to consultants if necessary) to provide these services
within the time limits to be specified in the consultants' contracts for work
under this project.
3.05      The Ministry's role is to execute the projects.  That iDs, it ad-
vertises the construction contracts, awards them according to standard
government procedures, and supervises construction although without respon-
sibility for the key function of quality control (para. 3.04). It is also
responsible for maintenance of public roads generally, except in municipal
areas where it has no authority, and for the acquisition of right-of-way.
Right-of-way acquisition is not allowed to delay construction; unimproved
land is taken without compensation, otherwise the value of improvements
only is paid. Government has recently approved a new organization of the
Ministry, and a brief portion of this is shown in the attached Chart.  The
structure still has certain deficiencies, and should be simplified to eIi-
minate duplication and to increase efficiency. The Ministry's present
staff of some 120 engineers is insufficient to make the proposals fully
effective; the reorganization, therefore, cannot be implemented completely.
There is little delegation of authority within the Ministry and, consequent-
ly, departmental heads exercise little initiative and considerable delays
ensue.
3.06      At the time of the earlier Bank loans (para. 1.02 and Annex 1)
these problems were noted but the view was expressed that the situation
was gradually improving. Unfortunately, this improvement was not main-
tained, and since the last loan in 1965 there has been some deterioration.
It is thus clear that more positive action is now required to improve high-
way administration and, therefore, the project provides for a study of the
best organizational arrangements for the efficient administration, planning,
construction and maintenance of Iran's highway network (paras. 4.09 and 4.10).
C.   Highway Financing
3.07      Iran's Fourth Plan provides a sound basis for road development,
but shortage of funds has delayed implementation. Funds for roads are
included in the PO's development budget (Table 3) but, due to priority
given to other sectors (para. 2.03), road funds made available so far
have only permitted completion of the many projects left over from the
Third Plan. It is only now, some two years after commencement of the
Fourth Plan, that high priority roads in that plan are being started.
3.08      The allocations for road maintenance in the Ministry's budget
(Table 3) are inadequate. Annual increases have only kept pace with the
added length of the road network, and on a per km basis, allocated funds
are barely sufficient to maintain a lightly travelled gravel road.



- 7 -
3.09      Over the past few years, annual receipts from road user taxes and
import duties on vehicles and spare parts have approximately equalled annual
expenditures on road construction and maintenance (Tables 3 and 4). Taxes
on vehicle ownership and use, however, are not earmarked for roads, but
are part of general revenues. Excluding import duties on vehicles, parts
etc., 1968/69 revenues were Rls 4.6 billion and those for 1969/70 are ex-
pected to be Rls 5.3 billion. Adding estimated import duties to these
amounts, total vehicle user taxation becomes about Rls 8.4 and 9.0 billion
respectively.  For the same years,  annual outlays on construction and
maintenance total Rls 8.0 and 9.1 billion.
3.10      There is, however, inadequate information to assess the appropriate-
ness of the structure of the taxes and their incidence on particular user
groups. Nevertheless, it would seem that heavy vehicles are being under-
charged (e.g. the tax on gas-oil (diesel) is Rls 2.6 (USe 3.5 equivalent)
per gallon as compared with Rls 11.9 (US4 15.9 equivalent) per gallon on
gasoline). The question of road user charges and taxation in the wider
context of transport coordination is expected to be one of the priority
tasks of the new transport coordination authority to be established under
this project (para. 2.13).
D.   Highway EngineerinR and Construction
3.11      Highway design standards in use in Iran (Table 5) are considered
suitable for the project roads. Pavement design is based on the legal ma-
ximum loading of 13 metric tons on a single axle, which is the same as
that used in some countries in Europe. This figure appears high, particu-
larly for a developing country but it is justified by the high proportion
of heavy vehicles in Iran.
3.12      Foreign consulting engineering firms are represented in Iran and
have been employed for the design and execution of previous Bank highway
projects. However, local consulting firms are becoming more experienced
in highway work and can be expected to play a larger part in future road
projects.
3.13      Highway construction is normally executed under unit price con-
tracts awarded after competitive bidding. The domestic contracting industry
is well developed; there are more than 50 contractors prequalified with the
Government to undertake road works of more than Rls 100 million (US$1.3
million equivalent) in value. These contractors have, on average, about
US$1.5 million equivalent invested in construction equipment and, as a group,
provide a contractual capacity of about US$200 million equivalent per year.
There are also nearly 200 smaller contractors registered whose total work
potential is about US$100 million equivalent per year. Shortage of work
in recent years has produced intense bidding competition. Foreign con-
tractors are also included in the prequalification lists maintained by the
P0 and are invited to participate in bidding.



-8-
E.   Highway Maintenance
3.14      During the years 1957-67, the US Bureau of Public Roads (BPR)
acted as advisors on road maintenance to the Ministry. BPR personnel ad-
vised on the mechanization of maintenance operations and set up training
programs for plant operators and mechanics. The Ministry still operates
these training programs, although they are very much restricted in scope
because of shortage of funds. The quality of road maintenance has dete-
riorated since the withdrawal of BPR and, if this trend is allowed to con-
tinue, there will soon be a critical situation. Some roads which were
paved about eight years ago have received only emergency treatment since
then, and the maintenance of feeder roads has been almost completely ne-
glected. The Ministry claims that shortage of funds is a major constraint
preventing adequate maintenance, yet some of the road maintenance alloca-
tion is diverted to financing force-account construction.
3.15      In 1968 the P0 commissioned a local consulting firm (Rahvar) to
study the maintenance problem and to propose a solution. Rahvar's proposals
were limited only to paved roads and presented a five-year rehabilitation
program (US$19 million equivalent), coinciding with the Fourth Plan period.
Rahvar also made recommendations on the purchase of additional and replace-
ment equipment for road maintenance totalling US$20 million equivalent. The
proposals are acceptable to the Government but have not been implemented.
3.16      The services of a maintenance consultant are proposed in this
project to study the existing organization for road maintenance, recommend
needed changes and assist in applying up-to-date maintenance techniques
(paras. 4.11 - 4.12).
3.17      For the past several years the Ministry's maintenance department
has not prepared estimates of its annual budgetary requirements. Funds
currently allocated for maintenance provide a rate of about US$450 equiva-
lent per km (including administration, labor and materials, but excluding
equipment depreciation). A portion of this allocation, however, is unoffi-
cially diverted to road construction, to the detriment of road maintenance.
How much is needed cannot be determined until an inventory has been com-
pleted for all the Ministry's roads, since the present inventory refers
only and incompletely to the paved road network. During loan negotiations
the Government agreed to provide annually road maintenance funds in accord-
ance with the findings of the maintenance consultant, as agreed between the
Government and the Bank.
3.18      A further deficiency in the Ministry's operations is the lack of
a system of traffic counting. Coordinated country-wide traffic census
operations ceased in Iran in 1962, and only isolated counts have been taken
since then. During loan negotiations the Government confirmed its inten-
tion to collect and collate traffic data on a regular and systematic basis.



-9-
F.   Characteristics and Growth of Road Traffic
3.19      Annual statistics on the motor vehicle fleet are available only
up to 1964, when a new licensing system based on periodic valuations of
personal property was introduced. Based on the appraisal mission's estimate
of the present vehicle fleet (273,000 units, Table 1), the average annual
growth rates since 1964 have been 7% for light vehicles and 5% for trucks and
buses. Imports and local production of vehicles from 1963 through 1968 are
shown in Table 6. Due to import restrictions and high duties, vehicle imports
have remained almost constant since 1966 but local production increased
substantially since 1965, reaching 30,000 units in 1968. It is planned that
local production will be increased to 77,000 units in 1972 which is expected
to supply over 90% of the demand forecast for that year. Thus, traffic
growth will not be restricted by vehicle availability.
3.20      Traffic growth on particular road sections over the last few years
has often been irregular but it appears that the general increase was in
the order of 10% per. year, corresponding roughly to the increase in fuel
consumption (6% for gasoline and 16% for gas-oil, Table 7). In the 1966
BCEOM Study (para. 2.02), forecasts of road traffic up to 1974 were made.
The annual increase in goods moved on main roads was estimated between
5.6% and 8.5% (the lower limit for roads parallel to rail) and the annual
growth of passenger traffic 11%. Anticipated improvements in railroad
operations have not materialized to date.
3.21      There are no Government restrictions on the number of trucking or
bus companies that can be established, the lines on which they operate or
on sizes of fleets owned. The road transport industry in Iran is effective-
ly controlled by a number of freight agencies which hire the services of a
large number of single truck owner-drivers, usually for a commission of 10%
or more. Freight rates are not fixed, but vary with demand, the route, the
season and the goods to be carried; rates vary from a low of Rls 0.50/ton-km
to a high of Rls 1.73/ton-km on paved roads but can be as high as Rls 3.50/
ton-km off the paved road network. Operating costs (excluding taxes) for
an average truck (10-ton) are estimated in Table 8 at Rls 6.5 per km on
good paved roads and at Rls 12.5 per km on unsurfaced roads. Applying a
load factor of 60% and taking into account taxes and the freight agencies'
commission, the costs per ton-km lie between Rls 1.3 and Rls 2.5 (USe 1.7
to 3.3 equivalent), which are similar to costs found in other countries.
3.22      There is an efficient bus service all over the country, although
the general level of passenger travel is still low, except in the influence
zones of the larger cities. For the long-distance routes, several classes
of comfort are offered. Bus fares are not controlled, but vary with the
class and route between Rls 0.17 and 0.44 per pass.-km except during the
pilgrim season, when fares are often raised by as much as 100%.



- 10 -
4. THE PROJECT
A.   General Description
4.01      The proposed project consists of:
(a) the construction and improvement of about 550 km of
main roads, including consulting services for con-
struction supervision;
(b) the purchase of road maintenance equipment; and
(c) the services of consultants as follows:
(i) management consultants to:
a.   recommend the structure and key staffing of an
organization which would administer and coordinate
Government policies on transportation by road, rail,
air and coastal shipping; and
b.   study the present organization and responsibilities
of the Ministry and those departments of the PO con-
cerned with roads, and make recommendations on the
changes needed to produce an effective highway
authority.
(ii) maintenance consultants to:
a.   study and recommend needed changes in the organiza-
tion and operations of the road maintenance depart-
ment; and
b.   advise on and draw up specifications for the purchase
of road maintenance equipment and identify require-
ments for the Fourth Plan period.
(iii) other consultants to:
a.   study the transport requirements of Tehran
and its vicinity and identify priorities for
investment in this area; and
b.   prepare feasibility studies for about 800 km of
main roads, to be followed by detailed engineering
of the highest priority routes selected on the basis
of these studies.



- 11 -
B.   Highways to be Constructed or Improved (see Map)
(i)  Nain-Yazd (179 km)
4.02      This road was originally included in the project financed from
Loan 410-IRN, but because of a shortage of local funds, was deleted from
the List of Goods by mutual agreement of the Bank and Borrower. The ex-
isting 6-7 m wide road has mainly a gravel surface throughout its length,
but in parts it has been improved by the addition of a 3 m wide bituminous
surface dressing.  The road's grade line is low, and drifting sand in summer
and flooding in winter often impede traffic flow. The consultant, IRENDCO
(British/Iranian), has prepared designs for a two-lane surfaced road to
Class I standards (Table 5) which are satisfactory. The adjacent Yazd
- Kerman section is currently being constructed to the same standards under
Bank financing (Loan 410-IRN).
(ii)  Saghez - Miandoab (91 km)
4.03      The present 7 m gravel road is to be improved to provide a two
lane paved road to Class I standards (Table 5), which is satisfactory.
Detailed engineering and cost estimates for this road are being prepared
by the Iranian consultant, ATRAS.
(iii) Miandoab - Rezaieh (162 km)
4.04      The Danish consultant, KAMPSAX, has designed a two lane paved
road to Class I standards which are satisfactory. The new road replaces
an existing 7 m wide gravel/earth road. Detailed engineering was financed
under Loan 381-IRN.
(iv) Rezaieh-Khoy-Evoglu (119 km)
4.05      The first 43 km of road from Rezaieh have been reconstructed and
paved with a surface dressing by the Ministry. The remaining 119 km are
to be reconstructed under this project to the same Class I standards (Table
5), and surface dressed initially. These standards are considered satis-
factory. Tlle proposed new alignment replaces an existing 7 m gravel road,
of which the 29 km between Khoy and Evoglu have been surfaced temporarily
with a 3 to 3.5 m wide surface treatment to lay the dust. Detailed engineer-
ing has been completed satisfactorily by the Iranian consultant, ETCO, and
the foreign exchange costs of this work were provided under Loan 381-IRN.
4.06      The Government has agreed that the supervision of construction
of all the project roads will be performed wherever possible by the con-
sultants responsible for their design. Similar services by consultants
under earlier Bank-financed projects were discharged satisfactorily.



- 12 -
C.   Road Maintenance Equipment
4.07      Although the Government, on the advise of BPR (para. 3.14) bought
equipment to the value of the US$18 million provided by EXIM Bank loans
(1957-1967), the Ministry's poor performance on road maintenance can be
attributed in part to shortage of mechanical equipment. Replacement value
of equipment in use is about US$30 million with annual renewal costs of
about US$3 million. The Iranian consultant, Rahvar (para. 3.15) estimated
requirements of equipment for the period 1968-1972 at about US$20 million
equivalent, a large proportion of which would be required for the purchase
of replacement iteTas. Although an assurance was given by the Government
during the negotiations of Loan 410-IRN that a renewal account for mechan-
ical equipment would be set up, this could not be done because of diversion
of funds to other sectors (Annex 1, para 5); in consequence, fresh capital
funds are now required. The maintenance consultant whose services are pro-
posed under this loan (paras. 4.11-4.12) will, as a matter of priority,
review the Rahvar proposals and, in conjunction with the Ministry, draw up
specifications for the purchase by international competitive bidding of
those essential items for which the need is most obvious and urgent. A
sum of US$8 million equivalent is provided in the proposed loan to cover
the purchase of such essential items as motor graders, tipper trucks, bitu-
men sprayers, workshop equipment, etc. Later Bank-financed projects could
include provision for further purchases of equipment based upon a more de-
tailed study of needs. During negotiations, the Government gave an assur-
ance that appropriate financing arrangements will be made for the renewal
of maintenance equipment.
D.   Consultants' Services
(i) Management Consultants; Transport Coordination
4.08      In order to provide an effective means of administering a
coordinated transport policy, it is proposed that a transport authority
should be formed (para. 2.13). The management consultant whose services
are provided in this project would analyse the present arrangements for
formulation of policy and its implementation, and recommend the necessary
changes including the establishment of an appropriate transport authority
whose functions, staffing requirements, budget and relationships with other
Government bodies would be defined. During this study period the consultant
would also assist the P0 in transport planning and project preparation in-
cluding a review of the Fourth Plan to evaluate and assign priorities for
transport projects. During loan negotiations the Government gave assurances
that it will employ consultants 8atisfactory to the Bank and will implement
the findings of the consultant agreed by the Government and the Bank in
accordance with a timetable acceptable to the Bank.



- 13 -
(ii) Management Consultants; Review of Ministry
4.09      The Ministry is not sufficiently involved in project preparation
and is overshadowed in this respect by the P0. The P0 is also involved in
project execution, which should be completely the province of the Ministry
(paras. 3.04 and 3.05). The services of the same management consultant re-
tained for the broader transport coordination study are also proposed to:
(a) make a study of the organization of the Ministry and
of those departments of the P0 which are concerned
with the planning and execution of roads;
(b) identify the structure of a new highway authority
which would be effective in both the planning and
execution of road projects, once priorities have been
determined; and
(c) draw up a program for the achievement of the agreed
structure in (b) from the separate organizations
described in (a).
4.10      It is intended that some of the major findings under para. 4.09
above, agreed between the Government and the Bank, would be implemented
during the project construction period, and the balance subsequently.
During loan negotiations, the Government gave assurances that it would
implement the consultant's major agreed findings on this basis. About 10
experts would be required for periods of up to one year for completion of
the studies detailed in paras. 4.08 and 4.09; thereafter about six experts
would be needed for varying periods up to one year to help implement the
agreed proposals.
(iii) Maintenance Consulting Services
4.11      To improve the standard of road maintenance (paras. 3.14-3.18),
the Ministry will employ consultants whose terms of reference would in-
clude:
(a) a study of the organization of the maintenance
department with recommendations for needed
improvements;
(b)  a review of the Rahvar proposals for rehabilitation
(deferred maintenance) of paved roads; the assigning
of priorities; and assistance in the preparation of
contract documents for agreed works;
(c) a review of the Rahvar proposals for needed additional
and replacement road maintenance and workshop equipment,
and the preparation of specifications suitable for the
purchase by international competitive bidding of agreed
priority items under the loan;



- 14 -
(d) the completion of a comprehensive road inventory;
(e) the preparation in conjunction with departmental staff
of annual budgetary estimates for road maintenance and
betterment including a more detailed study of maintenance
and workshop equipment needs (para. 4.07) up to and
including fiscal 1974;
(f) the establishment of an adequate cost accounting system;
and
(g) the planning and initial operation of a country-wide
program of traffic counting and data collection.
4.12      As many as 12 specialists would be required for varying periods
from the beginning of the project in mid-1970 through mid-1974. These con-
sulting services should be provided from the commencement of the project to
ensure that recommendations resulting from the study required in (a) can be
made as early as possible. Assurances were obtained from the Government during
loan negotiations that the purchase of equipment to the value of US$6 million
out of the US$8 million provision referred to in (c) above and para. 4.07
would be contingent on their implementation of the major agreed findings of
the maintenance consultant in accordance with a timetable agreed with the
Bank. It was further agreed that the most urgently needed maintenance and
workshop equipment identified by the consultant and up to a value of US$2
million would not be subject to this condition, and could be purchased
immediately.
(iv) Tehran Transportation Study
4.13      In order to provide both short term and longer term solutions
to the serious traffic problem in and around Tehran and to facilitate the
city's planned development (para. 2.12), a Tehran transportation study is
included in the project. It would be executed by consultants supervised by
the Urbanisation and Regional Projects Division of the Special Projects
Department. The consultants' terms of reference, will include:
(a) a review of previous studies and proposals and an
assessment of the existing transport infrastructure
in the metropolitan area;
(b) an assessment of the major immediate transport needs of
the area;
(c) an evaluation of rules and regulations concerning trans-
portation in the area;
(d) recommendations for an immediate action program and short-
range transport improvements;



- 15 -
(e) recommendations for long range transport programs for the
metropolitan area;
(f) recommendations for bypass routes of Tehran and connections
between the urban and regional transport networks;
(g) recommendations for the organization and policy changes
necessary to implement the recommended program.
The study will involve about 300 man months of specialist services and
would require about two years to complete. During loan negotiations
agreement was reached with the Government on detailed terms of reference
and timing for the study.
(v) Feasibility Studies and Detailed Engineering of
Additional Roads
4.14      In order to provide a rational basis for further road construc-
tion, provision is made under the proposed loan for feasibility studies of
about 800 km of priority roads. These studies would be expected to identify
about 500 km of the highest priority roads for which, subject to the Bank's
agreement, detailed engineering would be carried out, also as part of the
proposed project. The construction cost of these roads would be of the
order of US$50-60 million equivalent, part of which the Bank might consider
financing in a subsequent highway project. The total cost of these studies
and engineering, to be executed by consultants, is estimated at US$2.4
million equivalent, of which the foreign exchange cost of about US$1.2 mil-
lion equivalent would be provided under the loan. During loan negotiations
agreement was reached with the Government to base the selection of roads
for feasibility studies on the PO's review of the Fourth Plan (para. 4.08).
E.   Cost Estimates and Foreign Component
4.15      The total cost of the project is estimated at US$85.0 million
equivalent, including contingency allowances. A summary of the project
cost and the Bank's participation follows:



- 16 -
Foreign
Rials (million)         USO  (million)      Exchange
Local  Foreign  Total   Local Foreign Total    %
1. Construction of main
roads:
(a) Nain-Yazd           456       304    760      6.1      4.0   10.1    40
(179 km)
(b) Saghez-Miandoab    319        213    532      4.3      2.8    7.1    40
(91 km)
(c) Miandoab-Rezaieh   788        525  1,313    10.5       7.0   17.5    40
(162 km)
(d) Rezaieh-Evoglu      957       638  1,595    12.8       8.5   21.3    40
(119 km)             .       -                         -
Total (551 km)      2,520    1,680  4,200    33.7    22.3   56.0    40
2. Consulting services
for supervision of
1 above:                115      115    230       1.5     1.5    3.0    50
3. Purchase of road main-
tenance equipment:      15       600    615       0.2     8.0    8.2    98
4. Consulting services
for:
(a) management studies
for transport co-
ordination and a new
highway authority    9         36      45     0.1      0.5    0.6    80
(b) improvement of the
road maintenance
organization         23        92    115      0.3      1.2    1.5    80
(c) a Tehran metro-
politan trans-
portation study      30       120    150      0.4      1.6    2.0    80
(d) feasibility studies
and detailed engi-
neering of further
roads                90        90    180      1.2      1.2    2.4    50
Sub-totals          2,802    2,733  5,535    37.4    36.3   73.7
5. Contingencies, 15%
rounded (10% for quanti-
ties, 5% for cost
escalation)            423       417    840       5.6     5.7   11.3
Totals              3         3,150  6.375    43.0    42.0   85.0



- 17 -
4.16      The construction costs are based on estimates revised in 1969 for
the Nain - Yazd and Miandoab - Rezaieh - Evoglu roads. Detailed engineering
has been completed for these roads, and unit prices used are in line with
recent contract awards. For the Saghez - Miandoab road the estimate is
based on uncompleted but well advanced detailed engineering. All construc-
tion cost estimates were reviewed with the Government and agreed during
negotiations.
4.17      For previous highway projects, which were executed by local con-
tractors only, the Bank has participated to the extent of 35% of construc-
tion costs (the estimated direct foreign exchange component). Since these
earlier projects, road construction methods in Iran have become more equip-
ment intensive; this, together with an allowance for the principal foreign
exchange element of locally produced materials, increases the foreign
exchange component of construction costs to about 40%.
4.18      As for the previous Bank loans to Iran, both foreign and local
consultants with some joint ventures will be engaged for the supervision
of construction, and for the feasibility and detailed engineering studies
to be carried out in this project. In line with the earlier projects,
the foreign component of these costs is estimated at about 50%. The skills
required for the other consulting services would be difficult to find local-
ly and foreign firms would most likely be retained; the foreign exchange
component has therefore been assessed at 80%. The CIF value of the mainte-
nance equipment (US$8 million equivalent) accounts for about 98% of its
assembled cost in Tehran, and Bank participation is based on this figure.
F.   Project Execution and Financing
4.19      The loan would be to the Government of Iran and the executing
agency would be the Ministry, assisted by qualified consultants under terms
and conditions satisfactory to the Bank. Agreement was obtained from the
Government during loan negotiations that it will retain promptly, consultants
for the supervision of construction and for the other expert services provided
in the project (paras. 4.08-4.14).
4.20      The project construction contracts would be let on the basis
of unit prices after international competitive bidding and in accordance
with the Bank's "Guidelines on Procurement". The value of individual
contracts would range from about US$2.3 million equivalent to about US$6.5
million equivalent. However, in order to attract foreign bidders as well
as permit local contractors to tender for works of a size within their
capabilities, agreement was reached with the Government during loan nego-
tiations to combine individual contracts into packages which could range in
total value from US$6.5 - 11.5 million equivalent (Table 9). Each group
would be bid simultaneously, and bids allowed for single contracts or any
combination of contracts in the group. Advertising of the separate pack-
ages of contracts should be separated by about two months to avoid "flood-
ing the market". Contracts could be awarded from the fall of 1970 through



- 18 -
1971 and the last contract should be completed late in 1974. The mainte-
nance consultant should be retained until mid-1974; the services of the
management consultant and the consultant for the Tehran Transportation
Study would be required until the end of 1972; and the feasibility studies
and detailed engineering studies should be completed by the end of 1971.
To allow for final payments to contractors a grace period of five years
would therefore be appropriate. On the basis of this tentative schedule
the annual expenditures for the project, divided into local and foreign
proportions, are estimated as follows:
Calendar Year:               1970   1971   1972   1973   1974   1975   Total
Bank Participation
(US$ million)            0.5    8.0   14.0   14.0    4.5    1.0    42.0
Government Participation
(US$ million)            0.5    8.0   16.0   14.0    3.5    1.0    43.0
4.21      To avoid a recurrence of the delays in payments to contractors
experienced under Loans 410 and 411-IRN (para. 1.02) the Government advised
during negotiations that the Central Bank of Iran has arranged to provide
the PO with credit sufficient to cover any shortfall in project funds which
may occur. A condition of loan signature will be the receipt of a letter
from the Government providing full details of the financial arrangements
between the PO and the Central Bank.
G.   Disbursements
4.22      The loan proceeds would finance 40% (the estimated foreign cur-
rency component) of civil works contracts; the CIF costs of road mainte-
nance equipment; and the foreign costs of the consultants' services.  Any
surplus funds remaining in the loan account on completion of the project
should be cancelled.



- 19 -
5. ECONOMIC JUSTIFICATION
A.   Koad Prolects
5.01      The impact of the Bank's first highway project in Iran was re-
appraised by a special mission from the Economics Department in 1965. 1/
This was the first full reappraisal by the Bank of one of its projects and
has helped materially in the subsequent evaluation of highway projects, in-
cluding the proposed project. Among the most important findings were (i)
road user savings did materialize to the extent forecast, and (ii) such
savings were passed on to the shippers in the form of a reduction of freight
rates. The appraisal mission for the proposed project found a steep increase
of traffic on these roads as compared with 1965. Positive developments could
also be observed on the roads of the second and third Highway Projects which
are in operation.
5.02      The roads included in this project are important improvements
to the main road network. The Nain-Yazd road is part of the main route
(Trans-Asia Highway) to the southeast of Iran and Bandar Abbas port at the
southern end of the Gulf. The Saghez-Miandoab road is the only unsurfaced
section of the route between Tabriz, the economic center of the northwest,
and the Gulf area.  The Miandoab-Rezaieh and Rezaieh-Khoy-Evoglu roads
will connect the agriculturally rich province of west Azerbaidjan with the
paved road network.
5.03      Prospects for these roads are judged as good as those of previous
Bank projects although the statistical basis for their economic evaluation
is poor. Many of the figures used to determine the economic return of the
proposed investments are the Bank staff's best estimates based on the avail-
able information and on impressions gained during the field inspections.
Benefits taken into account are solely those derived from savings in
vehicle operating costs. Maintenance costs were disregarded under exist-
ing conditions and considered for the new roads only.
5.04      The estimates of present traffic on the project roads (between
450 vpd and 800 vpd) are based on the results of counts held in August
1969 and December 1969. From available information traffic projections
cannot be related to past growth trends on the individual sections or to
regional production or income. Based on the general increase of road
traffic during the last few years (see para. 3.20), growth rates of 8% for
trucks and buses and 10% for passenger cars were chosen for all sections
up to the fifth year after completion of construction; thereafter reduced
rates of 5% and 7% were used to the end of the 20 year period, which is
considered the economic life of the investments. The higher growth in the
1/   H. G. van der Tak and J. de Weille, "Reappraisal of a Road Project
in Iran", World Bank Staff Occasional Papers Number Seven.



- 20 -
early years is supported by the facts that present volumes on the roads
are still relatively small and that the development projects, which are
presently being undertaken in the northwest and southeast of Iran, will
have a direct impact on these volumes.
5.05      Vehicle operating costs under present and improved conditions
have been estimated for each road section individually (Table 8). For
trucks and buses the improved road characteristics (surface type, width,
horizontal and vertical alignment) result in savings between Rls 4.96
(USC 6.61) per km and Rls 6.35 (USc 8.46) per km, representing reductions
in present costs of 41% and 50% respectively. For passenger cars the
savings range between Rls 1.49 (USC 1.99) per km and Rls 2.05 (USc 2.73)
per km corresponding to 32% and 40% reductions in the present costs. On
the Miandoab-Rezaieh and Rezaieh-Khoy-Evoglu sections, additional savings
will be achieved by the reduction of the total length of the roads.
5.06      On this basis, the proposed investments in the individual road
sections yield rates of return ranging from 17% to 27%. If passenger time
savings, which in the operating costs of passenger cars are evaluated on a
basis of Rls 135 (US$1.8) per vehicle hour, are disregarded, these rates
would be 2 percentage points lower. The sensitivity of the rates of return
was tested by increasing the estimates of construction costs (+10%), and
by reducing base year traffic (-10%), traffic growth rates (-20%), and
vehicle operating costs (-10%). Combining an increase in construction
costs with reduced estimates for elements on the benefit side, the rates
vary between 11% and 19%. These results indicate that even with very
conservative assumptions, all project sections would yield satisfactory
rates of return. 1/
B.   Maintenance Equipment
5.07      The US$8 million for maintenance equipment proposed in this
project is to meet priority needs (para. 4.07), until the comprehensive
maintenance study, which is also included in this project (para. 4.11)
has established a firmer basis for further investments. A precise quanti-
fication of the economic benefits of this proposed element of the project
cannot be given at this stage. However, the following considerations
demonstrate the justification for this investment. The equipment will
replace existing obsolete and unserviceable machinery, and the existing
maintenance organization will be able to use it effectively. The total
annual costs of adequate maintenance for administration, materials, labor,
equipment depreciation, spare parts, servicing, fuel, etc. have been
estimated to average Rls 60,000 (US$800 equivalent) per km, compared with
Rls 37,500 (US$500 equivalent) per km estimated for present efforts.
Assuming that the savings in vehicle operating costs resulting from the
increased maintenance operations would be as low as Rls 0.5 per vehicle-km,
l/   For additional information on the project roads, see Annex 2.



- 21 -
which is about 5% of the current operating costs of trucks and buses, an
average daily traffic of about 120 vehicles would offset the additional
cost. The level of traffic found on most main roads (para. 5.04) is clearly
higher than this volume.
C.   Tehran Transportation Study
5.08      The transport system in and around Tehran has become highly in-
adequate to cope with the increasing traffic volumes (para. 2.12). The
capital's 3 million population is expected to nearly double in the next
decade; traffic is expected to grow at even a faster rate. The investments
for principal transport facilities alone as proposed in previous studies
add up to more than US$1 billion. With investment requirements of this
size, the need for judicious planning and priority selection is obvious.
The proposed comprehensive study would provide a sound planning instrument
to avoid mistakes in project timing and in resource allocations. In view
of the magnitude of the transport problems and of the substantial invest-
ments required for their solution, the proposed study is clearly justified.
6. RECOMMENDATIONS
6.01      During loan negotiations assurances were obtained from the
Government on the following principal points:
(i)  adequate provision for the renewal of road maintenance
equipment will be made (para. 4.07);
(ii) the management consultant's principal agreed recommenda-
tions on the formation of a transport coordination
authority and a reorganization of the Ministry will be
implemented in accordance with an agreed timetable
(paras. 4.08 and 4.10); and
(iii) implementation of the maintenance consultant's princi-
pal agreed recommendations would be commenced prior to
the purchase of US$6 million of the US$8 million for
maintenance and workshop equipment to be provided
under the loan (para. 4.12).
6.02      Also during loan negotiations, agreement was reached on the
consultants' terms of reference for the Tehran transportation study
(para. 4.13) and on the basic terms of reference for the management and
maintenance consultants (paras. 4.08 - 4.12).
6.03      Loan signature will be contingent on Government's providing
the Bank with a letter detailing the financial arrangements agreed between
the PO and the Central Bank for meeting any shortfall in project funds
(para. 4.21).



- 22 -
6.04      With the assurances indicated above, the proposed project consti-
tutes a suitable basis for a Bank loan of US$42 million. On the basis of
the economic life of the roads in the project and their construction period,
a term of 25 years including a five year period of grace would be appro-
priate.



TABLE I
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
DATA ON TRANSPORT SYSTEM. 1968
Roads
Length of paved roads                           10,200 km
Length of unpaved roads                         25,600 km
Number of light vehicles (cars, pickups, etc.)200,000
Number of trucks                                60,000
Number of buses                                 13,000
Volume of long distance freight traffic         4.8 billion tnkm
Volume of short distance freight traffic        4.5 billion tnkm
Volume of inter-urban passenger traffic         7.2 billion pkn
Volume of local passenger traffic               2.5 billion pkm
Rail
Length of route                                  3,812 Im
Number of diesel locomotives                       217
Namber of freight cars                           6,618
Number of passenger cars                           415
Volume of freight traffic                        2.0 billion tnlkm
Volume of passenger traffic                      1.2 billion plm
Ports
Number of main ports on Persian Gulf               4
Number of main ports on Caspian Sea                 2
Volume of traffic through main ports               3.4 million tons
Airports
Number of international airports                   2
Number of domestic airports                       16
Number of aircraft (Iranian)                      14
Volume of passenger traffic                        0.2 billion pkm
Volume of freight traffic                          insignificant
Pipelines
Length of system                               3,980 km
Volume of throughput                              3.1 billion tnkm
waterways
Volume of freight is insignificant.
Source: Plan Organization, Bank's Transport Sector Review Mission.
March 24, 1970



TABLE 2
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Changes in Lengths of Road Categories
by Surface Types 1964 - 1969
Surfaced               Gravel                Earth        Total
Year     Length (kcm) %        Length (kn)  %        Length (km)  L   Length
1964      4,830      15         15,240     48         11,540     37    31,610
1965      6,500      20         14,250     43         12,170     37    32,920
1966      7,670      23         15,810     46         10,520     31    34,000
1967      8,210      24         16,920     50          8,870     26    34,000
1968      9,580      27         18,990     53          7,230     20    35,800
1969     10,200      28         19,970     56          5,580     16    35,750
Source: Ministry of Communications and Roads.
March 24, 1970



TABLE 3
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Development Budget (Rls.million)
Third Plan (                Fourth Plan
(Mid 1962-1967/68)          (1968/69-1972/73)
Plan        Budget     Budget
Expenditures     Allocation    1968/69    1969/70
Main Roads              27,500          34,450        3,218      4,927
Secondary Roads          9,00           15,550        3,535      2,856
Total for Roads        36,800           50,000        6,753      7,783
Railways                 6,4oo          16,000        3,137      4,1450
Ports                    4,100           6,800          573        793
Airports                 2,500           6,400        1,548      3,876
Other                      500             800           51        139
Total Transportation   50,300           80,000       12,062     17,041
Plan or Budget Totali/204,600          380/200
Annuial RitdoAt of Mninstrv of Communications
and Roads (Rls.million)
Third Plan          Fourth Plan
1966/67    1967/68    1968/69  -1969/70
Main Road Constraction               log         110        110         109
Secondary Road Constraction1/                                15          20
Maintenance of Roads               1,048       1,105      1,181       1,199
Construction and Maintenance
of Railways                          32          44         35         33
General Services
(Administration)                   120        125         136        145
1,309      1,384      1,477       1,506
1/  The Fourth Development Plan and the Economic Prospects of Iran EMA - 3a.
2/ Public Sector only.
3/ Before 1968 rural and regional roads were under the responsibility of
the Ministry of Housing and Development.
Source: Plan Organization
March 24, 1970



TABLE 4
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Revenue from Road User Related Taxes
(Rials million)
1967/68              1968/69       1969/70
(Actual Revenue)       (Estimate)    (Estimate)
1.   Renewal of vehicle licence                                      2/             2/
plates (property tax)                  33                   36            40-
2.   Automobile tax                          259                  500            674
3.   Registration (asphalt) tax              330                  625            693
24.  Gasoline tax                          2,499                2,74o         2,973
5.   Gas-oil tax                             652                  728           862
6.   Road tolls                                6                   10             20
Total                   3,779                4,639          5,262
1/ Customs duties on imported vehicles and spare parts are
not recorded separately.   The Bank estimates that these
revenues total about Rls 3.5-4.0 billion per year.
2/ Bank's estimates.
3/ 40% of total revenues are assumed to accrue from road
vehicle consumption.
Source: Plan Organization
March 24, 1970



TABLE 5
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
CLASS I
Terrain                   Level & Rolling  Mountainous
Design speed (km/h)                 80-100         50-60
Maximum grade (M)                    5-6            6-8
Minimum radius (m)                 400-500          100
Minimum sight distance (m)         100-150           60
Width of roadway (m)                 11.00         10.00
Width of pavement (m)                 7.00          7.00
Width of shoulders (m)                2.00          1.00
Surfacing                      High type (asphalt concrete)
Structure design               H20 - s16 - 4t.
Design axle load (metric              13
ton)
Source: Ministry of Communications and Roads
June 1, 1970



TABLE 6
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Importation of Motor Vehicles (Units)
1963      1964       1965        1966       1967        1968
Cars               9,895      14,717     14,081      15,655     11,794      12,273
Buses                 718        703        782         563        330         216
Trucks               105         437        690       1,213      1,385         770
Vannets               694      1,822      1,570       1,244      1,954       3,850
Total        11,1412     17,679     17,123     18,675      15,463     17,109
Production of Motor Vehicles (Units)
1963      1964       1965        1966       1967        1968
Cars               3,330       3,376      2,756       3,975     14,456      23,305
Buses                120         593      1,383       2,581      2,385       3,834
Trucks              142        1,083      1,750       1,844      2,110       3,284
Vannets
Total         3,862       5,052      5,889       8,400     18,951      30,423
Source: Plan Organization
March 24, 1970



TABLE 7
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Fuel Consumption (thiusand cu.m.)
1/
Year           Gasoline         Gas-Oi1-             Total
1960             627               856              1[,483
1961             644               984              1,628
1962             664             1,083              1,747
1963             702             1,158              1j,860
1964             740             1,349              2,089
1965             714             1,593              2,307
1966             800             1,881              2,681
1967             874             2,185              3,059
1968             943             2,,467             3,410
Average Annual Growth Rate
1960/1968           1964/1968
Gasoline         5%                    6%
Gas-Oil         14%                   16%
Total           11%                   13%
1/ These figures represent total consumption, of which
consumption on roads is estimated at 40%.
Source: Plan Organization
March 24, 1970



TABLE 8
MAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Operating Costs and Savings
(Rials per 1,000 km - taxes excluded)
Passenger Cars
Existing
Road      New Road      Saving           %
Nain  -  Yazd                       4,941       3,100         1,8h1          37
Saghez  -  Miandoab                5,022        3,128         10894          38
Miandoab  -  Rezaieh                5,170       3,123         2,0h7          4o
Rezaieh  -  Khoy  -  Evoglu         4,622       3,130         1,492          32
Trucks and Buses
Existing
Road      New Road      Saving           %
Nain  -  Yazd                     12,420        6,257         6,163          50
Saghez  -  Miandoab               12,540        6,800         5,740         146
Miandoab  -  Rezaieh              12,776        6,431         6,345          50
Rezaieh  -  Khoy  -  Evoglu       12,183        7,226         4,957          41
N.B.: The time of occupants of passenger cars and of drivers and
driver-assistants of trucks and buses was evaluated on the
basis of US$1 per hour
Source: Bank and Consultants
June 1, 1970



TABLE 9
IRAN
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Schedule of Individual Contracts and Packages of Contracts
1/
Construction     No. of           Value of       Value of
Cost         Individual       Individual    Packages of
Road               Leng-h    Rls          US$    Contracts        Contracts      Contracts
(km)    T7million)                           (US$ mill)    (US$ mill)
Nain - Yazd           179     760.0      10.1        3            2.3 - 4.5      1 ( 10.1
Saghez-Miandoab        91     532.0       7.1        2            3.5 - 3.6      1 @ 7.1
Miandoab-H.ezaieh     162   1,313.0      17.5         3           4.9 - 6.5      1 @ 11
i@   6.5
Rezaieh - Evoglu      119   1,595.0      21.3         5           3.5 - 6.3      1 @  9.8
1 9 11.5
Totals         551   4,200.00    56.o
1/ Excluding engineering and contingencies
June 1, 1970






ANNEX 1
Page 1
FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Previous Bank Road Projects
1.   First Highway Project
Loan 227-IRN for US$72 million, which was signed in May 1959,
financed the foreign exchange costs of:
(a) the construction and improvement of about 2,560 km of
main roads in the northern and western parts of Iran;
(b) the purchase of construction equipment for the Ministry;
(c) the engineering and supervision of the construction
project by foreign consultants; and
(d)  the preliminary survey and engineering studies of a
second main road progran and of a feeder road program.
This project has been completed satisfactorily, and the loan fully disbursed.
2. Second Highway Project
Loan 381-IRN for US$16.7 million was signed in June 1964 and
financed the foreign exchange costs of:
(a) the construction and improvement of about 680 km of
main roads;
(b) the services of consultants for the supervision of con-
struction; and
(c) the engineering of a future road program of about 2,800
km of main roads.
The work has now been completed satisfactorily and the loan fully disbursed.
3. Third Highway Project
Loan 410-IRN for US$28 million was signed in April 1965 and
finances the foreign exchange costs of:
(a) the construction and improvement of about 1,680 km
of main roads;



ANNEX 1
Page 2
(b) the engineering of some of these roads; and
(c) the supervision of construction by consultants.
At November 1, 1969, when the last supervision was made, this project was
452 complete. Disbursements under this loan have been unsatisfactorily
slow due to a combination of circumstances: Government's excessive delays
in awarding certain contracts; delays of up to four months in paying con-
tractors, thus effectively reducing .their output of work; and some con-
tractors in any event being unable to maintain their planned rates of
progress. Because of this, the closing date of the loan has been postponed
by 2 years from September 1, 1969 to September 1, 1971, by which time it
is anticipated that all project elements should be complete.
4.   First Feeder Road Project
Loan 411-IRN for US$8.5 million was signed in April 1965 and
finances the foreign exchange costs of:
(a) the construction of about 1,800 km of feeder roads; and
(b) the purchase of materials laboratory equipment.
At November 1, 1969, when the last supervision was made, this project was
78% complete.  The present closing date is April 1, 1970 but the Government
is expected to request a nine month extension to December 31, 1970 when all
work should be completed. Progress of this project has been more seriously
affected by the delays in contract payments mentioned in para. 3 above.
The contractors concerned here are smaller and less viable financially than
those engaged on main road projects. Through lack of finance, some have
had to cease work until payments in arrears due to them have been made, and
others have been forced into liquidation.
5.   Local Currency Provision
The shortage of local funds, which has delayed payments on road
projects, has been brought about by cost overruns on economically important
and politically significant priority projects (e.g. the Trans-Iranian Trunk
Gas Pipeline, the new rail line to the-USSR-financed steel mill at Esfahan)
as well as unforeseen defense expenditures. To compensate, the Government
has attempted to slow down the rates of expenditure in other sectors. Bank
supervisory missions have repeatedly requested the Government to meet its
obligations under the loan agreements and effect prompt payments to the
contractors, but so far without results.



ANNEX 2
Page 1
ADDITIONAL INFOYMATION ON PROJECT ROADS
A.  Nain-Yazd Road
1.        The Nain-Yazd road (180 km) passes through the southern end of
the Great Salt Desert. Population and economic activities, are concentrated
around a few oases. Total population of the area is about 150,000, of
which nearly 100,000 live in Yazd. Agricultural production, although
heavily dependent on the availability of water, is diversified. Surpluses,
however, are small and mostly exported to Esfahan. Industrial activity is
,limited to the small scale production of textiles and carpets. There is
little potential for economic development in the region itself; it will,
however, profit from the exploitation of mineral deposits east of Yazd,
especially if a good road connection exists.
2.        The proposed road links with the paved road from Tehran and
Esfahan at Nain. The continuation east of Yazd to Kerman is presently under
construction. The main freight on this road is manufactured products and
construction materials going east and the products of the Kerman region
(fruit, vegetables, dates, spices, carpets) going west. The development
of southeastern Iran will have considerable effect on the traffic of this
road. The port of Bandar Abbas, which was opened recently, has not yet
attracted any notable volumes of traffic. However, it is expected to carry
a considerable portion of Iran's foreign trade in the future. Although a
portion of the port traffic would use the railroad, which is.being presently
extended to Bafgh, it will add materially to the traffic volumes on the
road. Additional traffic on the road can also be expected between the new
steel mill in Esfahan and the iron ore mines near Bafgh, even if the ore
is carried by the railroad. The present-day traffic on the Nain-Yazd road
is estimated at 450 vpd, 65% of which consists of trucks and buses. The
rate of return of the new road will be 26%.
B.   Saghez - Niandoab and Miandoab - Rezaieh - Evoglu Roads
3.        The Sbghez-Miandoab road (91 km) and its branch along the west
side of Lake Reraieh, the Niandoab - Rezaieh - Evoglu Road of 330 km
crosses the plain of West Azerbaidjan which extends east of the northern
part of the Zagros mountain chain and is intersected by spurs from these
mountains. The region is agriculturally rich and accommodates a population
of more than one nillion, the main population centers being Rezaieh
(115,000 inhabitants), Khoy (50,000), Mahabad (30,000) and Hiandoab
(30,000). The agricultural production of the area increased rapidly during
the last few years, because of an extension of the cultivated areas asso-
ciated with the construction of feeder roads and an increase in area
productivity by improved production methods. At present two major irriga-
tion dams  are under construction at Mahabad (Shahpur 1 Dam) and at Miandoab



ANNEX 2
Page 2
(Cyrus the Great Dan). The further agricultural development of the area
may be stimulated by the need to feed workers involved in the industrial
developments in Tabriz (East Azerbaidjan) which, in addition to Tehran,
is a major market for the area's products.  Industrial activity in West
Azerbaidjan is very limited and is largely dependent on agricultural
products such as the sugar beet mills in Rezaieh, Khoy and Evoglu. Small
enterprises such as flour mills, wool processing factories and carpet-
making workshops are found in many places.
4.        At present the main traffic on the Saghez-Miandosb road consists
of the movement southward of Azerbaidjan's (mostly agricultural) products
to the Gulf area and the transport of petroleum products from the Kerman-
shah refinery in the opposite direction. The volume of southbound traffic
is the heavier. The industrial developments presently taking place in
Azerbaidjan and Khuzestan will probably create nw  traffic on this road
from exchange of goods and shipments to points of export. The present
daily traffic is estimated at 650 vpd (65% trucks and buses). The rate
of return of the proposed improvement amounts to 27%.
5.        Traffic on the Miandoab - Rezaieh - Khoy - Evoglu road is pre-
dominantly regional and is closely linked to the harvest seasons of the
agricultural produce. The peak occurs during the harvest of sugar beets
in late autumn. Besides goods traffic, there are significant volumes of
passenger traffic, particularly north of Rezaieh between the towns along
the road and further. to Tabriz. Miandoab is more important than,Mahabad as
a market place and as a social center, and therefore attracts more traffic.
Traffic on the southern portion of the road is frequently impeded.by
flooding when the lake ovqrflows in the early springtime, and likewise
on the northern portion due to the closure of the mountain passes in
winter, necessitating long detours.  The new road alignment would eliminate
most of the present road closures. The weighted average daily traffic
volumes are 450 vpd (65% heavy vehicles) between Miandoab and Rezaieh and
800 vpd (60% heavy vehicles) between Rezaieh and Evoglu. Savings in
vehicle operating costs due to the proposed improvements and the reduction
in road length vill produce rates of return of 20% for the section south
of Rezaieh and 19% for the northern section. No allowance has been made
for the savings due to elimination of road closures.



IRAN: FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Organization of
Ministry of Communications and Roads
The Minister
Affiliated Organizations:
1. Iranian State Railways
2. Department of Civil Aviation                                                            eityDeptment
3. State Meteorological Department
4. State Highway Health Department
Deputy Minister                      ~~~Deputy minister
Deputy Minister                                     Ministerial                                       Deputy Minister                                    (parliau enty ry                                    (Financial and
(Technical Affairs)                                   Secretariat                                   (Research & Projects)                                       Affietry)                                      Administratite
Affairs)                             ~~~~~~~Affairs)
See CHARI                                     Hot reproduced                                       Not reproduced                                     Not reproduced                                     Not reproduced
Page 2
Department of                      ~~~~Chief Engineer's.he    ngoe'
Fedeprtmentdo                                  Bureau for Execution                                        BurhefEineau
Feeder Roads                           ~~~~~~of Projects
Not reproduced                                     Not reproduced                                      Not reproduced
M.H



IRAN: FIFTH ROAD PROJECT
Organization of
Ministry of Communications and Roads
T-n.p-t.ti..~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ Affh.alAfars
|Department of Research |             Department of Egti-I
and Formulation of              | ation of Technical Cntr  Depat                                          Departte ent of Route                                  Department  f tod
-| Safety Department             fenc|  Dtofenna              V        ttiinationg |- Separ_fi_t=entr                    lV Accounts Department                                       Departme repartont
[   Detign Depart=ent   |   r                       l~~~~~~~Deprtnnm
DIlig, 1),pl,t-,t                                                                                                                                   D~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~rnoeenrPlig  Pteig  n
| Bridg-6, SDtuct-    r    e     s    ...-ntAccounts                                                            Departmenep                               tion Depat.ctnt  A--| Dectin Dept. |rcnnnta Departent--
| R.il..y Construction  |--|             Laboratoay                                                                                                                                   A..ntentnc -R|p-t    nt   r
R..d H I.tenc  (Regi.s                                                                                            Not reprod-cd
Not reprod-cd



5 R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
fEv  I                                                                                     U,                                    I R
awd AAm-Atr   Caspion  Sea                                                                                       ''PFHRA                                       R JC
.. SS*h's                                                                                                                       I                       3nd       _OaS. LeeKstara  C  d p   Rba  Low 410 fMR
/'  T ARI         Ardobil                                                                                                                -    P   _osed 4fln   P4oisejO  RoadsftC4ftttnIX)
exs L t n t -                                                                Yekch-chal -. , - RAit aWAYS,                                        vd    ro-  0oftioa
. W 2 o_ <>H~~~~~~ero  tand(or                                                                           jnur           _                     t  "- Aatcrna"tn boundarios
a' \k 1<   alianeh  7                                                                     XGhuchan                      1RAN AfR,
Neuhobt Wiado '>%. KIJWAtTk                                                                                                                                                     -
Da                     vns   ~A                                    andarre $,yh ra h e I5'>'u- 5
Block 5eu,   SANANDAD2        t _     a       v      e       h      n                                     KashH             TorXGk
d                               esi                                             Bonnder Ab                d         s-o-
C     L    i a      ^          a    t                              Mininob
I  R A1Q' iRO \@\   j;2   N0 Pe                              \ ia\t
A>'               /ti     f       -'                                                           <__                                              /                                        0
~'O'-.KUWIT   ictTMkIRov              KN 
'0                            0                     UCTA
h. a                                                                                                                                                ------ M  N  -MA N  J-
Buru i                                 KashrX                                                                                                     KZ.'?g/t X*ET-R
AD AIJAI ARAIA                                                                                                                                  Chohbohne  Shrk  FGHA NISTAN
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ r e a tv  1S a n d,                                          
I ~          9              U. 5 S.R\'D-                                          Lr                
.-SU-AR      t                       /t    i 5,          OA                                                             GuG  uf I fm O M25
IMAY 1 970                                                                                                                                                                                         IBROKraE



