Document of
The World Bank
FOR OMCLCAL USE ONLY
Report No. 14065
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
(CREDIT 1404-ET)
MARCH 17, 1995
Infrastructure Operations Division
Eastern Africa Department
Africa Regional Office
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Currency Exchange Rates
Currency Unit = Birr (Br) = 100 cents
1983 to September 1992: US$ = Br. 2.072; Br. 1.00 = US$ 0.483
October 1992 to March 1994: US$ = Br. 5.00; Br. 1.00 = US$ 0.20
Weights and Measures
Metric
ETHIOPIAN CALENDAR
The Ethiopian Calendar year runs from September 11 to September 10 and the fiscal
year from July 8 to July 7.
Acronyms and Abbreviations
AfDF           =      African Development Fund
AIDB            =     Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
ATA            =      Air Transport Authority
BNCE           =      Blue Nile Construction Enterprise
CPSC           =      Central Planning Supreme Council
EA             =      Ethiopian Airlines
EACS           =      Ethiopian Audit Services Corporation
ERA            =      Ethiopian Road Authority
ETCA           =      Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority
MOC            =      Ministry of Construction
NATRACOR    =         National Road Transport Corporation
PPD            =      Planning and Programming Division - ETCA
RTA            =      Road Transport Authority
TSM            =      Transport Sector Memorandum
voc            =      vehicle operating costs
vpd            =      vehicles per day



FOR OFFICLL USE ONLY
THE WORLD BANK
Washington, D.C. 20433
U.S.A.
Office of Director-General
Operations Evaluation
Harch 17, 1995
MEMORANDUM TO THE EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS AND THE PRESIDENT
SUBJECT:   Project Completion Report on Ethiopia
Second Road Sector Project (Credit 1404-ET)
Attached is the Project Completion Report on Ethiopia -- Second Road Sector Project
(Credit 1404-ET) prepared by the Africa Regional Office, with Part II contributed by the Borrower.
The SDR64.9 million Credit was approved on September 16, 1983 and closed on March 31,
1994, more than five years behind the original schedule. SDR59.6 million was disbursed and SDR5.3
million was canceled.
When preparation started for this project in the early 1980s, most of Ethiopia's road network
was some 20 years old, in poor condition, and in need of rehabilitation and upgrading. At the time,
many areas with good agricultural potential were only accessible by animal-drawn vehicles. The
objectives of the project were to improve and to expand the existing trunk road network, improve
access to rural areas by constructing and maintaining feeder and rural roads, and to strengthen and
improve effectiveness of government institutions in the sector.
The project was implemented during a period of civil war. This diverted government
resources, and deterred finance by other donors. Government funds were further diverted to alleviate
famine stemming from sustained drought conditions. The project had to be scaled down soon after
Board approval; a substantial part (about 80 percent in physical terms) of the revised project was
actually implemented. The PCR gives a good account of project results and implementation, and of
the surrounding circumstances. However, cost data is sketchy and the total final project cost is not
available.
The major road works had satisfactory rates of return; the return for feeder and rural roads
was not assessed, although an environmental study funded by Norway demonstrates considerable
intensification of land use - as well as potential deforestation risks. Practically all the studies
envisaged were conducted but did not lead to noticeable institutional improvements partly related to
the lack of a coherent approach to the sector by donors. In particular, Blue Nile Construction
Enterprise, a publicly owned construction company, did not succeed in becoming a competitive
contractor. On balance, the institutional development impact is rated as negligible.
Taking into account the difficult circumstances under which the project was implemented, the
project outcome is rated as marginally satisfactory. The sustainability of benefits is rated as uncertain
due to constraints in maintenance funding.
The project will not be audited.
Attachment
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of|
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.|






FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 1404-ET)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Preface .....................................................                      i
Evaluation Summary ......................................................         ii
PART I:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BANK'S PERSPECTIVE
1. Project Identity.                                                              1
2. Background.                                                                    1
3.  Project Objectives and Description.                                           2
4.  Project Design and Organization.                                              4
5. Project Implementation.                                                        5
6. Project Results .13
7.  Project Sustainability .15
8. Bank Performance .16
9. Borrower Performance .16
10. Consulting Services .17
11. Lessons Learnt .18
PART II:      PROJECT REVIEW FROM BORROWER'S PERSPECTIVE                         19
PART III:    STATISTICAL INFORMATION                                             23
Table 1:     Related Bank Loans and/or Credits (Highway Projects)                24
Table 2:  Project Timetable              ..25
Table 3:  Credit Disbursements             ..26
A. Actual Disbursements .26
B. Chart of Annual Credit Disbursements                             27
Table 4:   Project Implementation.                                                28
A. Civil Works, Equipment and Staff Training    ........            2
B. Training and Technical Assistance                                29
Table 5:   Project Costs and Financing          ..30
A. Project Costs ............                                       30
B. Allocation of Credit Proceeds .31
Table 6:  Economic Analysis    ..32
Table 7:  Mission Data    ..35
Table 8:      Compliance with Credit Covenants       ..36
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of their
official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Banik authorization.



I



ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 1404-ET)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
PREFACE
This is the Project Completion Report (PCR) for the Second Road Sector Project in
Ethiopia, for which Credit 1404-ET in the amount of SDR 64.9 million was approved on
September 16, 1983. The Credit was closed on March 31, 1994, more than five years behind
the original schedule of December 31, 1988. It was disbursed to the amount of SDR 59.592
million and SDR 5.308 million was canceled. The last payment was made on February 9,
1994.
The PCR was jointly prepared by the Infrastructure Operations Division, Eastern
Africa Department (Preface, Evaluation Summary, Parts I and III), and the Ethiopian Roads
Authority (ERA) provided comments on behalf of the Borrower (Part II).
Preparation of this PCR was started in June 1994, and was based inter alia on the
Staff Appraisal Report; the Credit Agreement; Part II from the Borrower; supervision reports;
correspondence between the Bank and the Borrower; and internal Bank memoranda.






ii
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 1404-ET)
PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
Evaluation Summary
A. Introduction
1.    The Second Road Sector Project was the Bank's eighth project in the road sub-sector
in Ethiopia. It built on the experience gained from the earlier projects, particularly the First
Road Sector Project that was progressing satisfactorily and was coming to an end during
appraisal, although the project was delayed by about two years at that time.
2.    The road network of Ethiopia was relatively limited with about 13,300 km of all
weather roads, of which about 4,000 km were paved. The main roads were built before 1960
and in need of upgrading. Many areas with agricultural potential were accessible only by
donkeys and other pack animals.
B. Objectives
3.    The Project was designed to support implementation of the Government's Sector
Program (1984-1986). The objectives were to improve and expand the existing trunk road
network, improve reliable accessibility to rural areas by constructing and maintaining feeder
and rural roads; and to strengthen and improve effectiveness of Government institutions in
the sector.
C. Project Implementation and Results
4.    The sub-projects that received financing from the Credit were successfully completed,
albeit several years late. The Project as a whole, which was designed as a three year slice of
the Government's second sector Program, did not fulfill all of its objectives. The physical
outputs of the Program and the rate of implementation fell much short of the targets. Of the
proceeds of the Credit, 434 km of main paved roads identified for rehabilitation, only 70 km
were completed. Of the 734 km of gravel feeder roads to be reconstructed, only 250 km
(Nekempte-Bure road) were completed. The ERR is estimated at 31 percent for the Mille-
Logia (completed part of Mille-Assab) road compared to 26 percent at appraisal for the
whole of Mille-Assab road; and 12 percent compared to 24 percent at appraisal for
Nekempte-Bure road improvements. The development of the domestic construction industry
was also less successful than aimed for. The Blue Nile Construction Enterprise (BNCE), the
Government owned contractor that was the most direct beneficiary of the technical assistance



iii
for management training, failed to prequalify for later Bank financed projects in Ethiopia
because Government failed to provide it with the managerial and financial autonomy
necessary to meet the Bank's criteria for prequalification of state-owned enterprises. The
equipment part of the Project was procured and deployed essentially as intended. Despite five
extensions, for a total of 5 1/4 years, the Credit was not disbursed in full, leaving an
undisbursed balance of SDR 5,307,964, or 8.2% of total (June 1994) which has been
canceled.
D. Conclusions
5.    The project was implemented during a period of civil war in the country, which
hampered all operations and affected the functioning of the govermnent institutions involved.
Judged against this background, it was quite an achievement on part of these institutions to
complete the project targets as redefined in 1985. Another main problem of implementation
stemmed from the lack of adequate local funding, that changed the scope and composition of
the Government's sector Program. In retrospect it could be argued that the Government's
sector Program was too ambitious, and that the Government did not have the required
financial resources to implement such a program. In three years the Government was to
provide US$186 million, with US$77.5 million in foreign exchange, as a contribution to the
project, and US$69.3 million (US$33.8 million foreign exchange) as recurrent cost.
However, since most of the country's resources (especially foreign exchange) were diverted
from development investments to drought relief operations and to fight 'civil disturbances',
the Government found it increasingly difficult to finance the Program. Moreover, the
expected donor financing did not materialize. The issue of the Government's financial
constraints was discussed on several occasions during project preparation and the
Government agreed at the Bank's request to reduce the capital cost of the sector program by
some 30% during negotiations.
6.    The Nekempte-Bure road, including the new bridge across the Blue Nile (Abay), was
officially opened to traffic in 1993, after almost nine years of struggle and setbacks.
Construction was hampered by a chronic shortage of operating funds and slow supply of
essential materials, and the contract was temporarily suspended when the hostilities in the
area threatened the safety of the workforce. Transport to the area was difficult and the
contractor lacked access to basic infrastructure and social services. The new road fulfilled its
objectives of opening up an area with rich agricultural potential that before was inaccessible
by car or even by a cart, and provided a new and important interregional link.
7.    A study carried out in parallel with the Project to measure the environmental impact
over time of construction of the Nekempte-Bure road concluded that the population more
than doubled in the study area during the period investigated, with resultant change towards
more intensive land use and increases in cultivated and settled area. Measures to prevent
erosion, loss of soil fertility and a further reduction of the forest area are to be incorporated in
future environmental protection programs. The study confirmed that new roads providing
vehicle access to previously inaccessible rural areas can have both positive developmental,
and adverse environmental impacts.



iv
8.    Development of the domestic construction industry was an important objective of the
Project. To this end technical and managerial assistance was provided to BNCE. The
experience of this support was mixed. On the one hand, BNCE was successful in winning the
award of the contract for the construction of Nekempte-Bure road, and in the end completed
the works successfully even through the war. On the other hand, BNCE did not succeed in
becoming a competitive contractor, organized and equipped to compete for work
internationally. This situation resulted from Government's lack of commitment to develop a
financially and managerially autonomous domestic construction industry that could
eventually become private.
9.    The Project was prepared and designed with the concept of sector lending in mind, as
this had proved in the first sector project to be useful, primarily in increasing the Bank's
participation in shaping the size and composition of the Government's sector program. A
sector project would need a coordinated effort of Government and participating donors in
order to implement all major elements of the program, and to attain the full impact as a sector
program. However, collaboration with other donors diminished as the Program progressed,
and a number of sub-projects were either abandoned or much delayed.  The Bank's
supervision gradually focused attention on sub-projects that included Bank financing, and
less effort was extended in monitoring the Program as a whole. However, a continuous
dialogue with Government to address key issues in the transport sector was maintained by
Bank staff throughout the implementation period.
E. Lessons Learned
10.   The following lessons were learned from the experience under the Second Roads
Sector Project:
(a)  The Government's sector program was probably too ambitious, and they did not have
the required financial resources to implement such a programn. It is important to take a
careful and realistic view of the financial capacity of the Borrower, especially when the
availability of cofinancing of a sector program is not confirmed.
(b)  The construction of new roads providing vehicle access to previously inaccessible
rural areas can have an adverse environmental as well as positive agricultural development
impact as more area is cultivated. It is important, however, to provide for environmental
protection and enhancements during road planning, design and construction. The overall
effects should also be closely monitored and addressed thereafter.
(c)  The lesson from the modest success of technical assistance provided to develop
BNCE is that major policy changes need full commitment by Government to ensure success.
The success of any effort to establish a parastatal as a construction enterprise depends on
Government's willingness to grant it financial and managerial autonomy, and that in the
absence of such commitment, assistance to strengthen such parastatals is likely to accomplish
little.



v
(d) Although it was appropriate, when it became apparent that the Borrower did not have
the financial resources to implement the sector program as planned, to reduce the scale of the
project, to shift attention of supervision to civil works components, and follow up key issues
in the context of other Bank projects, the lesson is that perhaps better monitoring mechanisms
could have been built into the project design by defining performance indicators for the major
sub-projects, and by carrying out joint annual reviews of the program with the Borrower and
other donors.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 1404-ET)
Project Completion Report
Part I: Project Review from Bank's Perspective
1. Project Identity
Name                     :     Second Road Sector Project
Credit No.               :     1404 - ET
RVP Unit                 :     Africa Region
Country                        Ethiopia
Sector                   :     Transport
Sub-sector               :     Roads
2. Background
2.01  The Second Road Sector Project was the Bank's eighth project in the road sub-sector in
Ethiopia. It built on the experience gained from earlier projects, particularly the First Road Sector
Project that was progressing satisfactorily, although delayed by about two years, and was coming
to an end during appraisal.
2.02  The transport system consisted in 1983 of some 43,000 km of roads: the ports of Assab
and Massawa; one railway line (780 km) connecting Addis Ababa with Djibouti; maritime and
coastal shipping; river and lake transport of relatively little significance; two international
airports, at Addis Ababa and Asmera, and 27 local airfields and rudimentary airstrips. Roads and
ports were the country's dominant transport facilities. About 95 percent of interurban passenger
traffic and 90 percent of interurban freight were carried by road. Away from the major roads,
transport was generally by mule or donkey in the highlands and by camels in the lowlands.
About three quarters of Ethiopia's farms were more than a half day's walk from an all weather
road in 1977.
2.03  The classified road network was relatively limited with about 13,300 km of all weather
roads of which about 4,000 km were paved; in addition there were some 30,000 km of
unclassified, low standard earth trails and tracks. The road network was one of the least
developed in East Africa, with a density of only 10 km per 1,000 km2 and 0.4 km per 1,000
population.



2
2.04 In preparation for the Project, the need for a resumption of past efforts to strengthen the
road administration was identified. Previous Bank financed projects, as well as donors, had
supported the successful development of ERA to become an efficient organization with capacity
to discharge its responsibilities for planning, construction and maintenance of the country's
classified road network. However, following the unrest of 1977-78, foreign contractors withdrew
from the country. The Government was faced with an urgent need to build up force account
construction capacity to expand the road network to support the defense of Ogaden. The priority
given to force account construction was at the expense of other activities, particularly
maintenance. The efficiency of ERA as an organization was eroded, as experienced staff were
transferred to manage new construction brigades.
2.05 Sector Development Objectives: Nearly one third of the network of main roads was built
before 1960 and some of the major roads as early as 1930. These roads needed extensive
rehabilitation and upgrading. Further, despite past efforts, there were still many areas under
cultivation or with large agricultural potential, accessible only by pack animals.
2.06 The Government's development strategy for the transport sector was aimed at (a)
improving the main road network to ensure safe, cheap and efficient communications between
population centers and export outlets; (b) improving accessibility to agriculturally productive
areas, as well as to drought prone areas by building feeder rural roads; (c) continuing
maintenance and rehabilitation of the road network, and increasing the capacity of Ethiopian
Transport Construction Authority (ETCA)I' to maintain the roads; and (d) rehabilitating and
improving the trucking industry, as well as the ports and airports, to ensure an efficient
production and distribution system and to facilitate international trade. This strategy was
regarded as constituting a sound basis for the sector and was fully endorsed by the Bank.
2.07   Policy Contx   There was a clear link between the Project and the sector and macro-
economic policy objectives. The transport system was considered inadequate and insufficient to
support an efficient production, exchange and distribution system in the country. Virtually all
transport infrastructure was old and deteriorated and most transport services were inefficient.
Besides, the system left many areas, particularly in the agriculturally rich west, south and south-
west, without access. The Country Economic Memorandum of December 15, 1981 concluded,
with relevance to the transport sector, that agriculture would continue to be the backbone of the
country's economy and that poor transport facilities constituted a major bottleneck for
development, especially of agriculture.
3. Project Objectives and Description
3.01 Project Objectives: The objectives of the Second Road Sector Project were to (i) improve
the road transport infrastructure, and (ii) enhance the effectiveness of the Government's
I/In 1980 the Ethiopian Roads Authority (ERA) was transformed into ETCA, which was the implementing agency until mid
1990, when the Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) was re-established with the same responsibilities, apart from construction of
new road.



3
management of the road sector. More specifically, these broad objectives were translated into the
following project objectives:
(i)
(a) improving, expanding and maintaining the country's trunk highway network;
(b) increasing the reach of all- weather communication by improving, constructing
and maintaining feeder and rural roads;
(c) procurement of modem laboratory and design equipment; and
(d) purchase of road maintenance equipment and the construction of maintenance depots.
(ii)
(a) further strengthening of ETCA and improving its effectiveness;
(b) streamlining and rationalizing RTA and its agency, NATRACOR, thereby
increasing efficiency in the road transport industry;
(c) increasing the mobilization and efficient allocation of resources through the
adoption and periodic updating of appropriate pricing policies;
(d) strengthening the local construction industry, including assisting ETCA in
transforming most of its force account capacity for main and secondary roads into
autonomous commercially based construction enterprises;
(e) improving road traffic safety; and
(f) improving transport sector organization, planning and administration.
3.02 Project Description: The Second Road Sector Project was part of the Government's Road
Sector Program for the fiscal years 1984-1986 . The Project, estimated at US$ 318.4 million,
covered basically the capital investment portion and technical assistance under the Program
which was to assist, inter alia, in continuing the introduction of maintenance management
systems countrywide. The total Program cost was estimated at US$ 387.7 million including
Government's recurrent expenditure on maintenance. Of this the Government intended to cover
US$ 255.4 million, 66%; IDA would cover US$ 70.0 million, 18%; and external sources were
expected to contribute the rest of the financing. ( The Program was adjusted in May 1985. The
physical targets were considerably reduced. However, the total cost of the Program remained
about the same, as the original estimates were revised to reflect actual costs. In addition to IDA,
the financing plan now included contributions from EEC, US$ 11.1 million; AfDF, US$ 19.3
million and Japan US$ 2.0 million). The Project consisted, at appraisal, of the following parts:
Part A: Improvement, rehabilitation and construction of roads:
(1)   rehabilitation and upgrading of about 430 km of paved roads and about 360
km of gravel roads; and
(2)   construction of about 730 km of gravel surfaced feeder roads and about 2,940
km of rural roads.
Part B: Construction. improvement and equipping of:
(1)   maintenance depots;
(2)   training facilities; and
(3)   road safety related facilities, including, inter alia, vehicle diagnostic centers,
vehicle rest and service areas.



4
Part Co Acquisition and utilization of:
(1)   highway maintenance and construction equipment, vehicles and spare parts;
(2)   workshop equipment and tools;
(3)   soils laboratory equipment including equipment for field testing of soils and
construction materials;
(4)   equipment required for highway design, including photogrammetric
equipment (stereo plotter);
(5)   training equipment and materials; and
(6)   traffic signs and guardrail.
Part D: Training- of-,
(1)   MTC's personnel to strengthen and improve the quality of its planning and
programming functions;
(2)   ETCA's personnel to improve its technical and managerial skills;
(3)   RTA's and NATRACOR's personnel with priority to traffic safety and road
transport operations; and
(4)   managers and employees of the domestic construction industry to improve
their skills.
PartE Technical Assistance:
(1)   preparation and implementation of an expanded program for the construction
and maintenance of rural roads by labor-intensive methods;
(2)   strengthening and expansion of ETCA's Monitoring and Evaluation Unit;
(3)   improving the supervision of road construction;
(4)   setting up and operation of management systems for: pre-construction,
construction and maintenance of roads, equipment maintenance and operation,
and parts and supplies management;
(5)   strengthening of the management of domestic construction industry, including
public construction enterprises;
(6)   strengthening ETCA's training programs and centers;
(7)   carrying out the recommendations of the Road Transport Study;
(8)   carrying out a national transport plan study;
(9)   setting up a program and organizational system to improve the administration
of road transport; and
(10)  carrying out studies and assessment of technical assistance needs in the
transport sector that may be required during the implementation of the Project.
4. Project Design and Organization,
4.01  Project preparation: Much effort by the Bank and the Borrower's staff went into the
preparation of the Sector Program, and this extended project preparation time by about four
months. The appraisal report was very thorough and gives a broad background, project objectives
of and detailed information on project components. Negotiations were held in Washington in
April 1983. The main issue discussed was the size of the Project and the possible financial
constraints of the Government.



5
4.02 Pljrect Design: The Second Road Sector Project continued efforts initiated in the First
Road Sector Project from 1976 to 1982. It was designed to cover the capital investment portion
of the Government's proposed highway Program, i.e., the entire operations of ETCA during the
three year period 1984-1986 with technical assistance to continue introduction of maintenance
management systems countrywide, as well as to the Ministry of Transport and Communication
(MTC), the Road Transport Authority (RTA) and the National Road Transport Corporation
(NATRACOR).
4.03 Given the generally satisfactory results of the First Road Sector Project, the planning and
implementation capabilities of the institutions responsible for the transport sector, the Second
Road Sector Project was seen as a natural follow up in the Bank's assistance to the road sub-
sector. The flexibility inherent in sector lending was found to be important in attaining the
satisfactory results of the First Road Sector Project, Credit 708-ET, allowing the composition of
the program to be varied to reflect changing needs and circumstances. This project design was
therefore based on the concept of sector lending.
4.04 Project Organization: The Borrower was Ethiopia. ETCA was the implementing agency
on behalf of the Government and responsible for liaison with and reporting to the Bank. RTA
was responsible for Part D:(3); training of RTA's and NATRACOR's personnel with priority to
traffic safety and road transport operations; Part E: (7)/(9)/(10); carrying out the
recommendations of the Road Transport Study, setting up a program and organizational system
to improve the administration of road transport, and carrying out studies and assessment of
training needs in the transport sector. MTC was responsible for Part D:(l); training of its own
staff, and Part E:(8); the National Transport Plan Study.
5. Project Implementation.
5.01  Loan Effectiveness and Implementation: The Credit became effective on February 14,
1984. The original Credit closing date was December 31, 1988. The first 12 months extension
was approved by the Bank in 1988, followed by a second 12 months in December 1989. A third
extension of 24 months was approved to enable the Government to finalize all outstanding
components in an orderly fashion. During negotiations for the ERRP in Washington D.C in
August 1992, the Government submitted a fourth request for an extension of the closing date for
an additional 6 months due to unforeseen delays experienced on the Mille - Logia road
construction project. A fourth extension was subsequently granted by the Bank in November
1992, establishing September 30, 1993, as the Credit closing date. The Project finally closed on
March 31, 1994.
5.02  By August 1985 the delays occasioned by the implementation problems and the persistent
financing constraints of the Government, showed that the Project could not be completed as
planned. The Government experienced a severe reduction of financial resources due to the war
efforts in Ogaden and the drought relief efforts that diverted scarce funds from the Project. By
this time, only about 7 percent of the Credit had been disbursed. Therefore, the Bank proposed
and the Government in September 1985 agreed to adjust the project to match the stringent
budgetary constraints. The revised plan covered a period of five years from FY83/84 to FY87/88



6
in contrast to the original three years, ending in FY85/86. The physical outputs were reduced
considerably compared to the appraisal targets, as shown in Table 4A. However, the total cost of
the Project was reduced by only about 7 percent; from US$318.4 million to US$297.1 million. It
was also decided to amend the Credit Agreement by increasing the disbursement percentage for
civil works from 40 to 80.
5.03  The main areas of risk were correctly identified to be the shortage of local and foreign
resources to finance the entire Program as defined by the Government. The Bank addressed the
issue when the physical targets were reduced and the capital costs of the Program was reduced by
some 30 percent. In anticipation of a possible future need to reduce the scope of the Project,
Schedule 4 of the Credit Agreement included criteria for selection of sub-projects, setting out the
Borrower's requirements for furnishing documentation for sub-projects presented for financing.
The minimum economic rate of return of any civil works sub-project was set at 12 percent.
5.04 The two external factors that had most impact on Project implementation were: (i) the
general situation of civil war and the hostilities experienced in the Project area, and (ii); the
generally worsening economic and financial situation of the country brought about by war and
drought. These adverse developments were not possible to foresee at the time of the Project
preparation. The appropriate action taken by the Bank was to scale down the physical targets of
the Project, and to increase the disbursement percentage for the civil works component.
5.05 ProcurementL Of the civil works component, the construction of the Nekempte - Bure
road was procured through ICB. Construction of the Mille - Logia road was carried out by a
force account unit from ETCA, with approval from the Bank. Cost of construction was based on
measured quantities and agreed unit prices for each construction item. Equipment and spare parts
for rural road construction and for road maintenance was procured on the basis of ICB.
5.06  project Cost. At appraisal the estimated total Project cost was Birr 659.3 million (US$
318.4 million equivalent) with a foreign component of Birr 434.4 million (US$ 209.9 million).
The total costs of the Project as completed is not available as no detailed information exist in the
files about the Government's financial contribution. Costs of sub-projects financed by the Bank
are given in Tables 5A and 4B. The total cost of the Nekempte - Bure road contract was Birr
101.36 million (US$ 48.92 million) as compared to the tendered price of Birr 83.5 million (US$
40.30 million). The Mille - Logia road was completed at a total cost of Birr 38.55 million. The
original estimate approved by the Bank was Birr 12 million, revised and adjusted for inflation
and design changes in 1991 to Birr 16.6 million.
5.07  Disbursement: The estimated and actual disbursements of Credit 1404-ET are given in
Tables 3A and 3B. The disbursements were delayed due to the delay in Project implementation.
The final payment was made on February 9, 1994, when the undisbursed balance of SDR
5,307,964.18 was canceled. A grant from the Norwegian Consultancy Trust Fund was disbursed
to the sum of US$175,000 ( NOK 1.191 million), but was not part of the Project.
5.08  Physical Results: Performance and results of the individual parts and sub-projects are
described in the following sections.



7
(A)   Category (1), Civil Works
The civil works accounted for 57% of the budgeted project costs and 62.8% of the Credit.
(i)   Part A: 1 (i!: Rehabilitation of paved roads
5.09  Part A: (1); proposed at appraisal, rehabilitation and upgrading of about 430 km of paved
roads and about 360 km of gravel roads. Two paved road sections were included as sub-project;
i.e., the asphalt overlay on the Addis Ababa - Awash road, and rehabilitation of the Mille -Logia
section on the Addis Ababa - Assab road.
5.10  Addis - Awash road: The Addis Ababa-Mille-Assab road (860 km) was built in the 1930s
with a road base of stones and gravel rolled smooth (Telford) and a surface course of bituminous
macadam. The Awash-Mille section (504 km) was rehabilitated under the Credit 708-ET. The
sub-project comprising a section of 44 km was completed by end of December 1984.
5.11  Mille - Logia road: The asphalt overlay on the Mille - Assab (290 km) was at appraisal
intended to be included as a sub-project to be partly financed from the proceeds of the Project,
but had to be deleted due to shortage of counterpart funds. In early 1989, IDA approved a
subproject employing a force account unit for the rehabilitation of about 26 km of the section
from Mille to Logia which has been completed. Mobilization for this sub-project was delayed
for 12 months due to civil unrest in the area. Work started in May, 1990, and good progress was
made until the fuel shortage brought the work to a standstill towards the end of 1990. The war
situation made it impossible to resume work until mid 1991. In the meantime, ERA had revised
the design to conform to the consultant's recommendations for design of the sections of the
Mille-Assab road to be financed under Credit 2438-ET. Apart from the war situation, the force
account unit suffered from inadequate head office support, and shortage of essential materials
and equipment, and progress was disappointing from the start. The ERA management took
appropriate note from the IDA supervision mission of September 1992, and initiated a number of
expediting actions after having visited the project in November 1992. More plant was brought on
site and attention was given to supply of essential materials, and progress improved. The project
was successfully completed in September 1993, and the Bank's supervision mission commended
the force account unit and the excellent work done.
(ii)   Part A: 1 (ii): Upgrading and paving of gravel roads
5.12  Road Upgrading and Paving: Double Bituminous Surface Treatment; The total length
included in this part had by April 1984 been reduced from 360 km, at appraisal, to 166 km in the
Scaled Down Project. Three projects amounting to a total length of 130 km, some 78 percent of
the scaled down project targets were completed by force account.



8
(iii) Part A:2 (i): Reconstruction of gravel feeder roads
5.13  Part A: (2)(i); covered at appraisal, the construction of about 730 km of gravel surfaced
feeder roads including the Nekempte-Bure feeder road (250 km) to engineered gravel standard,
with a 150 m bridge across the Blue Nile (Bay) river. Detailed engineering and bidding
documents for the road were prepared by ETCA and reviewed by the supervising consultant.
Roadway width was designed as 6.6 m, design speed varying from 30 km/h in hilly terrain to 80
km/h in open terrain, maximum gradient up to 12.5% and minimum horizontal radius of 25 m.
The bridge for the Blue Nile crossing was designed by a firm of French consultants. Of the two
alternative designs proposed; a single arch span and a pre-stressed box girder design, ETCA
decided in favor of the pre-stressed box girder design. The specialized work on the Bay bridge,
including supervision of the prestressing operations of the superstructure construction, was
carried out by a French firm under contract to the management consultant.
5.14  According to the Credit Agreement, the contract for construction was to be procured on
the basis of ICB. A stated objective of the Project was to support development of the domestic
road construction industry and reduce the reliance on force account. To this end the Government,
in 1983, set up two public construction enterprises, Blue Nile Construction Enterprise (BNCE)
and Batu Construction Enterprise (BCE). The BNCE was set up from the remains of an insolvent
private contractor, with the objective of developing it to become an autonomous commercially
viable and competitive enterprise, capable of tendering and completing large scale contracts in
Ethiopia and abroad.
5.15  BNCE was prequalified to tender for the Nekempte - Bure road and on August 15, 1984
was invited along with 14 other contractors to submit bids for the construction of the road. One
bid was disregarded as the bid price was disclosed before bid submission time. The contract was
awarded to BNCE, the lowest bidder, in February 1985 for a sum of Birr 83.5 million, as
compared to Birr 72.4 million estimated at appraisal. Following ETCA's notice to proceed, the
mobilization was delayed by the Government's delay in transferring of assets. The progress was
poor from the start of construction, and during the Bank's mission in April 1986, three major
issues were highlighted; (i) the lack of proper supervision on site; (ii) the contractor's failure to
prepare and present its updated work program; and (iii) the deterioration of the relationship
between the contractor BNCE and the management consultants. Progress continued to be slow
and by September 1986, only 13 percent of work was completed with 37.5 percent of
construction time elapsed. The bulk of the earthmoving equipment had been mobilized but
availability was low due to difficulties in obtaining spare parts. Following a discussion with the
Bank's supervision staff, the site management was changed which resulted in much better
working relations, and progress improved. After a period of relatively good progress, the contract
was again troubled by the chronic shortage of fuel and operating funds as the contractor was not
paid for work done. The civil war also later disrupted works, and the contractor was unable to
continue the contract which was considered suspended as of February 26, 1991. Re-mobilization
of the contractor started in mid 1991, but the resources needed were not mobilized as planned
and the progress was slow. The whole project (250 km) was considered substantially completed
in April 1993. The original contractual completion date was November 5, 1988. Formal



9
extension of time was given several times, (145, 42 and 365 days respectively), giving a revised
completion date of May 11, 1990. However, liquidated damages were waived completely.
5.16  On October 12, 1990, a construction failure occurred that temporarily jeopardized the
safety of the north cantilever of the Abay bridge. The incidence took place while the contractor
was transferring loads from the temporary bearings on which the bridge had been constructed to
the permanent bearing. The north cantilevered concrete deck of the main span then moved 0.445
meter longitudinally towards the center of the river, and a slight transverse rotation of the deck
occurred. Steps were immediately taken by the contractor to secure the structure. The contractor
took full responsibility for repairing the damage. The displaced superstructure was moved to its
appropriate position and the minor damage to the bridge was subsequently repaired. Except for a
four months delay caused by the incident, no permanent damage to the bridge was recorded. The
Bank was informed about the incident on October 18, and assisted by helping to mobilize experts
to the site from both the supervising consultant and the French company in charge of erection
engineering that had also supplied prestressing equipment, bearings and superstructure
formwork; and by authorizing an additional expenditure of $ 150,000 to cover this technical
assistance. The Bank later suggested that ETCA should consider an independent investigation to
verify the probable causes of the incident and the Bank's supervision mission in September 1992
requested that this issue should be addressed in the PCR from the Borrower. Reports on the
incident were prepared both by the supervising consultant and the contractor, and these were
finally, in 1992, accepted by ETCA as sufficient explanation for the incident. It was generally
agreed by the involved parties that the incident was caused by a combination of several factors;
including the method used for transferring loads to permanent bearings, the type of equipment
used, the operational procedures, and the quality of cast concrete in the soffit above the
permanent bearing at the north pier.
5.17  GravelRoa: The target of 734 km was reduced to 689 km in the Scaled Down Project.
The subproject for new construction of gravel feeder roads was carried out partly through
contracts and partly through force account. An estimated total of 577 km were improved
comprising 268 km of road by force account and 369 km by contract. Various donors were
involved in the improvements; China, EEC, AfDF and IDA.
(iv)   Part A:2 (ii); Construction of low class rural access roads
5.18  Part A: (2); included, at appraisal, the construction of about 2,940 km of rural access
roads, designed to low all-weather earth/gravel standard, depending on type of terrain and
estimated volume of traffic. Roadway width was 4.0 m and gravel surfacing was to be applied
only when expected traffic was over 50 vpd as required. Rural roads were constructed to RR30 or
RR50 standard, designed to permit year-round traffic at 30 & 50 vpd respectively. Out of the
total, 2, 205 km were identified as sections to be improved or constructed on existing roads; and
735 km referred to roads constructed on a self help basis, with ETCA providing the necessary
machinery, designs and technical assistance, and the farmers providing labor, materials and
certain cash costs such as fuel, food and per diem for machinery operators. Roads to be
constructed under the program were evaluated in terms of economic benefits and costs and needs
of agricultural projects and to serve relief and rehabilitation areas. In the scaled down project,



10
2415 km of roads were proposed. The borrower has reported that an estimated 2,032 km were
improved under this program.
5.19  Of Part A:(2), the Credit financed only procurement of equipment approved by the Bank,
from a detailed list of equipment. The Rural Roads Department of the ETCA carried out
construction and maintenance by "construction units" located in the regions, operating out of 8
rural roads maintenance camps. Machinery for completing and establishing these brigades was
financed by AfDF for the Gondar, Shoa, Bale and Sidamo regions, and also other donors were
involved in financing. The shortfall in annual production was mainly due to shifting of some
brigades to drought-stricken areas. In 1983/84 and 1984/85 about 860 km of rural roads were
actually constructed compared to the target at appraisal of 1,790 km. It was estimated that a total
of about 1650 km of rural access roads had been completed by end of 1987. No further
information is available in the files about total construction up to the end of the project.
5.20  Labor - intensive rural roads construction and maintenance: From September 1981 to July
1983, under a UNDP project, the ILO helped ETCA to carry out a training program, aimed at
preparing Ethiopian staff for an efficient application of labor-based techniques. The training was
given primarily to managerial and supervisory staff from ETCA ' Rural Road Division, as well as
staff from the Ministry of Agriculture and the Relief and Rehabilitation Commission. During this
period, ILO trained more than 150 Ethiopians, 27 of whom attended 2-month courses abroad (11
to India and 16 to Malawi). Also three counterparts were trained to ensure continuation of the
training program. In March 1983, under the First Road Sector Project, Cr. 708-ET, ETCA signed
a one-year agreement with ILO to execute a pilot project of labor-based construction and
maintenance. The project actually started at the beginning of March 1984 on the Guder-Shennen
Road in Hewa region. Good progress was achieved in the beginning, and as of end June 1984,
about 10 km of the projected 40 km had been constructed. In November 1984 the Bank approved
a proposal for the expansion of the labor-intensive road construction and maintenance program,
and ETCA and ILO entered a new agreement providing for the establishment of 13 labor -
intensive construction units and the construction of 320 km of rural roads in three years.
5.21  The Project provided technical assistance under Part E: (1); to prepare and implement an
expanded program for the construction and maintenance of rural roads by labor-intensive
methods. In the five months until March 1985, 19 km of roads were constructed and 4 km were
surfaced with gravel. Average construction cost ranged from Birr 3,800 for flat terrain (2,500
m3/km of earth works) to Birr 23,000 for mountainous terrain (7,500 m3/km of earth works).
5.22  This subproject demonstrated that normal routine construction and maintenance activities
could confidently be handled by labor-based methods, such as clearing and grubbing; cut/fill to
formation level; digging of major and secondary drainage ditches; shaping of camber formation
and construction of all drainage structures. However, a number of technical problems were
encountered, because of difficulties in compacting certain types of soil, scarcity of gravel in the
area and incompatible hauling equipment.
5.23  The progress of this component was unsatisfactory throughout the Project. Despite the
Bank's efforts, the sub-project was reduced to only one pilot project at Akai, and the Ginchi



11
training center was closed down. In 1986 a consultant prepared a second and comprehensive 5 -
year plan for the labor based program, but unfortunately, ETCA's management failed to follow
up the sound proposal, and with a very low level of activity and interest by the government, the
Bank found no longer any justification for having a full time consultant on the job.
Consequently, the ILO expert left upon completion of his contract in February 1989. Overall, the
performance of the labor based construction units was not satisfactory, reportedly due mainly to
lack of competent staff in managerial positions. ETCA management did not demonstrate the
commitment to labor-intensive road construction and maintenance that was hoped for, and failed
to take advantage of the support provided through technical assistance.
(B)  Category (2); Equipment
5.24 Category (2), Equipment, accounted for 27% of the amount disbursed from the Credit (up
to June 1994). The major portion was equipment for road maintenance (Table 5B ), for a total
expenditure of about SDR 13.3 million. Other equipment procured included equipment for road
design, road safety, weighbridges for enforcement of legal vehicle axle loads, and main
computers for ETCA.
(i)   Road maintenance equipment
5.25  Under the First Road Sector Project technical assistance was provided to ETCA to
improve maintenance management and road design. A Maintenance Performance Budgeting
System (MPBS) and an Equipment Management System (EMS) were introduced but only partly
implemented. The project provided for (i) the continuation of technical assistance services to
"tune up" the two management systems, (ii) replacement of equipment and (iii) expansion of
maintenance depots.
5.26  In August 1984, the Bank approved the procurement of about 250 units of maintenance
equipment, for an estimated cost of Birr 25 million (US$ 12 million). ETCA sent the bidding
document for review in May 1985, but the quality of the documents was so poor that the Bank
advised ETCA to do them all over again, and new documents were received in November and
subsequently approved. By September 1986 the Bank had approved the contract award for the
majority of the maintenance equipment. Only two items had to be retendered on the basis of the
revised specifications.
5.27  In accordance with the Credit Agreement, Section 4.09, the Borrower undertook to
allocate (in 1982 prices), not less than Birr 35 million in fiscal year 1984, Birr 40 million in
fiscal year 1985 and Birr 45 million in fiscal year 1986 and annually thereafter to road
maintenance. Because of the financial constraints, the Government was not able to reach these
financial targets. Maintenance expenditures dropped from about 83 percent of the target in FY84
to about 67 percent in FY86. By 1990, ETCA estimated that only about half of the required funds
were spent on maintenance. In addition to inadequate funding, the efficiency of maintenance
operations was low due to inadequate management capacity, overstaffing and low equipment
availability and utilization, caused again by inadequate preventive maintenance of equipment and



12
lack of foreign exchange for purchase of spare parts. Towards the end of the Project it was
evident that the condition of the road network had deteriorated due to lack of maintenance.
(C)   Category (3); Training and Technical Assistance
5.28  Category (3); Training and Technical Assistance accounted for 12 percent of the Credit.
US$ 2.68 million was later reallocated to this category to cover cost of construction management
services to BNCE.
(i)   Training,
5.29  The Project's training component continued activities that had been started under previous
highway projects. ETCA's training program aimed at training and retraining approximately 2,500
employees; 50 professional, 800 technical, supervisory and clerical staff and 1,700 operators and
mechanics. (Purchase of equipment to support the training was included under Category (2)).
Training consultants were selected in accordance with Bank guidelines and approved by the
Bank.
5.30 Training of ETCA personnel: On January 29, 1985, the Bank approved a subproject for
university training of ETCA's 17 staff members abroad over four years, from 1985 to 1988, at an
estimated cost of US$ 300, 000. The program provided for 17 trainees to attend university
courses for 6 -12 months in groups of 3-5 trainees per year starting in the fall of 1985 through
1988, and arrangements would be made with the IRF to assist ETCA. ETCA submitted list of
candidates too late to be registered at the universities. Eventually, the Bank in 1985 approved the
training of the Head of ETCA's Planning and Programming Division, for nine months in Canada.
5.31  Training of domestic construction industry: Training of the domestic construction
industry was included as phase (iii); enterprise management services, provided under the contract
between the BNCE and the construction management consultant selected for the job. The
training was only moderately successful, and the client expressed dissatisfaction with the
consultant's services in this phase. The training manuals were not completed and the
management information systems prepared were thought to be too detailed and not tailored to the
capacity of the BNCE management.
5.32 Problems were experienced with payment to the management consultant for phase (ii),
construction management, that added to the strained relations with the client for some time.
Costs for phases (i) and (iii) were financed from Category (3) of the Credit, Consulting Services,
and the consultant was paid regularly. Phase (ii) was however included in BNCE's contract price
for the road construction, and the consultants could only be paid through the work done. When
no work was generated, BNCE failed to pay the consultants due to lack of funds. Instead
payments were certified by ERA and paid directly to the consultant without making deductions
in the payment to the contractor. This resulted in an over expenditure on the Nekempte - Bure
contract, which was offset against claims for disruption of works. The Credit was reallocated to
account for the extra disbursement made from Category (3).



13
(ii)   Technical Assistance.
5.33  An overview of the implementation of technical assistance agreements is provided in
Table 4B, showing costs of services and rated performance of consultants. The specific effects of
the technical assistance provided by the Project are not easy to trace. Performance of the
Government institutions that benefited, was influenced during this time by a number of outside
factors that affected the whole public service, such as high turnover of staff and generally
deteriorating conditions. Also the Banks supervision did not monitor the technical assistance
component closely. Moreover, the objectives were not specific and performance indicators to
trace degree of achievement were not identified. Perhaps what affected the result of technical
assistance most was the Government's reluctance to take required actions to improve the
regulatory framework of the sector. Much the same problems of the transport sector were noted
towards the end of the Project as at appraisal, such as inadequate tariffs that did not permit
recovery of investment, tight government regulation of road transport and a general decrease in
efficiency in operation of the transport fleet.
6. Project Results
6.01 Project Objectives: Construction of the Nekempte -Bure road had a marked impact on
the accessibility of the area across the Blue Nile and provided an important interregional
transport link. The rehabilitation of the Mille - Logia section improved conditions on a crucial
road link to the Assab harbor, a transport life line for the country. Also the agricultural frontier
was expanded in areas that before the road construction had only weather-dependent connections.
However, the Project as a whole, which was designed as a three year slice of the Government's
second sector Program, cannot be considered as successful in terms of fulfilling all its objectives.
6.02  Physical Results: The physical targets of the Project were not fully achieved. The sub-
projects that received financing from the Credit were successfully completed, albeit several years
late. The physical targets of the Program and the rate of implementation fell much short of the
targets. Of the 434 km of main paved roads identified for rehabilitation, only 70 km were
completed. Of the 734 km of gravel feeder roads to be reconstructed, only 250 km (Nekempte-
Bure road) were completed. The development of the domestic constructing industry was less
successful than hoped for. The Blue Nile Construction Enterprise (BNCE), the Government
owned contractor that was the most direct beneficiary of the technical assistance for management
training, failed to prequalify for later Bank financed projects in Ethiopia. The equipment part of
the Project was procured and deployed essentially as intended. Despite five extensions, for a total
of 5 1/4 years, the Credit was not disbursed in full, leaving an undisbursed balance of SDR
5,307,964, or 8.2% of total (June 1994).
6.03  PrQect Benefits: An economic evaluation was carried out at appraisal for all the major
physical components of the Program, except for rural roads and technical assistance, to assess
their benefits. Economic costs were based on detailed engineering for the construction of
Nekempte - Bure road and on preliminary engineering for other sub-projects to be started in
FY84, and average per kilometer cost estimates for the remainder, based on actual expenditures
under the First Road Sector Project adjusted to reflect renewal cost of equipment. The minimum



14
economic return for sub-projects to be included in the Program was established at 12 percent the
estimated opportunity cost of capital in Ethiopia at appraisal. For the Nekempte - Bure road, the
ERR was estimated at 24 percent at appraisal, on account of value added in agriculture. Savings
in vehicle operating costs were not included. Results of the environmental impact study indicate
that the road has had the intended impact on agricultural production. Based on similar
assumptions as at appraisal and 1994 traffic counts, ERR was estimated at 12 percent, and a first
year rate of return of 15 percent. On the Mille - Logia road, traffic counts in 1994 showed a total
of 549 vehicles per day, with a heavy component (312) trucks/trailers. Using the same
assumptions as at appraisal about vehicle operating costs, traffic over the next ten years after
rehabilitation was assumed to grow at 2.7 percent annually. The ERR for the rehabilitation is
estimated at 31 percent with a first year rate of return of 15 percent. The detailed calculations
and assumptions are shown in Table 6.
6.04 An environmental impact study, financed by the Norwegian Government, and carried out
by a firm of Norwegian consultants in close cooperation with local counterpart staff from ERA
was implemented in parallel with the Project. (The Norwegian Government agreed vide telex of
August 28, 1990 to finance the environment impact study, estimated to cost US$150,000). The
objective of the study was to measure the environmental impact over time of the Nekempte -
Bure road. The study recorded land use/ land cover patterns from 1980 to 1993. It monitored
changes that took place during the 1980s, up to 1993 when the road was substantially completed.
The study data was obtained from remote sensing from SPOT XS and Landsat TM satellite data,
and used to prepare a series of thematic maps based on digital image processing verified by field
studies. The methodology used for the environmental impact study was unproven at the time.
However, the study confirmed that remote sensing, using satellite images and digital image
processing, was well suited for monitoring land use changes linked to road developments. The
initial findings of the study were that the main population centers in the area close to the road
expanded considerably. Estimates indicate that the population has more than doubled in the study
area during the period investigated. There has been a considerable change towards more
intensive land use and increases in cultivated and settled area. A large bamboo forest in the
Angar valley was however cleared between 1980 and 1986 and the remaining high forests in the
valley are now threatened by encroachment. Except for the Bure plateau, the study area has a
higher agricultural carrying capacity than is being utilized today, but measures are required to
prevent erosion, loss of soil fertility and a further reduction of the forest area. Although too early
to draw firm conclusions, it is believed that a very large proportion of the measured changes in
the study area were induced and/or accelerated by the road construction. The study results would
be of value for the Government's future development planning. The adopted methodology was
innovative and could be considered for use in other Bank financed development projects where
environment is at stake.
6.05  Development of the domestic construction industry was an important objective of the
Project. To this end technical and managerial assistance was provided to BNCE. The experience
of this support was mixed. On the one hand, BNCE was successful in winning the award of the
contract for the construction of Nekempte-Bure road, and in the end completed the works
successfully even through the war, including the relatively advanced bridge construction over the
Blue Nile. On the other hand, BNCE did not succeed in becoming a competitive contractor,



15
organized and equipped to compete for work internationally. In main the failure resulted from
Government's lack of commitment to develop a financially and managerially autonomous
domestic construction industry that could eventually become private. Numerous obstacles were
faced by BNCE during the course of this project because of its status as a parastatal rather than a
private firm. It had no easy access to foreign exchange, unable to open a foreign account to
purchase spare parts on a timely basis, and could not easily hire and fire. BNCE as a company
lacked the financial and managerial autonomy to succeed and survive over the long term. Some
of its implementation problems could possibly have been avoided by an international contractor
with more leverage on the Government in attending to contract obligations.
6.06  The Project was prepared and designed with the concept of sector lending in mind, as this
had proved in the first sector project to be useful, primarily in increasing the Bank's participation
in shaping the size and composition of the Government's sector program. It was realized that
preparation of a sector program would entail more work for the Bank staff at appraisal and would
need more supervision to monitor the whole Program. A sector project would need a coordinated
effort of Government and participating donors in order to implement all major element of the
program, and to attain the full impact as a sector program. The collaboration with other donors
diminished as the Program progressed, and a number of sub-projects were either abandoned or
much delayed. The Bank's supervision gradually focused attention on sub-projects that included
Bank financing. Less effort was extended in monitoring the Program as a whole. However, a
continuous dialogue with Government to address key issues in the transport sector was
maintained by Bank staff throughout the implementation period. Some of these issues were
related to credit covenants, such as reorganization of the road transport industry, vehicle weight
legislation and enforcement, maintenance funding, review of road classification system and
reorganization of ETCA. For example the proposed investment in the Awash - Assab railway
line was abandoned when careful economic and financial analysis, initiated as a result of the
National Transport Study, demonstrated that the project would not be viable. Other transport
sector objectives were addressed directly through technical assistance, such as strengthening of
institutions and the local construction industry. It was realized that these and other issues needed
to be pursued more vigorously than allowed for under the Project, and hence were reviewed in
the context of two later Bank financed projects in the sector, the Transport Project (Credit 2002-
ET) and the Road Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2438-ET).
7. Project Sustainability
7.01  Benefits of the Nekempte - Bure road, which became the major sub-project financed by
the Bank, is likely to be sustained in the future. The new bridge across the Blue Nile provides a
missing link in the north-south interregional road transport corridor. At the time of the last
supervision mission in April 1993, maintenance had been organized in the field for the Nekempte
- Bure road. As for the Addis -Awash and Mille - Logia road rehabilitation, full benefits of the
road investment would only be sustained if the Government is committed to provide adequate
resources for road maintenance. Improved road maintenance, and associated institutional
capacity building for supervision and contracts management, are key components of ongoing
Bank financed Emergency Road Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2351-ET) and the Road



16
Rehabilitation Project (Credit 2438-ET) which is also establishing a pavement management
system.
8. Bank Performance
8.01  The main strength of the Bank's performance was the demonstrated perseverance to
complete the financed sub-projects despite the severe constraints caused by war, drought and the
Government's chronic financial problems that developed during implementation. The Bank acted
in sympathy with the Borrower's persistent problems and took decisive actions to scale down the
project and change the disbursement percentage of the civil works component. These changes
made it possible both to complete the construction of the Nekempte - Bure road, and to disburse
92 percent of the Credit (June 1994), albeit for much less output than originally planned. The
environmental impact study in the area of the Nekempte - Bure road, which was initiated by the
Bank during implementation, was an innovative approach to monitoring the impact on land use
from a development investment project in a previously inaccessible area. It also provides the
basis for setting up follow up protection programs for this and future roads projects. The Bank's
supervision staff established a positive dialogue with the Borrower's institutions and initiated
appropriate actions to improve relations between the site staff of the contractor and the
management consultant on the road contract, which was impeding progress.
8.02 The Bank fielded 19 supervision missions over a ten year period, with a total of about 30
staff weeks spent in the field, for an average of about 1.6 staff week per mission. The frequency
of missions was adequate and provided good staff continuity for the last six project years.
However, taking into account that Bank staff on supervision also deal with other ongoing
projects and appraisal of proposed projects, the time would seem limited for a close monitoring
of all sector components. The Bank's supervision focused on sub-projects that were partly
financed by the Credit, and was less detailed on other project components. Monitoring of the
whole Project was not fully in accordance with the objectives of the concept of sector lending.
8.03  The Appraisal Report was detailed and could have provided a useful framework for
monitoring during project implementation. However, as the Program was delayed and scaled
down, the Bank's supervision became focused on the sub-projects that involved Bank financing.
Also, a closer follow up of individual sub-projects could perh ips have been facilitated by a
clearer definition of objectives and performance indicators, and by considering a more
formalized annual review of the whole Program with the Borrower.
9. Borrower Performance.
9.01  The Borrower experienced severe balance of payments problems during the
implementation and was unable to provide the required funds for the Project as intended. The
Borrower maintained good working relations throughout the project and responded to the Bank's
request for additional information when needed. The Borrower's performance was given ratings
indicating "problem free" (1) during the two first years of implementation, but then deteriorated
and was later not as good as expected. Preparation of sub-projects and bidding documents, hiring
of consultants, approval of payments were slow, and decisions, even on minor matters were



17
delayed without any valid justification. Procurement of equipment was delayed as ETCA had to
do the bidding documents all over again to attain the standard required by the Bank Guidelines
(1984). A retender had to be called for the bulk of the shop tools and equipment since the
evaluation revealed that tenderers had difficulties in responding to the invitation. Long delays
occurred which eventually adversely affected the success of the training component.
9.02  The Borrower did not give high priority to the labor based rural roads construction and
maintenance, and failed to take advantage of the technical assistance support given to this part.
The ETCA's management was not committed to the concept of labor based construction and
maintenance and failed in following up proposals for a five year labor based program.
9.03  The extremely difficult working conditions, brought about by hostilities, war, drought
and famine relief efforts, had an effect also on project management and the results of the
institution building efforts. It was a remarkable achievement in itself to complete the Bank
financed sub-projects successfully under such circumstances, for which the Borrower's
institutions, as well as the contractor, should be commended.
10. Consulting Services
10.01 The total cost of Consulting Services was SDR 9.620 million, accounting for about 15
percent of the total Credit. In addition, about $175,000 was provided for the environmental
impact study from the Norwegian Consultant Trust Fund. Altogether, ten consulting firms and
institutions were involved from six different countries. Bank procedures were used, as required
by the Credit Agreement, for appointing consultants. Procurement of consultant services was
carried out satisfactorily by the Borrower. An overview of implementation of training and
technical assistance is included in Table 4 in Part III. Although consulting services were
satisfactory overall, some shortcomings were noted:
10.02 The National Transport Plan Study, which was intended to be an important input in the
Bank's dialogue with the Government on transport sector issues, was much delayed and
eventually failed to provide the input and recommendations hoped for. The construction
management services extended to BNCE were essential to win the contract and to complete the
works. It was less successful in developing the BNCE as a company. The first team of site
management staff could not develop good working relation with the client that hampered
progress until replaced with a more successful team. A construction failure occurred at the Abay
bridge that temporarily jeopardized the safety of part of the bridge superstructure. Fortunately,
both the supervising consultant and the construction management firm took decisive and required
action to prevent the bridge from any permanent damage, but the misjudgments that led to the
failure could have had much more serious consequences.



18
11. Lessons Learned
11.01 The following lessons were learned from the experience under the Second Roads Sector
Project:
(a)  The Government's sector program was probably too ambitious, and it did not have the
required financial resources to implement such a program. It is important to take a careful and
realistic view of the financial capacity of the Borrower, especially when the availability of
cofinancing of a sector program is not confirmed.
(b)  The provision of new roads providing vehicle access to previously inaccessible rural
areas can have an adverse environmental impact as well as positive agricultural development
impact as more area is cultivated. It is important, however, to provide for environmental
protection and enhancements during road planning, design and construction. The overall effects
of the specific road should also be closely monitored and addressed thereafter.
(c)  The lesson from the modest success of technical assistance provided to develop BNCE is
that major policy changes need full commitment by Government to ensure success. The success
of any effort to establish a parastatal as a construction enterprise depends on Government's
willingness to grant it financial and managerial autonomy, and that in the absence of such a
commitment, assistance to strengthen such parastatals is likely to accomplish little.
(d) Although it was appropriate, when it became apparent that the Borrower did not have the
financial resources to implement the sector program as planned, to reduce the scale of the project,
to shift attention of supervision to civil works components, and follow up key issues in the
context of other Bank projects, the lesson is that perhaps better monitoring mechanisms could
have been built into the project design by defining performance indicators for the major sub-
projects, and by carrying out joint annual reviews of the program with the Borrower and other
donors.



19
ETHIOPIA
Second Road Sector Project
Credit 1404-ET
Project Completion Report
Part II: Project Review from Borrowers Perspective
A. Comments on the Evaluation Summary 2
1.    The statement on para 1, line 2, of the evaluation summary does not describe the origin of
the first Road Sector project as it is briefly explained on SAR of para 4.02.
2.    The statement, on para 1, line 4, "although the project was delayed by about two years at
that time", does not reflect the actual situation of the first road sector credit. There were causes
for an extension of the first Road Sector Credit by about two and half years. These points are
clearly stated on SAR para 3.02 and confirmation telex of Bank dated December 23, 1981 which
incorporated an extension of the closing date of the First Road Sector Credit agreement by two
and half years, to June 30, 1984.
3.    Para 2: does not include the necessary points to be considered in the description of the
road network of the country at different level and standard. Additional information of the road
sub-sector are indicated in the SAR para 2.01 and para 2.03, which can make the paragraph
complete.
4.    Para 3, line 2: did not sum up and explain the main objectives of the sector program as
stipulated on SAR para 4.03; that clearly split the physical targets of the sector program from the
software institutional and policy objectives.
5.    The two sentences on para 4, line 1-3 contradict to each other: with the concept of sector
lending, sub-projects are components of the project as a whole. It did not take into account the
amended Credit Agreement in respect of the disbursement percentages; as well as increased
duration of the project to cover the period 1984-88 instead of 1984-86 (refer Aide Memoire of
March 25/86 to April 18, 1986).
6.    Even though the physical outputs of the program  and the rate of implementation
comparison on para 4. line 3 to 6 is in line with the largest set forth on the scaled down project;
the Bank letter dated August 20, 1985 and telex of October 25, 1985 and the letter from the
Borrower dated September 23, 1985 can more profoundly explain the ground where the likely
comparison rest.
2/ Borrower's comments were made on the final draft report and have been considered as appropriate in the
relevant sections of the PCR.



20
7.    It is hard to conclude that on para 4. line 7 to 12 BNCE for later Bank financed projects in
Ethiopia failed to meet the Bank's Criteria for prequalification of state-owned enterprises.
During the project period in Ethiopia, not only for BNCE which gained extensive experience
from the sector project, the general environment for the competitive activities was in jeopardy
due to the weakening of the private sector by the command economic policy under Socialism.
Therefore, the lesson from BNCE could rather indicate the future trend of Bank Credits, i.e. to
provide financial assistance to the development of domestic construction industry in Ethiopia to
ensure that competitive construction enterprises are available in the country.
B. Comments on Part I
1.    For Para 2.01 line 2: please refer the comment given above under evaluation summary of
para 1, line 2.
2.    For para 2,03: except the last sentence it is better to take SAR para 2.01, as it clearly
elaborates the standard of the roads in the country. The first two sentences of SAR 2.02 can also
be added.
3.    Para 2.04: does not express the issues raised during the time of project preparation. The
issues during the preparation of the project are clearly stated under the sub-title "Transport Sector
Issues and Policy" ofthe SAR, para 1.13 through 1.16, as well as para 2.12.
4.    Para 2.05: it could be better to base the paragraph on SAR 2.03.
5.    Para 2.07: the Borrower view towards the policy context of the project has been stated on
SAR 1.13 and 5.03. And also, the draft PCR stated under 2.07 is supposed to describe the
linkage between project sector and macro policy objectives as per the reference of SAR para 1.06
and 1.03.
6.    Para 3.01:* please refer SAR 4.03; to split the physicl targe  of the sector program from
the software, institutional and policy objectives.
7.    Para 3.02: please refer SAR 4.04 and 4.24 for elaborated description of the project. The
paragraph describes the project only in terms of financial plan. Please refer SAR, para 4.06 to
4.19.
8.    Para 4.0l1 The detailed issues from inception to preparation of the project are not
described as per the sub headings "Transport Sector Issues and Policy" and "Transport Secto
Management": SAR 1.13 through 1.26 and 4.01.
9.    Para 4.02: it describes the situation before the project was further scaled down, please
refer the Aide Memoire of August 20, 1985.
10.   Para4.03a the credit number of the first road sector project needs correction.



21
D. The Adequacy and Accuracy of the Factual Information Contained in Part III
Table 1: The columns are not in order of sequence of the guideline (July 1, 1989)
-   the purpose of each highway projects are not fully described as that of SAR
Annex 1. 1.
-   for each highway and sector program the necessary comment given on SAR
Annex 1.1 should be included.
Table 2: There are many issues raised at each stage of the project cycle which should have been
included with reference from Aide Memoire, correspondence between the Bank and the
Borrower and other pertinent documents (i.e. as per the guidelines Annex A, page 7).
As for Table A. Direct Benefits including the indicators; number of beneficiaries,
number of jobs created; number of school process created; revenue effects; poverty
impact; etc. considered during the appraisal estimate (estimated at closing date and
estimated at full development with relevant comments) should have to be included as
per the guideline. Likewise, under table B: Economic Impact of the project in terms of
economic rate of return based on underlying assumptions at appraisal estimate and
actual (at final development) should be included with relevant comments.
C.  With the necessary reference of further scaling down of the project, impact of the
project on local/central government finances should have to be included during
"without project" cases and future "with project" cases or actual, with relevant
comments.
D.  Studies with their purpose as defined at the Appraisal, their status and Impact of
Study with relevant comments should have to be included.
The country data, defining the project completion profile as presented in Part III, was
confirmed by one of the participating institution, ERA, on behalf of the Borrower, it
was collected from the Staff Appraisal Report, Supervision reports and the
Correspondences between the Bank and the Borrower.
E.  Evaluation of Bank's Performance and Lessons Learned: Despite delays in
implementation, Bank assistance to the project had been effective, and facilitated up to
the last investment programs during serious economic condition of the country. Since
the credit was negotiated, Ethiopia had suffered from the disastrous drought situation
which had reduced Government budgetary allocation as well as foreign exchange
resources. It was thus evident that the financing plan of the highway sector program
needs to be re-examined in order to reduce its burden on the Government. One way of
achieving this objective was to scale down the program, as envisaged in section 4.27 of
the staff appraisal report (cutting out - equipment intensive rural road construction) and
delay repairing of all or part of Mille Assab road and orient the program towards the
highest priority areas and the efforts already started. The other option that made Bank's
contribution paramount was to amend Credit Agreement so that IDA's finance has



22
increased to 100% of the foreign exchange costs of the civil works and even some a
percentage of local costs, given government's severe budgetary shortages. Accordingly,
without the extended cooperation of the Bank, the project work could have been
suspended due to the various problems stated. Therefore, the lesson learned is the fact
that the continuous cooperation and assistance of the Bank is very important for a
successful completion of projects.
F. Evaluation of Borrower's own Performance and Lessons Learned: The
performance of the participating institutions in the overall planning and implementation
process was quite good. Taking in to account the serious adverse economic condition
and prolonged civil war in the country, the borrower experienced severe balance of
payments problems during the implementation of the project, and was unable to provide
the required funds as intended. In view of the efforts being undertaken in relation to the
drought situation and unforeseen circumstances, which had adversely affected the
government's budgetary and foreign exchange resources, the Government had fully
accepted the proposal of the Bank, dated August 20, 1985 for the revision of the
financing plan of the sector project. The Government had also agreed to scale down the
program and further endorsed the suggestion to amend the Credit Agreement. In line
with this arrangement the Government proposed that IDA finances 80 percent of the
total cost of the Civil Works including 100 percent of all the foreign exchange portion.
Subsequently, on October 25, 1985 the Bank agreed and requested the increase of the
disbursement percentage for Civil Works of the Sector Project with relevant reference
of the Development Credit Agreement, dated September 16, 1983, between the
Government and IDA. The Bank proposed to amend the percentage of expenditures to
be financed under category (1) of schedule I of the Development Credit Agreement to
read as 80 percent. Finally, the Bank and Government agreed to make a change in the
Credit Agreement whereby disbursement percentage in category one changed from 40
to 80 percent. The Bank has agreed to the request of the Government that IDA disburse
100 percent of the mobilization advance (20% of the total).
Accordingly, the Borrower's performance in facilitating the works of the Contractor,
the management consultant to the contractor, and the Consultants (of Bridge design &
work Supervision) had been very good. Due to this follow-ups and coordination, along
with the continuous support and cooperation of the Bank, the Civil Work of the
Nekempte-Bure feeder road (248 km) construction project was completed successfully.
Therefore, the lesson learned, particularly during the civil war, is of particular
experience that the Borrower faced. With a strong dedication, the project work had
been completed, and the total disbursement the credit is about 92 percent.



23
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
(Credit 1404-ET)
Project Completion Report
Part III: Statistical Information
December 28, 1994



24
Table 1. Related Bank Loans and/or Credits (Highway Projects)
Year of         Credit/           Amount        Name/Purpose                                                Status
Approval        Loan              USS million
1950            Loan 31-ET        5.0           First Highway Project.
This loan financed urgently needed equipment for the
reconstruction, repair and maintenance of the most important
portions of the network, which had been built largely by the Italians    Completed
in 1936 to 1941 and had fallen into disrepair after World War 11.  3/01/54
1957            Loan 166-ET       15.0          Second Highway Project.
The loan assisted in financing a project consisting of major
construction, about 1,050 kin, and about 580 km of road
improvement, including demonstration works used for training, and    Completed
engineering by consultants of future road construction.     6/30/64
1963            Credit 35-ET      13.5          Third Highway Project
The Credit financed the foreign cost of completing road construction
started under the Second Highway Project, and construction of about
210 km of new roads, bituminous surfacing of about 800 km of
roads and consulting services to replace staff of the United States
Bureau of Public Roads in IRA management, and for economic and    Completed
engineering studies of a road through the Awash Valley.     12/31/73
1968            Loan 523-ET       13.5         Fourth Highway Project.
Credit III -ET   7.7           Financing, with cofinancing from the Swedish Govenument, of the
foreign cost of construction of 420 km of main roads, paving with
asphalt concrete of 170 km of existing main roads, and consulting
services for feasibility studies, advice to EHA, technical assistance  Completed
and training.                                               6/30/75
1972            Credit 332-ET     17.0         Fifth Highway Project.
The emphasis shifted to lower class roads, serving agricultural
development, and provided assistance for construction to gravel
standard of 258 km of feeder roads and supervision thereof,
strengthening of ERA, and developing the domestic contracting  Completed
industry.                                                   12/31/80
1975            Credit 552-ET     32.0          Sixth Highway Project.
The project followed up previous assistance to the sector by
providing financing for construction of about 400 km of feeder  Completed
roads, and assistance for ETCA and training of domestic     12131/81
contractors.
1977            Credit 708-ET     32.0
1977                                           First Road Sector Project.
The project supported the first three years of the country's five year
road sector program, which included strengthening of existing paved
roads, upgrading of gravel roads to bituminous paved standards,
construction of gravel feeder roads and construction of rural roads.
The project also included further strengthening of the domestic  Completed
construction industry through loan for purchase of equipment,  12/31/84
training of the road authority's staff, as well as study of the road
transport industry.



25
Table 2. Project Timetable
Date               Date                Date
Item               Planned             Revised             Actual
Identification                                                    03/81
Preappraisal                                                      10/81
Preparation                                                       12/81
Appraisal Mission                04/82                            04/82
Credit Negotiations              12/82                            04/83
- Board Approval                 03/83                            07/83
Credit Signature                                                  09/83
Credit Effectiveness                                              02/84
Credit Closing                   12/88               12/89
12/90
12/92
09/93        03/94



26
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
A. Actual Disbursements
(US$ Millions)
Actual Amt.       Onginal Amt.         Actual % of
FP7cal veer       Cumulative         Cumulative           Estimated
1984
Sep, 1983
Dec, 1983                           1.80
Mar, 1984                           3.60
Jun, 1984                           6.60
1985
Sep, 1984        0.10               9.20                  1
Dec, 1984        1.37               17.00                 8
Mar, 1985        2.97               24.20                 12
Jun, 1985        3.40               28.80                 12
1986
Sep, 1985        7.01               34.70                20
Dec, 1985        12.52              38.50                 33
Mar, 1986        13.21              43.80                 30
Jun, 1986        15.53              47.70                33
1987
Sep, 1986        16.68              51.20                33
Dec, 1986        18.55              54.70                 34
Mar, 1987        29.75              57.80                 51
Jun, 1987        39.47              60.80                65
1988
Sep, 1987        41.67              62.90                 66
Dec, 1987        42.79              64.90                 66
Mar, 1988        44.64              67.00                 67
Jun, 1988        46.72              69.00                68
1989
Sep, 1988        49.11              69.00                71
Dec, 1988        52.64              69.00                 76
Mar, 1989        53.62              69.00                 78
Jun, 1989        54.56              69.00                79
1990
Sep, 1989        55.75                                   81
Dec, 1989        56.26                                   82
Mar, 1990        57.07                                   83
Jun, 1990        58.98                                   85
1991
Sep, 1990        60.05                                   87
Dec, 1990        63.90                                   93
Mar, 1991        66.10                                    96
Jun, 1991        66.59                                   97
1992
Sep, 1991        66.59                                  . 97
Dec, 1991        67.55                                    98
Mar, 1992        68.19                                    99
Jun, 1992        68.39                                   99
1993
Sep, 1992        69.48                                   101
Dec, 1992        69.91                                   101
Mar, 1993        70.20                                   102
Jun, 1993        71.11                                   103
1994
Sep. 1993        73.50                                   107
Dec, 1993        74.51                                   108
Mar, 1994        74.67                                   108



27
Table 3. Credit Disbursements
B. Chart of Annual Credit Disbursements
Credit 1404 - ET
Disbursement Schedule
Us$
---------- ~ ~      ~       - --
ao               I              ,.-S
50- __                                                   -~__________
40 - ______i -                                                                                     Original  __
30  --/--,-, - *  |                           { }   Revised
O~~~~~~~~ -
1983                      _    __4             _ _es  1986  1937  _ _ee    _ _as  Isso  IS91         1993       1994ctual
1903      1984      1985       1986      1987       1988      1989       1990      1991       1991,     1993      1994



28
Table 4. Project Implementation
A. Civil Works, Equipment and Staff Training
Part                                      Appraisal Estimate                       Approved Scaling     Actual
Down
Rehabilitation of existing paved roads    434 km                                   279 km               70
Upgrading and paving of gravel roads      360 km                                    166 km              Data not available
Reconstruction of gravel feeder roads     734 km                                   689 km               Total 577 km
(Force Account:
268 km
Contracts 309 km)
Construction of low class rural access roads   2,940 km                            2,415 km             2,032 km
Provision of vehicles and equipment for   SDR 15,850,00 worth of equipment         SDR 15,430,000       SDR 13,302,520
maintenance depots, road safety,                                                   worth of equipment
workshops, road maintenance and
construction, spare parts, soils laboratories,
highway design and training
Training                                  50 professionals                                              A total of 29
(1) MTC, ETCA (ERA), RTA and                                  professionals from
NATRACOR, and                                                 all the agencies
(2) Managers and employees of domestic                        received overseas
contractors                                                   training
800 Technical, supervisors, clerical staff
2,500 operators, mechanics from                               on the rest



29
Table 4. Project Implementation
B. Training and Technical Assistance
(Costs in US$ million)
Date of    Nationality    Estimated    Actual     Consultant's Performance
Agreements                                       Contract   of            Costs        Costs
Cons.llnst.    USS mill    USS mill
(i) Training
- Training of ETCA and MTC                    12/10/85    American     0.93         0.90         Satisfactory
- Training of RTA and NATRACOR                                                                   Satisfactory
- Training of BNCE;    (Phase iii)            01/20/84    American     0.58         0.60         Satisfactory /5
(ii) Technical Assistance
- Program for labor-intensive methods in road  N/A       Swiss                      1.01         Satisfactory
construction and maintenance.
- Strengthening of ETCA                       12/20/83    American                 /1            Satisfactory
- Supervision of construction on Nekempte -   01/24/84    British       1.63        1.84         Satisfactory
Bure road
- Supervision of prestressing operations                  French       /3
- Strengthening of Domestic Construction      01/20/84    American
Industry; BNCE;      Phase (i)                                            0.09         0.10        Satisfactory
Phase (ii)                                           2.70         3.29        Satisfactory
- Implement recommendations from Road         09/10/84    American                  0.75         Satisfactory
Transport Study.
- National Transport Plan Study               04/87      American                   1.33         Satisfactory /4
- Improvement of road transport administration.          British                    0.65         Satisfactory
- Review of Mille-Assab design                           Canadian                   0.35         Satisfactory
- Others ( Includes training assistance from                                        1.47
intemational organizations)
TOTAL (Project)                                                                    12.29
- Environmental Impact Study                             Norwegian    0.15 /2       0.15         Satisfactory
Note:  /1 = Costs included in t.a. for Road Transport Study implementation.
/2 = Financed from Norwegian Consultancy Trust Fund
/3 = Financed from supervision contract
/4 = Initially, the consultants did not follow the TOR and the study was delayed
/5 = Phase (iii), 'Enterprise management services': training manuals were not completed. Phase (i), tendering services,
and phase (ii), construction management, were satisfactory.



30
Table 5. Project Costs and Financing
A. Project Costs
Category/Part                                      Appraisal Program        Revised Program        Actual IDA Share
(1984-1986)       (May 1985)(1984-1988)        Million US$
Million US$            Million US$                 (a)
A. PROJECT COSTS
Capital Costs
I . Civil Works
(i) Main Roads
-  Asphalt Overlay                                       35.2                   46.0                    10.28
-  Asphalt Surfacing                                     22.6                    12.5
-  Gravel Roads                                          89.7                   109.5                   35.43
Sub-Total                                           147.5                   168.0                   45.71
(ii) Rural Roads                                          30.9                   46.0
(iii) Bridge Construction                                 4.4                     5.5
2. Equipment and Maintenance Facilities
-  Civil Works Construction Equipment                    42.7                   21.5                     0.8
-  Road Maintenance Equipment                            25.1                    18.8                    19.9
-  Bridge Construction Equipment                          1.2                    0.5
-  Transport and Shop. Equipment                          5.1                    0.7
-  Maintenance Camp Equipment (b)                         1.3                    3.5
-  Road Design Equipment                                                         0.9                     1.15
-  Safety Equipment (c)                                                          1.5                     2.40
-  Computer Equipment                                                            0.6                     0.55
Sub-Total                                            75.4                   48.0                    16.67
3.  Technical Assistance and Training                     10.9                   16.8                    12.29
Sub-Total 1-3                                       269.1                   284.3                   74.67
4.  Price Contingencies                                   49.3                   12.8
TOTAL PROJECT COSTS                                      318.4                   297.1                   74.67
B.  OTHER PROGRAM COSTS
Recurrent Cost
1. Road Maintenance                                   58.0                   118.2
2. Price Contingencies                                11.3                    5.3
Sub-Total                                            69.3                   123.5                    0.0
TOTAL PROGRAM COST                                      387.7                  420.6                    74.67
Notes: (a)      Assuming I US$ = 0.1.253 SDR for average disbursement
(b)      Included as Roads Maintenance Equipment
(c)      Includes Weighbridge Equipment



31
Table 5. Project Cost and Financing
B. Allocation of Credit Proceeds
(SDR)
CATE    DESCRIPTION                         Amount Planned in      Amount in        Amount disbursed
GORY                                             Credit        reallocated Credit     from Credit
SDR               (10/92)              SDR
SDR
(1)      Civil works under Parts A and B of    40,790,000         39,000,000          36,483,254
the Project                            (40 % of          ( 80 % of
expenditures)      expenditures)
(2)      Vehicles, equipment, tools and spare  15,850,000         15,430,000           13,302,520
parts under Parts A (2) and C of the    (100% of foreign,  (100% of foreign,
Project                              80% of local)      80% of local)
(3)      Consulting services, training and      7,790,000         10,470,000           9,806,262
studies under Parts D and E of the  (100% of foreign,   (100% of foreign,
Project                              80% of loan)       80% of local)
(4)      Refunding of Project Preparation        470,000             NIL                 NIL
Advance
TOTAL                                64,900,00          64,900,00           59,592,036



32
Table 6. Economic Analysis
1.    A re-evaluation of the economic rate of return was considered relevant only for the
rehabilitation of the Mille-Logia road and the construction of the Nekempte-Bure road. The
calculations for both roads are presented in Table 6. Annex 1.
2.    Mille-Logia Road. In the SAR, Table 5.1, the ERR for the whole section from Mille to
Assab was calculated at 25.5 percent. Total traffic (AADT in 1982) was 387 vehicles and
economic investment cost was estimated at about US$50,000 per km for an asphalt overlay (i.e.
about US$1.3 million for the 26 km from Mille to Logia). The actual traffic in 1994 had been
counted by ERA to be 549 vehicles per day, and the final cost was Birr 38.55 million, or
US$6.86 million at exchange rate of 5.62 over a period of 3 years.
3.    Since the road section was not only overlaid with an asphaltic concrete, but was fully
rehabilitated due to deterioration, calculation of rate of return was based on the more recent
assumptions in SAR, 11249-ET, Annex 12, the Road Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 2438-ET). The
following figures for ADT and Vehicle operating cost are used for Mille-Logia Road:
Traffic Counts. 1994
1.    Light Vehicles        27
2.    Buses                  18
3-.    Trucks               192
4.    Trucks/Trailers      312
VOC. US$/km. Rolling Terrain
Without Project (R=8000)    With Project (R=2000
1.  Light Vehicles                0.108                    0.186
2.  Buses                         0.168                    0.434
3.  Trucks                         0.33                    0.440
4.  Truck/Trailer                 0.924                    1.178
4.  Economic Rate of Return (ERR).  The economic rate of return is estimated at 31 percent,
and a first year rate of return at 35 percent. The high traffic volumes on this section of road
clearly justifies the investment made and would be further enhanced when the complete road
from Mille to Assab is rehabilitated.
5   Nekempte - Bure Road. The economic analysis in the SAR was based on benefits from
value added in agriculture calculated as a direct function of production increases. Agricultural
benefits was derived from the introduction of new crops and the cultivation of new land. For the
Nekempte-Bure road, the ERR was estimated at 24.0 percent (ref. Table 5.1, SAR). Savings in
VOC were not originally included in the calculations.



33
6.  Value Added from Net Agricultural production. The environmental impact study showed
a marked impact on land use attributable to the new road. The changes recorded on area of
cultivated land from 1985 to 1993 is shown below:
Area 1985   Area 1993        Change
km2         km2           km2
Subsistence Farming                 733         920           +187
State Farm                          173          147          -26
Moderately cultivated woodland/grassland 643    765           +122
Scarcely cultivated woodland/bushland   730     666           -64
No firm figures on production was available, however, the positive increases shown above
demonstrate that the road achieved to some extent the intended agricultural development impact.
For further economic analysis, the figures estimated in the SAR for 'value added', i.e., 6.35 Br.
million per year (US$ 3.06 million) in the SAR were considered conservative enough for use in
the calculations. Agriculture production was also assumed to increase at 2.7% per annum,
similar to the estimated growth in traffic.
7.   Irafic.  The traffic count figures (August 1994) provided by ERA gave an estimated
average daily traffic of 76 (i.e., Light vehicles, 21; and heavy vehicles, 55).
8.  Savings in Transport Cost. Savings in VOC were assumed to represent 50% of the total
vehicle operating costs on a gravel road. The vehicle operating cost on the completed road were
assumed as stated in the SAR as US$0.57 per km for light vehicles and US$1.43 per km for
heavy vehicle.
9.    Investment Co. The economic investment cost for Nekempte - Bure road was about Br.
115 million (US$55.55 million), using the same ratio between financial and economic cost as at
appraisal.
10.   Economic Rate of Return (ERR). This was calculated at about 12 percent and a first year
rate of return of 15 percent. This is considered robust since the induced traffic on the new road
was high and is expected to increase over time with an increase in agricultural production.



34
A.   Economic Analysis of Nekempte-Burie Road Project                            Table 6. Annex 1
Annual Traffic Growth Rates
Light Tnffic %              2.7
Heavy Traffic %             2.7
ADT        VOC Savings    Total       Agric      Total     Net
Year  Citruction             km   Light  Heavy    Light   Heavy    VOC         Benefits  Bcenfits   Benefits
SaviDgs
1989        8300                                                                                    -8300
1990       10000                                                                                   -10000
1991       11000                                                                                   -11000
1992       13450                                                                                   -13450
1993       12800                                                                                   -12800
1994                       250      21      55  1092.26  7176.81   8269.08   3060.00  11329.08  11329.08
1995                                22      56  1121.75  7370.59   8492.34   3151.80  11644.14  11644.14
1996                                22      58  1152.04  7569.59   8721.63   3246.35  11967.99  11967.99
1997                                23      60  1183.15  7773.97   8957.12   3343.74  12300.86  12300.86
1998                                23     61  1215.09  7983.87   9198.96   3444.06  12643.02  12643.02
1999                                24      63  1247.90  8199.43   9447.33   3547.38  12994.71  12994.71
2000                                25      65  1281.59  8420.82   9702.41   3653.80  13356.21  13356.21
2001                                25      66  1316.19  8648.18   9964.37   3763.41  13727.79  13727.79
2002                                26      68  1351.73  8881.68  10233.41   3876.32  14109.73  14109.73
2003                                27      70  1388.23  9121.49  10509.71   3992.61  14502.32  14502.32
SAX       PCR
NPV (12%)             1170.64
ERR            0.24      0.12
Firt Year Rate of Return           0.15
B.   Economic Analysis of Mille-Logia Road Project
Annual Traffic Growth Rates
Light Vehicles %            2.7
Buses       %               2.7
Trucks      %               2.7
Trucks/Trailers 1           2.7
ADT                                VOC Savings           TotWl      Mait.        Total      Net
Year Construction    km  Light  Buses Taucks  Tru-Trl    Light        Buses    Tauck    Tru-Td    VOC        Benefits    Benefits   Benefits
(USD1,000)                                                                                 Savings
1990
1991         768 '                                                                                                              0  -768.00
1992         1696 *                                                                                                             0 -1696.00
1993       1926.4 '                                                                                                             0 -1926.40
1994                  26    27      18    192       312    27.67      28.70    601.29   2735.85   3393.51        52.00     1722.76  1722.76
1995                        28      18    197       320    28.42      29.47    617.52   2809.72   3435.13        52.00     1768.57  1768.57
1996                        28      19    203       329    29.19      30.27    634.19   2885.58   3579.23        52.00     1815.62  1815.62
1997                        29      19    208       338    29.98      31.09    651.32   2963.49   3675.87        52.00    1863.94  1863.94
1998                        30      20    214       347    30.78      31.92    668.90   3043.51   3775.12        52.00     1913.56  1913.56
1999                        31      21    219       356    31.62      32.79    686.96   3125.68   3877.05        52.00     1964.52  196*.52
2000                        32      21    225       366    32.47      33.67    705.51   3210.08   3981.73        52.00    2016.87  2016.87
2001                        33      22    231       376    33.35      34.58    724.56   3296.75   4089.24        52.00    2070.62  2070.62
2002                        33      22    238       386    34.25      35.51    744.12   3385.76   4199.65        52.00    2125.82  2125.82
2003                        34      23    244       397    35.17      36.47    764.21   3477.18   4313.04        52.00    2182.52  2182.52
SAR        PCR
M'le-Assb MIe-Logia
NPV (12%)                 4224.18
IRR              0.26        0.31
NOTE: Net of Taxes (36% of Total)             Sensitivity Analysis          IRR (75% of Benefits)         0.24
First Year Rate of Return                                  0.32



35
Table 7. Mission Data
Stage of Project Cycle       Month/Year    Number of      Days in Field   Specializations    Performance    Types of
Persons       a/             b/               Rating c/      Problem d/
Identification               03/81         3              10             2 Ec, En
Preappraisal                 10/81          3             14             Ec, En
Appraisal                    04/82         4              21/10          3 En, Ec
Supervision                  06/83          2             10             En, Ec           I
Supervision                  03/83          1             10             En               I
Supervision                  03/84          1             10             En
Supervision                  08/84          2             10             En, Ec           I
Supervision                  01/85          2             15             En, Div. Chief    I
Supervision                  04/85          1             12             En               2              F
Supervision                  09/85          1             10             En               3              F/O/M
Supervision                  04/86          1             13             En               2/3            O/M
Supervision                  09/86          2             10             En, Fi           2/2            O/M
Supervision                  03/87          2             11(5)          En, Fi           2/2            O/M
Supervision                  10/87          2             11(5)          En, Fi           2/2            O/M
Supervision                  03/88          2             16             En, Fi           2/2            O/M
Supervision                  01/89          1             8              En               2/2            O/M
Supervision                  02/90          1             14             En               2/2            O/M
Supervision                  10/90          1             23             En               2/2            O/M
Supervision                  02/91          1             5              En               2/2            O/M
Supervision                  09/91          1             7              En               2/2            O/M
Supervision                  09/92          1             10             En               2/2            O/M
Supervision                  04/93          1             16             En               2/2            OJM
/a       Time spent in field also included supervision and project appraisal for other Bank projects during the same period.
/b       Ec = Economist, En = Engineer, Fi = Financial Analyst.
/c       1 = Problem Free/Minor Problems, 2 = Moderate Problems, 3 = Major Problems
/d       0 = Overall Status; M = Managerial   F = Financial
/e       Types of Problem:  F = Financial; M = Managerial; 0 = Overall Status



36
Table 8. Compliance with Credit Covenants
Covenant                                                      Comment
3.02:    The Borrower shall employ engineering,               Complied with.
management, financial and traffic safety and other consultants
whose qualifications, etc. shall be satisfactory to the Association.
3.06     The Borrower shall complete the national transport   Complied with, although late. Last report submitted in December
study not later than June 30, 1985 and furnish a copy of the study    1989.
4.01     The Borrower shall (a) maintain or cause to be       The project became effective in February 1984. Separate
maintained separate accounts in respect of the project; (b)   accounts for the project were maintained.
maintain or cause to be maintained separate accounts reflecting
all expenditures on account of which withdrawal are requested on
the basis S.O.E.; and (C) have the accounts at (a) for each fiscal
year audited by independent auditors and furnish to IDA not later
than six months after the end of each year a certified copy of the
report of such audit, etc.
4.02     The Borrower shall, prior to making any investment in    Complied with. A feasibility study for the railway was completed
the Awash-Assab railway line carry out technical, economic and  in December 1985. The draft report reviewed by IDA in March
financial feasibility studies, exchange views with IDA on the  1986, and the final report was submitted in September 1986.
findings of said studies and undertake that any proposed      Detailed engineering has started.
investment in the aforesaid railway is economically and
financially justified.
4.03     The Borrower shall revise its classification system of  Not complied with. Consultants prepared proposals for a revised
the existing road network by March 31, 1984.                  classification of the network in February 1984. MOTAC
submitted a legal notice in 1987. (The covenant has been carried
over to the RRP).
4.04     The Borrower shall take all necessary steps to permit  Complied with.
a general increase in the axle load limit to 10 tons, except in
selected roads so designed where such loads shall not exceed 12
tons, and shall commence the actual enforcement of new
standards not later than June 30, 1984.
4.05     The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1985  Complied with for ERA Organization.
prepare a proposal for the decentralization of the planning, design
and/or maintenance activities related to roads.
4.06     The Borrower shall (a) not later than June 30, 1985  (a) Complied with, although late. (b) ETCA prepared a report on
review the role and organization structure of ETCA; (b) not later    the subject for the Minister of Construction; later transfer of
than June 30, 1985 prepare a tentative program for the transfer of   force account brigades started gradually in 1985 to the parastatal
ETCA's force account brigades to construction enterprises; and  companies BNCE and BATU. This process is substantially
(c) upon completion of 30 months of construction operations by  completed. c) Complied with.
BNCE set out specific deadlines for completion of all phases of
said program.
4.07     The Borrower shall not later than December 31, 1983   ETCA submitted a list of equipment needed for road
furnish to IDA for its review a list of equipment needs for   maintenance, and the equipment was procured.
construction of its rural roads and for maintenance of its road
network.
4.08     The Borrower shall (a) not later than June 1, 1984   Complied with. The study was completed in March 1984 and the
exchange views with IDA on the recommendation of the Road     Borrower and IDA exchanged views on the study; the
Transport Study; and (b) not later than June 1, 1985 commence  implementation of part of the study's recommendation started in
implementation of the recommendations of the study.           August 1984, assisted by consultants.



37
4.09     The Borrower shall cause its primary, secondary and  By 1990, ETCA estimated that only half of the required funds
feeder road network to be maintained in accordance with sound  were spent on road maintenance. Efficiency of maintenance
engineering and financial practices.. and shall allocate in 1982  operations were low due to inadequate management capacity,
prices, not less than Birr 35 million in FY84, Biff 40 million in  overstaffmg and low equipment utilization. Towards the end of
FY85, Birr 45 million annually thereafter, until the project is  the Project it was evident that road maintenance was not
completed                                                   satisfactory despite the new equipment received under the Credit.












