Docimnzioft
The Wodd Bank
FOR OMCUL USE ONLY
C l qoLI-&x
-..t Ni. P-3623-ET
EEPaRT AND
OF THE
PRESIDNT XOF THE
INT ERMEATIONFAL DEVELOPNMEN   SOIT
TO THE
EXECUTIVE DIFECAZS
CMNA
PROPOSED CREDIT
I AN AM     EQV      T TO SDR 64.9 MILLION
TO ETOPIA
FOR A       -
SECOD ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
June 29, 1983
Ths d.I km a uidhd lirW e_|Mm  id may be ud by   lmls m  i tw pfuic ouf
dheir sUdd dudL. lft adinbf ina me uibwbe be discism wihlbeu Wwi Bmak u.lkIkmkm



brrecyl             L
UJS$ 1.00      -    Birr 2.07
r              -    US$0.483
Birr million   -    US$ 483,000
,S  AND MASURES
Metric System
I uter(u)            - 3.24 feet (ft)
1 klloueter(km)      -  0.62 mile (mi)
1 Kilograu(g)        - 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (xstn) -  2,205 pouns (lb).
AIIEVIATOS
AW                              - AfrLcan Development Fnd
CPSC                            - Central Panning SupreM Council
ETC-                            - Ethiopian Transport Construction
Authority
MDC                             - Ninitry of Construction
ETC                             - MInistry of Transport and
NATRACOR                        - National load Traport Corporation
ETA                             - loAd Trausport Authority
Goveruent of Ethiopia
Fiscal Year
July 8-July 7
11 The currency equivalent between the US dollar and the Ethiopian Birr
has been constant from 1974 to the date of this report.



FOR OFFICIAL UK ONLY
ETHOPIA
SECOND ROADSETOR PROJECT
CREDIT AND PROJECT SUNHARY
Borrower:                    Ethiopia
Amount:                      SDR 64.9 million (US$70.0 million equivalent).
Beneficiaries:               Ministry of Transport and Communications
(RTC), Ethiopia Transport Construction
Authority (ETCA), National Road Transport
Corporation (NATRACOR), and Road Transport
Authority (RTA).
Terms:                       Standard
Relending Terms:             None
Project Description:         The proposed project vill continue the efforts
inltiated in the First Road Sector Project
(Cr. 708-ET) to improve and expand the
country's road sector. The project will
comprise the capital investment part of the
Government's three-year (FY1984-86) Second
Road Sector Program. In particular, it will:
(i) improve and expand the road network by
constructing about 3,670 km of feeder and
rural roads, by paving about 360 km of gravel
secondary roads, and by rehabilitating about
430 km of paved roads; (ii) strengthen road
maintenance operations by providing equipment
and technical assistance; (iii) strengthen
sector institutions by providing technical
assistance and training; (iv) help to
establish autonomous comnercially-based public
7    construction enterprises; (v) improve road
traffic safety; and (vi) improve transport
sector planning.
The project will support the Government's
efforts to promote agricultural and industrial
production by improving and expanding access
to productive arzas, and also efforts to
improve social services to the
videly-dispersed rural population and access
to the drought-prone areas. The nain risk
associated with the project is the
availability of local and foreign resources to
finance the entire program. Should adequate
resources not be available during the project
period, the road sector program will be
adjusted in accordance with resource
constraints and in order of priority for sub-projects.
A second risk relates to the need to ensure the
timely implementation of complementary
Thi document has a rtricd ditibution and may be used by rpcipenu only in the performance
of teir official dutiR. It couwnt may not otherwise be disclosed without Word Bank authorintion.



agricultural investments supporting the feeder
and rural roads components. Steps have been
taken to minimize this risk by incorporatig
mechanisms to closely monitor the links
between investments in the road and
agriculture sectors.
Estimated Costs 1984-1986 Program ard Project:
US$ Million
A. PROJECT COSTS                         Local     Foreign     Total
Civil Works
Ci) Main roads                     57.1        90.4      147.5
(ii) Rural Roads                    16.7        14.2       30.9
(iii) Bridge Construction             1.7         2.7        4.4
Equipment and Maiuntence
Facilities                         8.0        67.4       75.4
Technical Assistance and
Training                           5.4         5.5       10.9
Subtotal                          88.9       180.2      269.1
Price Contingencies                  19.6        29.7       49.3
Total Project Costs                 108.5       209.9      18.4
Total Project Costs (net of
taxes and duties)                   93.4       209.9      303.3
B. OTHER PROGRAM COSTS
Recurrent Costs
Road Maintenance                     29.0        29.0       58.0
Price Contingeucies                   6.5         4.8       11.3
Total Recurrent Costs                35.5        33.8       69.3
Total Program Costs                      144.0      243.7      387.7
Financing Plan:                            US$ million
Local     Foreign     Total
A. Project
Ethiopia                             93.4        77.5      170.9
IDA                                    -         70.0       70.0
AfDF                                    -        31.8       31.8
Norway                                 -         18.0       18.0
Ongoing Commitments                   -          12.6       12.6
Total                           93.4       209.9      303.3
_ -
B. Other Program
Ethiopia                             35.5        33.8       69.3
-s  _        _
Total Program Costs (Net of Taxes
and Duties)                             128.9     243.7      372.6
Estimated Disbursements:
USS Million
IDA FY       84     85     86     87     88
Annual                               5.    2T.1   263   1Z.6    8.4
Cumulative                          5.6   28.7   49.0  61.6  70.0
Estimated Rate of Return: About 30 percent (for 80 percent of the total
project cost).
Staff Appraisal Report:  Report No. 4230a-ET, dated June 3, 1983.



INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOC ION
REPORT AND RECOMMfENDATION OF THE PRSIDENT
TO THE            DIRECTORS ON A PROPOSED   DU T   THIOPIA
FOR A SECOND ROAD SECTOR 
1.        I submit the following report and recoumendation on a proposed
develoPment credit to Ethiopia for SDR 64.9 million (US$70°0 million
equivalent) on standard IDA terms to help finance a second road sector
project-
PART I - THE ECONOMy
2.        The last economic report on Ethiopia (No  35526-ET, Economic
mnOra1idum on Ethiopia) was circulated to the Executive Directors on
December 15, 1981.  Since then, a Bank economic mission visited Ethiopia in
March 1983, and its findings are reflected in the folloifLg paragraphs.  A
sUW0_'Y of social and economic data is included in Anney I.
Governmeent Structure and Objectives
3        Since the revolution in 1974, Ethiopia has been ruled by a
MilitarY Administrative -_uncil. A Central Planning Supreme Council,
chaired by the Head of State, and on which goveronent ministers, peasant
associations. urban dwellers and trade unions are represented' is
responsible for the Preparation, approval, and Oversight of econou.ic plaus
and policies.  In parallel with this body, a Council of MiNnisters is
rerpoasible for implementation. The Government's general objectives
,mphasize raising the living standard of all Ethiopia, especially the
.Or,, through central planning and control of the major industries, the
financial system and foreign trade, and increasing production. Emphasis is
being given to the provision of free and more widespread education,
improved health services and greater employment °pportunities-
Econtor'ic and Social Reforms
4.        Since 1974, a number of specific reforms have beer  introduced in
line with the goals set out above.  Of most direct importance to the
majority Of Ethiopians was the 1975 land reform, Under which all rural land
was made the collective property of the Ethiopian peoplel and user rights
of up to ten hectares were allocaced to former tenants and to others
personalLy willing to cultivate the land. Former commercial farms were
either handed over to peasants for individual or collective cultivation, or
retained as state farms. However, state farms ac-ount for less than four
percent Of cultivated area.  By 1979, about 25,000 peasant associations
with seven million members had been formed throughout the secure rural
areas5   These associations decide on limited local securitY and judicial
matters and are respcasible for land redistribution and the establishment
and management of marketing and producer cooperatives Representative
associations have been established at woreda, awraja and regional



levels-l/ Few producer cooperatives have been established so far since
the Government has been proceeding cautiously, and wishes the formation of
cooperatives to be voluntary.
5          aIn the urban sector all land was nationalized in 1975, and
ownership of houses restricted to one per family with extra houses
nationalized. Urban dwellers associations (kebeles) have been established
to parallel the peasant associations and have been delegated si.uilar
powers. Most large enterprises in the modern sector, including some owned
by Ethiopians, were nationalized during 1975, and are now sub_:act to
centralized policy guidance and investment approval. The banks and
financial institutions were made subsidiaries of the National Bank of
Ethiopia. Under legislation introduced in 1979, a large part of public
enterprise profits are also reallocated centrally. The private sector
retains a role in the Ethiopian economy, notably in construction, peasant
agriculture, trade and small-scale manufacturing. Cooperative enterprises
are being encouraged in all sectors where private ownership is dominant.
Economic Background
6.        The reforms since 1974 have taken place against a background of
desperate poverty and backwardness. Ethiopia, with an estimated annual per
capita GNP of about US$140 in 1980, is one of the least developed countries
in the world- The population, estimated at about 32.8 million in 1982 and
growing at about 2.5 percent annually, is predominantly rural (about 85
percent)- The literacy rate in Ethiopia has risen in recent years
primarilY as a result of a literacy drive, and some 50 percent of the
populatiOn are claimed to be literate, according to Ethiopian authorities.
There is only one physician for about every 65,000 people and about 47
percent of the children of primary school age are enrolled. About two
percent of the rural population and one third of the urban population have
reasonable access to a safe water supply. In several parts of the country
soils have become seriously depleted as population pressure has forced
people to cultivate ecologically unsuitable land. Many such areas have
faced periodic drought and food shortages, the severity of which has been
increasing over time. The lack of transport is such that only one quarter
of the population is within one day's round trip on foot from an
all-weather road. This low level of development itself leads to low
savings, investment and growth.
7.        Ethiopia's natural resources include gold, platinum, copper and
potash; and there has been considerable petroleum exploration in the
past. However, none of these minerals has been exploited on a large
scale, and in most cases, the potential for commercial exploitation is yet
to be established. There are prospects for the exploitation of geothermal
energy- The country's main potential lies in agriculture, for which the
natural conditions of several areas are favorable. At present, around 50
percent of GDP originates in agriculture, and most industry is also
agriculture-based. Compared with other countries at similar stages of
development, Ethiopia has a relatively skilled and trained work force, but
manpower shortages remain a constraint on development.
1/ Ethiopia is divided administratively into 15 regions (including Addis
Ababa), 102 awrajas (provinces), and 586 weredas (districts).



-3-
Economic Developments up to 1978
8.        From fiscal year 1973/74 to 1977/78, GDP grew at less than 0.5
percent per annum in real terms. This low growth rate reflected security
problems and uncertainties, dislocations and resistance which accompanied
the economic reforms, together with ensuing difficulties in internal
marketing and distribution. The turmoil in Eritrea and the Ogaden during
1977/78 caused the destruction of facilities, the dislocation of transport
and communications and the diversion of resources from economic
development. Although agricultural production was maintained, the
structure of production shifted away from export crops towards food grains,
and marketed production probably declined. In the industrial sector, the
closure of factories in Eritrea Region, which formerly accounted for about
one-third of industrial production, caused a fall in output. Construction
activity declined. Inflation was rapid, with consumer prices rising at an
average rate of 20 pe -cent per annum through the three years ending
mid-1978.
9.        These difficulties were also reflected in Ethiopia's external
transactions. Export earnings from coffee were maintained in spite of a
decline in volume largely because of the price boom in 1976/77. However,
the value of other exports declined, with the result that coffee accounted
for three-quarters of total export earnings in 1977/78. Imports on the
other hand grew rapidly, at about 21 percent per annum in value terms since
1973/74. However, much of this increase was attributable to drought relief
and other unspecified items. The resulting deterioration in the resource
balance vas financed up to and including 1976/77 by external assistance,
either in the form of transfers or of net inflows of public capital.
10.       The role of the Central Government and the public sector
increased significantly. Central Government expenditure, which averaged 12
percent of GDP in the early seventies, reached 22 percent of GDP inL
1977/78. At the same time, the Government was forced to increase ;.ts
reliance on domestic borrowing. The growth in recurrent expenditure was
largely attributable to military needs, which reached 66 percent of total
recurrent outlays in 1977/78. Other current spending was kept under strict
control.
11.       rfodern public sector employment expanded, although comprehensive
information on this is not available. With the shortage of grain in urban
areas and the resulting rise in grain prices, it appears likely that the
rural-urban terms of trade improved and that, as a result, the income of
peasant farmers increased. Correspondingly, urban real wages probably
fell.
The Economic Campaigns
12.       Thus, by mid-1978, a number of serious economic problems had
emerged or intensified. It was against this background that, in September
1978, the Government introduced the first 'economic campaign' with the
objectives of: (i) reducing the current food shortages by intensifying



-4-
efforts in the organizations dealing with the peasant sector, and by
doubling state farm area; (ii) helping drought-affected highland areas by
strengthening afforestation, rehabilitation and resettlement programs;
(iii) eliminating current shortages of consumer items and certain
construction materials; (iv) improving the efficiency of government
agencies and businesses; and (v) increasing foreign exchange availability
by promoting exports. Physical production targets for each of the key
sectors were to be achieved partly by the reallocation of resources, and
partly by improved discipline and efficiency in the organizations
concerned.
13.       The economic campaigns clearly recognized the priority of the
productive sectors, at least in the short run, and the need to improve
discipline in public sector organizations. The first campaign ran for one
year, ending June 1979 (para. 18). This was followed by two further
campaigns in the fiscal years 1979/80 and 1980/81. The Government is now
considering the ways and means to integrate such campaigns or action
programs into a more comprehensive multi-year planning process. A ten-year
perspective plan is being prepared to serve as the frame of refer2nce for
the development of a three-year investment plan.
Recent Economic Developments
14.       The Ethiopian economy recorded a significant recovery in 1978/79
after several years of slow growth. During the three year period ending in
fiscal year 1980/81, real GDP growth averaged nearly five percent per
year. This economic revival can be attributed to various factors. First,
the return of comparative peace and security in late 1978 permitted the
reallocation of resources, to normal economic activity. Secondly, several
industries in Eritrea were reopened and resupplied. Thirdly, there were
good harvest years in the main grain-producing areas. Finally, the
Government's economic campaigns had a discernible effect in at least two
directions - in giving clear indications of priorities and allocating
resources accordingly, and in greatly improving discipline and management
in many of the public sector enterprises. However, this short but
impressive performance began to slow down in 1980/81, with GDP growth
falling to 3.2 percent and dropping further to 2.5 percent in 1981/82.
This deceleration in economic growth is mainly attributable to the drought
which affected agriculture, exhaustion of existing capacity in industry and
inadequate investment in general. Agriculture, grew at rates of about 2.4
percent and 2.0 percent respectively during the fiscal year 1980/81 and
1981/82 as compared with almost 4.9 percent during 1979/80. Manufacturing
industry grew by about 5.6 percent and 4.1 percent respectively in the
fiscal years 1980/81 and 1981/82 as against 10.5 percent during 1979/80.
Although investment has been rising slowly during the recent past, it was
still at a low level of about 10.7 percent of GDP during 1981/82. Domestic
savings have averaged about four percent of GDP over the three year period
ending in 1980/81, but fell to 2.6 percent in 1981/82. Given the present
constraints on domestic resources, the low level of external resource
transfers, and unpredictable weather conditions, GDP growth is not likely
to average more than about 4 percent per annum in the medium term.



-5-
15.       Ethiopia's current account deficit on external transactions had
remained under 6 percent of GDP during the recent years through 1980/81,
despite a sharp deterioration in the terms of trade. This was achieved by
increasing the volume of coffee exports and by keeping imports under
control. The external trade picture has however worsened with declining
export earnings and rising import expenditures. The principal cause for
this unfavorable trend in export earnings has been the sharp decline in
coffee prices. They declined in 1980/81 by as much as 25 percent below the
1979/80 level and largely as a result of this, exporL earnings fell by 11
percent in 1980/81 in relation to the previous year's level. Export
earnings witnessed a further decline by 7 percent in 1981/82 mainly due to
a fall in the volume of coffee exports caused by a reduction in Ethiopia's
export quota. Meanwhile imports increased marginally in 1980/81 over the
previous years level, but recorded a 10 percent increase in value in
1981/82, largely due to sharp increases in the value of capital and
consumer goods imports. As a result, Ethiopia's current account deficit
began to widen significantly in 1981/82 to about US$318 million or to over
7 percent of GDP. The deterioration in the external account was however
cushioned by a significant increase in long-term capital reflecting in
large part disbursements of concessional loans from various sources and by
a moderate increase in grant aid. As a result, Ethiopia's external assets
increased to a level equivalent to 2.5 months of import expenditure.
However, external reserves are likely to plunge to a much lower level
(possibly of the order of 1.5 months of import expenditures) by the end of
the current fiscal year 1982/83, in the face of continued balance of
payments difficulties. Ethiopia's external debt service ratio had been of
the order of 6 perceqt of export earnings during the recent past. This,
however, increased sharply to about 10.3 percent in 1981/82, as export
earnings declined and more debt service payments fell due.
16.       The government budget took a favorable turn, with revenue
increasing from about US$842 million equivalent in 1980/81 to about U$892
million in 1981/82, or about 19.7 percent of GDP. Meanwhile, current
expenditure as a proportion of GDP decllned from 18.8 percent in 1980/81 to
18.3 percent in 1981/82 and thus led to a current surplus of 1.4 percent of
GDP -- the highest in recent years. The overall deficit increased by
nearly US$ 47 million in 1981/82 due to a 33 percent increase in capital
expenditures; this deficit of US$ 220 million (equivalent to 5 percent of
CDP) was financed almost entirely from external resources. There are,
however, indications of a major leap in current expenditure during fiscal
year 1982/83, which could reverse the record of current account surpluses
achieved during the past four fiscal years.
17.       The growth of muney supply (defined as money and quasi-money) has
been contained at moderate levels since 1978/79, as the National Bank of
Ethiopia reduced the rate of domestic credit expansion and began to monitor
the allocation of credit to priority sectors. Over the three year period
ending in 1980/81, the expansion in money supply has averaged about seven
percent per year. Money supply has continued to be under tight control;
during 1980/81 and 1981/82 it increased by only 2 and 11 percent,
respectively. The rate of domestic inflation as measured by the Addis



-6-
Ababa retail price index has declined from levels between 12 and 13 percent
in 197P/79 and 1979/80 to about 7 percent in 1981/82.
18.       Recently, several policy reforms designed to promote economic
growth and efficiency have got underway. The Joint Venture Code on which
the Government has been working for the past few months was published in
the form of a proclamation in January 1983.  The object of this
proclamation is to provide a framework to promote joint ventures between
foreign investors and local public sector enterprises. Noteworthy progress
has also been made by Government to simp?ify the Present systes involving
fifteen categories of turnover/rransa.:tion taxes into four categories-  As
regards direct taxes, the approach being followed by Government is to
strengthen the existing system of tax collection Operated through peasant
associations. It is likely that assessment of taxes will be carried out
dire"tly by the Government leaving the collection function with the peasant
associations.
Medium-Term Prospects
19.       On the whole Ethiopia faces a difficult near-term future.  First,
international economic conditions are unfavorable and the terms of trade
are expected to continue to deteriorate at least ln the sbort-tO-medim-
term particularly because of low prices for coffee - Ethiopia's Principal
export. Second, the low level of investment during the past few years is
now beginning to constrain further increases in domestic production. The
rapid production increases particularlY in 1978/79 and 1979/80 have been
largely attributable to improved utilization of existing capacity
Third, external assistance commitments are not rising fast enough to
support significant increases in investment or to sustain higher impOrt
levels (para. 22). The Government has taken a nuf,ber of steps since late
1982 to arrest this deteriorating economic situation. pirst the
Government's planning focus has been shifted from a ten-year horizon to the
short term, with the objective of preparing two and three year public
investment programs, with broad objectivess POlicies and project proposals
for financing over the medium term. Second, the Governeaent is beginnLng to
emphasize the importance of revitalizing agriculture through farmer
incentives and improved technology; the need to restore confidence among
private entrepreneurs engaged in small scale industry to draw them into the
mainstream -f development; and the need to attract foreign investment and
technologY to help develop the country's natural resources. Third, the
Government reassigned its ministers and key officials in April 1983 to help
accelerate the pace of economic development.
Government Programs
20.       Since 1974, the Government has launched a number of progra'r'
and projects, some of which had been under preparation before the
revolution and then subsequently reoriented to the needs of the poor,
especially in rural areas. In agriculture, the thrust has been to develop
smallhclder agriculture, rehabilitate drought-affected areas, and tO
develop export and industrial crops.  In the manufacturing sector,
increased emphasis has been given to small-scale, cottage aad handicraft



industries, and to the production of mass consumer goods. Road
construction has expanded and shifted in emphasis towards rural roads. A
plan for education Covering the period 1976 to 1989 is being implemented
and emphasizes primary and non-formal education with increased cultural,
economic and social relevance. Enrollments at all levels have been
increasing more rapidly than before, especially in those rural areas which
were relatively under-provided with facilities. Rural health and water
supply programs are being expanded, and the Government has been preparing
programs to improve urban housing and services, especially for low-income
groups. In mid-19799 the Government launched a nationwide literacY
campaign. Not least, the Government has improved and expanded its relief
operations.
21.       The formation and mobilization of so many peasant associations
and kebeles over a short period (paras. 4 and 5) is a less tangible
achievement but one -which may be of great long-run significance. These
organizations provide a basis upon which the Government can build and
accelerate its develoPment effort, with emphasis on the poorest social
groups. It is true that the peasant associations and kebeles will need
additional support to enable them to carry out some of their tasks, such as
land redistribution, the establishment of cooperative farms and trading
activity. Nevertheless, some of their potential is already being realized;
they are playing A significant role in the construction of primary schools,
training centers, clinics, and rural roads, in reafforestation and
conservation activity, and in the organization of literacy campaigns and
other self-help projects
External Assistance
22.       Unlike many Other African countries, Ethiopia has no traditional
source of technical and financial assistance. Perhaps because of this, the
level of capital inflows to Ethiopia has been very low. In 1979, for
example, disbursements Of net official development assistance to Ethiopia
amounted to less than US$6 equivalent per capita, compared with receipts of
over US$20 per capita for low income countries taken together. Ethiopia,
however, is in need of substantial resource transfers to support
investments that will enable a reasonable rate of growth to be achieved,
particularly ia view of the country's poverty: low level of savings and
weak balance of PaYments position. Within the limits imposed by its
perceived security needs over the past few years, the Government has
directed available resources towards economic and social development
(paras. 10 and 20); it has restrained salaries, squeezed the imaport of
non-essentials and increased taxes significantly to contribute to security
and developmental needs.
23.       Excluding military debt service, for which no information is
available, the ratio of Ethiopia's debt service to export earnings has
remained low (about six percent in 1980/81) because of the relatively low
level of external loan commitments in recent years, and the tendency of
some donors to shift to support on grant terms. But as noted earlier, the
debt service ratiO has begun to increase -- it reached a level of 10.3
percent in 1981/82.  Total debt outstanding and disbursed was about US$949



million at December 31, 1982. The Bank Group was for some years the
largest source of loans and credits, but in recent years, the European
Economic Community, the African Development Bank, the Soviet Ur.ion, the
German Democratic Republic and Czechoslovakia have expanded their support,
and development assistance is continuing from Sweden, the Federal Republic
of Germany and Italy. U.S. Exim-bank made a loan in 1979 for aircraft
purchases. The IMF has provided Trust Fund loans and assistance under the
Compensatory Financing Facility (CFF). By July 1982, Ethiopia's net
borrowings under the Trust Fund stood at about SDR26.4 million equivalent
and drawings under the CFF stood at about SDR54.0 million.  In May  1981, a
stand-by arrangement for Ethiopia in an amount equivalent to SDR 67.5
million was approved by the IMF to support an 18-m'onth program that was
designed to sustain a reasonable rate of economic growth, strengthen
overall fiscal performance and help improve the balance of payments in the
medium-term. The standby was fully disbursed and all the performance
criteria met. In addition, Italy, Finland, Sweden and Japan have concluded
debt forgiveness arrangements with Ethiopia.
PART II - BANK GROUP OPERATIONS IN ETHIOPIA
24.       Bank Group lending to Ethiopia since 1950 totalled about US$571
million (less cancellations) as of March 31, 1983, consisting of 27 IDA
credits totalling about US$447 million, 12 Bank loans totalling about
US$109 million, and five IFC commitments totalling US$15.7 million. Much
of the lending (US$228 million) was committed between fiscal years 1974 and
1978. Subsequently, the compensation issue led to an interruption in new
lending (para. 30). Since FY1973, lending has been on IDA terms only.
From 1973 to 1977, IBRD's and IDA's combined share of gross disbursements
of public medium- and long-term loans increased from 24.1 percent to 67.3
percent. Hovever, these data tend to exaggerate somewhat the dependence on
the Bank, since they exclude the growing tendency of other donors to give
capital assistance on gran: terms. IBRD's share of total public debt
outstanding and disbursed as of December 1982 has been estimated at about 5
percent, and IDA's at 33 percent. Their shares of total debt service in
1982 have been estimated at about 9 percent and 4 percent, respectively.
25.       Bank lending focussed on the construction of trunk roads, power
and Lelecommunications facilities ur.til the late 1960s, when its emphasis
shifted to agriculture and education. In the past decade, nine credits
totalling US$173 million have supported agricultural production and
marketing. The most recent one (Cr.1088-ET) is assisting the agricultural
minimum package program, which represents the core of the Government's
development plans for peasant agriculture. In addition, the last three
credits for roads have placed emphasis on meeting agricultural needs.
Since 1973, three credits totalling US$68 million have supported
educational development.
26.       Project implementation in Ethiopia, although subject to some
difficulties, is generally satisfactory. Security problems affected the
Lower Adiabo Project (Cr. 556), the Rangelands Project (Cr. 603), and the
Drought Rehabilitation Project (Cr. 485). The Lower Adiabo Project made no



- 9 -
progress, and therefore the credit was closed. The latter two, however,
made reasonable progress. Projects sometimes suffer from management
problems, but those in the highways and education sectors particularly
continue to have strong management. Financial problems have also occurred,
but have been remedied in most cases. In addition, the economic and social
reforms introduced since 1974 (para. 4) necessitated changes in a number of
projects and, together with management and staffing constraints, have
caused implementaticn delays and postponement of closing dates. Such
changes hindered progress on the Second Livestock Project (Cr. 365), and
the credit was closed. However, the changes have sometimes had beneficial
impacts on the projects in question; for example, the scope of the Coffee
Processing Project (290-ET) was amended to include existing coffee washing
stations taken over under the land reform.
27.       General problems  such as rising labor costs and occasional
shortages of construction materials, have also detracted from efficient
project implementation. However, our experience has been that the
Government and the project managements have often been successful in
efforts to overcome these problems. Ethiopia's overall record on project
implementation compares favorably with other countries in the Eastern
Africa Region. Annex II contains a summary of Bank loans, IDA credits, and
IFC investments, aud notes on the execution of ongoing projects.
28.       Ethiopia's disbursement performance on projects assisted by the
Bank Group has also been reasonably satisfactory. The ratio of
disbursements to undisbursed funds in Ethiopia over the past five years was
about equal to the Bank-wide average and above the average for ti.ie Eastern
Africa Region.
29.       We propose to continue our support for the Government's growth
and equity-oriented objectives and focus particularly on projects which in-
crease productive capacity in agriculture and industry or provide essential
infrastructure. An urban development project and a petroleum exploration
promotion and geothermal reconnaissance project have recently been
approved. Two other projects 'save been appraised - a sixth
telecommunications project to. expand rural telecommunications services, the
long distance network and installations for international
telecommunications, and an agricultural research project to help expand
agricultural research and strengthen existing research capabilities and
efforts. A sixth edlcation project is under preparation and will support
the Government's efforts to improve the quality, quantity and relevance of
the country's education programs. In addition, a third power project is
being prepared to help develop domestic energy resources to meet the needs
of Ethiopia's growing economy.



- 10 -
Compensation
30.       In early 1975, the Government nationalized enterprises, either
partly or wholly, in which it deemed government ownership or control to be
in the public interest. When doing so, the Government stated that fair
compensation would be paid to former owners. To implement this policy, it
established a Compensation Commission in early 1976 to receive and review
claims, and to negotiate and reach agreement with former owners, but much
time passed with little evident progress being made. Because of this, no
new lending proposals for Ethiopia were presented to the Board between
April 1978 and December 1980, when a concrete beginning to resolve the
issue was made. Since then, significant progress has been made. IFC has
negotiated a share-purchase agreement with the Ethiopian Government in
respect of its shares in the Metahara Sugar Company and the Textile Mills
of Dire Dawa. IFC's partner in Metahara, a Dutch firm which had a large
claim, has agreed on a settlement with the Compensation Commission. TFC's
major partner in the Textile Mills, a Japanese company, has also agreed on
a settlement with the Commission. The Commission has also entered into
negotiations with a number of other claimants and has reached settlements
with a major American claimant, three German claimants, and two small
Japanese and American claimants. In addition, the Ethiopian Government has
agreed with the Italian Government on an arrangement to settle all Italian
claims.
PART III - THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
31.       Ethiopia's transport system comprises approximately 43,200 km of
roads (including 13,300 km of all-weather roads of which about 4,000 km are
paved), two ports at Assab and Massawa, one 780 km railway line linking
Addis Ababa and the port of Djibouti, small maritime and coastal shipping
operations, river and lake transport (of relatively little significance),
two international airports at Addis Ababa and Asmara, and 27 small
airfields and rudimentary airstrips. Roads comprise the country's dominant
mode of transport. Away from the major roads, animals are the primary
means of transport.
32.       The transport system is inadequate to support an efficient
production and distribution system. It is virtually non-existent in the
agriculturally rich west and in the south and south-east, and is in need of
rehabilitation in many areas. Moreover, adjacent regions often lack links
between them, thereby militating against the development of a strong,
integrated national economy. The inadequacy of the transport system is
further compounded by the concentration of population settlements away from
the potentially rich agricultural areas. The provision of transport
services in Ethiopia, however, is made difficult and relatively expensive
by the country's large geographical area, rugged topography, se-.ere
climatic conditions, and widely-dispersed population.
33.       The Addis Ababa-Djibouti Railway, which is jointly owned by the
two countries, lost its dominant role as the main import-export route after
the port of Assab was constructed in the 1950's and a road was built to



- 11 -
link the nev port with Addis Ababa. Since then the ral-fay has declined
further primarily due to inadequate maintenance and damage from hostilities
in the Ogaden in 1S77 and 1978. Freight traffic has decreased from 471,000
tons in 1975/76 to about 236,000 tons in 1981/82. To help revive the
railway, the two countries established a binational agency which is
implementing a modest emergency repair program with EEC assistance. To
significantly improve the railway's capacity and quality of service, a
large renewal program would need to be undertaken. The justification for
such a program, however, is not readily apparent. Under the proposed
project, the future role of the railway will be studied during the
preparation of a National Transport Plan (para. 66).
34.       Ethiopia's ports at Assab and Massawa have experienced
significant increases in traffic volumes in recent years, growing from
about 1.3 million tons in 1975/76 to 2.3 million tons in 1981/82. This
reflects both economic expansion and also a shifc of traffic away from the
port of Djibouti. In 1979/80, Assab accounted for 84 percent of Ethiopia's
port traffic, Massawa 10 percent and Djibouti 6 percent. The efficiency of
the Ethiopian ports has been hampered by congestion, inadequate
coordination among the various intervening agencies, and operational
shortcomings. The Government therefore commissioned a series of planning,
feasibility and port management studies which have recently been
completed. They provide a basis to help establish an efficient policy,
pricing, and ad-inistrative structure, and a framework to help provide a
fair basis for competition with the port of Djibouti.
35.       Overall responsibility for the transport sector rests with the
Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and the Ministry of
Construction (MOC). Several public sector enterprises undertake various
functions under these two ministries. The Ministry of Transport and
Communications defines transport sector policies, priorities, plans and
strategy; oversees the construction, improvement and maintenance of all
transport infrastructure; regulates all transport services; classifies,
licences and controls commercial trans-port; and prepares and implements
tariffs in all modes of transport. The Ministry carries out these
functions through the Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR), the Marine
Transport Authority (MTA), the Civil Aviation Authority (CAA), Ethiopian
Airlines (EAL), and the Maritime and Transit Services Corporation (NMTS).
36.       The Ministry of Construction is responsible for constructing,
improving and maintaining Government buildings and transport
infrastructure; establishing and supervising organizations engaged in
construction works including licencing and registering construction
consultants, contractors, surveyors, architects and other construction
professionals; and encouraging self-help construction works. The Ministry
oversees two construction entities- the Ethiopian Transport Construction
Authority (ETCA) and the Ethiopian Building Construction Authority (EBCA).
37.       The Government's transport development objectives are:  (i) to
improve the main roads linking population centers and export



- 12 -
outlets; (ii) to improve access to agriculturally productive areas and also
drought-prone areas; (iii) to maintain and rehabilitate the road network;
and (iv) to improve the trucking industry, ports and airports to promote
-fficient production and distr'bution in the economy and also international
trade. The Association supports these objectives and has assisted the
Government in reviewing draft development plans which encompass the
transport sector. In 1981 the Government issued a draft ten-year
development plan and, with the Bank's assistance, identified a preliminary
five-year public investment program.  Both were too ambitious, and the
Government is now preparing short- and medium-term investment programs in
the context of the ten-year perspective plan (para. 13). A National
Transport Planning Study will be included in the proposed project to assist
the Government's plan preparations (paras. 33 and 66).
38.       In the initial draft plan and investment program, the transport
sector accounted for 30 to 40 percent of planned investment, of which about
60 percent was allocated to roads and road transport. Rail received about
25 percent. The proposed level of investment in the transport sector is
considered high, and the new investment programs now being prepared are
expected to reduce this level to about 25 percent. The emphasis on road
transport is considered appropriate, but the merits of new investments in
rail must be carefully assessed. The Government has undertaken a
pre-feasibility study, with Italian assistance, of a proposed 860 km
railway between Awash and Assab, and plans to carry out feasibility
studies of the railway, including detailed eawineering, in the near
future. Although a new rail line is unlikely to be financed and
constructed within this decade, the Association intends to follow the
progress of these studies closely since the ongoing improvements to the
road to Assab together with the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway are currently
expected to provide enough capacity to meet requirements for the
foreseeable future. In this regard, the Government, prior to making any
investment in the proposed railway, will: (i) carry out studies on the
technical, economic and financial feasibility of the railway; (ii) exchange
views with the Association on the findings of these studies; and (iii)
ensure that any such investment is economically and financially justified
(Section 4.02, draft Development Credit Agreement).
The Roads and Road Transport Subsector
39.       Ethiopia's road network is one of the least developed in eastern
Africa, with a density of only 10 km per 1,000 km2 and 0.4 km per 1,000
people. The main network extends radially from Addis Ababa with few
interconnecting links; large areas still lack an all-weather link to the
capital or to other economic centers. The road network has expanded
considerably in recent years. The length of paved roads and the total
length of the networks have increased 2.4 times in the last sixteen years.
Nevertheless, much of the main road network needs extensive rehatilitation
and upgrading. The road network has been classified into primary,
secondary, feeder and rural road categories primarily in accordance with



- 13 -
design standards rather than functional purposes.2/ The Government
therefore plans to revise the classffication of each road to accord with
its function, and will establish the new classification system by March 31,
1984 (Section 4.03, draft Development Credit Agreement).
40.       In 1980/81, the vehicle fleet totalled about 55,000, or less than
two vehicles per 1,000 population- the lowest fleet density in Africa.
Approximately 78 percent were automobiles, 9 percent large trucks,   5
percent small trucks, and 8 percent other types of vehicles. Overall, the
fleet has been growing at about 6.6 percent annually since 1977/78.
Despite the small vehicle fleet, traffic flows on the main roads are high;
in 1980, nine percent of the main roads experienced average daily traffic
levels of more than 500 vehicles, and about 76 percent of the roads
averaged more than 100 vehicles. Vehicle axle loads and dimensions are
regulated; limits on dimensions are still adequate, but those for axle
loads, 8 tons, are too low and have generally not been enforced. A
comprehernsive survey has indicated that axle loads of 12 to 13 tons are
quite common. Increases in axle load limits are now being taken into
account in the design of new roads and in the strengthening of existing
roads. The Government will therefore take all necessary measures to permit
a general increase in the axle load limit to 10 tons, with provisions for
12-ton limits on selected roads which have been designed for the higher
limit, and will begin enforcing these new limits by June 30, 1984 (Section
4.04, draft Development Credit Agreement).
41.       Traffic safety has become a major concern; the toll of accidents
is high in Ethiopia. Until recently, little attention has been given to
traffic management. Road designs have not always included safety features,
the requirements for driver education and licensing are weak, vehicle
inspections are superficial, and traffic regulations receive little
enforcement. Under the first Road Sector Project (Seventh Highway Project)
(Credit 708-ET), the Government requested Bank assistance to formulate
corrective actions, and consultants are now identifying weaknesses under a
Road Transport Study (para. 50) and providing technical assistance to
implement improvements. These services will be continued under the
proposed project.
42.       The Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority (ETCA) has overall
responsibility for highway administration.3/ Organizationally, it has two
operating departments: (i) the Heavy Construction Department responsible
for constructing highways, airports, sea ports, railroads, and urban
streets; and (2i) the Rural Roads Construction and Road Maintenance
Department. Eight divisions- four administrative and four technical
2/ -Feeder road" refers to the lowest class road in the main network,
while 'rural road" refers to a low-class local (farm-to-market) road
that is not part of the main network.
3/ The institution was referred to first as the Imperial Highway
Authority, then the Ethiopian Highway Authority, and subsequently the
Ethiopian Road Authority until 1980.



- 14 -
including Planning and Programming, and Design Divisions- support the
operating departments. ETCA employs about 20,000 people of whom about 55
percent are seasonal employees. Professionals number about 110 including
65 engineers and 10 economists. Although more professional employees are
required, all departments and divisions are ably headed and staffed by
Ethiopians. Nevertheless, following the unrest of 1977 and 1978, when
foreign contractors withdrew from the country, ETCA expanded considerably
its force account construction activities with the concomitant dilution of
its other activities, particularly road maintenance and supervision of
construction. Efforts to strengthen ETCA will therefore be carried out
under the proposed project (para. 61). In addition, ETCA will reduce its
force account construction capacity by shifting to construction by contract
either by foreign contractors or by autonomous public construction
enterprises (para. 48). The first such enterprise-the Blue Nile
Construction Enterprise is now being formed. The Government, in
consultation with the Association, will: (i) review the role and
organizational structure of ETCA by June 30, 1985; (ii) prepare a tentative
program, by June 30, 1985, for the gradual transfer of ETCA's force account
brigades to construction enterprises until an optimum size of ETCA's force
account facilities is attained; and (iii) set out specific deadlines for
completing the program after experience has been gained through 30 months
of operations by the Blue Nile Enterprise (Section 4.06, draft Development
Credit Agreement).
43.       ETCA's Planning and Programming Division has received
considerable technical assistance support under earlier IDA credits, and is
now adequately organized and staffed. The Division consistently produces
well-prepared plans and feasibility studies for main roads, including
budgets for road construction and maintenance. ETCA's Design Division
carried out detailed engineering for all of the main roads constructed
during the last decade except for a major bridge over the Blue Nile River.
The Division's performance in design quality and documentation has been
satisfactory and studies are being undertaken to further improve pavement
designs and increase the use of local construction materials to help reduce
costs. ETCA's construction supervision arrangements, hovever, need
improvement. The use of expatriate consultants in supervising main road
construction has been gradually declining over the last decade but, with
the increase in the level of construction activity, ETCA has not been able
to consistently maintain a satisfactory quality of construction. Steps
will therefore be taken under the proposed project to improve construction
supervision (para. 62).
44.       ETCA's Rural Roads Department was established in 1976.  Prior to
that time, no one organization had been given administrative responsibility
for lower class rural roads, and most of the country's rural roads
inventory had been constructed by local authorities and by construction
units under agricultural projects. A government study group on the
development of rural roads has proposed that ultimately the planning,
construction and maintenance of rural roads should be decentralized and
become a regional or local government responsibility. The Government
recognizes, however, that this must be preceded by much more institution



- 15 -
building at the local government level. The Government will prepare
proposals for such decentralization in consultation with the Association by
December 31, 1985 (Section 4.05, draft Development Credit Agreement).
45.       ETCA's Heavy Construction Department maintains the main road
network, although ETCA plans to eventually transfer all maintenance
functions to its Rural Roads Department when that department's operations
are decentralized. ETCA's performance in maintaining main roads has
improved in recent years with assistance provided under earlier
IDA-assisted projects. Planning and budgeting for road maintenance also
improved after a new maintenance management system and a new equipment
management system, together with training programs for the two systems,
were introduced under the first Road Sector Project, and after the
responsibility for maintenance planning and budgeting was transferred to
its nine district offices. ETCA's maintenance expenditures have been
adequate but improvements could be made in the efficiency of allocation.
In future, the Government will assign the highest priority in allocating
resources, which will not fall below agreed minimum levels, to the
maintenance and rehabilitation of the existing road network (Section 4.09,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
46.       ETCA has active training programs for all levels of personnel.
Senior employees are trained in schools and universities in Ethiopia and
overseas, and middle- and lower-level administrative, construction, and
maintenance personnel are trained at both trade schools and ETCA's own
training center. Since its establishment in 1956, the center has trained
some 8,000 foremen, technicians, tradesmen, and equipment operators. The
training center was assisted under earlier IDA-assisted projects and has
the capacity to train about 600 people annually. This capacity, however,
is now insufficient to meet ETCA's requirements, and the quality of
training needs further improvement. The proposed project will therefore
include assistance to strengthen the center (para. 61).
47.       In 1981, five domestic private contractors in Ethiopia, including
four involved in road construction, were qualified for contracts in excess
of US$7.5 million equivalent, three were qualified for contracts between
US$1.2 million and US$7.5 million, and about 160, who were mostly engaged
in the building subsector, were qualified for smaller contracts. The
Association has provided a total of US$4.5 million equivalent under earlier
IDA credits to assist domestic contractors participating in IDA-assisted
projects to procure equipment, and four such contractors have benefitted
from this assistance. In recent years, however, the four major road
construction contractors have faced increasing financial strains and have
accumulated large debts. This has resulted particularly from serious
management shortcomings on the part of the contractors but other important
contributing factors include the Government's efforts to build up its own
force account capacity during the periods of hostilities and civil unrest
in the late 1970s, which also diminished the number of available works, and
shortages of fuel and materials. In April 1982, legal action was taken to
collect the debts and, pending court rulings, all four companies are being
administered by senior ETCA officials on behalf of the court. The earlier
IDA-assistance for domestic contractors has therefore not achieved its
objectives apart from the development of Ethiopian technical expertise and



- 16 -
the procurement of equipment which is still available in the country.  It
is unlikely that the four large contractors will be able to continue to
operate following the court's proceedings.  One of them, however, is now
expected to form, together with its present administration, the nucleus of
a new public construction enterprise (para. 48).  Technical assistance,
howeveL, will continue to be made available under the proposed project to
private and public domestic contractors.
48.       In recent years, international contractors have been showing
greater interest in the Ethiopian market for major construction works, and
the Government agrees that international competitive bidding procedures
should be used under the proposed project. The Government has therefore
decided to establish public construction enterprises to help improve ETCA's
efficiency and that of the construction subsector in general (para. 42),
and also to enable existing construction capacity to be put to use in
competition for works under the proposed project and possibly in other
countries. The new enterprises will be operationally and financially
autonomous. Support for them will be provided under the proposed project
(para. 64).
49.       Ethiopia's road transport industry is dominated by private
truckers, mostly individual owner/operators who own about 75 percent of the
country's trucking fleet. Entry into the industry is subject only to
compliance with certain minimum personal, safety and financial
requirements, but truckers for-hire must be associated with the National
Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR), a parastatal road regulatory and
transport company under the aegis of the Ministry of Transport and
Communications. In 1980/81, NATRACOR owned and operated some 685 trucks or
12 percent of the total fleet, all of Ethiopia's approximately 630 tankers,
and about 300 of the approximately 2,300 buses in Ethiopia. The newer
vehicles operate along the major routes while the older vehicles have been
assigned mainly to local services. At present, however, a shortage of
medium- and small-size trucks for short-haul services apparently exists.
50.       Trucking services are closely regulated and controlled.  The Road
Transport Authority sets tariffs by type of cargo, type of road, and
distance, and the tariffs generally cover transport costs (para.51).
Tariffs are enforced and trucks and freights are assigned by NATRACOR which
also provides freight consolidation, forwarding, and dispatching services.
Although NATRACOR's operations have been profitable, a study financed under
the Sixth Highway Project (Credit 552-ET) indicated that NATRACOR's
managerial resources, office facilities, and information systems were
inadequate. The Government has adopted a number of measures suggested by
the study to help correct these problems, in:luding separating NATRACOR's
passenger and freight operations and reallocating physical facilities
between them, and increasing the number of skilled personnel. In addition,
further study of NATRACTOR and of the Road Transport Authority, together
with related technical assistance, is being carried out as part of a Road
Transport Study recently initiated under the first Road Sector Project. In
particular, the Road Transport Study will help to identify ways to improve
road transport planning, organization, operations and safety in Ethiopia,
and also to assess the condition and needs of the trucking fleet. The



- 17 -
Government will exchange views with the Association on the study' 
recommendations by June 1, 1984, and begin implementing the stud:t's
recommendations by June 1, 1985 (Section 4.08, draft Development L.edit
Agreement).
51.       The Government has made concerted efforts to mobilize financial
resources to cover a large share of its expenditures on roads. Road user
charges have covered all recurrent expenditures (road maintenance,
administration, and engineering services) plus a substantial portion of
capital expenditures. In 1980/81, road-user charges contributed US$26
million equivalent towards capital expenditures, representing about 43
percent of total capital expenditures. In addition, retail fuel prices in
Ethioi.a are generally above the level of international prices.  The Rcad
Transport Study, however, will review the level and structure of road-user
charges and fuel prices (para 50).
Bank Involvement in Road Transport
52.       Since 1950, the Bank Group has committed about US$136 million
equivalent to help finance seven road projects in Ethiopia. All have now
been completed except for the seventh (the First Road Sector Project). The
first project (Loan 31-ET of September 1950) helped to reconstruct, repair
and maintain the main road network. The second (Loan 116-ET of February
1963), third (Credit 35-ET of February 1963), and fourth (Loan 523-ET and
Credit lll-ET of January 1968) projects together assisted the construction
of about 1,700 km of new paved roads and the upgrading to paved standards
of about 1,000 km of existing roads. Under the fourth project, the Bank
Group began a more systematic approach to institution-building that proved
successful.  A Project Performance Audit Report (No. 825) on the third
project, and the Project Completion Report on the fourth project, concluded
that the two projects were economically justified and that project
implementation was generally satisfactory, although some delays were
experienced. In the fifth (Credit 332-ET of September 1972) and the sixth
(Credit 552-ET of June 1975) projects, the Bank Group's assistance shifted
its emphasis to lower-class roads designed to promote agricultural
development, and to strengthen institutions in the transport sector
including the domestic construction industry. Both projects proceeded well
and about 660 km of roads were constructed.
53.       The seventh project, called the First Road Sector Project (Credit
708-ET of July 5, 1977), provided US$32 million equivalent to support the
first three years (1978-80) of the Government's five-year (1978-82) road
sector program. The project helped to strengthen paved main roads, to pave
gravel secondary roads, and to construct gravel feeder roads and rural
roads. The project is progressing satisfactorily although with two years'
delay. Progress during the first year was slow and overall performance was
only about 44 percent of the year's agreed target, primarily because of
civil unrest and shortages of construction materials and equipment. The
following years saw significant improvements, with actual progress ranging
between 78 and 91 percent of the targets agreed annually between the
Government and the Association. Success varied, however, with the type of
work being carried out. In summary, the project has met about 62 percent
of the original appraisal targets for upgrading rural roads, and 70, 236
and 61 percent, respectively, of its targets for constructing feeder roads,



- 18 -
rural roads and lower-class roads. The flexibility inherent in sector
lending was of paramount importance in attaining these results. Although
overall achievements have been close to targets in recent years, the
composition of the progeam has varied to reflect changing needs and
circumstances. For example, several roads which could not be improved or
constructed because of unsettled conditions in certain areas were replaced,
with the Association's agreement, by similar roads in other localities. A
major objective of the project was also to strengthen sector institutions
and the domestic construction industry. Apart from its performance in
relation to the construction industry (para. 48), the project has been
successful. Significant improvements have been attained in road planning
and design, maintenance management, staff training, procurement procedures,
and rural and feeder road construction techniques.
PART IV - THE PROJECT
54.       A report entitled 'Ethiopia - Second Road Sector Project, Staff
Appraisal Report", No. 4230a-ET dated June 3, 1983, is being distributed
separately.
55.       The proposed project was prepared by the Ethiopian Government
with assistance from Bank Group staff. The project was appraised in
April/May 1982 and negotiations were held in Washington from April 18 to
April 23, 1983. The Ethiopian delegation was led by Ato Kassa Gabre,
Minister of Construction, and included Dr. Taye Gulilat, Deputy Secretary
General, Central Planning Supreme Council, and Ato Asseged Wolde Amanuel,
Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Transport and Communications.
Objectives and Project Description
56.       The proposed sector project will comprise the capital investment
part of the Government's three-year (1984-86) Second Road Sector Program,
and will assist the Government: (i) to improve, expand and maintain the
network of main, feeder and rural roads; (ii) to procure modern road
laboratory and design equipment; and (iii) to purchase road maintenance
equipment and construct maintenance depots. In addition, the project will:
(i) further strengthen ETCA to improve its effectiveness; (ii) streamline
the Road Transport Authority and NATRACOR to improve efficiency in the road
transport industry; (iii) promote efficient resource allocation by
developing appropriate pricing policies; (iv) strengthen the local
construction industry, primarily by assisting the establishment of public
construction enterprises; (v) improve road traffic safety; and (vi) improve
transport sector organization, planning and administration. Subprojects
proposed by the Government for inclusion in the sector project will be
selected in accordance with agreed criteria (para. 74).
57.       The Government's road sector program, on which the project is
based, has been reviewed by the Association   (para. 37).  The present
targets are consistent with implementation capacity, provided international
contractors participate in a few major contracts and thus supplement local
capacity. The program has appropriately attached the highest priorities,



- 19 -
reflecting estimated rates of return (para. 81), to road maintenance and
rehabilitatlon, with lower priorities given to new construction and to
paving of gravel roads. If resources are not available, this order of
priorities will determine, subject to the financing preferences of the
other external donors, the components which will either be postponed or
phased out (Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement).
Detailed Features of the Project
(a) New Construction
58.       About 730 km of gravel-surfaced feeder roads and 2,940 km of
low-class rural or access roads will be constructed. One proposed
subproject, the construction of the Nekempte-Bure feeder road (250 km) to
all-weather gravel standards, has already been approved by the Association
and is expected to have an economic return of about 24 percent. The
construction contract could be awarded by November 1983. The rural roads
will be constructed to low all-weather earth/gravel standards which will
vary according to terrain and expected volume of traffic. The rural roads
will be selected on the basis of a screening procedure which ranks areas to
be served on the basis of specific criteria including agricultural
production and potential, population, and existing road facilities. ETCA
will construct the rural roads by force account (para. 73), aud the
proposed IDA credit will assist their construction only by financing the
procurement of equipment. ETCA, with the assistance of consultants, is
currently assessing its equipment needs. The Government, therefore, will
furnish to the Association for review a list of the additional equipment
required for rural road construction by December 31, 1983 (Section 4.07,
draft Development Credit Agreement).
(b) Rehabilitation and Paving
59.       Almost 430 km of paved roads will be rehabilitated and same 360
km of gravel roads will be upgraded and paved with a bituminous surface
dreasing. The paved roads planned for rehabilitation are generally old,
some aged up to 50 years, and have geometric and structural designs that
are deficient for today's traffic loads and patterns. Deterioration of the
roads has therefore been progressing quickly. The new designs will improve
traffic and pavement capacity, and road safety. The gravel roads were
originally built to adequate standards about 10 to 20 years ago but require
reshaping and widening.
(c) Road Maintenance
60.       The project will provide ETCA with additional equipment to
support its maintenance operations. In addition it will provide ETCA with
equipment to replace old equipment and expand ETCA's uaintenance depots.
The total resources, including equipment, required to maintain the road
network are being established under the maintenance management system and
an inventory of existing equipment is being carried out under the equipment
management system (para. 45). The results of these assessments are
expected to be available in late 1983. The Government, therefore, will



- 20 -
furnish the Association for review a list of the additional equipment
required for road maintenance by December 31, 1983 (Section 4.07, draft
Development Credit Agreement). The project will also provide ETCA with
technical assistance to complete the implementation of the maintenance and
equipment systems initiated under the first Road Sector Project.
(d) Strengthening of ETCA
61.       Efforts initiated under previous road projects to strengthen ETCA
will be continued. During the project period, ETCA plans to train and
retrain approximately 50 professional employees; 800 technical, supervisory
and clerical staff; and 1,700 operators and mechanics. A comprehensive
training program was agreed upon at negotiations and will require: (i) a
minor expansion of ETCA's training center; (ii) additional training
equipment, tools and materials; (iii) technical assistance to help improve
the training program and course content, and to train existing
instructors; (iv) technical assistance to prepare and implement on expanded
program, including training facilities for the construction and maintenance
of rural roads by labor-based methods; and (v) overseas training for
trainers and professional employees.
62.       To increase ETCA's operational capabilities and efficiency, the
project will also provide: (i) technical assistance to establish new
publ_c construction enterprises which are expected to absorb part of ETCA's
force account construction capacity (paras. 47 and 63); (ii) technical
assistance to improve moni:oring and evaluation; (iii) technical assistance
to improve the supervision of road construction; (iv) technical assistance
to strengthen maintenance systems (para 60); (v) photogrammetric equipment
for the Design Division; and (v) test equipment for its soils and materials
laboratory.
(e) Strengthening of the Road Transport Authority and NATRACOR
63.       Technical assistance will be provided to continue the efforts
initiated under the first Road Sector Project to improve traffic safety and
the efficiency of the road transport industry (paras. 41, 49 and 50).
(f) Support for the Construction Industry
64.       Technical assistance will be provided by international
contractors in the form of management contracts to the new public
construction enterprises (para. 47). The assistance will help to: (i)
establish the appropriate general management organization; (ii) prepare
bids for construction contracts; and (iii) manage contracts that are won.
The project will finance the technical assistarce services only for the
prebidding and bidding stages; services during construction would be
included in bid prices. To qualify for international competitive bidding
under the project, the new enterprises must engage these technical
assistance services and be operationally and financially autonomous. These
technical assistance services will also be made available to private
domestic contractors.



- 21 -
(g) Road Safety
65.       The Road Transport Study (paras. 41 and 49) vill define the
project's support for road safety, but it is expected to include road
markings and guardrails, rest and vehicle maintenance qreas on main roads,
vehicle inspection centers, driver education and training, and the
enforcement of traffic regulations.
(h) Transport Sector Planning and Administration
66.       Consulting services will be provided to assist the Government to
carry out a National Transport Planning Study (para. 33). The study will
consolidate various studies made by the Ministry of Transport and
Communications and other sector institutions in recent years in order to
assist the Ministry to formulate an integrated and coherent plan for the
transport sector. In particular, the study will: (i) prepare an indicative
ten-year transport plan and a detailed five-year investment program; (ii)
make operational policy recommendations for the sector; and (iii) evaluate
in detail (at the level of pre-feasibility) all transport options along the
Addis Ababa - Red Sea transport corridor. The Government will complete the
study by June 30, 1985 and furnish it to the Association for review
(Section 3.06, draft Development Credit Agreement).
i)  Other Studies and Technical Assistance
67.       Experience with the First Road Sector Project has shown that to
add flexibility to the Project and to respond to technical assistance needs
that may come up during its implementation, besides those identified during
Project preparation and appraisal, it is prudent to have a reasonable
amount of financing available to meet such needs. Therefore, a nominal sum
of US$2.0 million has been allocated under the proposed Credit to help
support high priority studies or technical assistance required during
Project implementation, and for which alternative financing is not
available.
Cost Estimates and Financing
68.       The total cost of the project, which represents the capital cost
of the Government's Second Road Sector Program (1984-86), is estimated at
about US$318.4 million equivalent, including taxes and duties of US$15.1
million. The foreign exchange component is estimated at about US$209.9
million, or 69 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes and duties,
of US$303.3 million. The recurrent costs of the program are estimated at
about US$69.3 million equivalent, including a foreign exchange component of
about US$33.8 million, or about 49 percent of the total recurrent costs.
The total cost of the program is therefore estimated at US$387.7 million,
including a fc:aign component of US$243.7 million. A detailed breakdown of
costs is given in the Credit and Project Summary.
69.       Costs have been estimated at April 1983 prices and have been
derived from recent contracts on the international market and from recent
records and contracts in Ethiopia. No expenditures for land will be made
since all sites are owned by the Government. The cost estimates provide
for about 960 staff months of consulting services and technical assistance,
ranging in cost from about US$8,500 to US$10,500 equivalent per staff-month
including salaries, travel and other work-related expenses. Price
contingencies for the project total 18 percent of the base cost and, for



- 22 -
local costs, have been estimated at 10.0 percent annually for the 1983 to
1986 period. For foreign costs, they have been estimated at 8.0, 7.5, 7.0
and 7.0 percent, respectively, for the years from 1983 to 1986.
70.       An advance of US$500,000 from the Project Preparation Facility
was approved to help facilitate project start-up. In particular, it
financed consulting services to assist ETCA to prepare for and evaluate
bids for the Nekempte-Bure road subproject (para. 58), and to assisL the
establishment and initial operations of the new public construction
enterprises (paras. 47 and 64).
71.       The proposed IDA credit of SDR 64.9 million (US$70.0 million
equivalent) will finance about 33 percent of the foreign exchange costs of
the project, or about 23 percent of the total project cost, net of taxes
and duties. The African Development Fund (ADF) Is expected to finance
about US$31.8 million equivalent, and Norway about US$18.0 million
equivalent, of the foreign exchange costs. About US$12.6 million of the
foreign costs are accounted for by ongoing commitments that will be
completed during the project period. The Government intends to finance
the remaining foreign costs of about US$77.5 million equivalent, plus the
local costs of the project which total about US$93.4 million equivalent.
The Government also intends to meet the recurrent costs of the program
totalling US$69.3 million equivalent, including the foreign component of
about US$33.8 million.
Project Implementation
72.       ETCA will have overall responsibility for implementing the road
construction, rehabilitation and paving, and maintenance components, and
for carrying out those parts of the project related to strengthening ETCA's
operations and to assisting the construction industry. The Road Transport
Authority will implement the components of the project designed to
strengthen the Transport Authority and NATRACOR and to improve road safety,
and the Ministry of Transport and Communications will oversee the National
Transport Planning Study.
Procurement and Disbursement
73.       All contracts financed by the proposed credit for civil works,
totalling about US$107.0 million equivalent, will be awarded on the basis
of international competitive bidding (ICB) in accordance with Bank Group
guidelines, except for the completion of about 50 km of paving work
initiated under the first Road Sector Project. Equipment and spare parts
for rural roads and maintenance, estimated to total about US$35.0 million,
will be procured through ICB but minor equipment for traivnng and
laborator- and design work will be procured through international shopping
in accordance with Bank Group guidelines. Contracts for equipment,
vehicles, parts and tools estimated to cost less than US$50,000 equivalent,
and which in the aggregate total less than US$700,000 equivalent, will be
procured in accordance with local procedures, which are satisfactory.
Purchases of spare parts for existing equipment or for proprietary
equipment will be procured directly from estabished dealers. All



- 23 -
consulting and technical assistance services financed by the proposed
credit will be satisfactory to the Association. With the concurrence of
the Association, price may be used as a factor in the choice of consulting
services, ..xcepL for the services to carry out the National Transport
Planning Study and to strengthen ETCA, the Road Transport Authority, and
NATRACOR. When ICB is used, domestic manufacturers vill be allowed a
preference of 15 percent, or the existing rate of customs duty, whichever
is lower, over the c.i.f. prices of competing foreign suppliers. In
addition, local civil works contractors will be allowed a preferential
margin of 7 1/2 percent over bid prices of competing foreign contractors.
74.       Subprojects to be included in the project will be initially
selected on the basis of preliminary engineering and feasibility analyses,
and final selection will be based on detailed engineering and cost
estimates and on a detailed analysis of economic rates of return. The
minimum economic return for subprojects will be 12 percent. All
subprojects will be submitted to the Association for approval (Section 3.01
(b) and Schedule 4, draft Development Credit Agreement). The engineering
work has been completed for the subprojects included in the first year of
the project, and is well-advanced for many of the subprojects being
considered for the following two years.
75.       The Association will disburse against:  (i) 40 percent of total
expenditures on civil works; (ii) 100 percent of foreign expenditures, 100
percent of local expenditures (ex-factory cost), and 80 percent of other
local expenditures on vehicles, equipment, tools and spare parts; and (c)
100 percent of foreign expenditures and 80 percent local expenditures on
consulting services, training, and studies. All disbursements will be
fully documented except disbursements for civil works executed by force
account, which will be made against certificates of expenditure with
documentation retained for inspection by IDA missions. An audit report on
these documents will be submitted to the Association within six months of
the end of each fiscal year. On the basis of the Government's advanced
state of preparation for civil works contracts, and the disbursement
profile for previous road projects in Ethiopia, disbursements are expected
to be completed by June 1988.
Accounts and Audit
76.       Project accounts will be maintained by the executing agencies
with separate accounts for each project component. The accounts will be
audited by independent auditors acceptable to the Association and then
submitted to the Association not later than six months after the end of
each fiscal year.
Environmental Impact
77.       No major environmental problems are anticipated.  Main roads that
will be constructed or rehabilitated will follow existing alignments
closely and disturbances to current land use should not occur. New paving
will reduce dust and noise and increase road safety. Construction of rural



- 24 -
roads may in some cases break new ground with the danger of increasing soil
erosion particularly in mountainous terrain, but well-designed alignments
and drainage facilities together with proper construction management should
keep erosion to an acceptable minimum.
Benefit and Justification
78.       The project will strongly support the Government's efforts to
improve and expand Ethiopia's road network.  Much has been accomplished,
particularly during the past decade, but Ethiopia's road network is still
sparse and remains one of the least developed in eastern Africa. The main
road network needs to be expanded and improved to promote interregional
trade, provide export/import -outes, and assist industrial development.
The feeder and rural road networks need to be expanded to promote
agricultural development, to help integrate the rural areas into the modern
economy, to provide access to drought-prone areas, and to enable social
services to reach Ethiopia's large and dispersed rural population.
79.       The project will continue and reinforce the institution-building
efforts initiated under previous Bank Group projects to enable ETCA and
other sector institutions to meet the growing demands being placed upon
them. The project will commit ETCA to the priorities of maintenance and
rehabilitation of main roads and to the construction and maintenance of
rural roads. The establishment of public construction enterprises will
foster a degree of competitiveness of the civil works market in Ethiopia, a
development which will be enhanced by the increasing interest of foreign
contractors to participate in this market. Overall transport sector
planning will be improved through the support provided by the project to
the Transport Ministry.
80.       The operations, efficiency and safety of the road transport
industry will also be improved by the project. The reorganization and
streamlining of the Road Transport Authority and NATRACOR, together with
improved regulation and control policies, is expected to substantially
increase the utilization of the vehicle fleet. In addition, the proposed
steps to improve road traffic safety are expected to reduce the current
high cost of accidents.
81.       The overall rate of return for project components for which
benefits can be quantified (about 80 percent of total project costs) is
estimated at about 30 percent. This excludes the rural roads, training,
and much of the technical assistance components. A sensitivity analysis
indicates that: (i) if construction costs increase 20 percent, or benefits
decrease by 20 percent, the rate of return would fall to about 23 percent,
an unlikely combination of the two variations would yield a rate of return
of 19 percent; and (ii) if project implementation experiences delays of two
years and costs also rise by 20 percent, the return would fall to about 15
percent. The estimated rates of return for various components vary; the
rehabilitation of paved roads is expected to average about 32 percent, the
paving of gravel roads about 26 percent, the construction of feeder roads
about 20 percent, the construction of rural roads over 12 percent, and road



- 25 -
maintenance over 100 percent. Although in the first instance the direct
benefits of the project will accrue to the truckers and transport companies
in the form of reduced operating costs, the closely-controlled tariff
schedules which vary with road quality will ensure that a significant
portion of the benefits will be passed on to the economy as a whole.
82.       The main risk associated with the project is the availability of
local and foreign resources to finance the entire program. Should adequate
resources not be available during the project period, the road sector
program will be adjusted in accordance with resource constraints and in
order of priority for sub-projects (Schedule 4 of the draft Development
Credit Agreement). A second risk relates to the need to ensure the timely
implementation of complementary agricultural investments supporting the
feeder and rural roads components. Steps have been taken to minimize this
risk by improving selection criteria and by establishing a monitoring and
evaluation unit in ETCA which will closely monitor the links between the
road and agriculture sectors.
PART V - LEGAL INSTRUMENTS AND AUTHORITY
83.       The draft Development Credit Agreement between Ethiopia and the
Association, and the recommendation of the Committee provided for in
Article V, Section l(d) of the Articles of Agreement of the Association,
are being distributed to the Executive Directors separately.
84.       Special features of the project are listed in Section III of
Annex III to this report.
85.       I am satisfied that the proposed credit will comply with the
Articles of Agreement of the Association.
PART VI - RECOMNENDATION
86.       I recommend that the Executive Directors approve the proposed
credit.
A. W. Clausen
President
Attachments
Washington, D.C.
June 29, 1983



- 26 -
ANNEX I
Page 1
E    PAm  - SOCIL NDCAT  mA U
ETrmr oZ16CROUPS c                           ( Zs
AREA CTNOUSAIW So. Km.)                                                        - lUS UNcUTrm
IotAL          li.9i
AGRICULTURAL    S1.                                Hm RECWENo INCONE                          mix IRO
1960  /b   1970 /b ESTINAIR /b  AFRICA SOI9 OF SAHARA APRCA S Uth Or SAAR
cwP Fm  CAPITA (USs)                40.0        70.0   1t0.0                 250.S                 1053.2
ENliS  CORSuNPTomNMPE  CAPTA
(MOUGRARS Gf COAL Q&UIAIET)        3.7        29.1     19.6                "6.5                   6l0.1
POPUATION AND E AL STATISTICS
POPULAIO. N,D-U   (TWSUSIRU) 20093.0    25450.0  31065.0
URBAN POPULATWI  CPERCENT OF TOTAL) 6.4       9.7      13.6                17.8                   28.;
POPULATION PrOECTI
FOPUIATION i WAR 200 (HILLIONS)                      53.9
SATIOKARY POPULATION WaILUONS)                      159.7
YEAR SATION RY FOPULTAION IS RFACIED               2135
POPULATION DENSITY
R SQ. M-.                       16.4        ZO.8     25.0                27.7                    54.7
PER SQ. 1I. AGRICULTURAL LARD    34.6       33.0     51.7                66.7                   129.9
POPULATON AGE STRUCTuRE (PERCENT)
0-14 URS.                       43.9        64.8     65.0                  4.8                   46.0
151; ilRS.                      53-5        52.6     52.3                52.3                   31.1
65 URS. AID AOVE                  2.6        Z.6       2.6                 2.9                    2.9
POPUATION GCATN RAIR (PERCENT)
TOAL                             2.1         2.4      Z.Oc               2.7                    2.3
UNBAR                            5.5         6.5      5.6                 6.2                     5.2
CRUDE 3151T RATE (PER THUSAND)    50.8       49.9      49.4                47.3                   47.2
CRUDE tWAiN RATE (PMr  nKe)    26.3          25.7      Z4.1                19.5                   15.7
CR0S REPRODICrIOll RATE            3.3        3-3       3.3                 3.2                    3.2
F.VT1LY PLANIN
EFTIRS. ANNAL (TSAND) .-S
USERS (PERCENT OF KRAE  ..E)   ..            ..-
FOOD AD NUrTrTION
INDEX OF IODh PODTInOM
ER CAPITA (1969-71-100)        103.0       101.0     83.0/d              68.7                   90.7
PER CAPITA SUPPLY OF
CALORIES (PERCENr OF
kE )IREKERTS)                 90.8        87.2     78.46/               90.2                  93.9
PROMEIN  (RAKS PER DLY)         72.4       69.3      iO.U?;              53.1                  54.8
OF WNICHNI518 AND PULSE       28.7        27.7     22.4?                18.4                  17.0
CHUL  (CES 1-4) HOrTALITY RATE    39.9       35.1      31.6                26.7                  23.9
HEALTH
LIFE EECTANCT Ar BIRTH (YEARS)   35.7        38.2      39.9                *5.6                  51.0
INFANT ORTALITY RATE (PER
THOUSAND)                        175.0       156.5    146.2               129.9                  113.5
A7CSS TO SAFE HATER (PERCENFr OF
POPULATION)
TOTAL                             ..         6.0      6.0/f              23.9
URBA                              ..          ..     32.0/f              54.9
RURAL                             ..          ..      2.07               16.5
ACCESS TO ECIRETA DISPOSAL (PER1T
OF POPULATION)
TOTL                              ..        14.0     I4.O/               25.8
URAN                              ..        67.0     56.                 43.1
RAL                               ..         8.0      6.Ofi              20.2
POPULATION  ER PHsICIAIN      100415.0    7574.0  74906.6/._1/          32097.3               14135.2
rOPULATION PER NURSING PERSON    1492I.6    7876.8   5319.411            3Z64.6                2213.Z
POPULATION PEk HOSPITAL RED
TTAL                          299".0      3063.4   3391.6/e             12Z5.0                1036.4
URBAN                          Z24.2       392.7       ..                249.5                430.8
RURAL                             ..    19269.5        ..               1712.1                3678.6
ALIMISSIONS PER HOSPIrAL NED        ..        10.6
HOUSINC
AVERAGE SIZE OF HOUSEIIL
TOTAL                             ..         4.5
URSB                             3.5        4.2
RURAL                             ..         4.5
AVERAGE NIRER OF PERSONS PER RO
TOTAL                             ..
URBAN                            2.7                                                              ''
RURAL                             ..          ..
ACCESS TO ELEC ITY (PERCENT
OF DWELLINUS)
UNBARL                          59.2/h        -        ''                   ''.''



- 27 -
ANNEX I
Page 2
ETO  - SOCIAL IICATO   DATA SET
EThOPiA                               GRCOUPS CCEIQIU D A11
-MUST REw  ESTIN*XE)=
mST RUCER?           LOU  Ia                 IDDLE IlCG
1960  lb   1970 lb rSTRATIE /b  AFRICA SOUt  OF SAHARA SMCA SOum OF SAAA
EDUCATION
ADJUS7ED ENOLMNT RATIOS
PRIKDT:    TOTAL                  7.0       16.0      36.0 1/              63.2                  83.3
MALE                11.0        23.0     48.0                 72.7                  96.1
FEALE                3.0        10.0     26.0                 50.3                  80.4
SECOYW:  TOTAL                    0.4        4.0       9.0                 10.2                  15.3
KALE                 1.0         6.0      11.0                13.2                   19.6
FALE                 0.1         2.0      6.0                  6.6                  11.?
VOCAIoML ErOL. ( oF SEcoNDA) 20.3              4.5        *-                 7.9                    4.7
PUPIL-TEACHER RATIO
PRIMARY                          37.0       68.5      59.2                 47.4                  38.6
SECOMDArf                        12.6       27.7      41.0                26.2                   23.6
ADILT LITEtACY RAIE (PERCENT)        ..        6.0/1i   15.0 1               34.0                  35.6
FATZ3=  CARS PER 7OUSAND
FOPULTIWN                         0.b        1.6       1.6/f               3.0                   31.9
RADIO RECEIgEtS PR TIOUSAN
POUIATO                          6.9        6.3       7.2                34.5                   71.8
TV RECEIVERS PER TUSAND
IOPTION                            ..        0.3       0.3                 1.7                   17.9
KUSAPER VDAI1X CMKtAL
INTERESr) CIRCOILATIO PER
DUSAND POPULATION                  2.1         1.l       1.7                 2.9                   19.1
CINEM& AWAL ATIENDANCE PER CAITA   ..           ..        ..                 1.1                    0.6
LABIOR FORCC
TaM   l- Z FOcE U S6AN)    8976.7    10957.5  12894.7
FEMULE (PEKEru)                 35.7        35.2      33.3                3.1                    36.5
ASICULTURE (PERCEINT)            86.0      86.0       80.0                 78.6                  56.5
XNUUSTRT (PERCENT)               S.0         6.0       7.0                 9.2                   17.7
PAIMICIPATION RATE (PERCENT)
TOTAL                              6.7        43.1      41.5                61.4                   37.0
.AL                                58.6       56.9      56.8                53.9                   46.9
FEXALE                            31.3        29.7      27.9                29.1                   27.2
ECOUC DCEIEICf RATIO                  1.0        1.1       1.1                 1.2                    1.3
PENCENT OF PRIVATE UBCONE
HIGHEST 5 PERCE  or HO  SrENDS     ..         ..        .
NIGEST 20 PERCENT OF  OUsENOL     ..         ..        .
IlES? 20 PERCENT OF KAISELOLDS    ..
LOWEST 60 PERCET OF HOUSEHOLDS                         ..               ..
POVERTY TARCE GROUPS
FSTUANED -ASLUTE POERTY  OME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
URBAN5                            ..          ..    115.0 2/             136.3                  507.0
RURAL                             ''          *'      65.0                82.9                  200.6
ESTIMATED RElATIVE POVERTY INCOME
LEVEL (USS PER CAPITA)
C                       03.8611                            ..          ..      77.0                96.6                  523.9
aRUAL                             .,          ..      37.0                60.4                  203.6
ESTIATED POPULATION ELaw ABSOLUTE
POVERTY INCOME LEVEL (PERCErrT)
URRAN                              ..         ..      60.0                39.3
RURAL                             ..          ..      65.0                69.0
Not available
Not applIcable.
NOTES
/a  The groop averages for each indicator are popuatlooveghted aritl.tle wean.. Coverage of countries
_oag tbe Indicators depeds oa svall.bllicy of date and lo not unofoes.
/b   UnLes- otberwise nvoted data for 1960 refer to any year betwen 1959 and 1961: for 1970. between 1969
an  1971; and for Mt Recent Estia.te. between 1973 and 1980.
/c   Recent population growth rate for 1975-8  in 2.5:; /d  FAO dats dlffer someubat from Ministry of Agriulture
date, and may exaggerate the apparent decllne; le 1`7; /f 1976; & 1975; /h Addla buba& only; /f 1965.
1/ Estimates differ from those in the text of the Report since the latter
reflect the findings of the latest economic mission which visited Ethiopia
in March 1983.
ZI An appraisal mission has re-estimated this figure to be about US$190 in
1981.
May 1982



- 28 -                                                           ANNEX I
Page 3
1.0sf  Altbob the dot. entsofe  -ste  ce-srail jod    the  -o obttto    srlIable. St hemId .1- he  C.ee  hO.. tAPy sy  St9  ttr
scieely  ooecblotot.. o  the Ioth W4 ets.odtat afl.toit-  Os-         et.tO  by differoe   en'Itr.  so tellLftl   the dat. v.o ate  Vm. 
it  rfer. geeope an Cil the we ctr -tn  of the e1Jnt contry arid (2) o c-.wry tree  itch amoht hiabt  -mot  Beta Eta the CPntry out
.f the Abject catry (-.Pt fcr   -slthb I-e-   011 ftepere  wee" Sr. 'lddle fece  North dAfs. at NMId. feett to ch-e hoat of et.swr
ojertt7 of tie cemtrla  So a eee  h- dat for  uthatdttcoto. Slir the concer  of c-anetee co   the ftodkcotr  depoS  -  the aallbItitt  of dot
aL1. tot shr.tete  e   eoooto   0rltl    --W.o of -    "lattett to a-tCe-  Tboe a.r.Bo  or ocly moot elS  owc    the aloe of
-  telcec. ..to. tin ate . thecatry   s cef--r t-t.wo
as M   betoLh.                                                                        Poe.toto  -o W-SULte  rd-tta.ots    lroe    fpitis (tote.
Tomte - Taco! etefoc  aw  coectele  loot am eo  1.1st -tet   1919 dote.               cb. ot--ocL) divide  by bote esosettor   .r of hoet   bode
aarlcoteo.l - tocast  of ccioottoal wo  nod tooorollp or pereoe-ly                    oweiotla to pobut aolpIc   ee d            opot P-     4tylet tat topIto ed WE-
for rep. pttee. obe  athttbme R-4me or te Lt. fatlee; 1919 dote.            hbtlltecln re-o   oetptei  ec oetiteleh-to   ot PtI              f ferd
by at tL-e so phyoLc. lotebllS-ote pre-ittem  Wriottoli  int-
CUP Mt CoAPT  1-051 - WN Per c-Pls ettsto  cc ce-ret eec.tc sette. cl-                  dt.l car ac  at ALec atd. tre! hootleI. lame. SoIete" health
celate  by oc ceeocla  stlt ae Ve-1d B.& Attn (197040 batch; 1910.                     -Wt -dsl.& ceoe  ot P.-oeIv .t.f Cod by e ebyttcta (bet by e
9192. Os lUdo4fta.                                                                    Osdc-t aetott. acs. odPtfe. etc.) .ditc  allo  te       Wtoe   rn
detloc OsFr-id. a hoMed4 cotee Of Otcot follito. ftr ertto-
STW  coUSumTSaN rim caPtA - to_eo  c.omop.1- of cosectl -ac   (.-o!                     that P=qn   n     tooplcte lete   SUt rotsitoeo  h-ettLc..
." Llipetr. ptfcoe. -otce.1ipo  Os hYdr-. eotoe  Os wotheest dot-                     Os  ee  boopirci. tota or r-Io bepltclo OSW col-cl Os mtorty
ortetty) to kllocee  ef toL eovto potpIa  1960. 1915. an  1979                        toteet  SpoctLeis  bopteca  leclted etir str cocc.
tote-  ~ ~ ~ ~   ~     ~      ~     ~     ~     ~     ~    ~    ABefofoe  W'c Ooptat B"t - Total  taoc of oaitio  to er dttbor
Em topitelo diedet by the  -o- of tote,
tea  coeett   o-arEbedi-A   f ILoy I; 1900. triO. Os two                          aml
dote                                                                              A~.5_&S- of Mt..eteld (perem  poo hseboit) - tota, orbs. Os -rc!
thee Perlatlo  (tocco  of toal  - tott of orbs to tote  posoattst                     A ~ahetd tecce  o a trots of Ettideale- Sft  tor  ilt    qstrc-
tilt-Ero tefloirtoc  or orbs ace ne at for  -onecblifty oF tar                       Os  bt ec into- A hoarder -  ieao  toy -  -V - be torttted to
cP=      le;190 tc.hs1.0at-n  teenbold frealtctPecles.
PemotaPoocEe                                                                cotn   o    of caeopeoo  - totl. teha. Os corl - eeoog  eta
Popeteete  to V., 2000 - Cormc pepotlce  seettt    booe  -t t9u0                    her ofsmo   men to o ILot. Os cre or-pid r-ototiol1
totl Poptlati  by aget Os so Os theIr arcetty -s ftooCLItyroo            lto0o. ZI           teptrtly    elitoooetd   o-ptoe  etttto     O
Prejeets p-rar  for ettilty ree  coes of theo  tonIc am                           ainPled Poc-
Lee It   oetoya blrrh tetnale  wIth c-styr P-r c-pita  ee                     Ac-e to tltoctrtclyIootofdoim                --trI. et-e. OsW roco  -
boo. O  toat lIe epeeo-y ochtilel.g ft  7.1 Syore. t . ee.-                Cotottlee do-itot  nt  tottot  to UIwSe qeoror en pecceca
-tr Lo etitty rot  Joe ban then lo-eic anto  dorm   IS.                    of total, tote. ott tota  teitet  copttwe
f-ertIit   -:ced&e  to 1ct05  -Lme ad soot f."ty Piatet Psocta-oetc.
tact cotly Ac thee salad -  ef then .&- tcabt-cto  of eoreoilt                tlflS01
stttiooarypepll=t -Ito    ecats-r  sosottot then it or tr-h chor                    Prsr  ohol - tote, ate Os fenlo - Ice  total, sic Os fesle
ftc birth rot 1. eqal to the dstb na. Os aloe the em etota-  -0                      IroI--o .11 eo cc  the sottr  towe a Pe-cseoe  of rePectstw
no. tos-,tacst  oni of-sit so -PoWotect  c-t. din each oom--tls                     pore bet  djntol for dfforte   macho. of preny   oocs  for
of  -s  ce:ta- itree! cetly. ITo etottoy VWnsot-tto  eta en                         tentrie  LmItt sloeme  erotb  ocilset nY oeS Igo penal
rotstt   tho halo of the projertd rocooreco   ofth  IperLeto                         tire      peptic ce  he- op oboe the oftttat etbel at.
othe -W    c 2000. Os the roco of torte of fertIUt  rota to c-piec-               toStecWy eeh-I  roc!    c  stote - Coepeto  - oboe; ..cedery
t boot.                                                                 ototetta reecten avu.~  Pt4-~ I  lao   orpr   f  rrn   etr   icto tta
ottowit he cot-he.                                                                amity of 12 te LV 7are oF or;                   --eepotoe  oto  a- oteee1t
Frr~.m.. - NOt-yea powetatlo  pet eqor bie1oo  f lOB boct-ro   at                 Vororoec otnlte    fooccoe ef nedcl-ottsaEefo
toa  a   9; 90 0ti  Os M97 data.                                          Societe tefcbal.  oot.   -o ehe  Poogrs ebtth epca etpet
Per-.  e- ortolteo  tad - Coopote oc oho  for oertcolt--c  tent                 ncly or a taporsec at oeenoyS          tf oe
ety:1~19.S.1910 Os 1929 dcc.Vcltree  et  - prtoore  OsW rotc   Total ordeec scotd to
Peocto    aStocr  tO-rtr - Childee  CO-i4 7ore). ooktet.sr Cl)-               stlsry Osestc   leocl ttelahd by etasr  of tecroE the
tea  poototeetot1910-9. iL9o-lO. Os 1%19-05.
SeoolcCich lace (ne-ot) - erhe  - A-taI pooch -c- of orbs P-                    UUI
llis  for 1950-0. 1900-1. Os triO-N.                                              Pemete  Cor (p-e rhemoa  e-mtatta)  P- Pm.oe  rar cooplee o
CedM 1ohtto(oc1tad    A-MaI limo bleoho pet tf.o.ao  of td-yeo                        ra    -ucots   thc- clOt paet; oldo   site.has  Os
PoPoLlatia  i9t..10.Os 19M  dote                                                    etitertoo.frr-
CroabetNt fea t-eAoend  -"rAntic!              .. teehe  ert 11ot    of old-yamot toretorr  fee.L.t             C tbtcapp L.ta  - Al typo of celnt-  fo  cotta
rorottis.1900 192. oa  100 dec-                                            brentecoco to.-4  MC  -   ri   bltorel ptite  e   b-sLf oociomootde
nItt  caloo; tetchy  ttn-yoc  oroote  Ad.   So b1900.    41-7.a  iS..se   Cottco   hloo  treotetete.-tb   _P  l
Pal, paIt -£netoc. mesi theoso)   dtac eaerof  trptoe        I Ntetrr troltl ttostretett)-IVrcowr  ta   Proa&cec t
oil soteM      eet  c wWl coote  ofzl tiftt menta  mone  faoompo. ta odk.                                                                          ecote
p*-ktharMd tente  prasctly te cero-ed      &-I- m tolam    ft-l ~I - ool
10  a  motI te                                                                        toCh  'dotly' If It-ppeaM-"or tenet-oot e lent-a.n.
toe  fSe   rtoetc-  Cap_ita. C4 10-lI.t   - tot  of per topit ine              t.AelIteenortCro   m   er    oso  h    bro
stttbno it fa aiMtioc-.  POed.ttto  ecoodr set atW lO  OsIcoesihot  hera.lceto   ttoiot  romt  te
--a   eetd.1 aogt."  ppl W.t o ec restry to. totedp             a               tiNOt-ftsl      .t-f.1n.WEW    _9    &.c m
pet dey.  oatleblo  wtepptr  onytle  doenett srtoe       Isol moo                   at tooparbta; 190. 1970 Os 1900 tote.
qoscttlet moodSo ot seneltt. Os beenL. to ttor-bcloe   -qtn-                        Aatale-d    ( ret)- abrfocet fct     for-t-I  harlo  Os-
met Wnly of foot Per daY. Not tPly7 of Fred Is tat toe  - sh-e  No-                 ar1.tlcy coU-cemo  rtott e                  etfoetithe  feve a
q"-treect   fo at  -oot-io  rebtlehe  by USDAt se-rIte foe also-                     "--ege  or total. colr Os teme  popel,tton of  LI et        epcle
ttonoe  of so era of E-fi -etato pe toy Os 20 tea  of atet Os                        1960. I9SM. ad 1900 dare. Th-e tee baat to TICD.pattlf    os
n:Ice peoco.. of ttct 10 tee  obelt he ottee  p-orot. Tboe ett--                    rfre as-s    c-otte  of the poo ie.O  I-& tEIn er-d. A
ottdat  lont=   tbs  of 75 tees of total P-mote c   22 eec of                        fee .t-or r  fret tm.tloolcor.
stat protet  -tsrc       .a f-r the  -Idt. eropted by PAl) to the ITict          teoei Otreetes matte - tott  of roo1bool moS  11 a.l -,) adoe
lUrid food soote; 191e.1970 oct 197? deto.                                          Ete rtl labor For-
deedtec  ocool OsseIE toteacooday  191-6. 19.0 Os 1977 data.        tno  DIdStETtBM
Cult lone i-4) Darb mote (p- the.aO    - sA-eI deeth  Per ohomd it                  Per-eto of Prlofe Sore  (bath It -a.t ad k00) - Iotoin  by rtcheet
ate at-o  i-i yer-  cc chtOee 3m th. 00 S-oP. fot ne  docottos                      5  --ran *scoheo  to penco.  -.m  2errec  od p-eco  40 Peoreo
.tto  data darted fre  Illa taleo; 1990. 1950 ot 1900 dat-                          ofhobi.
eDiTh                                                         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~POWMET TOACR=tW
Iteteotoey  t i     (F-erm  - terrA      r  fpt o_iromttt                       l   foiootg otimtr  encor  pprbtet -coe  of pooet  I-t..
or  Irc; 100  190O    5  oo                                                         md Aold be  otorpre-d 04th remetterbte  -tott.
lefr   rclt' Oofolee rhemocd = - aeol to-rh  of Wotat  eP- nra                   alae   hnorPcre   mo  o115 co                 Ve    ) - orha ard rot! 
of or per thecest ia blrtho; 199,0. 1970  .s tW" tat.                               Obeabot Penn   Srsle!Itheor   a!eLm- dith a etIenL
W-oet Sf   te  (paro of t-Itt.)    oa,ob,O    cl-t.                             motritSstily adeqooadit" Ptem  emettat me-tOs.  ."qteo-t  te -e
be Vo  Mrept   tr!,ob. Os roa)  It rmeoi  oteoeo: totle"ftOh
=cc  oop7 (tocIoda  trectd .Etf-e  ft-r or cetatd bet esttootctd                   Ttetlsod tota_to  o_r_t  bees Levl(i  a   ato  orhee Os nrc!
rotaoe   f nto. oep-ce  pooem . S en orbs oa  e ebtlt                         V-t-o-I tot--o rho.  oar'  b rb-o  mi tr dorln  fee the eor
tetae  r  etpotlctedatnr            200cr  fin a bees ey he                   toni  L.th  djmtsot for hlphr co-  of tiee to orbs e_a.
coeto   cbet9  eiebt ceoto    an   of tabeen.  to core are                 teotentd thpmlct   0.1  0w Otoot  7-oete Inc late  froreo)-   ho
reooh    tto  mold jtly thot the heneefo ornbe f the beephid                   O  total - Pero oF eee.oit.~ (oct00 o-t ero) b-'aoot
d. aPt hewe to optd a dlepfportec  pert of thed. toy      ["t  a focit no
felp  stor eeet
Soo=t  ltenet DtoP-oa Cre-ra of Pmolott) - cete  lrbs, at tota  -
-Fr ofpeople (tta. -en. Os ro-i) oetn  by os wt ttooea 0
tecet1octim  Os dlae-e. o"h or  Umtta  tr.Eint. ad           cafe
Osat-otter by ta-SL    re-  eyots  or n- on of pit pciet  O  ot
- Tepe.lor  td"Ie  by .sabe of ptetlolet pfspo-                                               icemot   s Sect.! lOto Motels
~iotbs    Nortoo Worse.  eea.tfs  dIvIded  y     ro seecttotmt                                                            Noy. tOt1t-    ptt
eons enttlorin.a ",' M



- 29 -
AC I
Pa 4
Fr_      1e  ndcaor
BOs Natmau  Emoduct in EY 1982 1/                             hAul Rate of &kth (Z, cc.tmnt Prce)
IlS$n.      %                    f19766-61      FY9B1       FY1982
GJP at Market Pdres            4465.4     100.0                    2.9           3.2         2.5
Gross nttc lTwbe                476.2      10.7
Grow <    t1 c Saviig              14.9        2.6
Rsouce Balance                 -361.3       8.1
Eqioct of Goods ad NFS          520.0      11.6
Tiport of Gods ad WiS           881.3      19.7
utp ixn F982 1,                           (bveint Finme           Centa. Gierimnt
Valim Mdad                                   4k.In)               I of GiD
n.          %                               ff1981        FY1982       F1978-80
Agladltare          2011.5       49.7       wreat Receipts        12.6           19.7           22.1
ID&Nty               62B.7       L5.5     Qwrrent Expettes        1692.4         18.3           21.0
Services            1406.8       34.8     Orient surpim            129.2          1.4            1.1
4047.0      100.0     Cpital pemt                 B           6.3            5.6
;y, Credit and Pdoes
(Flacal Yesr)                                            L978        1979       1980     1981      L982
(Uiai Er.  sttmALr endz af prId)
Mmey and quas-lmy                                       1690.8      1859.3     210M.7   20g7.8    2301.3
Usik Credit to Catl Gbmrat                               766.3       862.3      968.1   1107.9    1180.9
BLk Credit to Primate Sector and
Fizwmui1  b btItuttu                                  911.9      1222.7     1644.2   1721.8    1944.2
or lidez Nbler)
Mm1Ieys Z  of GP                                          23.4        23.3       24.9     23.8       24.9
&lxial percentae bs  in
Geinral Price Indec                                       18.6        12.9       12.5      1.9       6.7
BEak Crdit to Nblic Sector                                72.9        12.5       12.3     14.4       6.6
la*k Crdt to Prlste Sector                                42.0        34.1       34.5      4.7       12.9
Note: AU cowersin to doDl-rs in tis table am at the auera  e=bmW =e prevaling during the period cn aered.
1 lscal Year: July 8 to 7.



- 30 -
AN= I
Pap 5
Rane of Paymat
(Fiscal Years)                1979       1980       1981       1982 1,         IErcise q,ts
niicm U;S)                           (FHical Yr  herage 198062)
LESIOn.  Z
Exportr of C,ods, NS           455.4     584.2      554.8      52D.0            oFFee           263.0   62.7
wwrts of Goods, eS            661.3      799.1      817.4      881.3           Pulses            12.9    3.1
Rp_zrre Gap (defci   )       -5.9    -2i0          -262.6    -361.3            OLlsem            9.9    2.4
RI   a &skin     53.0   12.6
lIweatment Irm  (et)           -3.2       -6.5       -7.1       -2.2           Ollsewd aie        3.2    0.8
Private Trafes (net)           23.3       19.9       24.7       45.2           Oder             77.2   18.4
Balance on Current Aca mt    -184.8    -201.5    -245.0    -318.3                 M*al          419.2  100.0
Offical sTranfers (net)        3.7        3.9        3.8        67.5            1tenil Dbt, Dec. 31,1982
Private M  Capital (net)        0.0        0.0        0.0        0.0                                   .
Pi  ic;rLT {orrawl  (ret)      70.6      103.6      110.4      245.4           Pib.ic 1Debt Twl.
DLM a.us            ,       .,,.(88.4)    (122.8)    (13Z.5)    (278.0)  ar_uteed
Amrtization                 (1.8)      (19.2)    (22.1)     (32.6)          Mtl utstui&
SbDrt-te3 M Capial            -19.0      -14.0       -6.0       18.9              Dbslburad            949.0
atmnr- in reserves                                                             Dg  bt S9eice   iar lYI982
increase)                    46.0      40.4       60.0      -60.5                                     Z
Minor It                       27.5       U.6        20.8       47.0           Pdbic Debt. jnl.
et Forep Asets (end ye)       218.2      177.8      118.6      178.6                wtd                 10.3
PetrolezaiTpor              68.2      118.3      18.7       19.1
Petrmleu Product Tapors     41.6       37.0       27.0       14.0
D EIMf Iauh  (Ihr. 31, 1983
nw$ min.)
MM      IDA
cisaSElh   & 
Dlsbursed     46.7  321.9
ihilsirge      -    121.2
-ztmb  T111.
1lishzrsed    46.7  443.1
Rate of  w v
SIe 1974
US$1.00 - J.2.07
Br..OD 0- US$0.48
-not applicable
= not applicable
1, PLv83
1er 1983



- 31 -
MEX II
n I
Status of Bak  wap OperAtions in EZdpda
*                                  A. Stat t Of Bark T    and Dk CredLts
(as of Ml-rh 31,   3)
Amo
lam or Credt                                              (Oess mxeiam)
lImber      Year   Borroer          Purpose            BarMkU Widbueie
Twe.,ie loam aid seveatem crelits fully dursed            108.6        195.6         -
Cr. 485-Er    1974  B1dopLa   frouqit lreas Redu.          _            10.0        0.9!V
Cr. 486-rT   1974   Etiopla   iolsaia Agriclture II       -            12.0        0.4 a/
Cr. 554-Er    1975  Efdopia   Tacmm. V (2nd trandE)   -                 16.0        0.4-
cr. 603-S      1976   Ethiopla   RwauIs 1cve1q=nt          -            27.0       10.9
Or. 707-Sr    1977   EldqpLa b Redled  4be=                -            25.0        7.7
Cr. 708-ET    1977   Ethiopia   Pad Se±or                  -            32.0       11.7
Cr. 789-ST    1978   Enta    rain Strage & 1mimtirg  -                  24.0        9.3
Cr. 1088-Er    1981   atiopia   AFi.  *m Pk& II            -            40.0 ct    25.1
Cr. 1141-S     1981   EtdopLa   FAuxtimn V                 -            35.0 cl    25.7
Cr. 1275-ST    19812   dEpia   rFi. & TIust. Dv. Bak  -                 30.0       29.1
Total                                      108.6        446.6      121.2
of  ldc bas e   repWaid                    61.9          3.5        -
Total no outstanxrg                        46.7         443.1        -
Auut Do]d                     6.0            -            -          -
of vtidr bas been repaid     6.0           -             -          -
T1. Nw Held by Bark & ms
(prior tD OWtaW aljustums)                 46.7        443.1        -
Total UIXsburSU                                           -        17.2
a/ Ml-se lmdits are bex dosed out.
bW  Ui$1.7 mlon disbursed under fonler Cr. 418-Er, Auibara rigatio4, bas bem repaid at
of the proceeb of the new Creit.
c/ Credits 1088-Er, 1141-ST and 1275-ETr are derminated in 9Rs (9R 32.0 dl1n, 28.2
million, and 27.0 million, respetiwly).



- 32 -
ANNEX II
Page 2
B. Statement of IFC Investments
(As of March 31, 1983)
US$ Million
Fiscal                                         Type of               Aaount
Year       Obligor                             Business      Loan   Equity        Total
1965       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa I        Textiles      1.5      1.0          2.5
1966       Ethiopia Pulp and Paper Co.         Paper           -      1.9          1.9
1968       HVA Metahara, S.C.                  Sugar         5.5      3.5         9.0
1970       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa II       Textiles      0.4      0.2          0.6
1973       Textile Mills of Dire Dawa III      Textiles      1.5      0.2          1.7
Total Gross Comuitments                          8.9       6.8        15.7
Less cancellations,
terminations,
repayments and Sales                   8.9      5.9         14.8
Total Commitments now held by IFC                  -       0.9         0.9
Total Undisbursed                                 -         -           -



- 33 -
ANNEX II
Page 3
C. STATUS OF PROJECTS IN EXECUTION AS OF MARCH 31, 1983 1/
Cr. No. 554:     Fifth Telecommunications Project (Second Tranche):
US$16.0 million Credit of June 4, 1975; Date of
Effectiveness: August 26, 1975; Closing Date: June
30, 1983.
Project implementation is about two years behind
schedule because of various difficulties, including
shortages of construction materials and certain
categories of staff, that were encountered during the
early stages of the project. In recent years,
however, the Telecommunications Service of Ethiopia
(TSE) has made concerted efforts to speed civil
works and equipment installation. The buildings for
exchange and transmission equipment have been
completed. The interurban switching equipment, the
telex exchange, and most of the transmission systems
have been installed. In addition, a comprehensive
training program has been prepared for TSEts staff.
TSE's financial situation is satisfactory.
Cr. No. 603:     Rangelands Development Project:  US$27.0 million
Credit of January 16, 1976; Date of Effectiveness:
May 18, 1976; Closing Date: June 30, 1983.
Project implementation is about three years behind
schedule, primarily because of security constraints,
but has improved in recent years in secure parts of
the three sub-project areas. The project
organization is well-developed and most of the
infrastructure is now in place. Range rehabilitation
and management aspects of the project are being
implemented, and studies on livestock development and
highland rehabilitation have started.
.
1/ These notes are designed to inform the Executive Directors about
the progress of projects in execution, and in particular to report any
problems which are being encountered and the action taken to remedy
them. They should be read in this sense, and with the understanding
that they do not purport to present a balanced evaluation of strengths
and weaknesses in project execution.



- 34 -
ANNEY. II
Page 4
Cr. No. 707:     Revised Amibara Irrigation Project:  US$25.0 million
Credit of November 7, 1977; Date of Effectiveness:
April 7, 1978; Closing Date: September 30, 1985.
The construction of headworks and irrigation systems
is proceeding satisfactorily, and over 90 percent of
the work has been completed. On-farm works are
progressing more slowly, but are expected to be
completed by mid-1984.  Building and housing
construction are nearly completed. About 181)0
hectares were planted with cotton in the 1981/82
cropping season, and good yields were obtained.
Significant delays, however, have been experienced in
the establishment of alternative grazing areas for
the Afar people.
Cr. No. 708:     Highway Sector Project (Seventh Highway):  US$32.0
million Credit of July 5, 1977; Date of
Effectiveness: October 7, 1977; Closing Date:
June 30, 1984.
Progress in implementing the five-year Road Sector
Program has been slower than expected at appraisal,
but generally satisfactory. Good progress has been
made on primary and secondary road construction.
Progress on rural road construction has been
satisfactory and improved significantly during the
past year after the new Rural Roads Organization had
become more firmly established. The training and
technical assistance components of the project are
proceeding well. However, the 100 km Mota-Bahar Dar
feeder road subproject, which is being financed by a
US$10.5 million EEC Special Action Credit (No. 34-ET)
signed on November 30, 1979, is behind schedule due
to equipment problems and shortages of construction
materials.
Cr. No.789:      Grain Storage and Marketing Project:  US$24.0 million
Credit of June 9, 1978; Date of Effectiveness:
September 7, 1978; Closing Date: December 31, 1984.
The volume of grain storage capacity to be
constructed under the project has been reduced from
about 350,000 tons to about 200,000 tons, comprising
31 stores, to accord with available funding. The
quality of construction of stores, however, has not
been satisfactory, but corrective measures are being
taken to improve quality and to strengthen the
Agricultural Marketing Corporationvs (AMC) storage
and technical management. The construction of stores



- 35 -
ANNEX II
Page 5
is nearing completion and the construction of AMC's
new headquarters building has begun. AMC's overall
penetration of the cereals trade has grown as fast as
estimated at appraisal, but various marteting and
distribution problems have been encountered and are
being reviewed.  In particular, the Government and
the Association are carrying out jointly a study of
farmers' incentives and marketing efficiency.
Cr. No. 1088:    Second Agricultural Minimum Package Project:  SDR
32.) million (US$40 million equivalent) Credit of
February 2, 1981; Date of Effectiveness: September
1, 1981; Closing Date:  June 30, 1984.
Good progress is being made in establishing a
widespread network of Ministry of Agriculture offices
and staff throughout most of the arable highland
areas but a procurement problem relating to the
construction of office buildings led to a
concellation of about US$780,000 equivalent of the
IDA credit.   Procurement of vehicles and equipment
is well underway. Delays, however, have been
encountered in producing improved seeds and procuring
other inputs for the technical packages for farmers.
Some organizational difficulties have also become
apparent, and various proposals to correct them are
being examined. The Government and the Association
are carrying out jointly an in-depth review of the
project and the minimum package program.
Cr. No. 1141:    Fifth Education Project: SDR28.2 million (US$35
million equivalent) Credit of June 29, 1981;Date of
Effectiveness: September 24, 1981; Closing Date:
September 30, 1985.
Start-up activities have commenced as scheduled. The
construction of primary and secondary schools are in
line with appraisal estimates. The educational
aspects of the project which consist of an evaluation
study of a new curriculum to be introduced, a
manpower survey and in-service training of school
inspectors, are well underway. A Project Coordinator
and local staff of the Project Management Office
(PMO) are in post. Consultants in accountancy have
been recruited. The PMO is functioning effectively
and prospects for successful project implementation
are good.



- 36 -
ANNEX II
Page 6
Cr. No. 1275:    Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB)
Project: SDR 27.0 million (US$30 million equivalent)
Credit of August 27, 1982; Date of Effectiveness:
December 16, 1982; Closing Date: June 30, 1990.
Project implementation is just getting underway.
AIDB has advertised the availability of loans for
small-scale manufacturers and contractors, and the
Government Is making concerted efforts to speed the
preparation of industrial rehabilitation and
expansion subprojects for possible AIDB assistance.
.



- 37 -
ANNEX III
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
SUPPLEMENTARY PROJECT DATA SHEET
I. Timetable of Key Events
(a2 Time taken to prepare project: About 12 months
(b) Preparation by: Ministry of Transport and Communications, and
Ministry of Construction
(c) Initial Discussions with IDA: August/September 1981
(d) First IDA Mission: December 1981
(e) Appraisal Mission departure: April 1982
(f)  Negotiations:   April 18-29. 1983
(g) Planned Date of Effectiveness: October 31, 1983.
II. Special Bank Group Implementation Actions
PPF advance of US$500,000 approved to facilitate project start-up
(ref. para. 70).
III. Special Conditions
(a) The Government will carry out studies of a proposed railway between
Awash and Assab and ensure that any investment in the railway would be
economically and financially justified (para. 38);
.b) The Government will revise its road classification system, and also
.xxle load limits Cparas. 40 and 41);
(c)  The Government will reAiew the role and organizational structure of
the Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority (ETCA), and also
prepare a tentative program for the transfer of F.TCA's force account
construction brigades to new public construction enterprises (para.
42);
{d)  The Government will exchange views with the Association on the
findings of a Road Transport Study (paras. 41, 50 and 51); and
(e) The Government will complete a National Transport Planning Study
(para. 66);



r~~ -e e- ..                          IS v                      
fl {  t   r  s -   1 >__-  -i i-
,. ;-    *, ETIO  --              U'         /     ,   '  
' I            - ~ * ----               /,A&     ..   I t
bW IO.A  ' N'
r -',!;,I                    .-u s    -         -ooF
-*                                                                  D     ---
-=~              -A                                   S /   5\
,-    U   C  A   N    .4 1k                                                  / wr r ,'1> X
S ~.Am  N. "s.                            .--i
1~~I~&Z. /                                     y    .
V ~~~~~~~~~  _~~~~V
! > ,o   -exSA8E9-
\~ ~           M,nch&m   Ci >v/~
?_._>, ^^ b    k  r  =  - ~~~~~~~~-      0(
SUGANDA | - ° r    
UGANDA                         ,,                         t      K.   E ,  N    °//*



IB-  16BS54R
'                     w                     ETHIOPIA                             MAY 1q3
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM
Aicitalt wo
v;) J                                                                                       AP s  r s h- Ablt D.S-T
2~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. ._ .. m-, gravel Mal                        'al,w
,        ,                               Ro.ads Undot Moim .ao, e-
Asphalt, uIi.wothe
- .  cs  Grav,el, oII.-eather
_                      F    A >S--R!Ro                                     Ae :'d    _r
< /- \ < ~~~~~~_ .Rod Almociv Jpde, Cwtrvcw:
v      . i                     S._.  -R    \                 s                       -     RoTI
A?~~~~~~~~~~~~ 
Y ..ao d 1A                                                 s E j -  .il - yth r
De e : 4 .   -r,,,!_       \G                                                                  - l -e her
X                               - S De r-k  r1_-I
-N = ___                                                                                             S  0  M A L               I  A
Vi.~~~~~.
F-  r      ^tX-    I o-/
)t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~      ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ 0!ADS   L)o,                              I                  ADo /
'A              e_- )                                                          <Fb 
N                         -"                          ,                            f ROMOTE'S O   so NW    W  200 2  00 300 30
A . \- - - - 3   .A  /   '             /'-*--- '                                   -mtI   O    50      1C0     *50     700     250
A   ~          '~      C-               /    *' S'4e 






