Document of
The World Bank
FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY
Report No. 4230-ET
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
June 3, 1983
Eastern Africa Projects Department
Transportation Division I
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
Currency Unit = Birr (Br) = 100 cents
US $1.00      = Br. 2.072
Br 1.00       = US$ 0.483
UNITS OF WEIGHT AND MEASURES: METRIC SYSTEM
Metric                   British/US Equivalent
1 meter (m)                  = 3.28 feet (ft)
1 kilometer (km)             = 0.62 mile (mi)
1 kilogram (kg)              = 2.20 pounds (lb)
1 metric ton (m ton)         = 2,205 pounds (lb)
ETHIOPIAN CALENDAR
The Ethiopian Calendar year runs from September 11 to September
10 and the fiscal year from July 8 to July 7. Unless otherwise specified,
all years are fiscal years.
ABBREV IATIONS
AfDF      -   African Development Fund
AIDB      -   Agricultural and Industrial Development Bank
ATA       -   Air Transport Authority
CPSC      -   Central Planning Supreme Council
EA        -   Ethiopian Airlines
EASC      -   Ethiopian Audit Services Corporation
ESC       -   Ethiopian Shipping Corporation
ERA       -   Ethiopian Road Authority
ETCA      -   Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority
MOC       -   Ministry of Construction
MTC       -   Ministry of Transport and Communications
MTA       -   Marine Transport Authority
NATRACOR  -   National Road Transport Corporation
MTSC      -   Maritime and Transit Services Corporation
PPD       -   Planning and Programming Division - ETCA
RTA       -   Road Transport Authority
TSM       -   Transport Sector Memorandum



FoR OFFIcL US ONLY
ETHIOPIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
I.   THE TRANSPORT SECTOR  .........        ...........................   I
A.  Economic Setting ..............................................   I
B.  The Transport System  ....       ............................   1
C.  Transport Sector Issues and Policy ............ ........   4
D.  Transport Sector Management and Investment ............   6
E.  Past Bank Group Involvement ...................... ......   9
II. THE ROAD TRANSPORT SUBSECTOR  ............................  10
A. The Highway Network ...10
B.    Traffic   .....00..    ..    .........                     11
C. Vehicle Regulations                   ..           . ...  11
D. Road Safety               ...12
E. Highway Administration            . . .12
F. Planning and Financing            . . .14
G.  Engineering and Construction Supervision   .14
H. Highway Construction              .       ..15
I.  Highway Maintenance ........       . . .17
J. Training                  ...19
K. Accounting and Auditing            .. .19
L. Future of ETCA                 ... .                         20
M. Road Transport Industry .............................  20
N. Pricing and Road-User Charges  . .21
III. THE FIRST ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM AND PROJECT .23
IV.  THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM FY84-86 ...................  24
A.  Introduction ........                      ..      ..    .  24
B.  Objectives.               .................. a ........   25
C.  Program and Project Description........   26
D.  Size of the Second Road Sector Program and Project....  33
E.    Financing    .... *.............................          35
F.  IDA Participation .....        ..................   35
G.  Implementation and Procurement.              .    .         37
H. Disbursements                  .        ...                  38
I.  Accounting and Reporting Requirements    . . .38
J.  Environmental Aspects ........................ ..   39
This report was prepared by A. Soto (Deputy Division Chief/Economist),
S. Sigfusson (Sr. Engineer), E. Henriod and B. Herbert (Construction
Industry Unit, TWD), H. Beenhakker (Regional and Rural Road Transport
Advisor, TWD), J. Segerstrom (Technical Educator, EAPED) and J. Kipnis
(Project Assistant) who appraised the project in April/May 1982.
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipient only in the performance
of their official duties. Its contents may not otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



Table of Contents (continued)                                     Page No.
V.  ECONOMIC EVALUATION    ........................................   39
A.   Introduction   .......................................   39
B.   General Assessment of 1984-86 Road Sector Program        39
C.   Area of Influence of the Program and Beneficiaries       41
D.   Economic Analysis .................................   42
E.  Risks . .......................................   45
VI.  AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECCMENDATION .....       ................  46
ANNEXES
1.1    Highway Projects Financed by the Bank Group
2.1    Terms of Reference for Road Transport Study
4.1    Conditions and Procedures for Eligibility of Subprojects
and for Procurement of Goods and Services
4.2    Outline of Terms of Reference for the Provision of Contract
Management Services
4.3    Project Progress Reporting Requirement
5.1    Screening Procedure for Rural Roads
TABLES
1.1    Comparison of Sectoral Allocations in Ten year (1980/81-1989/90) and
Five Year (1981/82-1985/86) Investment Plans
1.2    Comparison of Transport Investment Programs of the Ten Year Plan
(1980/81-1989/90) and Five Year Plan (1981/82-1985/86)
2.1    Inventory of All-Weather Roads
2.2    Highway Design Standards
2.3    Motor Vehicle Fleet
2.4    Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority Annual Expenditures
2.5    Central Government Revenue from Road-User Charges
2.6    Changes in Structure of Fuel Prices (1979/80-1980/81)
2.7    Quantity and Value of Imported Petroleum Products
2.8    Consumption of Petroleum Products
4.1    Physical Plan for Road Rehabilitation and Construction(km) (FY84-86)
4.2    Cumulative Disbursement Over Five Years (FY84-FY88)
5.1    Summary of Economic Evaluation
5.2    Economic Evaluation of Road Maintenance Element
CHARTS
1.    Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority Organization Chart
MAPS
1.    ETHIOPIA - Second Road Sector Program; Roads To Be Constructed or
Improved (IBRD 16854-R)
2.    ETHIOPIA - Non-Cereal Cash Crops (IBRD 3756R)
3.    ETHIOPIA - Major Food Production Areas (IBRD 10233R1)



STAFF APPRAISAL REPORT
ETHIOPIA
SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
I. THE TRANSPORT SECTOR
A. Economic Setting
1.01      Ethiopia, with an area of 1.22 million km2, about twice the size
of Kenya, is one of the largest countries in Africa. With an estimated per
capita GNP of $140 in 1980, it is also one of the world's least developed
countries. The population, estimated at 32.8 million in 1982, and growing
at about 2.5 percent annually, is about 85 percent rural. The mainstay of
the country's economy is agriculture, which currently accounts for about 50
percent of GDP, 85 percent of employment and 90 percent of exports. Agri-
culture production is mostly for subsistence and only about 25 percent of
it is marketed. The main cash crops are coffee, oilseeds, cotton, sisal,
tobacco, teff (a locally consumed cereal), fruits, pepper and sugar-cane.
Coffee alone makes up around 65 percent of total export earnings. The
country is also first in Africa in livestock resources.
1.02      Although the population is predominantly rural, four urban cen-
ters, Addis Ababa, the capital; Asmera in the north; Jimma in the southwest
coffee-growing area; and Harar in the east, constitute important foci of
regional trade and transport demand. Also important are the import-export
corridors between Addis Ababa and the Red Sea ports of Assab and Djibouti
(road and rail, respectively) and between Asmera and the port of Massawa
(road). The dispersion of Ethiopia's population, the relatively long dis-
tances between production areas, urban centers and ports of embarkation,
and the rugged topography and severe climatic conditions of most of the
country, render the provision of transport services difficult and costly.
1.03      The status of Ethiopia's economy and its future prospects are
presented in the Country Economic Memorandum of December 15, 1981 (Gray
Cover Report No. 3552b-ET). The following conclusions of the Memorandum
are relevant to the transport sector needs and issues: (a) agriculture will
continue to be the backbone of the country's economy; (b) the Government
faces serious resource constraints and would need to mobilize unusually
large amounts of domestic resources and foreign assistance in order to
sustain the annual rate of growth of nearly 5 percent, attained during the
three year period ending in 1980/81; and (c) transport still constitutes a
major bottleneck for development, especially in agriculture.
B. The Transport System
1.04      The transport system consists of some 43,200 km of roads of which
about 4,000 km are paved; the ports of Assab and Massawa; one railway line
(780 km) connecting Addis Ababa with Djibouti; maritime and coastal
shipping; river and lake transport (of relatively little significance); two
international airports (at Addis Ababa and Asmera) and 27 local airfields



- 2 -
and rudimentary airstrips. Roads and ports are the country's dominant
modes of transport. About 95 percent of interurban passenger traffic and
90 percent of interurban freight is carried by road. Away from the major
roads, transportation is generally by mule and donkey in the highlands and
camel in the lowlands. About three-quarters of Ethiopia's farms were more
than a half-day's walk from an all-weather road in 1977.
1.05      Although no detailed study of commodity flows has ever been car-
ried out in Ethiopia, available information indicates that the major com-
modities carried along the external corridors are imports comprising petro-
leum products, construction materials, equipment and agricultural products
(the country has a sizeable deficit in grain production) and exports con-
sisting of live animals, hides and skins, and agricultural products, mainly
coffee, sugar and molasses. The main goods in the internal network are
agricultural, forestry and some industrial products (e.g. cement, steel)
from outlying production areas to the regional consumption and consolida-
tion centers, and inputs for agricultural production (e.g. fertilizers,
fuel, seeds) in the opposite direction. The maps IBRD 3756R and IBRD
10233R1 show the major non-cereal cash crop production regions and the
major food production areas, respectively.
1.06      Inter-regional trade is still incipient, concentrated principally
along the north-south main axis, the Asmera-Dese-Debre Berhan-Addis
Ababa-Awasa highway, and the east-west main road, the
Harer-Awash-Nazret-Addis Ababa-Jimma highway. The export corridors
described in para. 1.02 complete the principal road network (see Map IBRD
16854). This network is insufficient and inadequate for efficient
production, exchange and  distribution throughout the country.  The main
road network needs rehabilitation and improvement and it leaves many areas,
particularly in the west and south, without access. Moreover, because the
pattern of roads is radial, converging into the capital and Asmera,
adjacent regions often lack links between them. This militates against the
development of a strong integrated national economy. The inadequacy of the
transport system is compounded by a population settlement pattern
concentrated in the north and center of the country, while most of the
potentially rich agricultural areas are located in the west, south and
southwest. Hence the importance given by the Government to expanding and
improving the transport sector.
(i) Highways and Road Transport
1.07      The highway subsector and road transport are discussed in detail
in Chapter II.
(ii) Railways
1.08      Historically the Addis-Djibouti railway was the main import and
export corridor in the country, but lost its monopoly in the 1950's when
the Port of Assab was built and a road was constructed from Addis Ababa to
the new port. In addition to the failure of the previous railways owners,
a Franco-Ethiopian company, to renew motive power and rolling stock and to
replace worn out rails, the hostilities in Ogaden that interrupted through
service for one year (1977-78) and the uncertainty surrounding the owner-
ship of the railway following the independence of Djibouti, have caused



- 3 -
railway traffic to decline steadily.  Freight traffic which reached 471,000
tons in 1975-76 has thereafter decreased to about 236,000 tons in 1981-82.
Passenger traffic, by contrast, has been constantly increasing reaching 1.2
million passengers in 1981-82, but their average travel distance is only
about 250 km, well within the range in which road transport is more
economical. To revive the railway's contribution, the Ethiopian and
Djiboutian Governments have established a binational agency and, with EEC's
assistance, have undertaken a modest emergency repair program. To
significantly improve the capacity and quality of service, however, a large
renewal and modernization program would be required. Even though such a
program may be justified by some optimistic prospects of additional cargo
demand including that associated with the proposed construction in Ethiopia
of two cement factories, the future role of the railway needs careful
analysis. Under the Second Road Sector Project, the role of the railway
will be studied in conjuction with the preparation of a National
Transportation Plan (para. 4.20).
(iii) Ports
1.09      Ethiopia is served by three major ports:  Massawa and Assab on
its own territory and the Djibouti port. Massawa serves the northern part
of the country, while Assab and Djibouti compete for essentially the same
hinterland within Ethiopia, namely, the southern two-thirds of the country,
including Addis Ababa. Total traffic through the two national ports in-
creased between FY76 and FY82 from 1.34 million to 2.31 million tons per
year, or at an average annual rate of 9.5 percent. This reflects the ex-
pansion in the country's economy but more importantly, a shift of traffic
from the port of Djibouti to Assab. Before the unrest in Ogaden and the
independence of Djibouti, the latter moved over one-third of Ethiopia's
foreign trade. In 1979/80, the year of maximum total port traffic volume,
Assab moved 84 percent, Massawa 10 percent and Djibouti 6 percent of Ethio-
pia's total port traffic.
1.10      The Marine Transport Authority, under the Ministry of Transport
and Communications (MTC), administers the two Ethiopian ports. Very low
tariffs which induce port congestion, inadequate coordination among the
various agencies intervening in port operations, and operational
shortcomings have hampered efficiency, especially at Assab. Further, port
facilities and cargo handling equipment require improvement and expansion.
The MTC, aware of these problems, has directly commissioned and financed a
series of master plan, feasibility and port management studies which have
been recently completed. A review of these studies indicates that they
constitute a sound basis to establish priorities and to undertake
administrative, operational and policy reforms aimed at removing existing
bottlenecks. In addition, the studies will provide a cost-based pricing
structure which would help remove congestion at the port of Assab and
establish a fair basis for competition with the Port of Djibouti.
(iv) Shipping
1.11      Ethiopian Shipping Corporation (ESC), the national maritime
carrier, operates five vessels and has commissioned four more recently.
ESC, which has made profits for the last two years, is the main coastal
carrier between Assab and Massawa, transporting mainly petroleum products.



- 4 -
The three deep-sea vessels, used mainly on liner service to Europe, carry
less than one-third of the country's trade with Europe, but the two coastal
vessels carry over nine-tenths of all coastal shipping in Ethiopia.  Inland
water transport, limited to the Baro River and to a fe-w lakes, mainly Lake
Tana, is of limited local importance.  The Lake Tana services account for
90 percent of the yearly total of 75,000 passengers and 3,500 tons of
freight carried on the country's inland wateriwaysD
(v) Air Transport
1.12      Air transport understandably plays a very important role in sup-
plementing the difficult and insufficient land transport system. Four air-
ports at Addis Ababa, Asmera, Dire Dawa and Jimma, have paved runways, but
only the first three can accommodate commercial jets. Most of the
remaining airports have runways less than 1,500 m long, are unpaved and
without landing lights, and have to be closed during part of the rainy
season. Ethiopian Airlines (EA), the national carrier and one of the
better run airlines in Eastern Africa, provides 70 percent of international
air transport and all scheduled domestic air services. Traffic reached 460
million passenger-miles and 15 million ton-miles in 1982. Although the
carrier reported financial losses in 1979 and 1980, it has shown favorable
financial results in 1981 and 1982.
C. Transport Sector Issues and Policy
1.13      In preparation for the proposed Second Road Sector Project, a
transport sector review mission visited Ethiopia in April 1982. The mis-
sion analyzed the main issues facing the sector, reviewed and discussed
with Government its strategy to deal with such issues and to further devel-
op the transport sector, and prepared a Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM),
a draft of which has been commented by Government. The TSM, dated
September 15, 1982, also contained a number of policy recommendations,
several of which have already been adopted by Government,  Specifically,
the TSM identified as the main issues in the sector, the following: (a)
the excessive role of force account in civil work road construction; (b)
the role and functions of ETCA after its reorganization (1981) and the
establishment of the Ministry of Construction (1982); (c) the inadequate
control of vehicle overloading and the related need for new legislation
regarding maximum axle weights; (d) the efficiency of the country's road
transport industry; (e) the adequacy of road user charges; (f) the role of
railways in the country's transport sector; (g) the need to bring about
institutional, operational and pricing policy changes in Ethiopia's two
main seaports; and (h) investment priorities and the size and composition
of the country's investment program, particularly regarding the road and
rail subsectors.
1.14      A number of these issues have been the oDject of continuing dia-
logue between the Government and the Association under previous and ongoing
projects, and in most of them good progress has now been attained. An ex-
ample is the substantial increase in fuel prices, especially gasoline
(Table 2.6), and road user charges. Studies are underway to analyze and
recommend further improvements to the present structure and level of road-
user charges (para. 2.40). Also under the Sixth Highway Project, five
weighbridges were installed and six more are being built with UK finan-



- 5 -
cing. Necessary proper legislation to reflect the existing vehicle fleet
has been agreed with Government and is expected to be enacted by June 1984
(paras. 2.06 and 2.07). Hence, both the road user charges and vehicle
weight control legislation and enforcement are issues which have been dis-
cussed previously and are the object of further action under the proposed
project.
1.15      There is another category of issues which are either the result
of recent developments (e.g. the creation of ETCA and its transfer to the
Ministry of Construction) or the result of internal developments which
could not be meaningfully addressed in earlier projects (e.g. the increase
in force account construction of civil works and in the regulation and
control of the road transport industry). These issues have evolved from
the unrest in Ogaden, the difficult internal situation in Ethiopia, the
consequent lack of interest of foreign contractors and the weakening of the
domestic construction industry, and the disruption in supplies of vital
inputs to the economy including fuel, materials, spare parts and equipment
for road construction and improvement. These issues, which are discussed
in more detail elsewhere in this report 1/, are also being addressed by
the proposed project. For example, as a result of the exchange of views
between the Association and the Government during the preparation of the
TSM and of the proposed Second Road Sector Project, the Government has
modified its policy regarding major road construction and has agreed to
limit ETCA's force account forces in the future to a small proportion of
the construction capacity of roads and to the maintenance of all types of
roads. To accomplish this new policy objective, the main policy change
induced by the proposed project, the Government has decided to establish
commercially based public construction enterprises which would absorb the
existing major road construction brigades. The creation of the first such
enterprise took place recently (para. 2.25) and, provided that it complies
with certain criteria set forth by the Association (para. 4.18), it would
be able to participate in international competitive bidding (ICB) for the
construction of new roads to be financed under the proposed Project.
1.16      Two more issues, the role of railway transport and the careful
selection of investment priorities in the future, are discussed in the con-
text of the proposed Project (paras. 1.08 and 1.23-1.26) and are further
supported by studies to be financed by the proposed Credit (para. 4.20).
Finally, the Government itself has undertaken the studies required to im-
prove the situation of the country's two main ports and, based on their
conclusions and recommendations, has requested the Association's support in
preparing a proposed port project. Therefore, the issues regarding ports
are not dealt with under the proposed Second Road Sector Project, but would
be addressed in the framework of a project dealing specifically with ports,
which has been identified by the TSM and will be prepared in the near
future following the conclusion of the recently completed port studies.
1/ Transport sector management and ETCA's future are reviewed in paras.
1.17-1.20, 2.12 and 2.34; highway construction in paras. 2.12,
2.19-2.25; and road transport industry in paras. 2.35-2.37.



-6-
D. Transport Sector Management and Investment
1.17      The transport sector is directly under the responsibility of two
Ministries, the Ministry of Transport and Communications (MTC) and the
Ministry of Construction (MOC), and several public sector enterprises re-
porting to them. The MTC, the Ministry with principal responsibility for
the sector, according to its officially stated functions: (i) defines sec-
tor policies, priorities, plans and strategy; (ii) oversees the construc-
tion, improvement and maintenance of all transport infrastructure; (iii)
regulates all transport services; (iv) classifies, licenses and controls
commercial transport; and (v) prepares and implements, with Government ap-
proval, tariffs in all modes. The Road Transport Authority (RTA), the Na-
tional Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR), the Djibouti-Ethiopia Rail-
way, the Marine Transport Authority (MTA), the Civil Aviation Authority
(CAA), the Maritime and Transit Services Corporation (MTS), and Ethiopian
Airlines (EA) are transport-related autonomous institutions or public
enterprises within the portfolio of the MTC. Transport coordination takes
place through the membership of the Minister of Transport and Commu-
nications in the Boards of Directors of the transport agencies mentioned
above, where major investment and policy proposals are formulated and
operational decisions discussed and adopted, and through the close contact
between MTC's staff, particularly that of the Planning and Projects De-
partment (PPD), and the staff of the agencies through ad-hoc committees and
informal discussions. Moreover, coordination among the three main planning
offices of MTC, MOC and the Central Planning Supreme Council (CPSC) seems
adequate.
1.18      The Ministry of Construction, established in mid-1981, brought
under its wings the Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority (ETCA), pre-
viously within the MTC, and the Ethiopian Building Construction Authority.
MOC is responsible for, inter alia: (i) carrying out the construction, im-
provement and maintenance of Government buildings and transport infrastruc-
ture; (ii) establishing and supervising organizations engaged in construc-
tion works as well as licensing and registering construction consultants,
contractors, surveyors, architects and other construction professionals;
and (iii) encouraging the participation of the population in construction
works and providing the necessary technical assistance thereto,
1.19      Although as indicated in para. 1.17, planning for the entire
transport sector is the responsibility of the MTC, in practice, since
ETCA's transfer to MOC, highway planning has continued to be the main acti-
vity of the Planning and Programming Division (PPD) within ETCA (para.
2.14). The PPD of the MTC has meanwhile concentrated on formulating in-
vestment planning proposals in all modes other than the highway subsector.
Because of the relatively recent separation of ETCA, the PPD at the MTC is
not as strong as the one at ETCA and, in contrast to the latter, it prefers
to contract out most of its studies to international consultants. Re-
cently, it has used this approach in preparing basic modal studies and mas-
ter plans aimed at an eventual coordinated development strategy for the
sector. Further strengthening of the PPD at MTC is one of the objectives
of the proposed Second Road Sector Project (para. 4.22).
1.20      The Secretariat of the CPSC, the country's principal planning or-
ganization, reviews and coordinates all investment proposals before submit-



- 7 -
ting them to the Council. The Transport and Comminications Division of the
Secretariat, consisting of nine professionals, is responsible for reviewing
and coordinating the sectors' annual budgets and investment plans based on
the inputs from the planning wings of ETCA and MTC.
1.21      The Government's development strategy for the transport sector
aims at (a) improving the main road network to ensure safe, cheap and effi-
cient communications between population centers and export outlets; (b) im-
proving accessibility to agriculturally productive areas as well as to
drought-prone areas by building feeder/rural roads; (c) continuing mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of the road network as well as increasing the ca-
pacity of ETCA to maintain new roads; and (d) rehabilitating and improving
the trucking industry, as well as the ports and airports, to ensure an ef-
ficient production and distribution system and to facilitate international
trade. This constitutes a sound strategy which the Association fully sup-
ports. In March, 1981 the Government presented a ten-year (1981-90) indi-
cative investment program at the UN Conference on the Least Developed Coun-
tries. It was the first attempt at a long-term plan since the 1974 revolu-
tion. A Bank Group Economic Mission which reviewed it in May, 1981 found
it too ambitious and identified the outlines of a more modest five-year
public investment program. Both "plans" have been superseded by a new
planning exercise currently being undertaken by Government2/ (para.
1.25). Nevertheless, the two plans were reviewed during the preparation of
the 1982 Transport Sector Memorandum and are discussed briefly below be-
cause they constitute a background to the current exercise and because the
projects incorporated in the five year public investment program are appar-
ently going to be also included in the new plan.
1.22      Both plans recognized the importance of improving transport in
Ethiopia as a basis for development of the productive sectors, particularly
agriculture. Table 1.1 compares the two plans per sectors, while table 1.2
compares the transport sub-sectoral allocations. The overall investment
program under the ten-year plan (1980/81-1989/90) amounted to Br 23.5 bil-
lion (US$11.4 billion), of which transport accounted for 30 percent, agri-
culture for 28 percent, industry for 13 percent, and the remaining sectors
for 29 percent. The five-year plan, on the other hand, totalled Br 5.5
billion (US$2.6 billion) of which the transport sector had a share of 40
percent, followed by agriculture (26 percent), industry (11 percent) and
other sectors (23 percent). Although transportation deserves high priori-
ty, the proportions allocated to the sector in these plans were too high
and the Government is reportedly contemplating reducing the transport share
of the new plan to around one-fourth of the total, a more reasonable level.
1.23      Concerning the distribution of proposed investment among the var-
ious transport subsectors, the two plans are very similar with roads and
road transport representing between 62 percent of the total (in the five-
year plan) and 57 percent (in the ten-year plan), rail between 24 and 28
percent, ports between 9 and 12 percent, and air between 5 and 3 percent.
This balance is generally reasonable, although the proportion of the sec-
tor's investment in rail is probably too high given the doubtful economic
merits of major new investments in rail transport in Ethiopia.
2/ A draft in Amharic is under preparation and an English version is
expected to be ready in the next few months for Bank comments.



-8-
1.24      Since the ten-year plan is to      3          :          projects
contained in the five-year plan have been reviewed,  This plan incorporates
11 projects for transport. The subsectoral distribution comprises 4 pro-
grams for road transport, 2 for ports, 4 for aviation, and i for railways.
The four road transport programs are discussed in Section IV. The other
transport projects comprise the expansion of the port of Assab and the re-
habilitation and improvement of the port of Massawa, as well as the pur-
chase of cargo-handling equipment for both ports; the improvement of air-
ports, purchase and installation of navigational aids and telecommunica-
tions equipment, and acquisition of new aircraft for trunk and feeder air
services; and the rehabilitation of the Addis Ababa-Djibouti railway.  In
order to judge their priority, these projects must be examined in the light
of adequate feasibility studies, which have not been carried out except for
the Addis-Djibouti railway project (a short-term emergency plan), for the
ports of Assab and Massawa, for which a draft study has been completed, and
the current updating of a study of airports and aircraft carried out in the
early 70's. However, most of the proposed projects, particularly in ports
and civil aviation, seem justified. Only the proposed improvement and ex-
pansion of the railway system (para. 1.23) raises concern. The National
Transport Planning study included in the proposed Second Highway Sector
Project (para. 4.20) will provide an important input to the overall plan-
ning process. At negotiations, agreement was reached that the Government
will carry out the study before June 30, 1985 and will give the Association
the opportunity to comment on its findings and recommendations.
1.25      As mentioned above, the Government, aware of the shortcomings of
previous plans, has begun the preparation of a new plan. Broad development
guidelines for the ten year period 1984-93 (called the Ten-Year Perspec-
tive) are being defined and medium- and short-term programs, including de-
tailed two- and three-year investment plans, are being prepared. Regarding
project composition, preliminary indications are that this plan is likely
to contain the same projects discussed above, in addition to the construc-
tion of a new 860 km railway line between Awash and Assab. A
pre-feasibility study prepared by a joint team of Italian and Ethiopian
experts has been completed under a recent bilateral agreement, and
feasibility studies, including detailed engineering, should commence in the
near future. The Association intends to follow up the progress of these
studies, given the doubtful role of a new railway to Assab especially since
the existing Addis-Assab paved road currently being strengthened and
improved along its entire length (830 km) would, together with the
Addis-Djibouti railway, be sufficient for the 2.3 million tons of
international trade and expected increases in the foreseeable future.  It
is clear, however, that even if attempted, a project of this nature is
unlikely to be financed and constructed within this decade.  At
negotiations, agreement was reached with Government that, prior to making
any investment decision in the proposed Awash-Assab railway line, the
Government would (a) carry out studies on the technical, economic and
financial feasibility of the railway; (b) exchange views with the
Association on the findings of such studies; and (c) ensure that any
proposed investment in this railway would be economically and financially
justified.
1.26      Another important issue concerning the transport sector invest-
ment is the likelihood of securing the required financing and the adequacy
of Government's implementation capacity. Regarding the first, some of the



- 9 -
projects, particularly those in the ports, rail and civil aviation subsec-
tors, will include important equipment components for which suppliers'
credits and bilateral concessionary assistance may be readily available.
More difficult, however, would be financing the foreign costs of the impor-
tant road subsector component, despite the expected participation of IDA
and AfDF (para. 4.25). Concerning the implementation capacity, the five-
year sector program is feasible, particularly if private contractors parti-
cipate in civil works as agreed by Government. ETCA is capable of handling
the planning and administration and, with additional staffing and technical
support, the supervision of the civil works in the various subsectors. The
Authority would, however, require the assistance of qualified experts and
consultants in the feasibility and detailed engineering phases of those
subsectors where ETCA's experience is yet untested, namely in railways and
ports, and the general design of the civil aviation system.
Es Past Bank Group Involvement
1.27      Bank Group involvement in the sector started in 1950 but has been
confined to the highway subsector, in which it has played a significant
role. Seven loans and credits have been made for highways, totalling
US$135.7 million. The Bank Group's most important contribution to the
Ethiopian highway subsector is its significant role in developing the coun-
try's road authority into one of the best in the region. This has resulted
in improved proficiency in road maintenance, force account construction and
general network administration. In terms of physical infrastructure, after
initial emphasis on rehabilitation and minor improvements, the Second,
Third and Fourth operations financed new main road construction to paved
standards (1,700 km), paving of existing roads (1,000 km) and equipment and
technical assistance to improve road maintenance. The Fifth and Sixth Pro-
jects paid higher attention to rural roads in line with a shift in the em-
phasis of the Bank Group's program. These Projects also continued the as-
sistance in road maintenance and included support to the development of the
local construction industry. Although the efforts in building the local
construction industry initially yielded encouraging results, they proved
unsuccessful in the long run under an adverse climate for the private sec-
tor in Ethiopia.
1.28      The Second, Third and Fourth Highway Projects have been the sub-
ject of formal ex-post reviews3/. Road construction under the Second
Highway Project was considerably delayed by institutional weaknesses, in-
cluding poor engineering, slow preparation of specifications, inefficient
procurement and force account work, and poor supervision. In subsequent
projects, the Bank used the lessons learned from the above to help the then
Ethiopia Road Authority (ERA) to improve in these areas, and the Operations
Evaluation Department noted in 1974 that: "The agency can now do better
technical planning, advanced surveying and cost estimating than before, and
can produce feasibility studies that bear comparison with similar work pre-
pared by international consultants. Also, the administration of the ERA
3/ The Second Highway Project was included in a "Comparative Evaluation of
Selected Highway Projects," 1974; there has been a Project Performance
Audit on the Third Highway Project, 1975, and a Project Completion
Report on the Fourth Highway Project, 1976.



- 10 -
has improved considerably" 4/. Since this assessment was made, there has
been further strengthening in financial administration, road maintenance
and equipment management under the Bank's Fifth and Sixth Projects, and
through USAID assistance.
1.29      As the quality of ERA (now ETCA) staff improved, their participa-
tion in project execution increased. ERA staff supervised the paving works
under the Fourth and road construction under the Fifth and Sixth Projects,
with the help of an expatriate Resident Engineer. Also, the Authority's
force account construction capacity improved so much that the Bank agreed
increasingly to its use under the Sixth Highway Project.
1.30      Another lesson from the Second Highway Project was the need to
integrate road construction and agricultural development. In subsequent
projects, the Bank has sought to include rural roads construction under ag-
ricultural programs (e.g. the Minimum Package Program, Coffee Processing,
and Amibara Irrigation Projects). As a result of the emphasis on develop-
ment of lower class roads, and of improved project implementation, the eco-
nomic impact of roads under the Fourth Project improved: economic returns
for all roads except one were between 12 and 29 percent, equal or higher
than appraisal estimates. In the case of the only road for which the econo-
mic return has been lower than estimated (6X), it was due to a disease
which adversely affected coffee production in the influence area of the
road, slower than expected progress in complementary investments in agri-
culture, and an increase of 20 percent in road costs.
1.31      Experience with the ongoing First Road Sector Project (Credit
708-ET) is discussed in Chapter III. Annex 1.1 gives details of the first
six highway projects.
II.  THE ROAD TRANSPORT SUBSECTOR
A.  The Highway Network
2.01      Ethiopia has a relatively limited road network of about 13,300 km
(Table 2.1) of all-weather roads, of which about one fourth is paved; in
addition, there are some 30,000 km of unclassified, low standard earth (dry
weather) trails and tracks. The network is categorized as primary, secon-
dary, feeder or tertiary, and rural 5/, a classification more related to
design standards (Table 2.2) than fuinction.  At negotiations, the Govern-
ment agreed that it will take all necessary measures to revise the existing
system and establish by March 31, 1984 a comprehensive functional
classification system (para. 4.16).
2.02      The highway network is one of the least developed in Eastern Af-
rica, with a density of only 10 km per 1,000 km2 and 0.4 km per 1,000 popu-
4/ "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects," p. 62.
5/ Throughout this report, "feeder roads" refers to the lowest class road
in the main network, while "rural road" refers to a low class local
(farm-to-market) road that is not a part of the main network.



- 11 -
lation. The main network extends radially from Addis Ababa with few inter-
connecting links; large areas still lack an all-weather link to the capital
or to other economic centers. However, the network has expanded consider-
ably in recent years. The length of paved roads and the total length of
the network have increased about 2.4 times in the last 16 years or over 5.7
percent annually with an even faster rate of increase over the last 6 years
at 8.6 percent annually. This latter increase has taken place mostly in
the lower class roads.
2.03      Nearly one third of the network of main roads was built before
1960 and some roads were built as early as 1930. These roads need exten-
sive rehabilitation and upgrading. Further, despite recent efforts, there
are still many areas under cultivation or with large agricultural poten-
tial, accessible only by pack animals. The main emphasis of the proposed
Second Highway Sector Project is therefore to: (a) rehabilitate and upgrade
the older part of the network in order to preserve past investment and (b)
improve the rural accessibility by upgrading part of the existing 30,000 km
of dry-weather tracks to all-weather standard and some trails to roads.
B. Traffic
2.04      The 55,000 vehicle fleet (Table 2.3), representing a density of
less than 2 vehicles per 1,000 population, is the lowest in Africa, well
below that of the neighboring countries of Kenya (16 veh./1,000 persons),
Sudan (6 veh./1,000 persons), and even Somalia (4 veh./1,000 persons).
Moreover, the geographical distribution of vehicle ownership is highly con-
centrated with over 80 percent of vehicles registered in the Shewa (inclu-
ding Addis Ababa) and Eritrea (including Asmera) Regions. However, there
are apparent deficiencies in RTA's records of vehicle registration and on-
going technical assistance is identifying and addressing the problem
(para. 2.09).
2.05      Despite the small vehicle fleet, traffic flows on the main high-
ways are high 6/. In 1980, 9 percent of the main network had an average
daily traffic TADT) greater than 500 and 76 percent greater than 100.
Total non-urban vehicle-km grew by about 10 percent per year from 1962 to
1975 and by about 7 percent, to a level of 2.3 million vehicle-km, in
1980.
C. Vehicle Regulations
2.06      Vehicle weights and dimensions are regulated; limits on dimen-
sions are still adequate, but those for axle loads, 8 tons, are too low and
generally disregarded. A comprehensive survey done some six years ago on
major routes out of Addis Ababa found that axle loads of 12-13 tons were
quite common. The Sixth Highway Project provided financing for five weigh-
bridges and facilities and these have been installed at strategic locations
and are operational. However, RTA, which is responsible for enforcing the
regulations, has not done so mostly because the 8 ton limit is unrealistic
and unenforceable. Proposed modification of the existing legislation to a
6/ Traffic surveys for seven consecutive days are conducted three times
annually at 78 stations covering over 80 percent of all-weather roads.



- 12 -
general axle load limit of 10 tons, with provisions for 12 tons on selected
major routes, have been under consideration by Government and are expected
to be enacted soon; these limits, which have already been used in designing
the reinforcement of these routes, are based on a recent analysis by ETCA's
Design Division together with technical assistance from TRRL (UK).
2,07      RTA has already trained staff to operate the weighbridges and is
ready to enforce the new limits when the necessary legislation has passed.
In addition, RTA plans to expand the weight control by establishing 12 new
weighbridges, 6 of which have already been ordered with UK financial assis-
tance. The proposed increases in axle loads are being taken into account
in the design of new roads and in strengthening of existing roads. During
negotiations, assurances were obtained that the Government will modify the
legislation for vehicle weight control along the lines indicated above and
start the actual control thereof not later than June 30, 1984.
D. Road Safety
2.08      RTA is responsible for enforcing traffic safety measures.  How-
ever, little attention has been given to basic aspects of traffic manage-
ment. Road design does not consistently include safety features; driver
education and licensing and vehicle registration are hardly more than for-
malities; vehicle inspection is carried out sporadically and superficially;
enforcement of traffic regulations is very weak; and statistical informa-
tion on vehicle fleet and traffic accidents is scattered and inconclusive.
As a consequence, the toll of accidents is high, as evidenced by the many
demolished vehicles scattered along major highways. The Government has in-
dicated its concern and its intention to take corrective action and has ap-
proached the Association for assistance.
2.09      The First Road Sector Project provided funds for consultants to
help improve road transport planning and the operations and efficiency of
the country's road transport industry. The consultants will also study
RTA's organization, to identify weaknesses and to provide technical assis-
tance to address the main problems identified, including the formulation of
a road safety program. These services started in January, 1983 and will be
continued under the proposed Project.
E. Highway Administration
2.10      The Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority (ETCA) 7/ is res-
ponsible for highway administration.  Since the 1950's, when a modern Road
Authority was established in the country, staff from the U.S. Bureau of
Public Roads managed the Road Authority until 1963, when Ethiopians assumed
management responsibilities with expatriates assisting as managerial and
technical advisors. After further training and technical assistance under
the last four IDA-financed projects, all divisions of the Authority are
currently ably headed and staffed by Ethiopians.
7/ Originally, the Imperial Highway Authority (IhA), then the Ethiopian
Highway Authority (ERA), later on the Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) and
since 1980, the Ethiopian Transport Construction Authority (ETCA).



- 13 -
2.11      Organizationally, ETCA has two operating departments under the
Chief Engineer (Chart 1): (a) the Heavy Construction Department responsible
for building highways, airports, sea ports, railroads and urban streets,
and (b) the Rural Roads Construction and Road Maintenance Department.
Eight divisions -- four administrative and four technical -- support the
operating departments as follows: (i) Administrative Services and Training
Division; (ii) Legal Services Division; (iii) Fiscal Services Division; and
(iv) Audit and Methods Division; and four technical support divisions: (i)
Planning and Programming Division; (ii) Design Division; (iii) Supplies and
Equipment Division; and (iv) Contract and Quality Control Division. The
total number of ETCA's employees is around 20,000, of whom about 55 percent
are seasonally employed; professionals are about 110, of whom 65 are
engineers and 10 economists. Although more professionals are required,
particularly given the increasing responsibilities of the Authority, these
figures compare very favorably with most other African countries. Further,
under the proposed project ETCA's training activities will be strengthened
and expanded (para. 4.15).
2.12      Until 1977, when the First Road Sector Project was approved, the
Ethiopian Road Authority (ERA) was efficient and had adequate capacity and
capability to discharge its assigned responsibilities of planning, building
and maintaining the country's network of classified roads. However, after
the unrest of 1977-78, when foreign contractors withdrew from the country
and the Government was faced with an urgent need to expand the road network
to support the defense of Ogaden and to compensate for the disruption of
railway services, ERA was forced to expand its construction force account
activities considerably with the concomitant dilution of its other activi-
ties, particularly maintenance and construction supervision, as some of the
most experienced staff were transferred to organize and manage the new con-
struction brigades. A resumption of past strengthening efforts is there-
fore called for. In addition, steps will be taken to reorient some of its
main activities to reduce its force account construction capacity by
shifting to construction by contract either by foreign contractors or
construction enterprises (parastatals) being formed in the MOC. These
objectives underscore the proposed Project's institutional goals regarding
ETCA.
2.13      Until 1976, when ETCA's Rural Roads Department (RRD) was estab-
lished, there was no organization specifically charged with the administra-
tive responsibility for lower class rural roads. Much of the then existing
rural roads network had been built by local authorities and, later, by con-
struction units under agricultural projects. The increased emphasis on ag-
ricultural development and on the construction of low class rural roads, as
well as the deterioration of existing rural roads because of lack of main-
tenance, resulted in 1972 in the setting up of a Working Group on Local
Rural Roads Development to look into rural roads development and mainte-
nance. The Group recommended that an organization should be established
centrally to plan, construct and maintain rural roads but that ultimately,
there should be full decentralization of this responsibility to the subre-
gional (awraja) 8/ or lower level. The RRD was thus established. So far,
8/ Ethiopia is divided into 14 administrative regions, which in turn are
divided into awrajas and woredas or subawrajas. There are 102 awrajas
in total, the number per region ranging from 3 to 13.



- 14 -
the decentralization of the administration of rural roads has been deemed
premature by the Government -- with IDA's concurrence -- pending much more
institution building at both regional levels and lower levels. ETCA will
therefore retain that responsibility for several more years. At negotia-
tions Government agreed that by December 31, 1985 it will review and
exchange views with the Association on the decentralization of rural roads
responsibilities.
F. Planning and Financing
2.14      Highway planning is undertaken by ETCA's Planning and Programming
Division (PPD) which has been the recipient of a considerable input in
technical assistance through the Bank Group financed road projects. As a
result, PPD is adequately organized and staffed with about 14 professionals
and 17 technical staff and has consistently produced well-prepared feasibi-
lity studies for the main road subprojects financed under the First Road
Sector Project. Under the proposed project, PPD is expected to continue
that role. In May 1981, PPD issued the Second Sector Program which reviews
accomplishments under the First Road Sector Program (1978-82) and sets out
the strategy and detailed components of the proposed Second Road Sector
Program (FY1984-86). The Second Program has been revised and substantially
scaled down in connection with the appraisal of the Second Highway Sector
Project which would finance a portion of the Second Program (para. 4.04).
2.15      Budget preparation for roads is the responsibility of the PPD.
Following review and approval by the Administrative Board of the MOC, the
budget is submitted for review and approval to the CPSC and to a joint
meeting of the CPSC and the Council of Ministers. Table 2.4 shows ETCA's
capital and recurrent budgets and expenditures between FY77 and FY81.
Capital expenditures decreased from Br 71.0 million (US$34.3 million) in
FY77 to Br 50.4 million (US$24.3 million) in FY78, due mainly to the hosti-
lities in Ogaden, but rose again in subsequent years, reaching Br 126.5
million (US$61.0 million) in FY81. Almost half of ETCA's capital ex-
penditure since FY76 has been financed from foreign loans and grants.
2.16      ETCA's recurrent expenditures, on the other hand, have remained
fairly constant, ranging from Br 34.8 million (US$16.8 million) in FY78 to
Br 38.6 million (US$18.6 million) by FY81. These figures included a main-
tenance expenditure of about Br 2,600 (US$1,300) per km in FY77, which de-
creased to about Br 2,220 (US$1,100) per km in FY81, mainly due to the
larger road network under maintenance. As discussed in para. 2.28,
maintenance allocations are basically adequate.
G. Engineering and Construction Supervision
2.17      All detailed engineering of main roads constructed over the last
decade has been carried out by the Design Division. The only exception is
the design of a major bridge over the Blue Nile, which is being carried out
by a foreign consultant (BCEOM, France). The Division has a staff of expe-
rienced engineers, surveyors and technicians divided into four branches:
Surveys; Materials, Soil Testing and Research; Road Design; and Bridge De-
sign. Quality of design and documentation is satisfactory. The Design
Division i.s currently undertaking a joint program with TRRL of UK for sur-
veying and mapping local construction materials, for investigating their



- 15 -
properties and for devising appropriate specifications. This effort has
already resulted in improved pavement design and lower construction costs.
The Division's photogrammetic equipment (stereo plotters), however, is ob-
solete (over 20 years old) and will be replaced under the proposed pro-
ject. The project will also include purchase of additional equipment for
field testing of soil and construction materials (para. 4.16).
2.18      The role of foreign consultants in supervision of main road con-
struction has been gradually declining over the last decade. Under the
Fifth, Sixth and First Road Sector Projects, all supervision personnel on
contracted works were local except for one Resident Engineer on each job;
this arrangement has proved satisfactory. In the supervision of force ac-
count works financed under the First Road Sector Project, local staff have
been Resident Engineers and consultants have had responsibility only for
overall supervision, visiting each site for a few days every month; this
system has proved inadequate, with quality of work being unsatisfactory on
occasion 9/. A minimum requirement for the construction works financed
under the proposed project will be that the Resident Engineer on each work
site under contract be a foreign consultant (para. 4.16).
H. Highway Construction
(i) General
2.19      The construction sector contributes about 4 percent of GDP.  The
main employer is the Government with the MOC having overall responsibility
for the execution of the work. In the formal sector, building accounts for
about 60 percent, roads for about 25 percent and other sectors for the re-
maining 15 percent. Road construction in Ethiopia has been undertaken both
by private contractors under contract and by force account. Before the
revolution in 1974, most major road construction was still carried out by
international contractors, but domestic contractors were a growing segment
in the industry. Since then, the political climate has become unfavorable
to international contractors and construction has been carried out by do-
mestic contractors and increasingly by force account. The situation, how-
ever, seems to be changing: international contractors are currently showing
greater interest in reentering the Ethiopian market, domestic road contrac-
tors are mostly insolvent and being dissolved or absorbed by Government
(para. 2.22), which also intends to convert a large part of its force ac-
count capacity into commercially viable autonomous (parastatal) enter-
prises.
(ii) Construction by Contract
2.20      Until 1972, major road construction works were the subject of ICB
and contracts were won by international contractors. Assistance to develop
Ethiopia's small civil works construction industry, constrained by tight
9/ A technical assistance team provided under the First Road Sector Project
in 1981 considerably improved the quality of asphaltic concrete
overlays; in early 1982 the team started focussing on improving the
quality of pavement with bituminous surface treatments and of gravel
roads as well.



- 16 -
credit on hard terms and lack of qualified staff, was ff-rsLt ueques ted and
provided under the Fifth Highway Project and continued under the Sixth and
the First Road Sector Projects. A total of US$4.5 million was provided for
procurement of equipment for onlending to contractors through the Agricul-
tural and Industrial Development Bank (AIDB). Four contractors won con-
tracts under the Fifth, Sixth and First Road Sector Projects and benefitted
from these loans. In 1981, five private contractors -- the four engaged in
civil works construction and one participating in the building sector --
were qualified for contracts in excess of Br 15 million; three for con-
tracts between Br 2.5 and 15 million; and about 160 for smaller contracts,
mostly in the range of Br 50,000 to 1 million, and mostly engaged in the
building sector.
2.21      However, the four major civil works domestic firms faced
increasing financial strains and accumulated large debts with the
state-owned Commercial Bank of Ethiopia (CBE). By March 1982, loans to the
four companies amounted to Br 91.4 million (US544.1 million) while
work-related guarantees were Br 31.7 million (US$15.3 million). During the
last few years, the firms had not been able to service their financial
obligations because of the cumulative effects of diminishing works
resulting in tough competition and under-bidding, shortages of fuel and
materials, war and civil unrest, and serious management shortcomings. As a
result, in April 1982, CBE took legal action to collect the debts 10/.
Pending court rulings, all four companies have been placed under court
administration which is being carried out by senior officials of ETCA.
2.22      Except for the individual experience gained by Ethiopian profes-
sionals and technicians working in these firms, and the equipment fleet
purchased and still available in Ethiopia, the Bank Group assistance of
US$4.5 million has not resulted in the improvement of the intended benefi-
ciaries. It now appears unlikely that any of the four large civil works
contractors will continue work after the court proceedings or that they
could prequalify for ICB for civil works under the proposed Project. Some
of them may be able to undertake subcontracting while reorganizing and
could make use of technical assistance to be provided under the proposed
Second Road Sector Project (para. 4.18). Furthermore, one of the contrac-
tors, the Ethiopian Earthmoving Equipment (EEE), has formed with its pre-
sent administration, the nucleus of the first public enterprise (para.
2.25). The other domestic private contractors have little experience in
civil construction and their specialized resources (engineering, equipment)
are limited. It is doubtful that they will be able to take part in large
civil works construction as main contractors, at least during the period of
implementation of the proposed Second Road Sector Project; however, they
could initially operate as sub-contractors or associates of larger con-
cerns.
10/The expatriate owners of the company, Ethiopian Earthmoving Equipment
(EEE) fled the country at the time of revolution; the company's assets
were seized by Government and the firm has been operated since then
under an administrator (ETCA) appointed by the principal creditor (CBE).



- 17 -
(iii) Construction by Force Account
2.23      To replace capacity lost by the withdrawal of foreign firms, the
Government has been building up its force account capacity. In 1974 force
account amounted to some 20 percent of road construction; by 1981 it had
increased to 80 percent. Other factors have also been conducive to this
development: increased emphasis on rural and other low class roads not par-
ticularly suitable for competitive bidding and general political preference
for construction by force account rather than by private entrepreneurs. By
the end of 1982, ETCA had 13 fully equipped force account units for con-
struction of main and secondary roads. These comprised 2 asphaltic overlay
brigades, 3 bituminous surface dressing brigades, 8 feeder (gravel) road
brigades, and 18 units for construction of rural roads including 10 large
size units, 6 medium size and 2 self-help units.
2.24      Labor-intensive methods are being introduced for construction and
maintenance of rural roads with training being carried out under a UNDP
project (para. 2.31) while technical assistance provided under the First
Road Sector Project is presently helping to prepare a few rural roads for
execution by these methods starting in early 1983.
2.25      For major civil works construction under the proposed Project
Government agrees that ICB should be used; rural roads will continue being
built by force account.    Also, to improve public construction operations,
the Government has decided to establish commercial and autonomous construc-
tion enterprises by drawing from the resources of ETCA's force account bri-
gades, possibly supplemented from other resources. These could compete for
works under ICB both under the proposed project and elsewhere including
outside Ethiopia. The first such enterprise, the Blue Nile Construction
Enterprise, is being formed and, subject to compliance with certain condi-
tions (para. 4.18), should be eligible to participate in ICB for the first
construction subproject under the proposed Project (para. 4.07).
I. Highway Maintenance
2.26      Maintenance of the main road network is still the responsibility
of the Heavy Construction Department, although transfer of all maintenance
functions to the Rural Roads Department is being planned (Chart 1) in asso-
ciation with the planned decentralization of the rural roads administra-
tion. As mentioned earlier, however, decentralization of the maintenance
of all roads will not be attempted until appropriate regional institutions
have been improved considerably. A Chief Maintenance Engineer supervises
all maintenance operations in ETCA's nine district offices. The network is
divided into maintenance sections, each of which is assigned to a mainte-
nance crew; in 1981 there were 22 paved road sections of about 150 km aver-
age length, 62 main gravel road sections of about 120 km, and 6 rural road
sections of about 300 km. Until recently, the planning of maintenance
operations and the preparation of related budget needs was carried out by
headquarters staff. This often resulted in unrealistic programs that were
not always implemented by the districts. As part of the improvements in-
troduced under the First Road Sector Project (para. 2.27), maintenance
planning and budgeting are now the responsibility of the District Engineers
with a marked improvement in performance.



- 18 -
2.27      Other factors contributing to improved maintenance in recent
years have been (a) the maintenance assistance provided under the Fourth
Highway Project; (b) ERA's implementation of the recommendations of a 1973
Road Maintenance Study (financed by USAID) which identified maintenance
priorities and resources required through 1982; (c) equipment procurement
with assistance from multi- and bilateral aid agencies; (d) expansion and
equipping of all district workshops (financed by USAID); (e) increased and
improved training of technical and clerical personnel under the First Road
Sector Program assisted by IDA, UNDP and ADF; and (f) an equipment manage-
ment system and a road maintenance management system and quality control
which are being introduced countrywide by technical assistance financed un-
der the First Road Sector Project. Preparation of the road maintenance
performance and budgetary system began, with the assistance of foreign con-
sultants (Roy Jorgensen, USA), in February 1979. It comprised two main
tasks: the design and implementation of a modern maintenance management
system in a pilot area, and the provision to ETCA of advisory services in
systems analyses and computer programming. The implementation effort in-
volved (a) the reorganization of the pilot maintenance district (Alemgena)
by the introduction of five management unit superintendents who control
between one and four road maintenance sections, and who have the authority
to move resources within their management units to more effectively resolve
shortages or surpluses; (b) the training of all maintenance staff; and (c)
the field implementation of the new maintenance management system. The
field implementation included: identification of activities and definition
of level of service; performance standards including defining frequency of
activities; resources and work procedures required to maintain level of
service; planning and scheduling system; performance-oriented budgeting;
cost accounting; and monitoring, evaluating and reporting systems. Given
the success of the test scheme, the Government in 1980 requested, and the
Association agreed, to expand the maintenance management system country-
wide.
2.28      Under the First Road Sector Project, an agreement was reached on
targets for annual budget allocations for road maintenance to match road
improvement/construction targets. Only about 61 percent of the financial
targets were reached while about 73 percent of targets for physical imple-
mentation were attained. However, considering that construction achieve-
ment was greatest in the lowest class roads that require less funds for
maintenance and also that depreciation of equipment is undervalued in
ETCA's books, maintenance expenditures were adequate although use of re-
sources could improve. At negotiations, therefore, annual maintenance
allocations to match planned physical implementation targets were agreed
upon between the Association and the Goverment (para. 6.01). It has been
estimated that about US$2,000 per kilometer for paved roads, US$1,000 for
gravel roads, and US$800 for low-class rural roads would be adequate.
These aggregate over the network, in 1982 prices, to about Birr 35 million
in 1984, Birr 40 million in 1985 and Birr 45 million in 1986. The
Association and the Government agreed during negotiations that these
amounts will be provided annually during the three year period of the
proposed Project, and that not less than Birr 45 million in 1982 prices
would also be allocated annually after 1986.



- 19 -
J. Training
2.29      In addition to in-house and on-the-job training provided by ex-
patriate technical assistance teams, ETCA has an active training program
for all levels of personnel. Senior employees have been and are being
trained in schools and universities in Ethiopia and overseas, assisted by
the Bank Group's Fourth, Sixth and First Road Sector Projects and USAID and
UNDP Projects. Middle- and lower-level administrative, construction and
maintenance personnel are trained and upgraded at trade schools in some
cases but mostly at ETCA's training center at Alemgena. Since the center
was established in 1956 it has trained some 8,000 foremen, technicians,
tradesmen and equipment operators.
2.30      The training center was expanded and strengthened under the Fifth
and First Road Sector Projects including the establishment of two training
production units (TPUs) under the latter Project. The center presently has
capacity to train about 600 people annually. This capacity is, however,
insufficient to meet ETCA's needs, partly due to the fact that several gra-
duate trainees have transferred to other areas in the Government and partly
due to the continuous expansion in range and scope of the Authority's acti-
vities. Moreover, the quality of training, particularly the curricula and
course content, as well as training of instructors, need improvement.
Under the proposed Project, scholarships for Ethiopian trainers and staff
as well as technical assistance to improve and strengthen the center will
be provided.
2.31      One of the TPUs, based at the Alemgena training center near Addis
Ababa, is concerned only with the construction and maintenance of main and
secondary roads; the second, based at Ginchi, about 90 km west of Addis
Ababa, provides training for the construction and maintenance of rural
roads. The latter has a portable camp as well as workshops, classrooms and
accommodations for about 50 trainees. Although the training includes
equipment-intensive methods, it has, with technical assistance from UNDP,
increasingly focussed on labor-intensive methods (para. 2.24) Under the
proposed Project, both TPUs will be further strengthened and expanded
(para. 4.15).
K. Accounting and Auditing
2.32      ETCA's accounting and financial functions are the responsibility
of its Fiscal Services Division. The accounting system is kept in accor-
dance with normal public accounting practices as specified in the proce-
dures established by the Ministry of Finance and provides good control of
all the expenditures for project execution. The Fiscal Services Division
prepares annual balance sheets which are submitted to the Ministry of
Finance and to external auditors on behalf of the Auditor General, for
their review. The present accounting system not only meets the basic re-
quirements for budget administration and control, but also constitutes the
basis for a modern management information system. The gradual introduction
of cost accounting for maintenance activities started under the First Road
Sector Project and will be continued under the proposed Project.
2.33      As a Government agency, audits of ETCA are the legal responsibi-
lity of the Auditor General or his designate. Since 1977 the Ethiopian



- 20 -
Audit Services Corporation (EASC), a public audit corporation, has been
designated Auditor of ETCA. EASC's management and senior auditors have had
years of experience with well known international private audit firms, how-
ever, the number of professional accountants is inadequate.  Hence, even
though EASC is competent to audit ETCA and gives priority to its audits,
ETCA's audits are consistently a year overdue. During negotiations it was
agreed with Government that it will take all necessary action to ensure the
submission of audited accounts to IDA within 6 months of the end of its
financial year (para. 6.01).
L. Future of ETCA
2.34      As mentioned earlier further strengthening of ETCA and a reorien-
tation of some of its main activities (para. 2.12) are required and would
be undertaken under the proposed Project. During negotiations, it was
agreed that, in consultation with IDA, the Government will (a) prepare a
tentative program by June 30, 1985, for the gradual transfer, as may be
needed by the Government, of ETCA's major road force account construction
brigades to public enterprises until an optimum size of ETCA's force
account forces is attained; (b) review ETCA's role and organization not
later than June 30, 1985 and (c) upon completion of 30 months of
construction operations by the recently established Blue Nile Construction
Enterprise, set out specific deadlines for completion of all phases of the
transfering program. This agreement will allow the Government to examine
the experience of the new commercially-based construction enterprise and
introduce any adjustment if required, before proceeding with the
establishment of any other enterprise (para. 6.01).
H. Road Transport Industry
2.35      Ethiopia's road transport industry is dominated by private
truckers, mostly individual owner/operators who own about 75 percent of the
country's trucking fleet. Entry into the trucking industry is subject only
to compliance with normal minimum personal, safety and financial require-
ments, but truckers for-hire must be associated to the Government-owned Na-
tional Road Transport Corporation (NATRACOR), a parastatal road regulatory
and transport company under the aegis of the MTC. In 1980/81, the total
public road transport capacity in the country amounted to 5,775 trucks (56
percent of which had a net carrying capacity in excess of 9 tons), 631
tankers, and 2,273 buses. Of these, NATRACOR owned and operated 685
trucks, 631 tankers, and 297 buses. Although there has been traditionally
a shortage of trucking capacity in the country and the age of the trucking
fleet exceeded 10 years on average, following the unrest in Ogaden and the
interruption of the railway services to Djibouti in 1977-78, the Government
imported a large number of new trucks. As a result, a modern trucking
fleet operates along the country's major routes (the old trucks have been
assigned mainly to local services) and the average age has been reduced
considerably. Still, there seems to be a shortage of medium and small size
trucks for urban/suburban and short-haul services. Under the road trans-
port study financed under the First Road Sector Project (para. 2.09), an
assessment of the condition and needs of the country's trucking fleet will
be carried out.



- 21 -
2.36      Trucking services are closely regulated and controlled in the
country. The RTA sets tariffs by type of cargo, type of road and distance,
and generally cover transport costs. Tariffs are enforced and trucks and
freights are assigned by NATRACOR which also provides the services of
freight consolidation, forwarding and dispatching. One of NATRACOR's main
functions is the allocation of trucks (both private and its own) to the
various routes in the country. It accomplishes this under a two-tier sys-
tem. First, when truckers register, they are assigned to one of six zones
into which the country has been divided, depending on the demand and supply
in each zone; the capacity, type and age of the truck; and the place of
origin or area of preference of the trucker. Once the trucker has been
assigned to a zone, he is assigned specific freight consignments and routes
within that zone on a first-come, first-serve basis. The procedure for ob-
taining such consignments is based on standard request forms filled in by
any individual or company (state-owned or private) wishing to ship any car-
go within the zone. The requests are received by the local NATRACOR office
which then assigns a trucker from its lists. The selected trucker fills
out another form which allows him to carry out the transport service, to
pass the check-points along the travel route, and to collect his fees from
the shipper. This close regulation and control of trucking services
are in line with the Government's development philosophy and with its per-
ceived internal/external security needs.
2.37      The above system, which was developed in the last three years,
has proven cumbersome, inefficient and costly. Under the Sixth Highway
Project, a study was carried out by consultants and completed in January
1981. The study concluded that (i) the managerial resources of NATRACOR
are insufficient to carry out its stated responsibilities; (ii) the hard-
ware (storage facilities, parking areas, offices) and software (data
gathering and information systems, auditing and financial accounting) are
also inadequate to manage a wholly-controlled transport system of this na-
ture; and (iii) as a result of the above two shortcomings, there is ineffi-
ciency. The Government, with IDA's assistance under the ongoing First Road
Sector Credit has engaged consultants to undertake the second phase of the
study, which will make recommendations to rationalize and streamline cur-
rent operations and provide related technical assistance. A summary of the
terms of reference of this study is attached as Annex 2.1. The study,
which will take nine months, began in January 1983. Under the proposed
Second Highway Sector Project, this technical assistance would be continued
to help implement the changes to be recommended by the studies (para.
4.17).
N. Pricing and Road-User Charges
2.38      As shown in Table 2.6, road-user charges have increased from Birr
51.7 million (US$25.0 million) in FY79 to Birr 92.2 million (US$44.5 mil-
lion) in FY81, or by a factor of 1.8, while total road transport expendi-
tures, both capital and recurrent, have risen from Birr 145.9 million
(US$70.5 million) to Birr 164.0 million (US$79.2 million) in the same peri-
od, or by a factor of only 1.1. Thus, the Government has undertaken a
serious effort to mobilize financial resources to cover an increasingly
high share of its expenditures in highways. Road-user charges have covered
all current expenditures in highways (road maintenance, administration and
engineering services) plus a substantial portion of capital expenditures.



- 22 -
In FY81, for instance, in addition to covering all current expenditures,
road-user charges contributed US$26 million towards capital expenditures,
i.e. 43 percent of total capital costs.
2.39      Concurrently with increases in road user charges, the Ethiopian
Government has taken positive action in recent years to move petroleum-
based fuel prices in the direction of international prices. The latest in-
crease, effected in April 1981, has set the retail price of both gasoline
and gas oil above the level of international prices, or the estimated op-
portunity cost. If a shadow price of foreign exchange of 25 percent is in-
corporated in the analysis, the price of gasoline still exceeds its oppor-
tunity cost, while that of gas oil is slghtly inferior. Also, the price of
petroleum products as a whole cover their opportunity cost. Table 2.7,
which is summarized below, shows the current structures for gasoline and
fuel oil prices at Addis Ababa (prices change with location, reflecting
changes in transport costs):
Prices of Gasoline and Fuel Oil
(US c per US gallon)
Gasoline       Gas Oil
Retail Price at Addis Ababa a/
- at official exchange rate b/              217.38         144.31
- at shadow exchange rate c/                173.24         115.00
International Price                               117.27        119.42
(C.I.F. Assab, June 1982)                       (104.48)       (107.09)
(Transport costs)                                 (5.48)         (5.48)
(Distributor's margin)                             (7.31)        (6.85)
Retail Price as a percentage of
International Price
- at official exchange rate b/              185.4          120.8%
- at shadow exchange rate c/                147.7%          96.3%
a/   The "pump" price of fuels includes taxes on regular gasoline which
represent 12,% of retail price and on gas oil which amount to 13% of
retail price
b/   US$1 = Br 2.07
c/   US$! = Br 2.60
Source:  PPD5 ETCA. October 1982
2.40      The Association will continue its dialogue with Government on
road user charges and pricing of petroleum products to ensure that petrole-
um prices keep abreast of their opportunity cost and that the Government
continues to mobilize adequate resources for its transport sector needs.
To provide a solid basis for this dialogue, the study of road transport
financed under the First Road Sector Project (Annex 2.1) includes an analy-
sis of the structure and level of road user charges and will recommend im-
provements to the present system. During negotiations, the Government
agreed to (a) exchange views with the Association on the recommendations of



- 23 -
the study within three months after its completion, but in any event not
later than June 1, 1984; and (b) commence implementation of its
recommendations by June 1, 1985.
III.  TEE FIRST ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM AND PROJECT
3.01      In 1977, the Association assessed that the ERA was an organiza-
tion which already (i) possessed adequate capability to plan and carry out
highway projects, (ii) had well-designed highway investment and maintenance
programs, and (iii) was well equipped to participate in the expansion and
improvement of the country's road network, particularly feeder and rural
roads. Accordingly, the Association agreed to a First Road Sector Credit
(708-ET) for US$32 million to support the first three years (1978-80) of
the country's five-year (1978-82) road sector program. On the physical
side, the program comprised (a) strengthening of existing paved roads; (b)
upgrading of gravel roads to bituminous paved standards; (c) new gravel
feeder road construction; and (d) construction of rural roads. The software
components of the program included (a) further strengthening of the domes-
tic construction industry through the provision of loans for the purchase
of equipment; (b) further strengthening of the road authority, especially
its training and its maintenance programming and operations; (c) a change
in transport planning and policy, including further strengthening of ERA's
(now ETCA's) PPD; (d) a study of the road transport industry to reduce
regulations, improve efficiency and establish needs; and (e) an effort to
improve road pricing policy. Under the Credit, the Government and the
Association established agreed physical and investment targets for road
construction and improvement for each of the three years covered by the
Project (1978-80).
3.02      The Project is progressing satisfactorily although with two
years' delay. Progress during the first year was slow and overall perfor-
mance was only 44 percent of the year's agreed target due, in the main, to
political problems and shortages of construction materials and equipment.
The following years saw a big improvement and ERA achieved 91 percent
(FY79), 84 percent (FY80) and 78 percent (FY81) respectively of revised
targets agreed annually between the Government and IDA. Total accomplish-
ment over the four-year period FY78/81 has reached 73 percent of the re-
vised physical targets on average. Success with investment (financial)
targets has been more modest, averaging 57 percent of agreed targets, which
reflects a shift in emphasis toward construction of less expensive lower
class roads. The Project is expected to be completed by end 1983.
3.03      The flexibility inherent in sector lending was of paramount im-
portance in attaining the results mentioned above. Thus, while overall re-
sults have been reasonably close to targets in recent years, the composi-
tion of the program has varied to reflect changing needs and circum-
stances. Several roads which could not be improved or built because of
hostilities or difficult political conditions in certain areas, were re-
placed -- with the Association's agreement -- by similar roads in other re-
gions. Similarly, the construction of a major sub-project, the Nekempte-
Bure road, which had been considered from the start as one of the likely
program components, was deferred to the proposed Second Road Sector Project
(para. 4.07) when it was established that the total cost of the subproject



- 24 -
exceeded the funds remaining under the First Sector Project and those which
the Government could obtain. Instead, the Government requested, and the
Association agreed, to the continuation of the pavement overlay of the
Addis Ababa-Assab road, the main highway corridor in Ethiopia. In summary,
achievement of the physical targets has varied considerably between clas-
ses: 62 percent for upgrading of primary roads, 70 percent for construction
of feeder roads, 236 percent for construction of rural roads and 61 percent
for construction of lower class roads. These changes also reflect an in-
creasing and shared interest of the Association and the Government in ex-
panding and improving the network of rural roads in Ethiopia.
3.04      A major objective of the First Road Sector Program was the insti-
tutional buildup of the Road Authority. Under the project, significant im-
provements have been attained in areas such as highway planning and design,
maintenance management, staff training, and rural and feeder road construc-
tion and procurement procedures which were identified during its appraisal
as essential to strengthen the road authority and to facilitate the imple-
mentation of the project. On the other hand, during the project period,
the construction activities to reinforce the war effort in Ogaden and the
lack of interest of foreign contractors, coupled with a Government prefer-
ence for force account construction (para. 2.23), resulted in a deteriora-
tion of other areas of activity, mainly road construction supervision and
maintenance. The related transformation of the road authority into a
transport construction agency and its separation from the MTC, the agency
responsible for coordinating overall transport planning, added further com-
plexity to the institutional set up, rendering the planning and programming
function of the road subsector more difficult to carry out. Hence, the im-
portant institution building objectives of the proposed Project (para.
4.03).
3.05      On the subsectoral policy framework, the First Road Sector Pro-
ject is helping Government to finance the second phase (the first phase was
financed under the Sixth Highway Project) of the required technical assis-
tance to improve the country's road transport industry. The studies (Roy
Jorgensen, USA and Hughes Economic Planning, UK) which began in January
1983 and will extend for about nine months, will help to identify and ana-
lyze the nature and scope of the problems facing the road transport indus-
try, and to formulate specific recommendations aiming at improving the re-
gulatory/pricing/operational environment of the country's road transport
industry. A summary of the terms of reference of the study is shown in
Annex 2.1.
IV. THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM FY84-86
A. Introduction
4.01      The funds under the ongoing First Road Sector Project are fully
committed and the Project is expected to be completed by end 1983. Given
the continuing need to strengthen and rehabilitate the main road network,
to expand the currently insufficient rural road system and to continue road
maintenance, a follow-up sector project is called for. Accordingly, ETCA
prepared a proposed Second Road Sector Program (1984-86) in May 1981. The
Association, at Government's request, sent a Transport Sector Review



- 25 -
Mission in April 1982 to examine the proposed Program as well as the sec-
tor's main management planning, operational and policy issues. As a result
of the Mission, a draft Transport Sector Memorandum (TSM) was issued in
September 1982, which discussed the main issues facing the sector and the
adequacy of Government strategies to deal with them (para. 1.13). The
Government has received and discussed this draft TSM with the Association
and has transmitted official comments to the Association. Partly as a
result of these discussions, the investment targets contained in the
proposed Second Road Sector Program have been considerably reduced to
reflect economic priorities and the scarcity of foreign and local
resources. A package of policy reforms to tackle the main issues facing
the road transport subsector, as identified by the TSM, has also been added
to it (paras. 4.03 and 5.03). These policy decisions, several of which
have already been adopted by Government (paras. 1.14-1.15), should,
combined with ongoing and proposed institution building efforts, further
strengthen ETCA as well as provide a better planning and coordination
framework for the entire sector.
4.02      Given the generally satisfactory results of the First Road Sector
Project, the planning and implementation capabilities of the institutions
responsible for the transport sector, the nature and high priority of
the investment subprojects retained in the FY84-86 Transport Investment
Program, and the nature of the policy objectives mentioned above, the
proposed Second Road Sector Project has been considered a natural follow-up
in the Association's assistance to the road subsector.
B. Objectives
4.03      The main objectives of the Sector Program can be classified in
two categories: the physical targets and the software institutional and
policy objectives. Regarding the first group, the Program's principal
objectives are to continue and increase efforts aimed at:
(a) improving, expanding and maintaining the country's trunk highway
network;
(b) increasing the reach of all-weather communications by improving,
constructing and maintaining feeder and rural roads;
(c) procurement of modern laboratory and design equipment; and
(d) purchase of road maintenance equipment and the construction of
maintenance depots.
On the institutional, operational and policy front, the main objectives of
the Second Road Sector Program are:
(a) further strengthening ETCA and improving its effectiveness;
(b) streamlining and rationalizing RTA and its agency, NATRACOR,
thereby increasing efficiency in the road transport industry;



- 26 -
(c) increasing the mobilization and efficient allocation of resources
through the adoption and periodic updating of appropriate pricing
policies;
(d) strengthening the local construction industry, including
assisting ETCA in transforming most of its force account capacity
for main and secondary roads into autonomous commercially based
construction enterprises;
(e) improving road traffic safety; and
(f) improving transport sector organization, planning and administra-
tion.
C. Program and Project Description
(i) General
4.04      The proposed Program comprises the entire operations of ETCA
during the 1984-86 three-year period, as well as technical assistance to
MTC, RTA and NATRACOR. The proposed Project covers the capital investment
portion of the Program (para 4.24). Major components of the Second Road
Sector Program and Project (construction, rehabilitation, paving and
maintenance) are defined in terms of priced annual physical targets. Other
components (technical assistance, studies, training) are defined in terms
of global needs (e.g. man-months) and unit prices based on recent contracts
for consulting services. A general assessment of the Program and the
Project and their impact on sector development and policies is given in
Chapter V. As mentioned previously, following a review by the Association,
particularly during preparation of the TSM and appraisal of the proposed
Second Road Sector Project, the Program and the Project as conceived by
ETCA have been revised and substantially scaled down. In doing this, more
emphasis has been given to road maintenance, to strengthening the pavements
of trunk roads and to improvement and construction of low class roads, the
highest priority elements. Further changes may be required, however, in
view of limited funds (paras. 4.26-4.27). These changes would further
reduce the construction of low class roads, particularly those with lowest
economic rates of return. The decision to assist the Second Road Sector
Program with the proposed Second Sector Credit are based upon final
agreements reached with Government during negotiations on:
(a) the scope and structure of an economically justified and finan-
cially feasible highway program covering the period 1984-86 and
agreement on annual updating of such program;
(b) organizational arrangements for selection, engineering and imple-
mentation of individual subprojects included in the Government's
program;
(c) specifications and procedures for subproject selection,prepara-
tion, tendering, disbursement and monitoring; and



- 27 -
(d)  appropriate measures to address selected sectoral issues concern-
ing sectoral planning, road pricing, local construction industry
both private and public, road transport services and highway
administration.
4.05      The components of the Second Road Sector Project -- the portion
of the Second Program to be cofinanced by the proposed Credit -- were
confirmed at negotiations. Conditions and procedures for eligibility and
selection of subprojects for the proposed Project will follow methodologies
outlined in Annex 4.1; the required technical and economic analyses are
well within ETCA's capabilities. Subprojects for inclusion in the Project
will be initially selected on the basis of preliminary engineering and
feasibility analyses, while final selection will be based on detailed
engineering and cost estimates within 10 percent accuracy and a detailed
analysis of economic rates of return. The engineering work has been
completed for the sub-projects included in the first year of the project,
and if well-advanced for many of the subprojects being considered for the
following two years. The minimum economic return for subprojects to be
included in the Project is established at about 12 percent. The
subprojects included in the First Sector Project and financed under the
First Road Sector Credit (708-ET) have had rates of return of about 20
percent and up. During negotiations, the Government confirmed its
agreement to (a) the selection procedures and criteria listed above for
subprojects (Annex 4.1) to be included in the Project; (b) the Project ele-
ments to be financed during the first year of the Program; and (c) submis-
sion of all subprojects for the Association's approval.
(ii) New Construction
4.06      New construction works will be of two categories:  (a) some 730
km of gravel-surfaced feeder roads, and (b) some 2,940 km of low-class rur-
al or access roads. These works are also a continuation of efforts under
the First Road Sector Project which financed construction of some 1,400 km
of feeder roads and some 2,000 km of rural roads, but this time with a
greater emphasis on rural roads in order to provide access to large areas
of the country presently not accessible by motor vehicles.
4.07      One subproject, the construction of the Nekempte-Bure feeder road
(250 km) to engineered gravel standard, including a 150 m bridge across the
Blue Nile, has already been approved based on detailed engineering and a
detailed economic analysis, with a rate of return of 24%. Roadway width
will be 6.6 m with gravel surfacing; design speed will vary between 30 and
80 kph depending on type of terrain; maximum gradient will be 12.5% and
minimum horizontal radius 25 m. The construction works have been divided
into two contract sections. Evaluation of prequalification applications is
underway, bids are expected to be submitted in September 1983 and contract
awards could be accomplished in November 1983.
4.08      Rural roads under the project will be constructed to a low all-
weather earth/gravel standard, varying according to terrain and expected
volume of traffic. Design speed will have no lower limit but will range up
to 40 kph unless higher standards can be attained at no extra cost. Road-
way width will generally be 4.0 m and gravel surfacing will be applied only
when expected traffic volume is over 50 vpd or soil and weather conditions



- 28 -
requires it; minimum horizontal radius will be only 10 m and maximum gradi-
ents will reach 17% in difficult terrain, although normally specified at
14%.
4.09      Rural roads will be constructed under force account by ETCA and
the proposed Credit would assist only by financing procurement of
equipment. Equipment requirement for rural roads construction, in addition
to the existing fleet, will be defined in detail in late 1983 when it is
expected that (a) the technical assistance team being financed under the
First Road Sector Credit (Roy Jorgensen, USA) will have established a
complete and up-to-date inventory of ETCA's total equipment fleet; (b)
ETCA, in consultation with IDA, will have assessed equipment needs for
carrying out the program of constructing about 2,940 km of rural roads; and
(c) ETCA, in consultation with IDA, will have assessed possible transfer of
equipment from existing construction brigades and availability of equipment
from ongoing or expected assistance from other multi and bilateral financ-
ing agencies. The proposed Project would provide financing toward procure-
ment of equipment to meet the additional requirements as defined above; the
above procedures were agreed with Government during negotiations (para.
6.01).
(iii) Rehabilitation and Paving
4.10      Under the proposed Project, some 430 km of paved roads will be
rehabilitated and some 360 km of gravel roads will be upgraded and paved
with bituminous surface dressing. This is a continuation of efforts under
the First Road Sector Project which financed rehabilitation of some 280 km
of paved roads and rehabilitation and paving of some 370 km of gravel
roads. However, much greater emphasis is now placed on rehabilitating
paved roads in order to preserve their much greater investment costs.
4.11      The paved roads planned for rehabilitation are generally old,
some dating back from the 1930's, constructed for low speed, low volume
traffic and light loads. Geometric and structural design are deficient for
today's traffic of 500-2,500 vpd with a high proportion of heavy vehicles.
This is particularly so in pavement widths, which vary from 4.5 to 6.0 m,
and in short sight distances, both of which impair traffic capacity as well
as safety, and in pavement bearing capacity. These deficiencies have re-
sulted in general deterioration, rather advanced in some cases. Proposed
rehabilitation generally involves widening of pavements to 6.0 m and up to
7.0 m for the most heavily trafficked sections closest to Addis Ababa; and
widening of shoulders to 1.0 - 1.5 m. Also, road safety will be improved
by widening of curves, removal of roadside obstacles, and other similar
measures; pavements will be strengthened by asphaltic concrete overlays;
and roadside drainage will be improved. Only a few very short sections
need reconstruction.
4.12      The existing gravel roads planned for paving/bituminous surface
dressing were built to varying but adequate standards some 10 - 20 years
ago. The rehabilitation/upgrading involves reshaping and, in some cases,
widening of the roadway to accommodate pavements of up to 6.0 m with up to
1.0 m wide shoulders; improvements of roadside drainage; possibly a slight
adjustment of the vertical profile; a new base course and a single or
double bitumen surface dressing. No major reconstruction of the roads is
anticipated.



- 29 -
(iv) Maintenance
4.13      Technical assistance is underway under the First Road Sector
Project to improve the quality of maintenance works and to design and
introduce a maintenance management system and an equipment management
system. Both systems have been set up and tested successfully in one large
district and are being introduced country-wide (para. 2.27);continued
technical assistance will be provided under the proposed Project until the
systems have been satisfactorily adopted countrywide. The Project also
provides for replacement of equipment and expansion of depots.
4.14      The total resources, including equipment, needed to maintain the
road network to acceptable levels of service, are being established under
the maintenance management system, while a complete and up-to-date inven-
tory of ETCA's total equipment fleet is being set up under the equipment
management system. The results of these assessments are expected to be
available in late 1983. The proposed Project would assist in financing the
additional equipment requirements for maintenance operations after
allowance is made for possible assistance from other multi-lateral or
bilateral sources, as well as for improvements in efficiency of utilization
of existing fleet as a result of improved overall management. At negotia-
tions agreement was reached that Government will furnish to the Association
for its review the results of the assessment of maintenance equipment needs
and its agreement on the list of additional maintenance equipment to be
purchased (para. 6.01).
(v) Strengtening of ETCA
4.15      The Project would continue strengthening training activities
started under previous highway projects. During the period FY84-86, ETCA's
training program aims at training and retraining approximately 2,500 emplo-
yees (about 50 professionals, 800 technical, supervisory and clerical staff
and 1,700 operators and mechanics).   Required increase in resources and
expansion of facilities would include:
(a) minor expansion of the Alemgena Training Center;
(b) procurement of training equipment, tools and materials;
(c) technical assistance of a training advisor and a mechanical
engineering specialist to revise and strengthen the composition
of the training program and course content and to train existing
instructors;
(d) technical assistance to prepare and implement an expanded pro-
gram, including training facilities, for the construction and
maintenance of rural roads by labor-based methods; and
(e) short term training courses abroad for instructors and other
ETCA's professional staff.
A comprehensive training program, representing a modification of ETCA's
existing program, was agreed on at negotiations.



- 30 -
4.16      Furthermore, ETCA is continuing or will undertake the following
measures to improve and strengthen its managerial technical and operational
capacity:
(a) Gradual reduction of ETCA's force account construction brigades
by establishing autonomous and commercially viable construction
enterprises and transferring ETCA's road construction equipment
to these enterprises until a optimum size of ETCA's forces in
view of its needs, is attained. Undoubtedly, the most
significant improvement in ETCA's functions and responsibilities
is the agreement already reached on this issue. The first such
enterprise has already been created (para. 2.25) and technical
assistance to strengthen it would be provided under the proposed
Project (para. 4.18);
(b) further strengthening and expansion of the Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit in the Planning and Programming Department which is be-
ing provided with technical assistance (Delcanda, Canada) under
the First Road Sector Project;
(c) improvement of the capacity and work quality of the Design Divi-
sion by providing it with new photogrammetric equipment (stereo
plotters);
(d) improvement of the capacity of the soils and materials laborato-
ry, in terms of facilities (equipment for field testing of soils
and construction materials) and human resources, to routinely un-
dertake quality control of materials and workmanship of construc-
tion and maintenance whether carried out by contractors or force
account;
(e) improvement of the supervision of road construction through fur-
ther strengthening of the staff of the Contract and Quality Con-
trol Division and the provision of an expatriate Resident Engi-
neer on each main road construction sub-project;
(f) continuing and follow up of ongoing technical assistance for the
setting up and implementing of management systems for precon-
struction, construction and maintenance, for equipment operation
and maintenance and for parts and supplies management; and
(g) reclassification of the highway network along functional lines
into main, secondary, and tertiary (district) roads by March 31,
1984 (para. 2.01);
During negotiations Government confirmed its agreement to adopt the above
measures and that it will submit to the Association, for its review and
approval, the plan, specifications, terms of reference and cost estimates,
as appropriate, for the procurement of civil works, equipment, tools,
materials, and other facilities and technical assistance as required for
the above strengthening of ETCA; the information required should be
submitted at least 60 days before invitations for procurement or employment
of consultants are to be sent out.



- 31 -
(vi) Strengtbening of RTA and NATRACOR
4.17      Under the First Road Sector Credit, the Association has helped
finance studies and technical assistance aimed at recommending and
implementing actions to improve the current organizational, regulatory and
operational framework of the country's road transport industry and to
assess the most immediate actions required to improve road safety on roads
with high traffic volume (paras.2.09 and 2.37 and Annex 2.1). The
consultants selected for this assistance (Roy Jorgensen, USA and Hughes
Economic Planning, UK) are expected to (a) help systematize and modernize
RTA's organization, management and operations; (b) explore the operational
network of NATRACOR to define obstacles to effective management and
operational practices and to recommend concrete courses of action to ensure
the availability of efficient services and the minimization of unnecessary
formalities, paperwork or delays that may hinder the provision of transport
services or increase their cost; (c) prepare a five and ten year investment
plan for RTA and NATRACOR as well as for the country's public and private
passenger and freight industries; and (d) recommend a training and
technical assistance program for RTA and NATRACOR to improve the efficiency
of the road transport industry. The required studies, which began in
January 1983, are expected to be completed by end September 1983. The
proposed Second Sector Credit will provide further technical assistance to
implement the study's recommendations. During negotiations agreement was
reached with Government to (a) exchange views with the Association on the
study's recommendations within three months after they are available from
the consultants and, in any event, not later than June 1, 1984; and (b)
commence implementation of the recommendations of the study not later than
June 1, 1985.
(vii) Support for the Construction Industry
4.18      The Project would provide support to the road construction indus-
try in the form of technical assistance to the new commercially based con-
struction enterprises (para. 4.16[a]) by international contractors under
management contracts. The services would have three distinct phases: (i)
assistance for reorganizing or establishing the appropriate general manage-
ment organization; (ii) assistance in preparing bids for construction con-
tracts; and (iii) assistance for the management of contracts. The proposed
project would finance the services during prebidding and bidding stages;
the cost of the services during the construction period would be included
in the bid price. To be able to prequalify for ICB under the proposed Cre-
dit, the new public enterprises will be required to be operationally and
financially autonomous and to engage the above mentioned technical assis-
tance services of a type and in a manner acceptable to the Association.
These technical assistance services would also be made available to private
domestic contractors. Terms of reference for this assistance (Annex 4.2)
have already been agreed with Government and have been confirmed during
negotiations.
(viii) Road Safety
4.19      The detailed elements of this component will be defined by the
ongoing Road Transport Study and subsequently agreed between Government and
the Association (para. 4.17). The following are the tentative elements:



- 32 -
(a) Civil works for road safety, including:
(i) upgrading of traffic signs, road markings and guardrails for
main roads with over 500 ADT which are not otherwise
included in the Project;
(ii) developing several experimental rest and vehicle maintenance
areas for truckers along major highways;
(iii) establishing vehicle inspection (diagnostic) centers; and
(iv) establishing of a road safety training facility.
(b) Technical assistance and training including, but not limited to,
(i) setting up efficient programs and organization for vehicle
registration, driver education and licencing, vehicle in-
spection, collection and analyses of statistical information
on vehicles, traffic accidents and enforcement of traffic
rules and regulations.
(c) Audio-visual and other equipment for education and training pro-
grams.
(lx) Transport Sector Planning and Administration
4.20      During the last few years, the MTC and its organizations (para.
1.17) have launched various feasibility studies, master plans, organiza-
tion, management aud system studies and implementation programs. The Na-
tional Transport Plan study would formulate an integrated and coherent
transport sector plan based mainly on these studies. Under the study, con-
sultants would (a) develop an indicative ten-year transport plan and a de-
tailed five-year investment program; (b) recommend the introduction of ef-
ficient operational policies; (c) strengthen MTC's basic planning capacity
including required data collection; and (d) evaluate in detail (at the
level of prefeasibility) all transport options along the Addis Ababa-Red
Sea transport corridor. It is estimated that some 45 man-months would be
required for this exercise. During negotiations, the Association and the
Government agreed on the terms of reference for the proposed study.
4.21      Attention needs to be given to the assignment of responsibilities
between national, regional and district authorities for planning, program-
ming, constructing, rehabilitating and maintaining the road network as well
as for financial arrangements and the coordination of the use of equipment,
workshops and established labor force. A timetable, detailed in para.
2.34, for the preparation and implementation of such reassignment of res-
ponsibilities was agreed upon at negotiations.
4.22      Although the MTC has rapidly developed a planning capability at
the Ministry's PPD following the transfer of ETCA to MOC (para. 1.18),



- 33 -
further staff strengthening is needed. The Project will support short-term
refresher courses and post-graduate studies abroad for selected PPD staff.
(x) Other Studies and Technical Assistance
4.23      Experience with the First Road Sector Project has shown that to
add flexibility to the Project and to respond to technical assistance needs
that may come up during its implementation, besides those identified during
Project preparation and appraisal, it is prudent to have a reasonable
amount of financing available to meet such needs. Therefore, a nominal sum
of US$2.0 million has been allocated under the proposed Credit to help
support high priority studies or technical assistance required during
Project implementation, and for which alternative financing is not
available.
D. Size of the Second Road Sector Program and Project
4.24      The Program and the Project continue work already in progress un-
der the First Road Sector Credit and as a whole presents a balanced set of
priorities among its main components: contruction, rehabilitation, paving
and maintenance. As mentioned in para. 4.04, however, first priority has
been given to maintenance and rehabilitation, with a lower priority to new
construction and paving, in that order. Should there be any need for fur-
ther scaling down of the proposed Program to reflect financial limitations,
this order of priorities would dictate the components which would be post-
poned or phased out. Physical targets included in the program are consis-
tent with current resource forecasts as well as with implementation capaci-
ty, provided international contractors participate in a few substantial
contracts and thus supplement local capacity. An outline of the Program
and Project is presented below, while a detailed breakdown is presented in
Table 4.1.



- 34 -
Seid fitd Sector P!grw ad PMrect (F04-86)
Million Birr         Million US$        % of Foreign  % of Total
Li/    F1/    Ti!   LI/   F1l    T'-/        Exchange    Base Costs
Capital Costs
1. Civil Works
(i) Main Roads
- Asphalt Overlay       25.5   47.5  73.0   12.3  22.9  35.2              65          11
- Asphalt Surfacing    18.7   28.1  46.8    9.0   13.6  22.6              60           7
-  Gravel Feeder        74.2  111.5  185.7  35.8  53.9  89.7              60          28
Sub-total           118.4  187.1  305.5  57.1  90.4  147.5            61          46
(ii) Rural Roads          34.6   29.4  64.0  16.7  14.2  30.9              46          10
(iii) Bridge Construction   3.5     5.6    9.1    1.7   2.7    4.4          62            1
2. Equipnent and
Maintenance facilities
- Civil Works Construction
Equipment             8.9   79.6  88.5    4.3  38.4  42.7             90           14
- Road Maintenance
Equipmnt              5.2   46.8  52.0    2.5  22.6  25.1             90            8
- Bridge Construction
Equipment             0.4     2.1    2.5    0.2    1.0    1.2         84           -
- Transport & Shop
Equipment             1.1     9.4   10.5   0.5    4.6    5.1          90            2
- Maint. Camp Constr.    1.1     1.6   2.7    0.5    0.8    1.3          59           -
Sub-total             16.7   139.5  156.2    8.0   67.4  75.4          89          24
3. Technical Assist.
& Training         11.1    11.4  22.5    5.4    5.5   10.9          51           4
Sub-total 1-3        184.3  373.0  557.3  88.9  180.2  269.1           67          85
4. Price Contingencies2/ 40.6    61.4  102.0  19.6  29.7  49.3            60           15
Tbtal Project Costs      224.9  434.4  659.3  108.5  209.9  318.4          66          100
Ibtal Project Costs     (193.4) (434.4)(627.8) (93.4)(209.9)(303.3)       (69)
(net of taxes)
B. oUflR FLRGRAA  C061S
Recurrent Cost
1.Road Maintenance      60.0   60.0  120.0  29.0  29.0  58.0             50
2.Price Contingencies2/ 13.4   10.0  23.4   6.5    4.8   11.3            43
Sub-total             73.4   70.0  143.4  35.5   33.8  69.3            49
Total Progran Costs      298.3  504.4  802.7  144.0  243.7  387.7          63
1/ L = Local; F = Foreign; T = Total
2/ Expected price increases in percentage:  1983   1984   1985   1986
Local      10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Foreign     8.0    7.5    7.0    7.0



- 35 -
E. Financing
4.25      Government expects the proposed FY84-86 Project to be financed as
follows:
Birr
million          X
Government                385.3           58
IDA                       145.0           22
ADF                        66.0           10
Norway                     37.0            6
Ongoing commitments        26.0            4
Total                659.3          100
4.26      The proposed Project has a total cost of Birr 659.3 million
(US$318.4 million) with a foreign cost component of Birr 434.4 million
(US$209.9 million) or about 66 percent. The Government intends to finance
58 percent of total project costs, or Birr 385.3 million (US$186.1
million), from local resources; external sources are expected to finance
the remainder (Birr 274.0 million) of the Project. The proposed IDA
contribution of about Birr 145 million (US$70 million), would finance some
23 percent of the Project, and a contribution of AfDF of about Birr 66
million (US$31.8 million) and a probable participation of the Norwegian
Government of around Birr 37.0 million (US$18 million) would complete the
Project financing. Further, already financed ongoing works amounting to
Birr 26.0 million (US$12.5 million) would be completed in the Project
period. The Government would finance entirely the recurrent cost component
of the Program, estimated at Birr 143.4 million (US$69.3 million) with a
foreign cost component of Birr 70.0 million (US$33.8 million) or about 49
percent. The Government financing plan and the total Project size were
reduced during negotiations to the proposed levels which appear reasonable,
given past experience and likely availability of resources.
4.27      However, should Government in the future have to adjust the
Project to more stringent budgetary constraints than agreed at
negotiations, a reduction would be made by scaling down or postponing
feeder and rural road construction subprojects which were identified and
agreed upon at negotiations, since these components have the lowest
marginal economic returns of the Program, while being still fully
acceptable.
Ft IDA Participation
4.28      The proposed Credit would finance components of the Government's
FY84-86 Program. The specific civil works subprojects would be selected
and defined on the basis of agreed criteria and methods (Annex 4.1).
Subprojects to be continued or started during the Credit period are listed
in Table 4.1; the items to be financed during the first year of the Credit
were agreed with Government at negotiations.



- 36 -
4.29      The major categories of expenditures to be financed by the Cred-
it, i.e. construction, rehabilitation, paving, and equipment, would be de-
fined annually on the basis of agreed criteria and procedures for subpro-
ject selection and preparation. The other components, including studies
and technical assistance in support of selected sectoral objectives, have
been defined and were confirmed during negotiations. Further, a reserve
for future needs in terms of studies and technical assistance, to be
defined in the course of Project implementation, has been incorporated
(para. 4.23). The projected distribution of the IDA Credit funds is as
follows:
---      US$ million----------
FY 1984   FY 1985   FY 1986  Total
1.   Civil Works
(i)  Construction and
Rehabilitation                    8.9      11.3       14.0    34.2
(ii)  Maintenance depots                0.3       0.5        0.7      1.5
(iii)  Safety                            0.2       0.4        0.4      1.0
(iv)  Training                          0.2       0.2        0.2     0.6
9.6      12.4       15.3    37.3
2.   Equipment
(i)  Maintenance, laboratory
and design                        3.0       4.0        4.6    11.6
(ii)  Rural Roads                       0.5       0.5        0.5     1.5
(iii)  Safety                            0.2       0.2        0.2      0.6
(iv)  Training                          0.2       0.2        0.2      0.6
T._9       T._9      5.5    14.3
3.   Studies, Technical Assistance          1.0        3.0       3.0      7.0
4.   Price Contingencies I/                 1.3        3.6       6.5    11.4
Total Participation        15.8       23.9       30.3    70.0
1/ Expected price increases (%):   1983   1984   1985   1986
Local     10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0
Foreign    8.0    7.5    7.0    7.0
4.30      All cost estimates refer to April 1983 price levels.  Cost
estimates for rehabilitation, upgrading and construction works contained in
ETCA'S Second Sector Program (para. 2.14) have been reviewed and revised to
reflect costs of such works on the international market but with special
reference to Ethiopian conditions. Costs estimates for construction of
rural roads and road maintenance are based on ETCA'S force account opera-



- 37 -
tions for such activities, revised to fully account for equipment deprecia-
tion and overhead costs.
4.31      Cost estimates for civil works for maintenance depots, road safe-
ty facilities and training facilities are based on costs of such works be-
ing carried out by local contractors; these are considered adequate. Esti-
mates for purchase of equipment are based on prices in recent ICB procure-
ments in Ethiopia.
4.32      Over the three-year period FY84-86, it is estimated that some 80
man-years of consultant services will be required to provide for construc-
tion supervision, studies, training and technical assistance at a total
cost of Birr 22.5 million (about US$11.0 million equivalent). The man-
month cost for supervision services is estimated at US$8,500, for technical
assistance at US$9,500, and for studies at US$10,500. These costs include
salaries, costs, fees, international travel, subsistence and accommoda-
tion. The total estimated cost also includes provision for cost of vehi-
cles, local travel, local offices and other minor expenses.
G. Implementation and Procurement
4.33      RTA would be responsible for the execution of the studies of and
technical assistance and training for RTA and NATRACOR as well as for exe-
cution of the component for road safety; MTC would be responsible for the
execution of the National Transport Plan study and for training of its
staff; and ETCA would be responsible for the implementation of all other
components to be financed under the proposed Credit. A project implementa-
tion schedule was developed and agreed during negotiations after the
project scope and compositon were firmed up.
4.34      All civil works to be financed under the Credit will be procured
by contract through ICB in accordance with the Bank Group "Guidelines for
Procurement". This was agreed with Government at negotiationsl2/.
Consultants for the supervision of civil works construction, for studies
and technical assistance will be employed in accordance with "Guidelines
for the Use of Consultants" and this was agreed at negotiations. Price may
be a factor at Government's request and with the Association's approval,
except for the studies for the National Transport Plan and for the
technical assistance to further strengthen ETCA, RTA and NATRACOR; this was
also agreed with Government at negotiations. Equipment and spare parts for
rural roads and for maintenance will be procured through ICB but minor
equipment for training, laboratory equipment and instruments and
photogrammetric equipment for mapping may be procured through international
shopping on the basis of at least three responsive quotations from
12/An exception to finance under the Credit only civil works contracts
awarded through ICB would be the financing of an asphaltic concrete
overlay on the last 40-50 km section of the Addis Ababa-Awash road;
these works are ongoing by force account under the First Road Sector
Credit, but funds available under that Credit will not be sufficient to
complete the last section of overlay. Furthermore, rural roads will be
constructed and all roads maintained by force account by ETCA's
brigades; the Credit, however, will finance only procurement of
equipment for rural roads and maintenance.



- 38 -
suppliers eligible unde,r the Bank Group's Guidelines for Procurement.
Similar items would be grouped to the extent possible for bidding
purposes. Contracts for equipment, vehicles, parts and tools with an
estimated cost below US$50,000 and within an overall ceiling of US$700,000
would be procured from suppliers in accordance with local procurement
procedures, which are satisfactory. Purchases of spare parts for existing
equipment or for proprietary equipment may be procured directly from
established dealers. Procedures for procurement of equipment were reviewed
and confirmed during negotiations.
H. Disbursements
4.35      For the specific items to be financed from the proposed Credit,
disbursement would be as follows:
(a)  40% of total expenditures for civil works;
(b)  100% of foreign expenditures, 100% of local expenditures
(ex-factory cost) and 80% of local expenditures for vehicles,
equipment, tools or machinery; and
(c)  100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local expenditures for
consulting services, training and studies carried out by foreign
consulting firms or individuals.
All disbursements will be made against full documentation of expenditures.
Civil works by force account will be reimbursed against statements of
expenditure, documentation for which will be retained by the Borrower and
kept available for inspection by IDA supervision missions.
4.36      The estimated disbursement schedule set out in Table 4.2 is based
on the Project's implementation schedule and the distribution of Credit fi-
nancing (para. 4.29). The typical disbursement profile for the highway
subsector in Ethiopia shows a disbursement period of about 7T years with
the bulk of disbursements (about 88%) in 5 years. As preparation for civil
works contracts to be financed under the Credit is either complete or well
advanced, it is expected that start-up of works will be fast and disburse-
ments are expected to be completed in 5 years.
I. Accounting and Reporting Requirements
4.37      Project accounts will be maintained by the executing agencies
with separate accounts for each component and will be available for inspec-
tion by the Association during project supervision. Project accounts will
be audited separately by the EASC or other independent auditor to be agreed
between Government and the Association and an annual audit report submitted
to the Association no later than 6 months after the end of each fiscal
year. This was agreed with Government at negotiations (para. 2.33).
4.38      During negotiations, the Government and the Association also ag-
reed on progress reporting requirements (Annex 4.3) including indices for
measuring implementation progress, and submission of a project completion
report in a form satisfactory to the Association, not later than 6 months
of the Closing Date of the Credit (para. 6.01).



- 39 -
J. Environmental Aspects
4.39      No major environmental problems are anticipated.  Main and sec-
ondary roads to be constructed or rehabilitated follow or closely approxi-
mate existing alignment and disturbance to current land use should not oc-
cur. New paving will reduce dust and noise and wider and well-constructed
shoulders will increase road safety. Construction of rural roads will in
some cases break new ground with the danger of soil erosion being increased
by mountainous terrain in many parts of the country. Well-designed align-
ment and drainage facilities and tight construction control will, however,
keep erosion to an acceptable minimum.
V. ECONGIIC EVALUATION
A. Introduction
5.01      Historically, the development of Ethiopia's transport sector can
be classified in three distinct periods: (i) the construction of the Addis
Ababa-Djibouti railway at the beginning of the century; (ii) the opening of
the first road links between Addis Ababa, Asmera, and the then new port of
Massawa, in the 1930's; and (iii) the building of a road network connecting
several of the main regional centers to Addis Ababa and Asmera and to the
new port of Assab, as well as the advent of modern civil aviation, after
the 1950's. During the last period, the capacity of the road authority
underwent significant improvement, which has facilitated the expansion and
improvement of the road system, particularly feeder and rural roads. These
accomplishments, which have been supported by substantial bilateral and
multilateral assistance, including that of the Association, still leave
crucial gaps in the country's transport system. The main road network is
not yet complete and that which exists requires strengthening and upgrad-
ing. Road maintenance must improve further. The feeder and rural road
networks should be expanded to permit the evacuation of crops, the prompt
access to drought-prone areas, and the provision of social services to the
large and dispersed rural population. Lastly, there is a need to continue
and reinforce the institution-building efforts to consolidate the changes
and meet additional demands imposed on the road authority and other sector
agencies in recent years and to enhance and expand the training efforts be-
gan under previous projects. The proposed Second Road Sector Project has
this objective.
B* General Assessment of FY84-86 Road Sector Program
5.02      In line with the Government strategy to provide the infrastruc-
ture required for developing the country's agricultural potential and for
stimulating industrial production, ETCA has prepared a Second Road Sector
Program (FY84-86), which has been revised and scaled down after discussions
with the Association (para. 4.03). The Program gives priority to works al-
ready in execution, in particular ongoing rehabilitation works under the
First Road Sector Program, and presents a proper balance among its compo-
nents recognizing their relative priority in the following order (Table
5.1): (a) maintenance; (b) rehabilitation of the road network; (c) paving;



- 40 -
and (d) new construction. The assumptions on which the financial plan is
based are reasonable in light of Government overall financial constraints
and consistent with established policies and with current projections
concerning the evolution of the country's overall economic situation.
Moreover, the Program is feasible given the administrative and
implementation capabilities in the country, particularly if foreign
contractors participate in the implementation of major civil works.
5.03      The FY84-86 Program also develops and supports specific institu-
tion building and policy formulation and changes to:
(a) further improve ETCA's highway design and supervision capa-
bilities and consolidate the institution-building efforts
and recent organizational changes of the road authority;
(b) increase the efficiency of civil work construction by trans-
forming a substantial portion of the force account base into
commercially oriented parastatals;
(c) continue past efforts to improve road pricing policy, so as
to mobilize larger resources and optimize the allocation of
resources;
(d) increase the efficiency of the road transport industry;
(e) improve road traffic safety; and
(f) enhance overall transport sector management, planning and
organization.
5.04      The impact of the Program, and hence of the proposed sector cre-
dit, on the modus operandi of ETCA and on the management of the sector
would be substantial. It would commit ETCA to the priorities of mainte-
nance and rehabilitation of trunk roads, and construction and maintenance
of rural roads, releasing it from the increasing emphasis in main road con-
struction which had become its primary focus of attention, particularly
since its reorganization in August 1980 and its transfer to the MOC in
1981. The establishment of public civil work contractors under
commercially oriented principles will bring efficiency, order and a healthy
degree of competitiveness to the civil works market in the country, a
development which will be enhanced by the increasing interest of foreign
contractors in participating in road construction in the country. Once a
portion of the major civil works force account brigades have been
transferred away from ETCA, its role will be re-examined (para.2.34), and
it is expected that overall sector management will improve as a result.
This improvement will be reinforced by the technical assistance provided to
the MTC, through the preparation of a National Transport Plan and through
additional training in Ethiopia and abroad for its PPD staff.
5.05      Similarly, the Program would have a significant impact on the
road transport industry. The reorganization and streamlining of RTA and
NATRACOR and the reductions of regulations and controls should reduce inef-
ficiency and substantially increase the utilization of the vehicle fleet.



- 41 -
Additionally, the preparation under ongoing technical assistance of an in-
vestment program in motor vehicles would provide an urgently needed tool
for proper investment planning. Further, improved road traffic safety is
bound to reduce the current high cost of accidents. Implementation of
policy changes and significant improvements to the utilization of the
vehicle fleet, would require, however, a consensus which would occupy the
initial period of the Project, following ongoing analyses and formulation
of policies. Changes in the regulatory framework for the trucking industry
and in related user charges would therefore need up to mid-1980s to take
hold.
5.06      The economic case for the physical components of the proposed
Program rests on a reduction in vehicle operating costs (VOC), a decrease
in repair and rehabilitation costs of the road network, and a reduction in
freight damage, travel time and other economic and social costs associated
with the existing condition and use of the road network. Additionally, as
a result of the Program, the agricultural frontier will expand. Agricul-
tural production will increase in those areas where motor vehicle access is
currently unreliable and weather-dependent, while the structure and nature
of production may change from self-subsistence to surplus food and cash
crops in other areas currently without road access. Except for the techni-
cal assistance elements and training and for rural roads for which a new
methodology is being developed (paras. 5.16-5.18), all the Program's compo-
nents lend themselves to straightforward economic analyses, i.e. about 80
percent of the proposed investment Program, comprising road construction,
improvements and road maintenance.
C. Area of Influence of the Program and Beneficiaries
5.07      The maintenance/rehabilitation component covers the 13,300 km of
all-weather roads in the country. This network comprises the most impor-
tant roads in Ethiopia, linking centers of activity to each other and to
their agricultural hinterland. It includes feeder and rural roads which
facilitate the integration of the rural economy into the modern economy by
ensuring all-weather access from the regional centers to the rural areas
and vice-versa.
5.08      The resurfacing of paved roads will have a direct impact on the
areas in which they are located. The ongoing Program has financed two sec-
tions of the Addis Ababa-Assab road, the main import/export corridor in the
country. The proposed Program will extend the resurfacing to the remainder
of the road (about 290 km). Additionally, one road totalling about 100 km
will be resurfaced. These roads, some of which date back to the 1930's,
play a vital role in some of the most important economic areas of the
country. Similarly, the improvement and paving of existing secondary and
feeder roads will benefit the areas which they serve. The construction of
feeder and rural roads will have a significant impact in the areas in which
they are located and, in some cases, will have a wider regional effect by
providing new interregional connections. Such is the case of the
Nekempte-Bure road which will provide a crossing over the Blue Nile and
will open a new north-south corridor across the western portion of the
country.



- 42 -
5.09      The direct benefits of the Program will accrue in the first in-
stance to the trader/truckers and transport companies in the form of re-
duced operating costs. The closely controlled tariff schedules which vary
with road quality will ensure, however, that a significant portion of the
benefits will be passed on to producers and/or consumers. To the extent
that importation of vehicles and spare parts will be reduced due to less
wear and tear as a result of better road conditions and of the road safety
element of the Program, a favorable effect represented in a smaller demand
of foreign exchange will further benefit the entire economy. An additional
favorable impact on the balance of payments will accrue from a reduction in
the transport costs for the country's main exports, particularly coffee.
For certain areas, the Program will also yield benefits of better integra-
tion in the market economy as existing tracks and trails have made trans-
port availability costly and very unreliable. This has discouraged the
production of marketable surpluses by the rural population. The improved
and expanded network of all-weather roads will stimulate agricultural pro-
duction in the long run, which is the main objective of the Government's
development strategy.
D. Economic Analysis
5.10      With the exception of rural roads and technical assistance and
training, all the major physical components of the Program have been
evaluated individually to assess their benefits. The components include
(a) the asphalt overlay program; (b) the paving of existing gravel roads;
(c) the construction of feeder roads; and (d) the road maintenance
program. Economic costs are based on detailed engineering for the
construction of the Nekempte-Bure road and on preliminary engineering for
other subprojects to be started in FY1984, and average per kilometer cost
estimates for the remainder, based on actual expenditures under ongoing
programs adjusted to reflect renewal costs of equipment. In all cases, the
foreign cost has been shadow-priced at US$1 = Br 2.60. The benefits,
depending on the specific subproject being analyzed, consist of savings in
VOC's, maintenance costs savings, savings in costly road reconstruction in
the future, and value added in agricultural production, whenever
applicable. Time savings are not included nor are reductions in freight
damage and in vehicle accidents. The evaluation of benefits is therefore
conservative. The VOC's savings are based on the terrain in which a
particular subproject is located and on the vehicle composition and traffic
growth as established by a countrywide system of traffic counting stations
operated by ETCA. The minimum economic return for subprojects to be
included in the Program is established at 12 percent the estimated
opportunity cost of capital in Ethiopia.
Asphalt Overlay Program
5.11      The road sections to be resurfaced have wearing courses well past
their service life, and costly reconstruction will be required if they are
not resurfaced soon. The proposed works will therefore have a favorable
impact on future VOC, on road maintenance and repair costs, and will defer
the need to reconstruct the roads. The economic analysis of this invest-
ment is based on: (a) a seven-year economic life of the investment; (b)
annual maintenance cost savings ranging from Br 900/km to Birr 1,900/km,
depending upon the level of deterioration of each major section of each



- 43 -
subproject and the corresponding traffic volumes; (c) traffic volumes
ranging from 350 to 2,400 vehicles per day in 1982 (base year for all
estimates) and having a proportion of heavy vehicles which varies between
65 and 85 percent, with a growth rate of 2.7 percent annually throughout
the period; and (d) deferred reconstruction cost estimated between Birr
45,000/km and Birr 85,000/km at the end of the seven-year period. Based on
these assumptions, the various subprojects have an economic rate of
return (ERR) which ranges from 20 to 47 percent (Table 5.1). The weighted
average for this component is 32 percent.
Bituminous Paving of Gravel Roads
5.12      Bituminous paving of gravel roads produces savings in VOC's and,
above specified traffic levels, in road maintenance costs. The criteria
used in the economic evaluation includes an economic life of 12 years and
traffic volumes which fluctuate from 135 to 160 vpd at year of completion
of the works (80-90 percent heavy vehicles) and rates of growth of traffic
of 2.9 percent annually throughout the economic life of the investment.
Recurrent and periodic maintenance costs have also been included in the
analysis. ERRs have been computed for four subprojects (Table 5.1) which
yield returns between 23 and 30 percent, with a weighted average of 26
percent.
Construction of Feeder Roads
5.13      Ten subprojects have been included in the Program (Table 4.1) for
improvement of existing earth roads and tracks into engineered gravel
roads. The PPD at ETCA has already completed feasibility studies, which
contain economic costs based on tenders which were awarded to   private
domestic contractors, revised to include adequate depreciation and overhead
costs. The benefits included in these studies have also been revised down-
ward to account for more conservative estimates regarding future agricul-
tural production; with these changes, they are adequate. As in all other
cases, taxes have been excluded from the costs and a shadow price of for-
eign exchange amounting to US$1 = Birr 2.60 has been included. Benefits
consisting of value added in agriculture have been calculated as a direct
function of production increases. Since benefits for non-agricultural
freight traffic have not been included, the evaluation results are
conservative. Agriculture benefits derive from the introduction of new
crops and the cultivation of new land. ERRs of return range between 15
percent and 24 percent (Table 5.1) with a weighted average of 20 percent.
Road Maintenance
5.14      The economic analysis for this program has been done separately
for the five main maintenance activities: paved road maintenance, grading
of gravel and earth roads, gravelling and regravelling, and bridge, culvert
and other manual road maintenance. Two of these activities, paved road
maintenance and grading of gravel/earth roads, have a direct impact on ve-
hicle operating costs. For the former, it is estimated that VOC's will in-
crease by 10% annually on the roads on which no maintenance is done. The
postponement of paved road maintenance is also estimated to lead to an an-
nual increase in future maintenance costs of 20%. Similarly, for gravel/
earth roads, postponement of surface grading is estimated to increase VOC's



- 44 -
by 5% annually and future maintenance costs also by 5% per annum. In the
case of gravelling and regravelling, VOC's are expected to be lower, not
only in the year in which these operations are carried out, but also during
the following five years. In the case of gravelling, VOC's are estimated
to be reduced by 25% during five years, while regravelling would bring
about a 15% reduction during two years following the operation. Reductions
in bridge, culvert and other manual road maintenance is not expected to
have a measurable effect on VOC's during the three years of the project.
Rather, they will result in higher maintenance costs for the following year
and /or the need to reconstruct the structure earlier. The benefits for
this part of the program, therefore, have been based on savings in future
maintenance and repair costs. In general, it is estimated that for each
part of the network which does not receive the needed maintenance, future
costs will increase by 20% every year the maintenance is postponed. It has
been further assumed in all cases that maintenance activities will be cur-
tailed first on those parts of the network where the impact of the reduc-
tion would be minimal, i.e. those carrying lower traffic.
5.15      The incremental costs of the program over and above the costs
which would be incurred without the program are composed of equipment re-
newal, spare parts and tools, fuel and lubricants and salaries, a total of
Br 44.6 million. These costs were distributed over the three year period
acording to the project's implementation schedule. The traffic on the road
sections affected by the reductions is of the order of 200 vehicles per day
in paved road sections, 50 vehicles per day in gravel and 10 vehicles per
day in earth road sections and it is assumed to grow at a rate of 2.0 per-
cent annually. VOC's and detailed assumptions are shown in Table 5.2,
while economic results are given in Table 5.1. They indicate that the com-
ponent has a very high rate of return estimated at over 100 percent, which
is understandable since a large capital stock in road infrastructure would
yield sizeable benefits with a relatively modest investment in maintenance.
Construction of Rural Roads
5.16      Under the ongoing First Road Sector Project, rural roads are
screened and selected based on a socio-economic point score system recom-
mended in the Crown Agents' Rural Roads Study (1976). The First Road Sec-
tor Project also contemplated the establishment of a Monitoring and Evalua-
tion Unit within ETCA's PPD, to develop a simple but reliable methodology
based on economic criteria. Technical assistance for the establishment of
the Unit, the training of staff, and the development of a sound methodolo-
gy, as well as the ex-post evaluation of a number of rural and feeder roads
financed under previous IDA operations, was also included under the Pro-
ject. The Unit was established in early 1982 and a consulting firm
(Delcanda, Canada) was selected and started work in October 1982. The
technical assistance will last 16 months, and a methodology based on econo-
mic criteria will be developed.
5.17      The proposed three year Project envisages the construction or im-
provement of about 2,940 km of rural roads, of which some 829 km would be
included in the first year. The rural roads have been selected in a first
instance using the socio-economic score system (see Annex 5.1). The roads
to be financed under the credit will also be subject to economic analysis
using a methodology already agreed upon with the Association and tested



- 45 -
satisfactorily in a number of cases. The methodology is similar to that
used in the evaluation of feeder roads (para. 5.13), except that a number
of simplifications have been introduced, such as the grouping of
interdependent roads or of roads with a unit cost of less than US$15,000
equivalent per kilometer but located in the same areas for purposes of
their economic evaluation. Only those roads equal or exceeding an ERR of
12 percent will be included for financing under the credit. Because of
previous agreements with other financing agencies, rural roads financed by
these agencies will continue being selected solely on the basis of the
socio-economic point score system.
5.18      Once the consultants assisting the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit
have established an approach to the evaluation of rural roads acceptable to
the Government and to the Association, the approach used for the evaluation
of rural roads may be replaced by the new method.
Overall Evaluation
5.19      The Program's overall economic rate of return is 30 percent, in-
cluding all the components except rural roads and training and the majority
of technical assistance, which add up to about 20 percent of project
costs. A sensitivity analysis indicates that an increase in construction
costs of 20 percent would reduce the rate of return to 24 percent; a
decrease in benefits of 20 percent would bring down the rate of return to
23 percent; an unlikely combination of the two variations would yield a
rate of return of 19 percent. Moreover, a lag of one year in Program
implementation combined with 20 percent increase in costs would bring the
Program's return down to 21 percent, while a lag of two years (again with
20 percent increase in costs), an unlikely event, would yield a return of
15 percent.
5.20      The foregoing economic evaluation is conservative, since benefits
due to reductions in travel time, accident costs and comfort have not been
included, as well as benefits to generated passenger traffic and non-
agricultural commodities, in the case of feeder roads.
E. Risks
5.21      One of the main objectives of the project is to consolidate
ETCA's achievements in institution building and expand those efforts to
other sector organizations, particularly MTC, RTA and NATRACOR. The suc-
cess of technical assistance in Ethiopia even during difficult times in the
past and the relatively high quality of staff in all these organizations
should lead to a low risk of failure for this objective, particularly given
the renewed emphasis on training under the proposed Program.
5.22      Regarding the physical elements of the Program , they involve
proven technology, well within ETCA's capabilities , and quality of super-
vision will be reinforced by the presence of a Resident Engineer in each
major subproject.
5.23      The main areas of risk associated with the proposed Program are
the availability of local and foreign resources to finance the entire Pro-
gram and the timely implementation of complementary agricultural invest-



- 46 -
ments which support the feeder and rural road components. Regarding the
former, the Association and the Government agreed during negotiations on a
reduced Program to match available funds at that time (para 4.26).
Moreover, should Government in the future have to adjust the Program to
more stringent budgetary constraints than agreed at negotiations, it would
be made by deferring the construction of those feeder and rural roads with
the lowest economic evaluation results (para. 4.27). Given the nature of
the Program and known priorities of major elements, this task should prove
reasonably simple. More intractable is the problem of timely agricultural
inputs. Experience indicates that it has adversely affected a few subpro-
jects in previous cases. The close involvement of the Association in both
sectors and, more significantly, the close relationship of the two sectors,
a fact clearly acknowledged by the Government, will help prevent this oc-
currence. Moreover, the Monitoring and Evaluation Unit established under
the First Road Sector Program in ETCA's PPD, will provide a mechanism to
closely monitor the link between investments in the two sectors.
VI. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
6.01      The following major items were discussed and agreed upon at
negotiations and are included as special covenants in the Credit Agreement:
(a)  by June 30, 1985 the Government will carry out the National
Transport Planning study and will afford the Association an
opportunity to comment on the recommendations of the study
(para. 1.24);
(b)  the Government will, prior to making any investment in the
proposed Awash-Assab railway line: (i) carry out studies on the
technical, economic and financial feasibility of the new railway
line; (ii) exchange views with the Association on the findings of
the studies; and (iii) undertake that any proposed investment in
the railway is economically and financially justified (para.
1.25);
(c)  the Government will take all necessary measures to revise the
classification of the existing road network and establish by
March 31, 1984 a comprehensive functional classification system
(para 2.01);
(d)  the Government will modify the legislation for vehicle weight
control to permit a general increase of the axle load limit to 10
tons, with provisions for 12 tons on selected major routes so
designed, and start the actual control thereof not later than
June 30, 1984 (para 2.07);
(e)  by December 31, 1985, the Government will review and exchange
views with the Association on the decentralization of rural roads
responsibilities (para 2.13);



- 47 -
(f) annual maintenance allocations, in 1982 prices, to match planned
physical implementation targets and aggregate amounts from Birr
35 million in FY1984, to Birr 40 million in FY1985, and Birr 45
million in FY1986 and annually thereafter (para. 2.28);
(g) the Government will take all necessary action, to ensure the
submission of audited accounts to IDA within 6 months of the end
of its financial year (paras. 2.33 and 4.37);
(h) the Government will, in consultation with the Association (i) not
later than June 30, 1985, review the role and organizational
structure of ETCA; (ii) not later than June 30, 1985, prepare a
tentative program for the gradual transfer of ETCA's force
account brigades to construction enterprises until an optimum
size of ETCA's force account facilities is attained; and (iii)
upon completion of 30 months of construction operations by the
Blue Nile Construction Enterprise, set out specific deadlines for
completion of all phases of said program (para. 2.34);
(i) the Government will (i) within three months after the completion
of the Road Transport Study but, in any event, not later than
June 1, 1984, exchange views with the Association on the
recommendations of said study; and (ii) not later than June 1,
1985, commence the implementation of the recommendations of said
study (paras. 2.40 and 4.17);
(j) the Government will select sub-projects in accordance with
criteria and procedures mutually agreed upon (paras. 4.04 and
4.05);
(k) the Government will, not later than December 31, 1983, furnish to
the Association for its review a complete list of equipment needs
and availability for construction of rural roads and a detailed
list of additional equipment required for rural roads and for
maintenance of the Borrower's road network, including any
additional equipment that would be financed under the proposed
Project (paras. 4.09);
(1) progress reporting requirement, including indices for measuring
implementation progress, and submission of a project completion
report in a form satisfactory to the Association, not later than
6 months of the Closing Date of the Credit (para 4.39).
6.02      Agreement having been reached between the Government and the
Association on the items listed in para. 6.01 above, the proposed project
provides a suitable basis for an IDA Credit of SDR 64.9 million (US$70.0
million) on standard IDA terms.



- 48 -                       ANNEX 1.1
Page 1 of 7
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Projects Financed by the Bank Group
First Hlighway PEroect, Loan 31-ET, September 1950 (US$5.0 mllion)
1.        This loan financed urgently-needed cquippment for the reconstruction,
repair and maintenance of the most important portions of the network, which
had been built largely by the ltaliaris in 1936-41 and had fallen into disre-
pair after World War II.  The equipment was used for rehabilitation oL over
1,500 km and minor improvements of 2,700 km.  As a condition for the loan,
the Bank requireu that the Government transfer responsibility for' roads from
the Mfnistri ef Public WTorks to an autonomous public agency, resulting in the
establishment of the Imperial Highway Authority (I1,A).  ImpleTmentation was
slower than expected, but the project was completed satisfactorily and the
loan fully disbursed.
Second Eighway Project, Loan 116-ET, June 1957 (US$15.0 million)
2.        This loan assisted in financing a project consisting of major con-
struction (about i,050 km) and road improvements (about 580 km), including
demonstration works used for training, and eniineering by consultants of
roads for future construction (about 1,000 km). Road construction was com-
pleted about three years later than expected at appraisal, and with a 60% cost
overrun.  A post-evaluation by Operations Evaluation Department in 1974 I/
attributed the delays primarily to political factors (which resulted in a
change in the compositioni of the Project after Bank approval) and institu-
tional weaknesses. 2/
3.        The economic justification at appraisal was in general terms, with
no rate of return analysis. Although the roads were classified as primary or
secondary (in the sense that they linked main population centers), existing
traffic levels were low and the roads were essentially penetration roads,
with the major benefits expected to be increased agricultural production
1/   "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects," 1974.  It should
be noted that the evaluation was completed some 18 months after approval
of the Fifth Highway Project, and after appraisal of the Sixth.
2/   Poor engineering estimates, slow preparation of specifications, poor
procurement and supervision.



- 49 -                             ANIFX I.1
Page 2 of 7
in the roads' areas of influence and lmproved adninistration.  The above-
mentioned post-evaluation estimated the following rates of return for the
five new roads constructed under the Project:
Gohassion-Azazo (551 km)                   negative
Mieso-Dengego (211 km)                          6%
Jima-Agaro (44 kim)                           22%
Jima-Bonga (110 km)                             7%
Shashamane-Sodo (130 km)                      11%
The major reason for the disappointing rates of return of three of the roads
was their relatively low developmental impact; a secondary reason was the
high cost of roads relative to the initial post-completion traffic levels. 1/
Savings in vehicle operating costs were passed on through the transport and
marketing systems to producers, but Government-sponsored agricultural devel-
opment programs would have been required to increase the roads' impact. 2/
Lack of lower class roads feeding into the Project roads was also a factor,
although the evaluation pointed out that construction of such feeder roads
witbout complementary agricultural measures probably would not have increased
the development impact much. The Bank was aware at appraisal of the need for
complementary action in agriculture, but this awareness did not lead to anv
specific action programn or loan covenant.  The Lank's approach irn subsequent
projects reflects the lessons learned from this Project. well belore they
were formally identified i.n the post-evaluation.
Third Hg hway Project, Credit 35-ET, February 1963 OJS$13M5 million)
4.        This Credit financed the foreign costs of:
(a)  completing road construction started under the Second
Highway Project;
(b)  constructing new roads (about 210 km) and several bridges;
(c)  bituminous surfacing of roads (about 800 kn); and
(d)  consulting services to:
(i) replace staff of the United States Bureau of
Public Roads in IHA management; and
1/   The roads were so costly because of construction delays but also, to
some extent, because in retrospect the standards were too high.
2/   In some cases, the Government did later sponsor such complementary agri-
cultural development projects.



50 -                            ANNEX 1.1
Page 3 of 7
(ii) carry out economic and engineering studies of
a road through the Awash Valley.
5.        Recognizing that implementation delays under the Second Highway
Project were primarily attributable to poor engineering and institutional
weaknesses, the Bank made design, new construction and supervision uinder
this Project the responsibility of coutracters and consultants, while si-
multaneously seeking to increase institutional capability. This approach
succeeded in improving implementation: the average delay, 18 months, was
half that under the Second Project, and the cost overrun of 23% was a con-
siderable improvement on the 60% overrun with the Second Project. Imple-
mentation delays under the Third lighway Project were mninly caused by
disputes with contractors and unsatisfactory procedures for settling such
disputes.
6.        As with the Second Project, the economic justification was in
general terms and not expressed in rates of return. The two new roads, again
although nominally part of the primary/secondary network, were intended pri-
marily to stimulate production in the areas of influence; the paxving projec ts
were designed to reduce transport costs.  In this inscance, the comDlementary
agricultural projects (including construction of low class roads feeding onto
the Project roads) were initiated in the areas of influence of the two ncz
roads, though some 4-5 years after the roads were completed.  A Project Per-
formance Audit on this P-oject concluded:
"Although it has not been possible to assess wiLh certainty
the economic benefits of the roads, there are strong
indicators that the developments in agriculture (some of
which were subsequently aided by the Bank and IDA) in the
regions served by the roads come close to expectations.
With regard to the asphalting program, it is not possible
to calculate the rate of return because the conditions
of the roads before the investment are not known and the
work done on them included asphalt surfacing combined with
rehabilitation and, in some cases, maintenance. However,
the high level and growth of traffic ... tend to justify the
investment for the majority of these principal roads." 1/
However, the Audit did point out that, as with the Second Highway Project,
the new roads were rather costly relative to traffic levels.
7.        On the institutional side, the start of this Project coincided
with the departure of U.S. Bureau of Public Roads (BPR) staff, who had been
responsible for running the EHA since its inception in 1951. The Audit
concluded:
1/   "ProJect Performance Audit Report on Ethiopia Third Hlighway Project
(Credit 35-ET)," 1975, p. 12.



- r5i -                         AN~NEX 1.1
Page 4 of 7
"EHA's institutional progress after the departure of the
BPR was just adequate to keep the organization functioning
and to administer the project ... This is no small achieve-
ment considering that ERA was for the first time under
Ethiopian management and that it inherited considerable
problems. However, there were no basic improvements in
ERA's efficiency during 1963-68." 1/
The Audit noted that the main reason why the institution-building efforts
had not been more successful was that, although the Bank had correctly
separated this component from the works component, 2/ the consultants' terms
of reference failed to clearly specify the institutional objectives and
whether the consultants were acting in advisory or executive capacities.
This lesson shaped the Bank's institution-building approach under the Fourth
Project (paras. 9 and 13).
Fourth Highway Project. Loan 523-ET (US$13.5 million) and
Credit 111-ET (US$7.7 million), January 1968
8.        Under this Project, the Bank and IDA joined the Swedish Govern-
ment, which provided a US$5.8 million credit, in financing the foreign costs
of:
(a)  constructing main roads (about 420 km);
(b)  asphaltic paving of existing main roads (about 170 km);
and
(c) consulting services for feasibility studies of further
roads, advice to the EHA, technical assistance, and
training.
9.        Applying the lessons of the earlier Projects, the Bank required
stricter standards in project preparation, insisting on feasibility studies
and review of design by consultants. It continued to insist on construc-
tion by international contractors and supervision of new construction by
1/   "Project Performance Audit Report on Ethiopia Third Highway Project
(Credit 35-ET)," 1975, p. 8.
2/   It had been concluded that the slow progress with institution-building
up to 1963 resulted primarily from the fact that such efforts up to that
date were preoccupied with ensuring effective implementation of con-
struction and rehabilitation works. Thus, the institution had become
comparatively strong in these areas, but remained weak in maintenance and
in headquarters administration, planning and financial activities.



- 52 -
ANNEX 1.1
Page 5 of 7
consultants, but trained ElA staff supervised the paving projects. 1/  The
Bank also assisted in the preparation of legislation to improve procedures
for settling contractor disputes (para. 5).  For consulting services and
technical assistance, the Bank required a clear statement of objectives and
schedules.
10.       Despite the Bank's precautions, there were some delays in the
commencement of the project because of slow progress in the preparation of
acceptable tender documents and contractor prequalification, and because
a second tender was needed with some changed conditions after a disappointing
response to the first. Contracts were finally signed in July and August 1969
and progress with the works was highly satisfactory, with three of the four
roads being completed in 12 months less than the contract period. 2/ Total
project costs, expressed in local currency, were only 3% over appraisal
estimates. 3/
11.       The Project Completion Report on this Project, 4/ confirms that the
road works were economically justified:
Estimated Rate of Return
Appraisal         Ex-Post
New Roads
Awash-Tendaho (300 km)                         10%              12%
Bedelle-Metu (140 km)                          19%               6%
Paving Existing Roads
Nazreth-Awash (125 km)                        28%              22%
Jima-Agaro (45 km)                            28%              29%
12.       For both new roads, an effort was made to ensure complementary
agricultural development through a Loan Agreement covenant and side-letter.
In both cases, such development has taken place (in part with Bank Group
assistance) though not as promptly as envisaged. In the case of Awash-
Tendaho, this has been more than offset (in terms of the effect on the rate
1/   The Project provided for the employment of expatriate consultants
should EHA supervision prove unsatisfactory, but it was not neces-
sary to invoke this provision because the staff was competent.
2/   The fourth road contract required an extension of six months.
3/   The cost overrun in US dollars was higher (8%), due to exchange
rate movements.
4/   "Ethiopia, Project Completion Report, Fourth Highway Project,"  1976.



53 -                               ANNEX 1.1
Page 6 of 7
of return) by higher through-traffic levels than expected. In the case of
Bedelle-Metu, the slow start with agricultural development measures has
been compounded by effects of coffee berry disease. In addition, the road
was probably built to higher standards than necessary.
13.       The Bank took a more systematic approach to institution-building
under this Project. Implementation of a reorganization of IHA recommended in
an earlier consultants' study was included as a specific technical assistance
item. Also, an overseas training program with a very practical orientation
was funded, 1/ and technical assistance experts were provided to IRA in the
areas of engineering, operations and maintenance. The Operations Evaluation
Department's "Comparative Evaluation of Selected Highway Projects" noted (p.
62):
"...it is clear that the IHA has been improving faster
since 1968 ...  The agency can now do better technical
planning, advance surveying and cost estimating than
before, and can produce feasibility studies that bear
comparison with similar work prepared by international
consultants. Also, the administration of the IHA has
improved considerably. However, progress has been
relatively slower in financial management, maintenance
and equipment operacions and the coordination of eco-
nomic planning with other agencies."
14.       Financial management, maintenance and equipment operations were
improved under the Fifth and Sixth Highway Projects, and with USAID
assistance. Selection of road projects is now coordinated by an Interagency
Road Committee, comprising representatives of LTCA,the Planning Commission
Office, and the Ministries of Transport and Communications, Agriculture,
Defense, Interior and National Community Development and Social Affairs.
15.       The Evaluation also noted that "highway planning in IHA still
consists of selecting projects that pass a feasibility test and combining
them into a program without elaboration of priorities" (p. 69), a shortcoming
that has been overcome in the preparation of the 1978-82 Road Program.
Fifth Highway Project, Credit 332-ET (US$17.0 million), September 1972
16.       Under this Project, which has now been  completed, the emphasis
shifted to lower class roads serving, and part of, agricultural development.
The credit provided assistance for construction to gravel standard of 258 km
of feeder roads and supervision thereof, strengthening ERA, and develop-
ing the domestic contracting industry. It was originally intended that the
Credit would also finance a consultants' study to assess the need for low
class rural roads and recommend the best way of meeting this need. How-
ever, this item was taken over by the ODM.
1/   For example, reflecting earlier problems with equipment, half the
trainees were equipment superintendents, foremen or mechanics.



- 54 -
ANNEX 1. I
Page 7 of 7
17.       The Project was delayed initially due to delay in parliamentary
ratification of the Credit Agreement and later due to an amendment to the ERA
charter which necessitated changes in civil works contract documents.  Because
of these delays, the effects of petroleum price increases, and unsuccessful
attempts to tender one of the originally proposed six feeder road projects
because of its remote location, the length of feeder road construction under
this Project was reduced from 434 km, to the present 258 km (representing
four roads).  The remaining two feeder roads were made part of the Sixth
Highway Project.  Three of the four roads under the Fifth Project were
completed with minimun delays, one by a domestic contractor assisted under
the Project, and the fourth was completed by the end of 1981, all with thle
contract prices.  A recalculation of the rates of return using current cost
estimates confirms that the roads are still economically justified.  Other
Project components were also satisfactorily implemented.
18.         Reflecting its continuing development, ETCA participation in the
execution of this project was greater than under earlier ones; all construc-
tion supervision was done by ETCA staff, except for the Resident Engineer on
each road, who was provided by consultants.
Sixth Highway Project, Credit 552-ET (US$32.0 million) June 4, 1975
19.         This Project followed up the Fifth Project with further construction
of feeder roads (four roads, totalling 400 km), and continuing assistance for
ETCA training and Ethiopian contractors. It also built on previous assistance
provided by other aid agencies. USAID had addressed one of the continuing
deficiencies of the ERA, maintenance, by financing a consultants' studv to
identify equipment needs and draw up a maintenance program. Flowing form
this study, USAID financed the acquisition of some road maintenance equipment,
as well as a program aimed at adequately equipping and staffing field work-
shops to maintain the equipment.  IDA supported this by assisting in financing
the balance of the road maintenance equipment identified in the consultanLts'
study. To follow up the ODM-financed Rural Roads Study, the Credit assiste(d
in establishing an organization to plan, construct and maintain lower class,
local, rural roads through provision of technical assistance, workshops,
tools and other equipment. The Credit also provided for strenghtening tht
Road Transport Administration through proviison of weighbridges and technical
assistance.
20.          Implementation of the Project proceeded well.  Three of the 'otfo-
roads were let to contract, with the contract prices all within appraisal
estimates; the fourth road was constructed by force account. Contracts for
the road maintenance equipment and weighbridges were awarded and all the
equipment has been delivered.  Rural roads workshops for the provinces of
Wellega and Illubabor were provided under the project. An Ethiopian
contractor, a successful bidder on one of the feeder road contracts, received
financial assistance through AIDB under the project.
November 1982



Annex 2.1
- 55 -                       Page I of 4
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR ROAD TRANSPORT STUDY
SCOPE OF CONSULTING SERVICES
The consultant shall perform all services required to attain the
objectives described in Section II, including but not limited to, reviewing
all available data and studies on road transport activities in the country,
observing and analysing current operating procedures and practices, and
discussing present and prospective operational problems with RTA and NATRA-
COR personnel, public and private truckers, and general users of transport
services particularly in the agricultural, industrial and commercial sec-
tors. The consultant shall also review the offices, facilities and equip-
ment of RTA and NATRACOR including its various organizations, and shall as-
sess the present condition and future utility of major components.
In the conduct of this work the consultant shall cooperate fully
with the Ministry of Transport and Communications and shall keep it as well
as RTA and NATRACOR fully informed regarding key decisions which the con-
sultant will be required to make, and which will affect either of the two
organizations. The Ministry of Transport and Communications, RTA and NAT-
RACOR will provide the necessary studies, data, personnel, local services
and facilities. The consultant will, however, be solely responsible for
the analysis and interpretation of all data received and for the conclu-
sions and recommendations contained in its reports.
The work shall cover five inter-related areas:
1. forecast of the expected road transport demand;
2. review of the Road Network Plan and recommendation of road
network that best suits the overall objectives of the Nation-
al Development Plan;
3. analysis and evaluation of RTA's activities with a view to
formulating specific programs to improve its operations as
related to tariff, transport regulation, road safety, driver
and mechanic training, etc. and capability of planning, pro-
gramming and budgeting;
4. analysis and evaluation of NATRACOR's activities, including
the activities of all organizations reporting to NATRACOR, in
order to formulate specific reorganization and action pro-
grams aimed at rationalizing and increasing the efficiency of
their operations. Further, the consultant shall recommend a
training and technical assistance program and a 5 and 10
years investment plan in road transport; and
5. implement the organizational, management, financing, training
and operational aspects of the recommendations.



- 56 -                         Annex 2.1
Page 2 of 4
A. ROAD TRANSPORT DEMAND
In the forecast of the road transport demand, the medium (3 - 5
years) and long term (10 - 15 years) historical growth of road transport
demand in Ethiopia, and the government ongoing and planned development pro-
grams have to be reviewed and similar analysis carried out recently by
other consultants (particularly the Ethiopian ports Master Plan Study by
Bertlin & Partners and Highes Economic Planning) ought to be considered.
Based on such reviews, the following tasks have to be accom-
plished:
-   the consultant shall establish seasonal and annual forecasts
of road transport demand for 1983/84 - 1988/89 and a more
tentative one for 1989/90 -1994/95;
-   the road transport demand analysis must differentiate between
inter-city passengers and freight, and the latter must be de-
segregated in principal commodity groups so as to be able to
determine the type and volume of packing and handling (i.e.
dry or liquid bulk, sacs, containers, etc.) and the local
trucking and storage/terminal technology required;
-   the demand analysis should also contemplate freight and pas-
senger traffic to be handled by competing transport modes
(i.e. air and rail); and
-   the transport forecast should be detailed enough to estimate
the need for passenger and freight termini, for vehicle main-
tenance facilities and for future expansions in the motor ve-
hicle fleet.
B. RTA
The Consultant shall review each and every function for which RTA
is responsible and shall evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of RTA in
fulfilling its responsibilities as well as the need to redefine or add new
powers and responsibilities to the organization. With this in view,
1. the consultant shall examine the organizational and manage-
ment systems of RTA and its current staffing and will recom-
mend organizational and administrative improvements as well
as manpower development and training to ensure an adequate
discharge of the responsibilities recommended for the organi-
zations;
2. the consultant shall review the road network plan and recom-
mend one that best meets the goals of the Ten-Year Indicative
Plan;
3. the consultant shall also establish fleet requirements in
physical terms both for the public and private sectors;



- 57 -                      Annex 2.1
Page 3 of 4
4. procedures will be evaluated and defined for:
- planning, programming and budgeting;
- maintaining and up-to-date registry and control of motor
vehicles using the country's roads;
- licensing and controlling persons driving vehicles on the
roads;
- registering and licensing commercial and non-commercial
road transport vehicles and organizations;
- ensuring the safety of passengers and goods through peri-
odic and proper inspection of motor vehicles;
- issuing and revising as necessary traffic regulations and
ensuring their strict enforcement;
- keeping adequate accident records and carrying out analy-
ses to identify the causes and possible prevention of ac-
cidents; and
- review and determine revenue from licensing, road user
charges, etc., establish the economic costs imposed on the
road network by different vehicle categories and proposed
improvements or changes to the existing structure and
level of road user charges.
5.  The consultant shall also examine the current documentation
procedures and recommend the most effective data collection
and documentation system compatible with the need for proper
planning, adequate control, easy retrieval and periodic up-
dating of vehicles, traffic and driver information. The pos-
sibility of applying computer technology in combination with
NATRACOR's data gathering, collating and reporting systems
shall be assessed and the appropriate recommendation shall be
made.
6. Regarding road safety, the consultant shall:
- evaluate the situation prevailing in the country and re-
commend a program coverning all aspects required to im-
prove the situation including traffic engineering, driver
and mechanic training, public awareness of the need for
road safety and enforcement of traffic regulations; and
- contemplate the need to acquire sufficient patrol vehicles
and other equipment to facilitate RTA's enforcement of
traffic and vehicle regulations. Further, the need for



- 58 -                      Annex 2.1
Page 4 of 4
service stations and resting areas for drivers along the
most heavily trafficked routes of the country shall also
be analysed.
7. The consultant shall identify the required technical assis-
tance and prepare the details of the specific components of
the road safety program, including training and educational
equipment and facilities. All proposed investments shall be
costed out in 1983 prices. Further, the benefits of the pro-
gram and the expected economic rate of return shall be pre-
sented in the study.
C. N&TRACOR
The scope of the study will include, but not be limited to:
-    Organization and Management;
-    Manpower Utilization and Development;
-    Operational or Dispatch and Control Procedures;
-    Finance and Accounting Systems;
-    Forecasting of Vehicle and Spare Part Needs;
-    Vehicle Maintenance;
-    Utilization and Location of Facilities;
-    Material Procurement, Stores Procedures and Dispatching;
-    Documentation Procedures;
-    Preparation and Dissemination of Information; and
-    Planning, Programming & Budgeting Methods and Techniques.



- 59 -                      Annex 4.1
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
CONDITIONS AND PROCEDURES FOR ELIGIBILITY OF SUBPROJECTS
AND FOR PROCUREMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES
1.        In order to be declared eligible, subprojects consisting of road
paving, rehabilitation and construction of road maintenance depots would
have to be: (a) technically sound; and (b) economically justified. Civil
works related to the safety and to the training components of the Credit
would have to be: (a) technically sound; and (b) consistent with the
objectives of these components. Studies and technical assistance would
have to be in direct support of the sectoral of subsectoral objectives.
2.        The procedure to declare a subproject eligible would be as
follows:
(a)  for rehabilitation and paving subprojects, ETCA would prepare,
for each subproject, a Basic Data Sheet summarizing key data
concerning engineering, design standards, economic evaluation,
cost estimates, and schedule for detailed engineering, tendering
and construction, including division into lots.
(b)  for each construction subproject, ETCA would prepare a fully
documented feasibility study;
(c)  for civil works for safety and training, ETCA would prepare and
submit the description of works, their estimated value and the
schedule of implementation;
(d)  for purchase of equipment for highway design, highway
construction, highway maintenance, laboratory, safety and
training, ETCA would prepare and submit the list, type, and
estimated value of the equipment and the scheduled repartition of
lots and the justification in relation to the requirements, such
as for the Maintenance and Equipment Management Systems; and
(e)  for studies and technical assistance, ETCA or the MTC would
prepare detailed terms of reference, manpower budget cost
estimates and schedule of implementation.
3.        The Bank would review the specified documentation, request
additional information as required, and assess eligibility.  Rejected
subprojects may be re-submitted for future consideration in light of
additional information, or if the subproject scope or standards are
amended. Once a subproject has been declared eligible, ETCA would complete
the detailed engineering or final documentation. ETCA would submit an
Updated Basic Data Sheet once the detailed engineering has been completed
to confirm eligibility.
4.        Once the detailed engineering for an eligible subproject has been
satisfactorily completed, ETCA would proceed with the procurement process.
Ethiopian procedures for procurement consist of the following seven steps:



- 60 -                       Annex 4.1
Page 2 of 2
Step 1 - Prepare tender documents; Step 2 - Establish official cost
estimate; Step 3 - Advertise, tender and open bids; Step 4 - Evaluate
proposals and prepare award recommendation; Step 5 - Award contracts; Step
6 - Sign contracts and Step 7 - Legalize contracts. The procedures leading
to acceptance by the Association, of civil works contracts for financing
would be as follows:
Procedure A: Proposed civil works contracts with a nominal value of
US$3 million equivalent or more would be subject to prior IDA
approval. After completion of Step 4, ETCA would send to the Bank the
tender documents, the documentation relating to Step 3, and the
evaluation of tenders and the award recommendation (Step 4). After
obtaining the agreement of the Association, ETCA would proceed with
Steps 5, 6 and 7 and send to the Bank two copies of the legalized
contract.
Procedure B: Prior Bank review would not be required for civil works
contracts with a nominal value of less than US$3 million equivalent.
After completion of the entire process, ETCA would send to the
Association two copies of the legalized contract (Step 7) and the
documentation relating to Steps 3, 4 and 5. ETCA would have the
option of seeking prior IDA approval under procedure A for these
contracts.
5.        The Association would review the documentation submitted
according to procedure A or B, and, if satisfied, would indicate no
objection. The above procedures will be reviewed and confirmed during
negotiations.
6.        The procurement of equipment and spare parts will be by ICB in
accordance with Bank guidelines. Similar items would be grouped to the
extent possible for bidding purposes. Contracts for equipment, vehicles,
parts and tools with an estimated cost below US$50,000 and within an
overall ceiling of US$500,000 would be procured from suppliers in
accordance with local procurement procedures, which are satisfactory.
Purchases of spare parts for existing equipment for proprietary equipment
may be procured directly from established dealers. Procedures for
procurement of equipment will be reviewed and confirmed during
negotiations.
7.        Consultant services for technical assistance and studies would be
contracted in accordance with the Bank Group Guidelines. Shortlists of
qualified firms would be submitted for the prior approval of the
Association. Subsequently, the evaluation of proposals and the
recommendation for selection of a firm as well as the the related draft
contract would also be submitted for prior review and approval by the
Association. Consultant contracts financed by the proposed credit will be
exempt from all taxes. Prices may be considered if requested by Government
in the case of project supervision or for other technical assistance, but
it should not be included in the criteria for selection of consultants to
carry out the National Transport Plan. These arrangements will be
confirmed at the time of negotiations.



- 61 -                   Annex 4.2
Page 1 of 6
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
OUTLINE OF TERMS OF REFERENCE FOR THE PROVISION
OF CONTRACT MANAGEDENT SERVICES
1.        Background Information
1.1       The Blue Nile Construction Enterprise (hereinafter "the
Enterprise") was set up by Proclamation No. 232 of 1982, with the
objective of strengthening the Ethiopian construction industry, and
engaging in construction work as an autonomous general contractor,
operating independently and competitively as any private business
organization, both in Ethiopia and abroad. The Enterprise was set up
integrating personnel and equipment contributed by the Ethiopian Transport
Construction Authority (ETCA), and the organization, personnel, equipment
and obligations of the Ethiopian Earthmoving Equipment Private Limited
Company (EEE). The EEE was set up in 1967 as a general contractor. Since
then, EEE primarily constructed asphalt and gravel roads, and an irrigation
project, totalling in excess of 100 million Birr, and including financing
from the World Bank, the EEC, and DFW. At present, EEE is constructing two
roads and one irrigation project; it employs between 1,500 and 2,000
people, including 15 professionals (university graduates with work
experience in engineering, accounting, management, economics and law); and
its assets, including road building equipment, transport vehicles and other
assets have a value of 13 million Birr, as of December 1981.
1.2       The Ethiopian Government has approached the World Bank Group to
assist in financing the construction of roads and bridges, under the
proposed Second Road Sector Project. One of the roads proposed for
construction is the Nekempti-Burie road, hereinafter "the Project." The
cost of construction of the Project has been tentatively estimated at 72
million Birr.
1.3       The Enterprise is hereby seeking specialized assistance from
experienced contractors to take part, with the approval of the Ethiopian
government, in the international competitive bidding (ICB) for the Project.
2.        Objectives and Scope of the Work
2.1       The Enterprise wishes to avail itself of the services of a firm
(hereinafter "the Management Contractor") experienced in company and
contract management for construction, to assist in setting up its overall
organization, and provide specialized services for tendering and contract
management, aiming to achieve a high level of efficiency and
competitiveness, in consonance with the objectives of the Enterprise, as
set out in Proclamation No. 232 of 1982.



- 62 -
Annex 4.2
Page 2 of 6
2.2       The scope of the services to be provided by the Management
Contractor will therefore cover work under the following three main
headings:
(I) Tendering for the Nekempte-Burie Feeder Road
The Management Contractor will assume executive responsibility
and authority in the preparation and presentation of the Enterprise's
tender for the Project, coordinating, guiding, and working in collaboration
with the Enterprise's staff. The Management Contractor will also prepare
detailed guidelines for bid preparation, to be used by the Enterprise in
the future, including all aspectes of tender preparation, such as resource
assessment, planning, productivity assumptions, cost estimating, and
presentation of tenders.
(II) Contract Management
In the event that the Enterprise should be successful in the
tender for the Project, the Management Contractor will act on behalf of the
Enterprise in the period of contract negotiation and award, and will
continue his responsibility and authority for the execution of the Project.
The Management Contractor will thus plan, organize, direct, and
control Project construction using the Enterprise's resources;
establishing, and training the Enterprise's personnel in the use of such
systems, procedures, and methods as may be necessary to achieve timely and
economical completion of construction of the Project, in accordance with
the terms of the contract between the Enterprise and the client.
The Management Contractor will also prepare detailed guidelines
for the future use of the Enterprise, on all aspects of contract
management, including such control and reporting systems, manuals,
procedures, and forms as may be agreed between the Enterprise and athe
Management Contractor.
This item of the Management Contractor's duties will terminate at
the time of the Client's acceptance of the Works as being "substantially
complete," i.e. physically completed and having satisfactorily passed any
final test prescribed by the contract.
(III) Enterprise Management
The Management Contractor will, in collaboration with the
Enterprise's officers, carry out an analysis of the Enterprise's needs with
regard to management means and methods, referred to the running of the
whole enterprise as a modern, large construction company, capable of
competing successfully for work in Ethiopia and abroad.
After the needs analysis, the Management Contractor will proposed
steps to upgrade the Enterprise's management resources and methods, in all
areas of personnel, materials, equipment, premises, and financial
management and, after agreement of the specific tasks to be performed, will
assist the Enterprise in establishing and training the Enterprise's
personnel in the use of improved means and methods of construction
enterprise management.



- 63 -                     Annex 4.2
Page 3 of 6
These services will be performed for a period not exceeding 24
months. A maximum of 3.5 man-years of expatriate staff services has been
allowed for.
2.3       The Management Contractor's proposal will include a detailed
description of the manner in which he proposed to provide the services
indicated under paragraph 2.2, detailing separately for items (I), (II),
and (III):
(i) Work plan and nature of the services to be provided;
(ii)  Time schedules;
(iii)  Resources to be made available by the Enterprise;
(iv) Resources to be made available by the Management Contractor; and
(v) Price.
3.        Resources
3.1       The Enterprise will make available such personnel, materials,
equipment, working space and finances as may be required for the
performance of the Management Contractor's duties, both with respect to the
management and advisory services to be provided by the Management
Contractor, and to the functioning of the Enterprise. The above resources
will be made available at the time and will be of the quality agreed upon
between the Enterprise and the Management Contractor. The quantity and
quality of the required resources to be made available by the Enterprise
will be specified by the Management Contractor in his proposal.
3.2       The Management Contractor will make available senior and middle
management personnel, as required for the performance of the duties
outlined under paragraph 2.2 (items (I), (II), and (III) above). The
Management Contractor's proposal will detail the personnel required for
each function proposed, specify the timing and duration of each person's
participation in the work, and attach curricula vitarum of the persons
available for each function. The minimum direct experience in management
in the construction industry required from any of the persons proposed by
the Management Contractor will be ten years. Should it become necessary to
replace one or more of the persons listed in the proposal, the new
candidate(s) will have qualifications and experience equal to or better
than those of the person(s) replaced.
3.3       The Management Contractor, as part of his obligations, will
provide the Enterprise with all necessary guidelines, handbooks, and forms
agreed to be necessary for the performance of the Enterprise as a modern,
efficient contractor. The Management Contractor's proposal shall include a
listing of these documents, and of such proprietary hard or software as may
be necessary for the same purpose, whose purchase may be included within
the Management Contract, or arranged separately by the Enterprise.



- 64 -                      Annex 4.2
Page 4 of 6
4.        Reporting
4.1       The Management Contractor will furnish the following reports with
respect to its own performance of its duties, as referred to in items (I),
(II), and (III) of paragraph 2.2:
Item (I): Final report, on completion and presentation of the tender
for the Project.
Item (1I): Monthly progress reports, and final report on substantial
completion of the work, setting out the results of the
execution of the contract, in comparison with the tender
prices; analyzing the performance of the Enterprise in
construction; and making recommendations for further
improving the Enterprise's performance.
Item (III): Quarterly progress reports, and final report, on completion
of the two year assignment. These reports will detail the
physical and financial performance of the Enterprise,
analyzing contract by contract and the operation as a
whole. Excessive deviations from pre-arranged standards
will be analyzed in detail, to determine the causes of
better or worse performance. In the latter case, correction
measures will be proposed. The final report will also make
detailed recommendations for further improving the
efficiency of the Enterprise.
5.        Price and Payment
5.1       The Management Contractor will specify in his proposal the
following price elements, referring to items (I), (II), (III) of paragraph
2.2:
(i)   A fixed fee for the performance of the work under Item (I);
(ii)  A percentage fee, to be applied to the tender price, to be
charged for the performance of the work under Item (II);
A proposed method for adjusting this fee upwards or downwards,
according to the actual performance of the Enterprise's
construction team relative to the tender price, considered for
this purpose a target estimate; and
A proposed method of payment for time-related expenses by the
Management Contractor for contract time extensions due to causes
not attributable to contract management;
(iii)  A man-month rate for the individuals who would perform the work
under item (III), either on short- or long-term assignment,
inclusive of salary, social costs, firm's overhead and fee and,
where appropriate, overseas allowance;



- 65 -                      Annex 4.2
Page 5 of 6
Reimbursable items relative to individuals, such as international
travel (including excess baggage and other allowance), housing,
local transport, subsistence and other allowances while in
Ethiopia; and
(iv)  The cost of any proprietary hardware or software considered
essential for the performance of the work, which would have to be
purchased for the Enterprise.
5.2       Payment of the items 5.1 (i) to (iv) will be as follows:
(i) One-half of the fee at the start of work in Ethiopia, the
balance on completion of this work and presentation of the
Management Contractor's final report;
(ii)  10% of the fee based on the original tender price, at the start
of work in Ethiopia;
80% of the same fee in equal monthly installments, spread over
the duration of Project construction;
The balance of the fee, after adjustment for the final actual
price of the work and consequent adjustment of the fee
percentage, on the Client's acceptance of the works and
presentation of the final report by the Management Contractor;
(iii) An advance payment of the equivalent of 100,000 Birr, at the
start of work in Ethiopia;
Payments on presentation of monthly accounts for personnel
actually involved in the work, and reimbursable expenses, less
10%, which will be held by the Enterprise, and applied to:
(a) cover the 100,000 Birr advance, and, after this is covered,
(b) form a fund to guarantee continuity and quality of the
services provided; this fund will be paid in full on
presentation of the final report by the Management
Contractor; and
(iv) As required by the conditions of purchase of the hardware or
system.
6.        The Agreement
6.1       An Agreement will be drawn on the basis of these terms of
reference, supplemented or modified as agreed after the negotiations with
the selected Management Contractor.
6.2       Particular attention will be paid, in drafting the Agreement, to
the method of calculation of the tender and final contract prices for
construction work, as they will affect the actual fee payable to the
Management Contractor. In particular, the Agreement will establish clear



- 66 -                      Annex 4.2
Page 6 of 6
bases for the calculation, inter alia, of the following cost elements of
the Enterprise's work:
(i) Wages and salaries; their reference levels; labor on-costs;
(ii) Cost of materials; sources of supply; volumes and opportunity of
supply;
(iii) Equipment values; depreciation rates; capital charges; methods of
purchasing spares;
(iv) Taxes, insurances, bonds; terms under which they would be
available to the Enterprise;
(v) Components of Enterprise overheads; and
(vi) Adjustment of the target base because of cost escalation and
through cost increases due to causes not imputable to the
Management Contractor.
6.3       A method for settlement of disputes between the Enterprise and
the Management Contractor also has to be agreed on. To reduce the
likelihood of disputes, regular and final audits by an independent auditor
will be established in the Agreement at the cost of the Enterprise.
7.        General
7.1       The Management Contractor, its subsidiaries or affiliates, will
not tender independently for the Project. The Management Contractor's
participation in the tenders for the Project will be exclusively in support
of the Enterprise's presentation.



- 67 -                     Annex 4.3
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND HIGHWAY SECTOR PROJECT
Project Progress Reporting Requirement
1.        Progress Reports should be submitted quarterly in triplicate, no
later than one calendar month after the end of the quarter. The first
Report should cover the quarter ending December 31, 1983.
2.        The information that the Report should contain is described
below.
(i) General information: this section should refer to Project
Monitoring Indices (Table 1 of this Annex) in reporting the following:
(a) the physical progress accomplished to date of report and during
the reporting period;
(b) actual or expetted deviations from the project implementation
schedule;
(c) actual or expected difficulties or delays and their effects on
the implementation schedule, and the steps planned or taken to
overcome the difficulties and avoid further delay;
(d) expected changes in the completion date of the project;
(e) key personnel changes in the staffs of ETCA' consultants or
contractors;
(f) matters which may affect the cost of the project; and
(g) any development activity likely to affect the economic viability
of project components.
(ii) A bar-type progress chart, based on the project implementation
schedule, should show the progress in each project component.



- 68 -                      Annex 4.3
Page 2 of 2
(iii) A financial statement should be set out in tabular form and
indicate for each project component:
(a) original estimated cost;
(b)  revised cost, if appropriate;
(c)  actual expenditure;
(d)  projected expenditure; and
(e)  actual and projected withdrawals from the Credit Account.
(iv) Finally, the Report should state the status of action on each
covenant of the Credit Agreement.
November 1982



- 69 -
Annex 4.3
Table 1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
PROJECT MONITORING INDICES
Indices: actual vs estimates: absolute
and %. Where activity level, as measured
by a specific index, is below estimates,
the reason should be ascertained. If a
lower than anticipated activity level is
the result of an outstanding problem,
recommend corrective action.
Estimated Actual Actual as % Reason for Recommend Corrective
of Estimated Divergence Action, if Any
Construction Work
1. Preliminaries to mobilization (months)
2. Volume of earthwork (m3)
3. Length of subbase (km)
4. Length of base (km)
5. Length of shoulders (km)
6. Length of surfacing (km)
7. Pipe culverts (nos.)
8. Box culverts (nos.)
9. Length of bridges (m)
10. Construction work completed (date)
II. Contractor certificates for payment (US$ or   )
12. Payments to contractor (US$ or __)
Road Maintenance
(a) Programs
1. Agreement of Rkoads Department Maintenance
Program by Government and Bank (date)
2. Implementation of Roads Department Maintenance
Program (schedule & dates)
(b) Equipment
1. Preliminaries to equipment delivery (months,
by item)
2. Arrival of equipment (date)
3. Payment to suppliers (US$ or __)
.  Technical Assistance
1. Preliminary to start of work (months)
2. Appointment of counterparts (date, by position)
3. Technical assistance work (months, by position)
4. Payments to experts (US$ or _)
.ember 1982



- 70 -
Annex 5.
Page 1 of 2
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
SCREENING PROCEDURE FOR RURAL ROADS
1.        In 1976 a rural road construction and maintenance program for
each province was prepared by Crown Agentsl/, who were retained by Govern-
ment with financial assistance from ODM. Papers were prepared for each re-
gion by regional and awraja representatives listing their rural roads re-
quirements. The Crown Agents team reviewed these papers with these repre-
sentatives, as well as with other parties interested in rural roads in the
particular regions (e.g., the Extension of Project Implementation Depart-
ment, Livestock and Meat Board, and agricultural project units). Awrajas
were then ranked by the following socio-economic criteria:
1.   Food crop production
2.   Cash crop production
3.   Livestock population
4.   Agricultural extension services (ratio of unserved population to
total population)
5.   Ratio of uncultivated cultivable land to total cultivable land
6.   Commercially viable forest areas
7.   Population density
8.   Proportion of total school age children not attending school
9.   Number of health centers per 1,000 population
10. Regional integration: distance of awraja capital from nearest
all-weather road or from provincial capital
11. Existing road facilities: ratio of all-weather roads to total
area of awraja (km/km2).
2.        For all criteria except 9 and 11, the figure for each awraja is
expressed as a percentage of the figure for the awraja with the maximum
value
Food production in awraja A
(e.g.,     Food Production in awraja with maximum  production  x 100).
For criteria 9 and 11, the figure for each awraja is expressed as a per-
centage of the figure for the awraja with the minimum value. Awrajas were
ranked on their aggregate points score: each criteria was given equal
weight in the absence of a clear basis for any alternative weighting sys-
tem. Individual roads were then ranked according to the priorities of the
awrajas they served, in order to arrive at priorities for road construction
within the region.   Priorities between regions were determined according
to the point scores of the awrajas comprising the regions. The resulting
regional priorities are shown in Table C.
1/ Rural Roads Study, Crown Agents, 1976.



- 71 -                    Annex 5.1
Page 2 of 2
3.        While this ranking procedure suffers from some deficiencies2/, it
is satisfactory for preliminary screening purposes. The normal econo6ic
feasibility study would not be appropriate for such low class low-cost
roads, but it is expected that after some time the monitoring and evalua-
tion unit would develop improved criteria for selecting rural roads.
2/ Probably the most serious shortcoming is that the cost of providing
roads, which could differ from one area to another, is ignored.



ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
COMPARISON OF SECTORAL ALLOCATlONS IN TEN YEAR
(1980/81 - 1989/90) AND FIVE YEAR (1981/82 - 1985/86) INVESTMENT PLANS(B{rr Billion in 1979/80 prices)
Ten Year Plan                          Five Year Plan
SECTOR     Proposed Investment               %              Proposed Investment            _
Transport           7.1                     30                     2.1                     40
Agriculture         6.7                     28                     1.4                     26
Industry            3.1                    13                      0.6                     11
Health &            1.9                      8                     0.3                      6
EdUdation
Energy              1.2                      5.                    0.3                      6
Water Supply        1.0                      4                     0.3                      6
Others              4.5                     12                     0.5                      5
25.5                   100                      5.5                    100
Source -- Ten-Year Investment Program, Government of Ethiopia, June 1981
Economic Memorandum on Ethiopia. Report No. 355b - ET, December 15, 1981
November 1982



- 73
Table 1.2
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
COMPARISON OF TRANSPORT INVESTMENT PROGRAMS
OF THE TEN YEAR PLAN (1980/81-1989/90) AND
FIVE YEAR PLAN (1981/82-1985/86) (BIRR BILLION
IN 1979/80 PRICES).
Ten-Year Plan         Five-Year Plan
Proposed               Proposed
Subsector                    Investment      %      Investment      x
Roads and Public
Transport                      4.1          57        1.3          62
Rail                            2.0          28        0.5          24
Ports & Navigation              0.8          12        0.2           9
Air                             0.2           3        0.1           5
7.1        100         2.1        100
Source: Ten-Year Investment Program, Government of Ethiopia, June 1981
Economic Memorandum on Ethiopia.  Report No. 3552b - E.T. December 15, 1981



- 74 _                      Table 2.1
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROZECT
Inventory of All-Weather Roads 1/
(km)
Fiscal                                        Rural!2
Year            Asphalt       Gravel 1/      Roads        Total
1964/65          1,455         4,006             -         5,461
1969/70          1,942         5,431             -         7,373
1974/75          3,121         5,012             -         8,133
1975/76          2,985         6,253            -          9,238
1976/77-         3,229         7,290            241       10,760
1977/78.         3,229         7,401            404       11,034
1978/79          3,229         7,415          1,021       11,665
1979/80          3,515         7,165.         1,450       12,130
1980/81          3,656         7,606          2,044       13,306
Average Annual Rates of Growth of Total Road Network
1964/65  -  1974/75                   8.3
1969/70  -  1979/80                   5.2
1964/65  -  1980/81                   5.7
1974/75 -  1980/81                    8.6
NOTES:   1/  Includes the so-called service-to-traffic roads.
2/ In addition to the rural roads built by construction brigades,
there are about 30,000 km of dry-weather trails and tracks
Source: Planning and Programming Division, Ethiopian Transport
Construction Authority, October 1981.
November 1982



- 75 -
Table 2.2
ETHIOPTA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Highway Design Standards
Road Classification
Characteristics                    Unit            Primary        Secondary         Feeder
F    R    H    F    R    M    F    R    M
1.   Geometric Design Standards
Speed                        km/hr        100   80   40  .90   70   40   90   60   30
Minimm Horizontal Radius        m         285  175   44  230  125   44  230  105   25
Maximum Gradient               Z            6    8   10   .6    8   10    6    8   12
Minim= Gradient                           0 0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4  0.4
Pavement Camber
Bituminous Surface           Z            2    2    2    2    2    2    2    2    2
Gravel Surface               Z            4    4    4    4    4    4  -.4 -- 4    4
2.   Roadway Features
Width of
Roadway                      a            8    8  8    7    7    7    6    6    6
Pavement Surface
Gravel                     a            8    8    8    7    7    7    6    6    6
Bituninous                 a            6    6    6    5    5    5    -    -    -
3.   Structural Design Features:   In all cases:  Maximum Axle Loading - 12 MT
Bridges
Loadiag                 H.20-S.16
Width curb to curb      7.35 a
Notes:  F -  Flat terrain;  R - Rolling terrain;  M    Mountainous terrain
Source: ETCA
November 1982



Table 2.3
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Motor Vehicle Fleet
(Units)
Small     Large
Fiscal/Year        Cars      Buses      Trucks    Trucks    Trailers    Total
1969/70         28,100       1,490      1,680     2,940       1,090      35,300
1975/76 1/      42,696       2,190      2,737     4,927       2,190      54,740
1976/77         37,541       1,925      2,406     4,332       1,925     48,129
1977/78         35,484       1,820      2,275     4,094       1,820     45,493
1978/79         40,656       2,085      2,606     4,691       2,085     52,123
1979/80         41,308       2,118      2,648     4,766       2,118      52,958
1980/81 2/      43,002       2,205      2,757     4,962       2,205      55,131
Average Annual Rates of Growth (Z)
1969/70-1980/81   3.9          3.6        4.6       4.9         6.6        4.1
1977/78-1980/81   6.6          6.6        6.6       6.6         6.6        6.6
NOTES:  1/  The records for this year appear excessively high and have been
changed in recent years to incorporate vehicles by owners
(public sector agencies, others rather than by type of vehicle
company, the constant rate of growth for all categories between
1977/78-1980/81 is, to say the least, rather surprising.
2/  According to NATRACOR, the country's-registered-public
transport motor vehicle fleet (probably excluding trucks owned
by state organizations and/or private companies for their own
use) amounted to 6,406 trucks and 2,273 buses.
Source: ETCA
November 1982



- 77 -
Table 2.4
ETHIOPIA
EthioDiar. Transoort Construction Au chori tv Annual S".enditures
(Birt raillion)
CaDical Ex,enditure           1976/77  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Road Cocistrucrion
-  Direct Labor              17.6     14.2      26.7      36.1    38.2
-  Contract                  23.2     25.5      30.8      32.9    53.8
-  Ru ral    .                7.5     10.5      41.3      23.4    21.3
Equipment and buildings         22.4      0.2       9.6      18.7     21.6
Other (Studies, Training)        0.3        -       1.8       1.3       1.9
71.0     50.4    110.2    112.4   126.5
Current ExDenditure
Admiaistracion                   2.5       2.4       2.4.     2.6      2.9
Eagineering and Technical
Services                      4.8      5.7       5.2       5.8      6.2
Road Maintenance                28.2     26.7      28.0      26.3    29.5
35.5     34.8      35.6      34.7    38.6
Tota7 Capital and
Current Expudtitur             1d06.5    85.2    145.8    1467.1   165.1
November 1982



- 78 -
Table 2.5
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Central Government Revenue from Road-User Charges
(Birr million)
1976177  1977/78  1978/79  1979/80  1980/81
Taxes on Fuel and
lubricants                   25.5     24.2     25.1      27.3     33.6
Import Duties on Motor
Vehicles and Spare
Parts 1/                     24.3     26.7     24.2      39.2     51.9
Motor Vehicle Inspection
Fees                          0.3      0.2       0.2      0.9      1.0
Registration Fees               1.9      1.9       1.9      3.6       4.1
Driving Licence Fees            0.3      0.3       0.3      1.3       1.6
Total               52.3      53.3     51.7      72.3     92.2
1/ Including tyres and inner tubes.
Source: ETCA, May 1982



- 79 -
Table 2.6
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Changes in Structure of Fuel Prices (1979/80-1980/81)
(all units in USi per US gallon)
Ex-Refinery               Distributing
Price of Import             Marketing and                    Pump Price
Parity-Assab                  Profit        Retailers        at Assab
Product    1979/80  1980/81   Taxes        Margin         Margin    1979/80  1980/81
Regular
Gasoline   -87.68   161.67   22.83         7.31            5.48      123.30   197.29
Premiwn
Gasoline   108.14   173.90   28.31         7.85            5.48      149.78   215.54
Gas Oil      54.34    96.36   15.53         6.85            5.48       82.20   124.22
NOTE:   Only the ex-refinery and pump prices changed between 1979/80 and 1980/81.
The ex-refinery price includes a municipality tax of US% 3.65 per US gallon.
Pump prices in Addis Ababa after 1980/81 are as follows:
Product                 USJ/US Gallon
Regular gasoline              217.38
Premium gasoline              235.65
Gas Oil                       144.31
Source: ETCA
November 1982



- 80 -
Table 2.7
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Quantity and Value of Imported Petroleum Products
Refined Petroleum Products*
Quantity          Cost                       Cost
Year       (000 tons)   (Birr million)              (Birr million)
(1)            (2)            (3)                         (4)
1973/74          628            0.03                         50
1974/75          581            0.09                        114
1975/76          529           0.09                         103
1976/77          587-           0.11                        130
1977/78          578           0.12                         137
1978/79          623            0.13                        175
1979/80          637           0.19                         300
1980/81--       601            0.26                         444
*   Value of imports to complement the production at the refinery of Assab,
plus value of       oil refined at Assab (column 3).  A small portion of
the production at Assab is in turn exported.
Source: ETCA, based on data supplied by the Ethiopian Petroleum Refinery.
November 1982



ETHIOPIA                       Table 2.8
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Consumption of Petroleum Products
(thousand cubic meters)
Fiscal    Premium   Regular             Diesel  Fuel       Aviation  Lubricants
Year      Gasoline  Gasoline  Kerosene   Oils   Oils   LPG   Fuels    & Others   Totall/
1973/74     23.7      87.4      8.7      255.8  98.9   5.1  87.9        28.1    595.7
1974/75     17.6      87.6      5.7      247.4 107.0  5.1   75.8        17.6    563.9
1975/76     12.7      82.8      6.2      211.6  78.8   4.9  62.6         9.5    469.3
1976/77     11.8      89.6    10.9       214.9  85.0   4.9  64.7        13.3     495.1
1977/78      8.5      93.7    10.0       224.3  69.7   5.3  71.2        14.5    497.2
1978/79      4.4     123.5      2.8      255.6  61.4  5.9  100.6        13.0    567.4
1979/80      1.0    134.6       2.4      298.7  76.6   7.4  92.6        15.7    629.1
1980/81      1.8    144.3       2.3      325.2  86.9   7.4  85.5        17.8    671.4
Average Annual Rates of Growth (Z)
1973/74-
1980/81   -30.8      +7.4   -17.3         +3.5  -1.8 +5.5  -0.4         -6.3      +1.7
1977/78-
1980/81    -40.4    4.15.5   -38.7       4-13.2 47.6 411.8  +6.3        +7.1    +1Q.5
t/   Small differences are attributed to rounding up.
Source:  ETCA, based on data supplied by the Ethiopian Petroleum Refinery
October 1981



- 82 -
TABLE 4.1
Page 1 of 5
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT (FY84-86)
PHYSICAL PLAN FOR ROAD REHABILITATION AND CONSTRUCTION (km)
TOTAL
I.  ASPHALT OVERLAY                 1984        1985       1986          1984/86
1.1 Addis-Awash*                  44         -           -              44
1.2.1 Mille-Asseb(A)              30         75          20            125
1.2.2 Mille-Asseb(B)              -          80          85            165
1.3 Addis-Ginchi                 -           -          100            100
Sub-Total                   74         155         205            434
II. ASPHALT D.B.S.T.
2.1 Agaro-Bedele*                 40         40          -              80
2.2 Shashamene-Sodo*              40         40          40            120
2.3 Ambo-Nekempte*                40         40          40            120
2.4 Awash-Kulubi                  -          -           40             40
Sub-Total                  120         120         120            360
III.GRAVEL ROADS
3.1.1 Nekempte-Bure(A)            15         50          50            115
3.1.2 Nekempte-Bure(B)            15         50          45            110
3.2 Tepi-Gore                     25         35          35             95
3.3 Dera-Mechara                  -          30          40             70
3.4 Melka-Wakena*                  4         -           -               4
3.5 Gore-Jikao*                   40         40          40            120
3.6 Wacha-Maji*                   35         35          35            105
3.7 Mota-Bahardar*                15         -           -              15
3.8 Worota-Woldia*                20         -           -              20
3.9 Ghimbi-Shebel*                64         -           -              64
3.10 Jima-Chida*                  16         -           -              16
Sub-Total                 249         240         245           73T
IV. RURAL ROADS
4.1 RR-50**                      361        357         379          1,097
4.2 RR-30**                      308        363         435          1,106
4.3 Self-Help                    160        245         330            735
Sub-Total                 829         965       1,144         2,938
*  Ongoing sub-projects started before the inception of the FY84-86 program.
** RR-50 = rural roads for a traffic of 50 vehicles per day.
RR-30 = rural roads for a traffic of 30 vehicles per day.



- 83 -
TABLE 4.1
Page 2 of 5
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT (FY84-86)
ANNUAL INVESTMENT PROGRAM FOR ROAD REHABILITATION AND CONSTRUCTION
(million Birr, April 1983)
TOTAL
I.  ASPHALT OVERLAY                  1984        1985        1986          1984/86
1.1 Addis-Awash*                 9.5          -           -             9.5
1.2.1 Mille-Asseb(A)             4.5        11.3         3.0            18.8
1.2.2 Mille-Asseb(B)              -         14.4        15.3           29.7
1.3 Addis-Ginchi                  -           -         15.0            15.0
Sub-Total                  14.0         25.7       33.3           7TTT
II. ASPHALT D.B.S.T.
2.1 Agaro-Bedele*                5.2         5.2          -             10.4
2.2 Shashamene-Sodo*             5.2         5.2         5.2            15.6
2.3 Ambo-Nekempte*               5.2         5.2         5.2            15.6
2.4 Awash-Miesso-Kulubi           -           -          5.2             5.2
Sub-Total                  15.6        15.6        15.6           4679
III.GRAVEL ROADS
3.1.1 Nekempte-Bure(A)           4.8        16.1        16.1            37.0
3.1.2 Nekempte-Bure(B)           4.8        16.1        14.5           35.4
3.2 Tepi-Gore                    8.0        11.2        11.2           30.4
3.3 Dera-Mechara                   -         7.5        10.0            17.5
3.4 Melka-Wakena*                0.6          -           -              0.6
3.5 Gore-Gambella-Jikao*         6.0         6.0         6.0           18.0
3.6 Wacha-Maji*                  5.2         5.2         5.2            15.6
3.7 Motta-Bahardar*              3.5          -           -             3.5
3.8 Worota-Woldia*               4.6          -           -             4.6
3.9 Ghimbi-Shebel*              17.3          -           -             17.3
3.10 Jima-Chida *                5.8          -           -              5.8
Sub-Total                 60.6        62.1        63.0          185.7
IV. RURAL ROADS
4.1 RR-50**                     10.8        10.7        11.3           32.8
4.2 RR-30**                      7.4         8.7        10.5            26.6
4.3 Self-Help                    1.0         1.6         2.1            4.7
Sub-Total                 19.2        21.0        23.9           64.1
V. BRIDGES                           2.1         3.4         3.6            9.1
*  Ongoing sub-projects started before the inception of the FY84-86 program.
** RR-50 = rural roads for a traffic of 50 vehicles per day.
RR-30 = rural roads for a traffic of 30 vehicles per day.



ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT (FY84-86)
ANNUAL CAPITAL AND RECURRENT COSTS
(million Birr, April 1983)
1984                   1985                   1986                  TOTAL
L      F      T        L     F       T       L      F       T        L       F       T
A. CAPITAL COSTS
1. Civil Works
1.1 Asphalt Overlay               4.9    9.1   14.0    9.0   16.7   25.7   11.6   21.7   33.3   25.5   47.5   73.0
1.2 Asphalt D.B.S.T.              6.2    9.4   15.6    6.2    9.4   15.6    6.2    9.4   15.6   18.7   28.1   46.8
1.3 Gravel Roads                 24,2   36.4   60.6   24.8   37.3   62.1   25.2   37.8   63.0   74.2  111.5  185.7
1.4 Rural Roads                  10.4    8.8   19.2   11.3    9.7   21.0   12.9   11.0   23.9   34.6   29.4   64.0
1.5 Bridges                       0.8    1.3    2.1    1.3    2.1    3.4    1.4    2.2    3.6    3.5    5.6    9.1
2. Equipment and maintenance
facilities                     5.6   46.5   52.1    5.6   46.5   52.1    5.5   46.5   52.0   16.7  139.5  156.2
3. Technical Assistance and
Training                       3.7    3.8    7.5    3.7    3.8    7.5    3.7    3.8    7.5   11.1   11.4   22.5               X
Sub-Total Capital Costs           55.8  115.3  171.1   61.9  125.5  187.4   66.5  132.4  198.9  184.3  373.0  557.3
Price Contingencies*               5.6    9.2   14.8   13.0 _20.2   33.2   22.0   32.0   54.0   40.6   61.4  102.0
SUB-TOTAL                         61.4  124.5  185.9   74.9  145.7  220.6   88.5  164.4  252.9  224.9  434.4  659.3
B. RECURRENT COSTS
1. Road Maintenance               17.5   17.5   35.0   20.0   20.0   40.0   22.5   22.5   45.0   60.0   60.0  120.0
Price Contingencies*               1.8    1.4    3.2    4.2    3.2    7.4    7.4    5.4   12.8   13.4   10.0   23.4
Sub-Total Recurrent Costs         19.3   18.9   38.2   24.2   23.2   47.4   29.9   27.9   57.8   73.4   70.0  143.4
TOTAL                             80.7  143.4  224.1   99.1  168.9  268.0  118.4  192.3  310.7  298.3  504.4  802.7
* Expected price increases (%):   1983   1984   1985   1986                                                                  0
Local         10.0   10.0   10.0   10.0                                                               m a
Foreign        8.0    7.5    7.0    7.0
0
4:-



- 85 -
Table 4.1
Page 4 of 5
ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT (FY84-86)
RURAL ROAD SUB-PROJECTS
TOTAL   ADMINISTRATIVE
SUB- PROJECTS                  LENGTH       REGION           1984      1985     1986      TOTAL
KMS.
A.  RR-50
1. Bonga-Chida                     95       KEFFA              35         -        -         35
2. Bonga-Chiri                      23         .                         23        -         23
3. Gimbo-Keboch-Chira               50        ,                           5       35         40
4. Ehudgebeya-Kersa                100      ILLUBABOR          35        25        -         60
5. Bedele-River Dedessa             50                          -         5       35         40
6. Felegeneway-Leha                 90      GAMUGOFA           35        35       20         90
7. Turmi-Murle                      80                          -         -        10        10
8. Nejo-Jarso-Begi                 215      WOLLEGA            35        35       35        105
9. Dangla-Chara-Timwuha             50      GOJAM              20        30        -         50
10. Addis Kidame-Fageta-Fufa         50                          -         -       35         35
11. Adele-Grawa-Burka               127      HARRARGE           11         -        -         11
12. Babile-Fik                      170                         15        35       35         85
13. Goba-Meslo-Bitata              200       BALE               35        35       26         96
14. Goro-Elmedo-Elkere              274                          -         -        5          5
15. Mekanesellam-Ajibar-Tenta    150         WELLO              35        35       35        105
16. Wdegeltena-Lalibela-Bugna                  ..                _         _        _          _
17. Chilga-Dingelber                145      GONDER             35        28        -         63
18. Delgi-Robit                      45                          -         -       38         38
19. Dilla-Bule-Bore-Sellam           85      SIDAMO             35        11        -         46
20. Dilla-Gidiche                   100         I.               -        20       35         55
121. Ambo-Chitu-Ghion-Kimakil       120       SHOA              35        35        35        105
SUB-TOTAL                                          361       357      379      1,097



ETHIOPIA
SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT (FY84-86)
RURAL ROAD SUB-PROJECTS
TOTAL   ADMINISTRATIVE
SUB-PROJECTS                              LENGTH       REGION          1984      1985      1986    TOTAL
KMS.
B.   RR-30
1. Sorofta-Kokosa-Nansebo                    130       BALE              33         -         -         33
2. Dolsebro-Jarra-Sheikhussien               120                          -        35        35         70
3. Arba Mench-Gelta-Felegeneway              165       GAMUGOFA          35        35        15         85
4. Ghencha-Dera-Mullo-Murka                   80                          -         -        15         15
5. Bichena-Kui-Debremarkos-Rob.G             140       GOJAM             35        28         -         63
6. Robgebeya-Fassil                          100        ..                -         5        35         40            1
7. Hageresellam-Harencha-Kibre Mengist    160          SIDAMO            35        35        35        105            0
8. Ghinir-Imi-Gode                           450       BALE              35        35        35        105
9. Sendafa-Debre Zeit                         75       SHOA               -        30        35         65
10. Deder-Harawacha-Mesllo-Hirna              110       HARARGIE          35        35        20         90
11. Mieso-Mandera                              80         ..              _                   10         10
12. Limugenet-Limu-Saka                        40       KEFFA             20         -         -         20
13. Genet-Beterbecho-Ghibe River               95                         10        35        35         80
14. Genet-Atnago-Guna                         100         .                _         _         _
15. Chora Duba-Ababora                        110       ILLUBABOR         35        35         -         70
16. Gore-Asendabo-Kombolchia                  120                          -         -        35         35
17. Bako-Shambu-Fincha                        110       WOLLEGA            -        20        35         55
18. Robi-Sedeka-Emdeltu                        65       ARSI               -         -        30         30
19. Debretabor-Begocha                        130       GONDER             -         -        30         30
20. Negele-Wachile-Mega                       200       SIDAMO            35        35        35        105
SUB-TOTAL (B)                                       308      363       435       1106
C. Self-help                                   735       VARIOUS           160      245       330        735
GRAND TOTAL                                         829      965      1144       2938
OD
0
I-tp



- 87 -
Table 4.2
ETHIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
Cumulative Disbursement Over Five Years
(FY84 - FY88)
FY84                           Cumulative %                      Amount
Sept. 30                              0                             0
Dec. 31                               2                             1.4
March 31                              4                             2.8
June 30                               8                             5.6
FY85
Sept. 30                             11                             7.7
Dec. 31                              23                            16.1
March 31                             34                            23.8
June 30                              41                            28.7
FY86
Sept. 30                             50                            35.0
Dec. 31                              56                            39.2
March 31                             64                            44.8
June 30                              70                            49.0
FY87
Sept. 30                             75                            52.5
Dec. 31                              80                            56.0
March 31                             84                            58.8
June 30                              88                            61.6
FY88
Sept 30                              91                            63.7
Dec. 31                              94                            65.8
March 31                             97                            67.9
June 30                             100                            70.0



ETIIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF THE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
ECONOMIC EVALUATION
Economic                                          Annual Rate             Benefits (Million Br)
Project Component                             Investment          Traffic (1982 AADT)             of Growth       VOC's    Maintenance        Other       ERR
/Sub-ProJect                 Length      Costs          Light       heavy    Total         of Traffic       Savings  Cost savings  Benefits        (%)
/Section             (km)   (million Br)                                              (1                          1/
1. Asphalt overlay
1.1 Addis Awash  2/             203       24.07                                                              10.79        0.36         12.02 3/   33.3
1.1.1 Addis-D/Zeit           37        6.40         603         1,788    2,391             2.7           3.05         0.07         1.85 3/   47.1
1.1.2 D/Zeit-Mojjo           24        2.99         258           925    1,183             2.7           0.89         0.05         1.20 31   28.1
1.1.3 Mojjo-Nazreth          17        2.11         155           537       692            2.7           0.50         0.03         0.85 3/   20.6
1.1.4 Nazreth-Awash,        125       12.57         109           514       623            2.7            6.20        0.19         8.12 3/   30.2
1.2 Mille-Asseb  8/             330       34.90           25          362       387            2.5           11.20        0.40         14.85 3/   25.5
1.3 Addis-Ginchi                 100       8.31          155          520       675            2.7            5.10        0.14          5.00 3/   34.1
2. Asphalt D.S.B.T.
Four sections                    250       13.75          30          118       148             2.9           2.52        0.82            -        26.4
3. Gravel Feeder Roads
3.1 Nekempte-Bure                250      84.0 4/          6 5/        78 5/    84 5/            -             -           -            6.35 6/   24.0
3.2 Tepi-Gore 2/                 146       55.94/          5 5/        68 5/    73 5/            -             -           -            2.32 6/   15.3
3.3 Dera-Mechara                 246      81.2 4          11 5/        79 5/    90 5/           -              -           -            5.11 6/   22.2
4. Road Maintenance                                                                                                                                                     co
4.1 All-weather network    13,300          44.6           50 7/       150 7/   200 7/           2.0                                               108.5           co
87/         42 7/    50 7/                                                                             I
17/          97/    10 7/
5. Total Project                                 346.7                                                                                                    30.4
1/ Benefits estimated for the first year of completion of subproject; VOC's savings are based on VOC's adjusted to reflect the conditions
of specific project roads.
2/ This subproject began under ongoing First Road Sector Project.  A few aubprojects of the First Sector Program which are being completed in
1984 have not been included.
3/ Reconstruction cost savings which would accrue only in last year of economic life of new investment (amount shown corresponds to year 7).
4/ Capital investment costs only.  The economic costs of annual maintenance and of investments in agricultural development
were also included in the economic evaluation (see Table 5.2).
5/ Traffic at opening year of subproject.
6/ The benefits attributable to value added were based on additional net agricultural production tonnages and average wholesale
prices as presented in the Appraisal Report for each project, prepared by ETCA's PPDj in several cases their estimates for
average yield per crop and/or estimated growth in production were reduced to more conservative levels.
7/ See table 5.2
8/ Only 290 km of this sub-project is to be implemented within the three year project period.



AABLE 5.2
itTBIOPIA
APPRAISAL OF TEE SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROJECT
ECONO!4IC EVALUATION OF ROAD MAINTENANCE ELEMENT
I.   Road Network and Traffic Levels                                Proportion of
Total of Road
Length in
Proportion of    Traffic Volume    which this
Road Type    Lenght          Total              (AADT)         volume exists
(km)           Y%)- -           -%)
Asphalt        3,515           27              301-2500             22
Gravel 2/      5,430           41              101- 300             52
Earth 2/       4,288           32                0- 100             26
Totals        13,233          100                                  100
II. Vehicle Operating Costs (Br/veh/km January 1983, net of taxes)
Paved Road       Gravel Road       Earth Road
A 3/  B 4/        A      B4          A 3/  B 4/
Light vehicles         0.68  0.87        0.72  1.18         1.05  1.41
Heavy vehicles         1.66  2.03        1.89  2.91         2.56  3.43
III. Assumptions
(a)   VOC's are an average of categories A and B for each type of road.
(b)   The proportions of light and heavy vehicles is on the average of
25% (light) and 75% (heavy) for paved roads, 85% (heavy) and 15%
(light) for gravel roads and 90% (heavy) and 10% (light) for
earth roads.
IV. Evaluation (Million Birr)
Benefits
Incremental    Paved Road    Gravel Road    Earth Road
Year        Costs        Maintenance   Maintenance    Maintenance  Total
1        13.8                                                         0
2         14.8             6.3            9.0             0.9        16.2
3        16o8             14a1           18.6              1.8       34.5
4                         21.4           26.9             2.6        50.9
5                         11.2           12.8              1.3       25.3
6                                         8.4             1.0         9.4
7                                         5.2             0.5         5.7
8                                         2.5             0.1         2.6
ERR =  108.5%
1/ Based on Annual Report on Rural Traffic Movement in Ethiopia, 1980;
ETCA, November 1982.
2/ About 2000 km of servic5-to-traffic roads and other low class roads
normally included as "gravel" roads by ETCA, have been reclassified
here as earth roads.
3/ In good condition.
4/ Deteriorated.



E T H I O P I A N T R A N S P O R T C O N S T R U C T I O N A U T H O R I T Y O G A N I Z A T I O N C H A R T
MINISTRY OF TRANSPORT
AND COMMUNICATIONS
| LEGAL SERVICES1   | AUDIT 6 METHODS|    |PRESS AND PUBLIC     CONTRACT & QUALITY
DIVISION              DlVISION         | RELATIONS OFFICE      CONTROL DIVISION
PLANNING 6 PROGRAhMING| FISCAL SERVICES        DESIGN DIVISION       SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT       ADtMINISTRATIVE SEEV.
DIVISION                               I D                         D                       TRAINING DIVISION
HEAVY CONSTRUCTION~KAN CNSRUCIO
DEPARTMENT
I~~~~~~~~~~C
| HEAVY CONSTRUCTION                                                   | ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~RURAL ROAD CONST. 6D
| DEPARTMENT                                                                                   ROD    LANTNN         T
|MAIN ROADS AND BRIDGEI                            AIRFIELD, CITY ROADS, PORTS         ZONE OFFICE(I)    ZONE OFFICE(2)         ZONE OFFICE(3)      ZONE OFFICE(4)   ZONE OFFICE(5)
CONSTRUCTION DIVISION                              S RAILWAYS CONST. DIVISION |        RSHA, hARBERGE,   GAMOGORA, SOAMO    WELEGA, ILLUBABOR,   GONDER, GOJAM    RRITREA, TIGRAI
r   t  5   [                           l            l  ,       ARSI                  ~~~~        ~       ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BALE  KEFFA          WL
| RVL ROD   |   ASPHALT ROADS | BRIDGE CONST.1I      ll[[l                                                    |        ||1
|CONST. BRIGADESt  CONST. BRIGADES | BRIGADE (I )  |                                    
| (10)       |       4)        t                   IFEDCNT  CITY ROADS    |  W   OS.||OTCNT                                         ADMINISTRATIV  REINl
}                    } BRIGADES (2)   II~~~~~~CONST. BRIGADE| BRGD   IIBIAE (1)1                              BRIGADES (4) 
RURAL ROAD CONST. |ROD MAINTENANCE
CREWS                                   CREWS



____________________________________                                                                                        ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~BRD 1685.CR
ARAB RE                                               .                              R                              P                                                                                              THOIARP 9.
FCAP                                                                                                                                                                                                          ETHISUDIIA
L-,  ARABIA                                                                               ,~B.A                                                                                                  SECOND ROAD SECTOR PROGRAM
CHAD    ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~   F  ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ .....-j                         A'      if     ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~Asphalt AA-IPJy
H  ~ ~     A5fAPYRAER4                          ~~~PR, J5                A                                                         "IA,epholtpO r
I I    A       .m A.rk,J
r  A44.4Y                                         S                                                  p~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A.6                                                                         ,,-M-..
~~~LENP  ...            -                          AP,L,                                                .                                                         R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~Adds1t Unde  MA-teheL d
I     AAEJPA        I                                            .u,      I            rAe.                                                                                                                   R..rc. A-d/A  Ur-Ad.,h-d      t-
TANLLAN.A                                                                                                                                                                                                 OP aBIll wether
PAar,p r,~~~~~~~~~~ P,,4AA4.AOA, ~ ~ ~ ~ ~          ~          ~          ~         ~         ~          :
AReA ee,4rRaPT.,A444.A Mr ~ ~ ~ ~   ~       ~      ~      ~      ~      AdG-
7                                     R.U.y,,~~~~~~Pasop
4  S  U  D  A  N  -       F zA~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~A  Ar..,      BrAA                                                                                                                                                          PA~~~~~~~~~~~~~(D A   rg-L
e~~~~~~~~~~~
UID   A    N
4   Akre.A    4  SArro 9  ,MePk                                   LA O,                ., 4                                                                                                               e
W  De~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~eD.r 
I... E.6~~~~~~~~~~~
Ar.i  Feegerreer,,  APAA    RR          AlF
H.                                                                                                                            S       0      M~/    MLL S C   IA   IS I   AL     25






C                                                                                        7799!)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~----L  D3 75 6
7/33~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~~~NON-CEREAL CASH CROPS
& rl
2 0
('-33-"-             /  /'m                             323                             7444~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~L
P=W:t~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,                             7- K~
i.             )t''38.3        ,                              3733,3              0M44         4x.',           >>       '                       -         -tm
33)~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~n~
032,433  (                       r>  ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~>              3-.-         4~~~~~~~~~~7t 
M ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~                                                                                                                                   3
'4)               7 4-3;q
A%n~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7(                                                                                                               4        1 
-'I                                                               KhI"QT
WV4---                               7
74440 7   y'4  z~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~   






_______                                                ~~~~~~~~~~~BRD) 10233Rl
30'  -o3  33'                                    1                                        000)03~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~1- 133
K                                              ~~~~~~~~ETHIOPIA
MAJOR FOOD PRODUCTION AREAS
"1'                          -,  \.  ~~~~~~~MAJOR  FOOD CROP' ECONOMIES
''''3f  -Ye r2                                '    (303/13ff~Do -
633333o33  /                       N                                                     -      Maize~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N     - . oorlm
B-oe ' .not.
1 ~~~~~~ga     j~~~~7                                                          Sy         -drn/302
D) R~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
/                                                                              T cc fbora broad 0 ~~~mo3ookw0330
'N                                                                            INGC  mebere)  '3  33 33r'rcIizell~~~a
S   U D A N                           )        'N                                                     10033310,  r  ml: D IBO U
7  7                /                     \.      c~~~~     '(9t                                                        -
~,->                 U L  U 
y                              3,A3A                                uu-.rf'N/ 
->                  6'               7           (1>/I ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~'Ln  A<cn.
I                                                          333\~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~7                               
> Neeemte~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~N
4     A3  N 
j  0Mefo  /   ~~~~~~~                3,'o7y,3hf'A   (9    AR            OF~~s   0 M,     I 
UGA( DA                                                  E      NA B    (9  Y-1                                                                   ' A"N



