Doumnat or
The Worid Bank
FOR OmCIAL USE ONLY
ReputN.6 5388
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 564-SU)
December 28, 1984
Energy Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
-bb docummut has a restricted in-buth ad my be ued by redupleu omy i the perfonriace of
I .  ffiaEd  judes. Its csteut unay not therwie be dised withou Wod Bak athor   o.



FOR OMCIL USE ONLY
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 564-SU)
PROJECT COKPLETION REPORT
Table of Contents
Page No.
PREFACE                           .................
BASIC DATA SHEET ..                           _.---. . ..-. .
HIGHLIGHTS  .................................................    v
I.  INTRODUCTION                                                         1
II.  PROJECr PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL                                    2
Origin, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations .......2
Project Description ...      .     .........                         2
Project Objectives ..                                                3
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness.....                                            4
Project Execution. ....                                              4
Reporting                          .....   6
Procurement ......  6
Project Costs. ...                                                   6
Disbursements                          ....                          7
Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers.               7
IV.  OPERATING PERFORMANCE                                                7
V.  FINANCIAL ASPECTS                                                    8
Introduction ..                                                      8
Financial Results           ........................    8
Billing and Collection    .....................................   10
Accouniting and Audit ..........................................   11
VI.  INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE                                           11
Management and Organization Effectiveness ...................   11
Staff and Training ........... ...............               ,      12
VII.  PROJECT JUSTIFICATION                                               12
VIII. IDA PERFORMANCE                                                     13
IX.  CONCLUSIONS                                                         14
Dverall Achievements ......... & .............................   14
Lessons Learned .........................................   14
This document has a restricted distribution and may be used by recipients only in the performance of
their official duties. Its contents may nDt otherwise be disclosed without World Bank authorization.



ANNEXES
1   Compliance with Hain Covenants of Legal Documents ........*    16
2   Awarded Contracts for Equipment and iorks ..................    18
3   Project Cost Estimate  .............. ....                        20
4   Schedule of Disbursements  .......* ....*.... . ..... .........    21
5   PEWC - Actual and Estimated Income Statements - Consolidated    22
6   PEWC - Actual and Estimated Income Statements - Electricity .   23
7   PEwC - Actual and Estimated conDolidated Cash Flows .........   24
8   PEMC - Actual and Estimated Consolidated Balance Sheet *****    25
9   Return on Investment  ............. .........    ........         26
APPEIDIX A  - Comments from the Government of Sudan ..............    27



PROJECT COINPLETON REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND POWE PROJECT
(Credit 546-SU)
PREFACE
The Project constituted part of the power development program of
the Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC) of Sudan in the period
1977-1981 and included the installation of a 42-NW generating unit at
Roseires  hydroelectric  power  station,  addition  of  diesel  generating
capacities at Burri and Juba, extension of transmission and distribution
networks, long-term planning studies, and management consultancy services.
The IDA assisted in this with Credit 564-SU of US$23 m11lion, which was
signed on June 25, 1975 and made effective on October 29, 1975.  Of the
credit amount $22.03 million was disbursed by November 30, 1981 and the
balance (US$0.97 million) was cancelled on that date. The Project Completion
Report (PCR) was prepared by the Eastern Africa Regional Office based on the
staff appraisal report, supervision missions' reports and other documents
available in the IDA files, as well as findings of a project completion
mission which visited Sudan in October 1983.
The PCR summarizes the main points of particular interest.   It
shows difficulties in achieving financial and institution-building objectives
in the Sudanese power supply industry and in carrying out project works in
remote areas where local conditions have adverse impact on the pace of
project execution. The PCR also notes the problems of excessive siltation of
water reservoirs and inefficiency of power supply in Sudan where power losses
are excessively high and outages and shortages are common.
In accordance with the revised procedures for project performance
audit reporting, this PCR was read by the Operations Evaluation Department
(OED) but the project was not audited by OED staff. A draft copy of this
report was sent to the Borrower (Government of Sudan) for its comments.
Those comments which were received have been taken into account in finalizing
the report, and are attached to the report as Appendix A.



:-;                                                    , -  .:'   f    -*.  .   --:ii 
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 564-SU)
Key Project Data
Appraisal         Actual or
Item                                      Expectation     Current Estimate
Total Project CoD<  (US$ million)             39.97             55.26
Overrun (Z) a/                             -                38
Credit Amount (USS million)                  23                23 b/
Disbursed                                 23                 22
Cancelled                                  -                  1
Date of Completion of Physical Components    12/78              2/81 c/
Proportion of Time Overrun (Z)             0                 110
Internal Rate of Return
on the Project (IRR)                   20 & 10% d/            14Z e/
Financial Performance                         8%              1.5%-22.0Z f/
Institutional Performance                                      mixed g/
Cumulative Estimate and Actual Disbursements (US$ million)
Nov. 30
As of June 30:           1976  1977  1978  1979  1980  1981   1981
(i) Appraisal Estimate   3.0  11.5  20.5  23.0  23.0  23.0    23.0
(ii) Actual               1.4   5.5  17.1  21.3  21.6  22.0    22.0
(ii) as Z of (i)   47    48    83    93    94    94       94
a/ Excluding Juba, the cost overrun is US$11.39 million or 32X.
'5/ Co-financed by OPEC Special Fund (US$9.5 million in 1979).
c/ Except Juba diesel station (expected in 1984).
If/ Roseires 20%, Juba 10%.
e/ Roseires only.
t/ Return on net fixed electricity assets.
g/ Although satisfactory institutional/operational performance has not been
achieved, some improvements were made.



- $ii - 
OTHER PROJECT DATA
Item                                     Original    Revisions    Actual
First Mentioned                                                      1969
Government's Application                                             1972
Negotiations                                                        10174
Board Approval                                                   5/22/75
Credit Agreement Date                                            6/25/75
Effectiveness Date                        9/26/75               10/29/75
Closing Date                             12/31/79   12/31/80     6/30/81 a/
Borrower:
The Democratic Republic of Sudan
Executing Agency:
The Public Electricity and Water
Corporation (PEWC)
Fiscal Year of the Executing Agency:
July 1 - June 30
Follow-on Project Name: Third Power Project (Credit 1006-SU)
a/ Final disbursement was made on February 22, 1982.



Mission Data
Month/        No.  of         No.  of            Man-
Year     Weeks    Persons   weeks    Date of Report
Appraisal                2/74      3        3         9          04/25/75
Supervision
I                11/75       3.4      3       10.1         12/10/75
II                 7/76       3        2        8.4         08/07/76
III                 2/77       1.5      4        6           03/02/77
IV                10/77       3.2      3        9.6         01/27/78
V                 2/78       1.8      3         5.4        03/20/78
VI                 8/78       5.7      2        11.4        09/27/78
VII                 6/79       1.4      2         2.8        08/03/79
VIII                 3/80       2        1         2          05/08/80
IX                11/80       1.8      1         1.8        12/19/80
X                 4/81       1.4      1         1.4        06/12/81
xXI                 9/81       2        2         4          12/29/81
XII                 5/82       3        2         6          08/10/82
xIII                12/82       3        2         6          01/20/83
xIV                 10/83      2        1         2          12/15/83
Total                      35.2              76.9
Currency Exchange Data
Appraisal                      US$1   £Sd 0.348
Intervening Years Average
1975-1977                   US$1 - £Sd 0.35
1978-1980                  US$1 - £Sd 0.50
1981-1982                   US$1 - ESd 0.90
1983                       US$1 - £Sd 1.31



v 
PROJECT COM4PLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 546-SU)
HIGHLIGHTS
The project comprised the installation of hydro and diesel units,
construction of transmission lines, studies and management consultancy
services. The project was intended to meet urgent short-term power demand
and to correct PEWC/NEC's financial, operational and organizational
deficiencies as well as improving the quality of its services (paras.
2.02-2.03).
The project took almost twice as long to implement as envisaged at
appraisal, and cost overrun was large (about 38Z) - paras. 3.06 and 3.10.
The principal objectives of the project's physical facilities, with the
exception of the Juba diesel power station, by and large have been achieved.
Although the institutional and financial objectives of the credit have not
been fully met, some improvements in PEWC/NEC's organizational structure were
made, a long-range development program was prepared and more appropriate
electricity pricing was established.  However, much remains to be done for
establishing autonomous, technically competent, and financially viable power
supply entities in Sudan - paras. 6.01, 6.02 and 9.02(i) and (ii).
Among the lessons learned are the importance of studying, during
project preparation, operational problems so that their impact could be
reflected in project design and selection of equipment (paras. 2.01, 4.01 and
9.02); the difficulty of achieving institutional and financial improvements
within a power entity in context of an inefficient public sector beset with
problems of autonomy, weak organizational structure, lack of clear
responsibilities, loss of skilled personnel and low salaries (paras. 1.02,
6.03 and 6.05); and the inability to implement timely investment programs to
avoid chronic power supply shortages and frequent outages (paras. 1.03, 5.04,
5.10 and 9.02).



PROJECT COMPLETION REPORT
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 56'i-SU)
1. INTRODUCTION
1.01       Public power supply operations in Sudan are divided into eight
regions.   The major interconnected system is the Blue Nile Grid (BNG),
which serves about 85% of customers.   The isolated regions are mostly
supplied by small diesel generating stations. The per capita consumption
of electricity in 1982 was estimated at about 60 kWh and only 8Z of the
total population has access to the public power supply. Over the ten-year
period (1972-1981) the growth of power generation was about 10%, although
there has been a sharp decline in the rate of growth in the last few years,
when it was not possible to meet the full demand mainly because of delays
in contruction of new plants, frequent breakdowns in the power system, and
lack or shortage of fuel and spare parts.   Continuing shortages of power
are also expected in the next two or three years.
1.02      The Ministry of Energy and Mining (MEM) has official jurisdiction
over the development of energy resources and power supply activities in
Sudan. Prior to 1982, power and water supply operations were carried out
by the Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC), the original
beneficiary of Credit 564-SU. According to a Presidential Decree, PEWC was
split up into the National Electricity Corporation (NEC), the Khartoum
Water  Authority,  and  a  number  of  regional  organizations.    NEC  is
responsible   for   constructing  and  operating  power  generation   and
transmission facilities of the national grids and distributing power in
Khartoum area, supplying power to the regional organizations, establishing
bulk power supply tariffs, ensuring technical uniformity throughout the
Sudan, and providing technical services and training to the regional
electricity  organizations.    The  implementation  of  the  organizational
changes will be carried out gradually and may be completed over a number of
years.    Delays  in  establishing  and  making  operational  the  regional
electricity organizations could result in further deterioration of the
power  supply  in the regions.   The power subsector has still serious
institutional problems, resulting from various causes, including unclear
lines of responsibility, inadequate management information and operational
systems, lack of freedom in setting personnel policies and salaries, loss
of skilled staff, weak management and very slow procedures.
1.03        The quality of the power supply in the Sudan has been rather
poor. In addition to power supply cuts, voltage and frequency levels were
usually kept below the standard values. Power losses have been excessive,
up to 30% annually.   These losses have been caused by inadequate power
facilities  (small  sizes,  high  voltage  drops,  low  power  factor),
unsatisfactory operation and maintenance, and to a great extent by
pilferage of electricity.  NEC has not been able to undertake significant
remedial measures to improve the quality of the power supply. Operating in



-2-
very difficult circumstances, NEC has been struggling just to keep the
problems to a minimum, knoi-Ing that it would not be possible either to
prevent or eliminate them.
1.04        This Project Completion Report (PCR) is based on information-
obtaincd by IDA supervision missions,from NEC and other Sudanese energy
related institutions.   The Credit Beneficiary (NEC) and its consultants
have not prepared their final project report. A part of the project, the
Juba diesel power station, has not been completed.   In March 1984, the
Association agreed that this project component to   be partially financed
through the allocation of proceeds from Credit 1006-SU (Third Power
Project).    The  Juba  component  will  then  be  included  in  the project
completion report for the Third Power Project (para. 3.04).
II. PROJECT PREPARATION AND APPRAISAL
Origin, Preparation, Appraisal and Negotiations
2.01          The project had its origin in the overall power subsector
development programs, which were initiated and prepared in the late 1960s.
Earlier the Bank Group had assisted Sudan in the improvement and expansion
of the power supply facilities through its two lending operations (Loan
284-SU in 1961 and Credit 2-SU in 1963).   The feasibility study of the
project  was  included  under  Loan  522-SU  (1967)  and  carried  out  by
international firms of consultants. The project was a short term solution
to meet urgent needs of the growth of power demand from 1977 until 1980. A
review of the hydropower potential revealed that no new nydro alternative
was available to meet this demand and therefore the addition of diesel and
hydro sets in existing power stations was found as the basic solution. The
project preparations had not been thorough enough, particularly in the case
of the Juba diesel power station where local conditions and transportation
aspects of equipment and materials had not been studied in detail.   The
project was appraised in January/February 1974 and negotiations were held
In Washington in October 1974.  No problems arose durir.g the negotiations
and agreements were easily reached between the IDA and the Borrower (the
Government of Sudan) and the Beneficiary (PEWC).  No significant changes
from the original scope were made in the project as presented to the Board
of Directors in May 1975.  Annex I sets forth the major covenants of the
Credit and Project Agreements.   The Government and PEWC have not fully
adhered to the covenants, particularly those dealing with financial and
institutional matters.   At the time of the Credit signing PEWC was not
sufficiently well managed to enable it to conduct the corporation's
business in an efficient manner, nor to comply with the Credit and Project
Agreement covenants.
Project Description
2.02      The Project originally consisted of the following:
A.  (1)  Installation of 15-MW of diesel generating capacity at Burri
thermal station in Khartoum with three generating units each
rated 5 MW;



-3-
(2)  Installation of a 42-MW fourth generatiug set at Roseires
hydroelectric station; and
(3) Installation of five generating units each rated 1 MW at the
Juba diesel power station.
B.  (1)  Construction of a second 220-kV circuit from Roseires to
Sennar on the existing double circuit transmission line;
(2) Construction of a 110-kV single circuit transmission line
from Sennar to Meina el Sharif; and
(3) Upgrading and extension of the Juba distribution system
involving installation of: (i) 150 km of 415/250 kV overhead
lines; (ii) 45 km of 11 kV overhead lines; and (iii)
ancillary equipment.
C.  (1)  A long-term power market survey;
(2)  Investigations  of  the  following  sites  for  hydroelectric
generation:   (i) Jebel Aulia on the White Nile; and (ii)
Sabaloka on the Nile;
(3)  Preparation by the end of 1976 of a long-term electricity
development plan, based on the long-term power market survey
and the investigation of all alternatives for responding to
demand growth;
(4) A study of the advantages and disadvantages of continuing the
provision by one entity of both electricity and urban water
supply; and
(5)  An examination of PEWC's plans for improvement of its water
operations.
D. Reorganization of PEWC and improvement in PEWC's technical and
financial management as set out in the February 1974 report of the
Electricity Council of the United Kingdom.
Project Objectives
2.03         The principal objectives  of the project were:   providing
additional generation and transmission capacity to meet urgent short-term
power demand requirements; upgrading and extension of power distribution
system; establishing the basis for a long-term development program; and
initiating institutional reforms on the basis of organization and
management  studies,  as  well  as  improving  technical  and  financial
operations. The main thrust of the intended reforms was the separation of
electricity and water supply activities. At the time of the appraisal, the
electricity operation was financially viable, while the water supply was
incurring increasing operating losses. The project was expected to correct
the Beneficiary's financial, operational and organizational deficiencies
and to improve the quality of its services.



-4-
2.04       The information available at the time of the appraisal did not
allow a realistic forecast of project results. The key assumptions made in
arriving at forecast sales were based on an optimistic annual growth rate
of 10%, while actual growth was only 6% in the period 1976-81. The changes
in energy prices, pattern of usage and restrictions in the power supply had
not been expressed in quantitative terms and reflected in sales forecasts.
Furthermore, inefficient use of electricity, high power losses and lack of
proper energy management apparently were not incorporated in the demand
forecasts.     There  were  many  uncertainties,  such  as  power  supply
constraints, excessive losses and operational inefficiencies, which were
not anticipated and taken into account in making sales growth projections
for the medium- and long-term.
III. IMPLEMENTATION
Credit Effectiveness
3.01      The conditions of Credit effectiveness were confined to various
legal actions (authorization and ratification of Credit documents and the
subsidiary Loan Agreement). The Credit was made effective on October 29,
1975,  about  two months  late.   However,  this delay had practically no
adverse impact on the start-up of the project and its implementation
schedule.
Project Execution
3.02       After advertizing in the international press, bidding documents
were issued on schedule.   At that time PEWC's staff was not capable to
review these documents with the attention required. Bids received for most
of the main equipment had indicated that there may be a 25% or more project
cost overrun.  These included the main item of equipment, viz for the 3x5
MW and 5x1 MW diesel generating sets, the 42-MW fourth hydropower
generating unit at Roseires, the 220/110 kV substation equipment and 110 kV
transmission lines. Due to PEWC's delay in providiag geologlcal
information in time to project consultants, there was a six-month delay in
the invitation of bids for the civil works of the Burrn power station. For
civil works at Roseires and Juba (foundations), no bids were received under
international competitive bidding and PEWC had to consider the alternatives
of negotiating with local and foreign contractors working in Sudan, or
undertaking  the work with  its  own  task  forces.    Working  conditions,
particularly in Juba, were extremely difficult and major problems faced by
contractors were lack of transport facilities and housing, health hazards,
aad life security.   Although the civil works for Roseires were tendered
three times no interest was shown by potential bidders and in May 1977 the
contract was negotiated with a construction corporation under the Sudanese
Ministry  of  Irrigation.    It  is  likely  that  difficult  local working
conditions  and relatively  small  size of the works discouraged foreign
contractors to bid.   The  civil works  of the Juba power station were
undertaken by PEWC's own staff.   This caused two-year initial delay in
starting Roseires' civil construction works.  Some delays also occured in
appointing consultants for the long-term power market survey.



-5
3.03       A number of problems arose during the project execution.  Local
contractors experienced lack of spare parts, equipment, materials and
skilled labor. The maiFn civil works contractor for Burri was in dispute
with PEWC and bad submitted excessive claims which were considered by PEVC
and  consultants  as  highly  exaggerated.    Stringing  of  the  220  kV
Roseires-Sennar transmission line was affected by late delivery of erection
equipment.  Finally, at Roseires hydropower station, unit No. 4 was put
into commercial operation in January 1980, about 15 months behind the
original estimate. Construction of the substation at Semar, together with
the 110 kV transmission line between Sennar hydropower station and Heina el
Sharif substation, and of the 33 kV lines at Sennar and Juba distribation
systems were finalized tn 1979 and 1980.  Burri diesel power station was
completed in December 1980 and started commercial operation in February
1981 (originally scheduled in February 1978). VitW the exception of the
Juba diesel power station (5xl MW), all other project components had been
completed and put into operation before mid-1981. 1/
3.04      Despite more than five years of delay, progress on the 5-Mi Juba
station (7% of total project cost) continues to be slow. Major civil works
for the station have been completed and equipment delivered to the site,
but its installation has not started so far. The main reasons for the Juba
station delay have been difficulties in securing and transporting cement
and other materials needed for the civil works at this remote site, and in
engaging local labor  for construction.   Transportation was difficult
because roads are not suitable for traffic during long rainy seasons, and
the river transport is limited by inadequate number of barges, for which
other goods have higher priority. Many materials and goods, such as cement
and structural steel, sent to Juba for the power plant never reached the
plant site  (Appendix).   The power supply in Juba has been extremely
critical, there is no public power supply to domestic and commercial
consumers, and the available diesel generation is used for water pumping
only. The completion of the Juba diesel power station is urgently needed.
The  remaining  works,  replacements  of  deteriorated  components  and
installation of equipment are estimated to cost about US$2 million.  The
supplier of equipment has expressed willingness to install and initially
operate the diesel generating units. This appears to be the most suitable
arrangement for the completion of the Juba power station. It is expected
that the commissioning of the generating units could be done within a
six-month period after signing a contract with the supplier of equipment. 1/
3.05         The Government of Sudan has requested IDA's assistance in
financing the outstanding works in Juba.  A proposal was made to include
the Juba station into the description of the ongoing Third Power Project
and to finance the equipment erection works out of Credit 1006-SU
proceeds.   IDA approved this proposal in March 1984 and the Juba diesel
power station is now included in the description of the Third Power Project
and the implementation of the station will be covered in its project
completion report.  Therefore, the comprehensive review of the extent to
which expectations and objectives related to the Juba diesel power station
have been achieved will be a part of the completion report for the Third
Power Project.l/
1/ For the Borrower's comments, see Appendix.



3.06        The project has experienced long delays (para. 3.03) and its
remaining component is expected to be completed In 1984, a delay of six
years, although the other parts of the project were completed with a
two and half year delay. The main factors causing delays were PEWC/NEC's
inefficient  organization  and  management,   frequent  changes  in  top
management, lack of autonomy and responsibillty of PEW/NC/C vis-a-vis the
Government, poorly trained staff, mounting financial dlfficulties (not only
of PEWC/NEC but of the country as a whole), regional probleus, and lack of
coordination among various entities involved in the project execution and
the power subsector activities.   These factors were not sufficiently
anticipated during the project appraisal. The original time schedule was
optimistic even for well organized power entities.   Possible regional
aspects and local conditions (e.g. in Juba) had not been adequately
analyzed. 2/
3.07           Since  the  project  mainly  involved extension of existing
hydroelectric and diesel power stations and additions to the existing
transmission system, it did not have any adverse impact on the environment.
Reporting
3.08       Compliance with the reporting requirements agreed to under this
credit was always unsatisfactory. The progress reports on the project were
Irregular and late; they did not contain necessary information and did not
give the real insight into project problems, particularly regarding Juba.
Part of the problem was that PEWC/NEC did not have a weLl organized and
capable coordination unit responsible for project reporting and there was
no continuity of staff in handling the credit related activities.
Consultants reports were narrowly focused on specific project matters
without paying due attention to crucial problems which led to lengthy
delays in the implementation of the project.  Slnce 1979 reporting on the
project has been practically discontinued. 21
Procurement
3.09      Both PEWC and their consultants were inexperienced in procurement
matters.   International competitive bidding was not the successful method
of  procurement  for  civil  construction  vorks  (para.  3.02).         Other
procurement methods and implementation procedures such as competitive
bidding advertized locally or construction by force account had not been
explored sufficiently during the project appraisal and initial procurement
activities.  It was only after a good deal of discussion and long delays
that the Borrower and PEWC realized that the other procurement methods were
more appropriate in view of Sudanese local circumstances.  This caused an
additional delay in awarding civil works contracts for Roseires and Juba
and thus in project completion. Details of awarded contracts for works and
equiment are given in Annex 2.
Project Costs
3.10      The final cost of the project was US$55.3 million as against the
original estimate of US$40.0 million. A detailed comparison of these costs
is given in Annex 3. The increases in the foreign and local costs were 44%
and 30%,  respectively, over  the appraisal estimates.   These  increases
reflect the impact of high inflation on labor and material costs and works
2/ For the Borrower's comments, see Appendix.



-7-
delays as well as some modifications during the project execution. Cost
overruns were financed by the Government and the OPEC Special Fund loan
(US$9.5 million declared effective ou July 2, 1979).
Disbursements
3.11            The original estimate  of  disbursements  and  the actual
disbursements  of  Credit  564-SU  are  given  in  Annex  4.    Cumulative
disbursements were much lower than the appraisal estimates due to start-up
and procurement delays (para. 3.02). The credit closing date was extended
from December 31, 1979 to November 30, 1981 and the balance of US$974,257
remaining uncommitted on the latter date was cancelled.   Because of the
Juba  diesel  station  problems  and  overall  construction  management
inefficiency, PEWC was not able to utilize the full amount of the credit
before its closing.
Performance of Consultants, Contractors and Suppliers
3.12        The performance of the consultants for the project's physical
facilities was generally satisfactory. However, they were not successful
in estimating final project costs and delays in project execution.
Furthermore, their reporting was not comprehensive and regular (para.
3.08).     The  suppliers  of  equipment  and  materials  also  performed
satisfactorily and offered necessary assistance during the equipment
erection and initial operation of project facilities.   The local civil
works contractors experienced a number of problems and their performance
was less satisfactory (para. 3.03). PEWC construction by force account has
been hindered by lack of skilled workers and proper supervision as well as
the shortage of construction materials.
IV. OPERATING PERFORNMANCE
4.01      Since the project has not been in service long enough and some of
its components, such as the Juba diesel power station, have not even been
completed, it is difficult to compare the actual operating performance of
the project's physical facilities with the expectations at appraisal. In
general,  the  initial  operating  experience  was  satisfactory.    Some
operational problems have been experienced, mostly related to bearings oil
leaks at Roseires, and cooling water and relays adjustment at Burri. PEWC
and manufacturers had investigated problems and found suitable solutions.
More serious problems have occurred in connection with the operation of the
Roseires water reservoir and its siltation. During the floods in 1983 wood
debris and heavy siltation completely blocked intakes of units No. 3 and 4
(project component) and endangered operation oE No. 1 and No. 2.   The
effect of silt suspended in the water passing through the generating units
has been rather severe.   It was reported that turbine No. 4 had broken
shear pins and levers.   The silt leve.. in the reservoir has steadily
increased in the recent years, and if necessary measures are not undertaken
to clean reservoir and protect generating equipment the serious problem
could arise again.   The Roseires project needs some modifications and
rehabilitation of screening and raking equipment to cope with the increased
siltation and the accumulation of wood debris.   The problem has to be
studied and appropriate remedial actions should be adopted. Requests for



-8-
help  from  the  manufacturer and  the  engineer have been made.   with
assistance from USAID, h-EC has started preparatory works to improve the
operating performance of the Roseires project and to control the excessive
siltation of its reservoir.
4.02        During the month of August 1983 substantial restrictions on
available power from the Burri power station was caused by a fire in the
switchroom of the diesel generators which rendered main circuit breakers of
all three diesel sets inoperative, so that none of them could be connected
to the Sudanese power system.  Remedial work has begun and replacement
equipment has been ordered. PEWC/NEC's staff is not always well trained to
operate power facilities satisfactorily.   The power facilities are not
maintained properly and securing of needed spare parts and materials is
very difficult due to the acute shortage of foreign exchange.   Other
chronic problems are poor management, low level of operating staff skills
and  lack  of  motivation  due  to  inadequate  salary  levels  and  the
Beneficiary's inability to attract and retain qualified and experienced
operating staff and managers. The entire power system operates at severely
reduced levels of efficiency and available generation capability is well
below the installed capacity.   Necessary measures need to be taken to
improve operational reliability and to reduce power losses. In connection
with the Fourth Power Project, a number of measures are proposed to improve
the operating performance in the Sudanese power system.
V'J FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Introduction
5.01       Appraisal estimates and actual audited Income Statements, Funds
Flow Statemeats and Balance Sheets for the combined operation of water and
electricity covering the years FY76 through FY81 are given in Annexes 5, 7
and 8. Appraisal estimates and actual audited Income Statements for the
electricity operation only are given in Annex 6.
5.02       The external auditors have continually noted irregularities in
PEWC's accounts, particularly in connection with billing and collections.
Furthermore, both the audited accounts and the auditor's summary have
contained errors and unverified figures.
Financial Results
5.03       The following table shows the percentage variations in actual
financial performance of the electricity operation compared with the
appraisal estimates:



NEC Financial Perforuance:
-Actual vs. Appraisal Estimate ()-
1976    1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Electricity Sales             -5     -11      -5       -8     -17     -21
Average tariff levels          9       9        9      23     159     145
Revenues                       3      -2        5      12     113      96
Operating expenses
(excl. depreciation)        25      45      41      88      146     189
Operating Income
(before depreciation)      -29     -42     -23     -54       87      17
5.04       Operating expenses were considerably higher than the appraisal
estimate. This was the result of higher inflation increasing the cost of
materials and services, inefficiency in the operation of generation
capacity, higher than estimated power losses and fuel cost.  The large
amount provided for bad debts also contributed to the high operating
expenses. Lower growth in electricity sales was partly due to technical
difficulties which PEUC encountered with some of its generation plants,
high technical losses as well as unbilled consumption, and delays In
installing new capacity. At appraisal, no increases in electricity tariffs
were provided for.  Although actual operating expenses increased sharply,
3/ and in spite of IDA's urging, tariffs were only increased in 1979 in
connection with the preparatioa of the Third Power Project. Consequently,
PEWC did not achieve the required 8% return on net fixed electricity assets
in operation for the years prior to FY80. Actual rates of return were 6.6Z
in FY76, 1.5Z in FY79, 22Z in FY80 and 10.9% in FY81 (Annex 6).
5.05      The water operation of PEWC sustained sizeable losses during the
FY76-81 period and prevented it from achieving the 4% return on net fixed
water  assets  as stipulated  in  the  credit  documents.    In FY80,  the
Government imposed a levy entitled -Interest on Equity Capital- on income
of PEWC and similar public sector organizations.   Interest on equity
capital is levied at the rate of 5% on the equity capital balance
(including reserve for revaluation of assets) at the start of each
financial year. The imposition of this levy significantly decreased PEUC's
net income and increased its needs for internally generated funds.
5.06      A comparison of actual and appraisal estimates of the sources and
applications of funds for the combined operation of PEWC covering the
period FY76-81 is shown below:
3/ The high (local) inflation rates ranging from 17% to 31% were not
foreseen at the time of appraisal when an inflation rate of 8% per annum
was assumed throughout the implementation of this project.



- 10 -
Appraisal                Appraisal
Estimate     Actual      Estimate     Actual-
(ESd mlIn)                   (Z)
Sources of Funds
Internal Cash Generation         62.5         49.0         84          44
Less: Debt Service               14.1         22.8         19          20
Interest on Equity           -         11.3           -         10
Net Internal Cash          48.4         14.9         65         27
Equity Subscriptions                -            1.4          -           1
Grants & Advances                   -           36.8          -          32
Borrowings                         26.1         59.5         35          53
Total Sources of Funds       74.5        112.6        100         100
=               .=                  _
Application of Funds
Construction Expenditures
Project a/                     13.9         29.8         19           26
Other                          63.0         36.0         84           32
Total                        76.9         65.8        103           58
Increase in Working Capital        -2.4         46.8          3           42
Total Application of Funds         74.5        112.6        100          100
a/ The appraisal estimate includes £Sd 1.5 million related to Juba which
was expected to be the total cost of that project component. The actual
cost includes £Sd 3.7 million which was expended on Juba up to- June 30,
1981.
5.07      While the actual cost of the project was about double (in current
£Sd terms) the appraisal estimate, construction expenditures on other parts
of NEC's investment program were a little more than half that envisaged at
appraisal due mainly to lack of f..ads.  This had a serious impact on the
quality of service as well as on PEWC's ability to meet the demand for
electricity and water. LNet internal cash generation provided only 14% of
total financing requirements for the FY76-81 period compared with 65%
estimated at appraisal. Since internal cash generation was significantly
lower than forecast, PEWC financed most of its operational and capital
expenditures through loans and grants from the Government which accounted
for, respectively, 53Z and 32% of the total financing requirements.   At
appraisal, no grants were envisaged and only 35% borrowing was estimated to
be  required.   Workirg capital increased substantially over the period
resulting from unusually large amounts tied up in accounts receivable
(para. 5.10) and inventories. The high inventories reflect the unusually
long lead time required in Sudan for import of materials and equipment due
to port and transportation problems and delays.



- 11 -
5.08       In spite of the additional borrowings, PEWC's debt/equity ratio
was more conservative than est'mated at appraisal mainly because of the
large reserve stemming from annual revaluation of fixed assets which was
not provided for in the appraisal estimates.
5.09       By obtaining a loan from GDR in 1978 without the Association's
agreement, PEWC contravened the requirement of Section 4.04 of Credit
564-SU which stipulates that PEWC shall not incur any long-term debt unless
its net revenues in any year are not less than 1.5 times the debt service
requirement for that year. This borrowing, for which IDA approval was not
sought, was due to delay in implementing tariff increases (para. 5.04).
However, the compliance with the covenants on revaluation of assets and
limitation of capital expenditures has been satisfactory.
Billing and Collection
5.10      Collection of PEWC's sales revenue remained unsatisfactory during
the implementation of this project. Accounts receivable on June 30, 1977
represented about 55Z of total operating revenues and deteriorated to 85Z
on June 30, 1981. PEWC's billing is computerized. In 1978 PEWC decided to
change to a new computer with greater capacity which was put into operation
only in 1981. The writing and checking of programs for the new computer
took longer than planned mainly because five of the seven computer
programmers left PEWC to take up jobs in the Middle East. In the meantime,
billing was several months behind. Another contributing factor to the high
receivable position was PEWC's poor performance in meter repairs,
maintenance  and  disconnection.    The  large arrears  of the Government,
semi-government and connected agencies and corporations also exacerbated
the situation.
5.11         The Association has agreed to finance out of the Power III
Project (Credit 1006-SU) the services of a financial and a computer expert
to join NEC in the spring of 1984. They will help NEC improve its billing
and to carry out a reconciliation of the Government agencies' accounts
receivables and payables with NEC and then to offset each agency's
receivables against its payables and settle the remaining balances through
cash payment or collection, so as to reduce the level of receivables.
Accounting and Audit
5.12       PEWC maintained separate accounts for its various area offices.
At the head office in Khartoum, only the accounts of that office are kept.
Durir.-  the project period, the regional offices sent periodic accounts,
income statements, balance sheets or other reports to Khartoum only once
every year after the close of the financial year. In FY81, PEWC lost about
25 experienced accounts staff to the Kiddle East.  Staff employed to fill
the  consequent  vacancies  were  relatively  inexperienced  and  needed
considerable training before they could adequately carry out their
functions.   Compliance with the covenant related to maintaining separate
accounts for its electricity and water operations has been satisfactory.
5.13      PEWC's external auditors were appointed by the Auditor General of
Sudan generally well after the closing of PEWC's accounts, and consequently
the auditor's report became available long thereafter.   Due to the high



- 12 -
turnover of accounts staff (para. 5.12), PEWC has experienced delays in
closing its books on time and, consequently, submission to the Association
of audited financial accounts were not made within the six-month period
stipulated in the credi. documents.
5.14       PEWC's accounts were audited annually by a Sudanese firm.  The
quality of this firm's  reports was unsatisfactory.   Both the audited
accounts and the auditor's summary thereon contained errors and -averified
figures.    The Association pointed out these discrepancies and a more
experienced firm of auditors was appointed for the financial year 1983.
VI. INSTITUTIONAL PERFORMANCE
Management and Organization Effectiveness
6.01       Since its creation in 1975 PEWC experienced various operational
and financial problems due partly to lack of autonomy and firm leadership,
inappropriate organizational structure and frequent management and staff
changes. PEWC's Board of Directors could not agree on routine matters such
as staff appointments, transfers and promotions.   In the meantime, key
staff positions remained vacant for years and the quality of services
deteriorated. In 1978 a new PEWC Act changed the composition of the Board
and the Board's members were appointed by the Government and included,
Inter alia, representatives of trade unions. The only member representing
PEWC's management on the Board was the General Manager of PEWC. In 1982
the PEWC Act was repealed and the electricity and water supply functions
separated which represents  a very positive development.   The National
Electricity Corporation (NEC) was established under its Act of 1982 with
responsibility for developing and managing the power facilities of the
areas in the Blue Nile Grid and the Eastern Grid. It is intended that the
power distributon system in the Khartoum Province will be separated from
NEC.     These  institutional  changes  were  enacted  with  insufficient
preparation.     The  legal,  regulatory,  organizational  and  managerial
framework is virtually non-existent for power supply organizations in the
regions.   Delays  in establishing regional organizations may result in
further deterioration of power supply services in Sudan.
6.02        There has been limited improvement in NEC's management.   The
present L.EC management was appointed by the Government a year ago and it is
too early  to  judge  its  effectiveness.    Long-range  planning,  pricing
policies,  manpower  development,  salary  and benefit systems,  and other
institution-building activities have not been fully developed, and are
being pursued  in subsequent operations.   The consultant's studies and
services financed by the credit proceeds have had some beneficial impact on
NEC,  although  many  of  consultants   recommendations  have  not  been
implemented.   However, the study of the advantages and disadvantages of
continuing the provision by one entity of both electricity and water supply
was instrumental in the separation of these activities and the creation of
NEC (para. 6.01).



- 13 -
Staff and Training
6.03       NEC remains overstaffed particularly in the unskilled category,
but lacks a number of managerial staff, particularly In financial and
accounting services. PEWC/NEC has had problems in recruiting competent and
experienced staff in adequate numbers and in retaining trained staff.
Staff  salaries   are  not  competitive  considering  other  employment
opportunities for qualified staff and there has been a continuous movement
of staff to private sector institutions or abroad where salaries are much
higher.
6.04          There has been continuous  training activity in the power
subsector through the involvement of various foreign institutions and
consultants. The benefits from training have not been fully utilized due
to the frequent changes of staff at professional and managerial levels.
With the help of its consultants, NEC has undertaken a comprehensive
training and development plan for its technical and managerial staff. The
consultants are assisting NEC in the implementation of a new management
structure for NEC and the organization of management training.
6.05        In spite of continuous financial and technical assistance from
many foreign development institutions NEC has not yet developed fully into
a technically competent and financially viable power supply entity.  The
institutional problems of NEC, particularly those cowmmn to parastatal
organizations,  such  as  managerial  and  organizational  weakness  and
inadequate payscales can also be addressed in the context of the reform of
state corporations on a country wide basis.   Furthermore, more active
energy sector work and continuing project lending can further strengthen
NEC, improve its management and develop efficient operational and planning
capabilities.
VII. PROJECT JUSTIFICATION
7.01        The project (excluding the component in Juba) was to supply
additional energy to PECW's interconnected system which accounted for about
82% of PEWC's sales. At appraisal, PEWC's forecast for the period FY76-81
indicated an increase in total electricity sales from 556 GWh in FY76 to
671 GWh in FY78 and to 889 GWh in FY81, with an annual growth of 9.8%.
Actual sales were 635 GWh and 702 GWh for FY78 and FY81, respectively
(annual increase of about 6%). From FY79 onwards, demand for electricity
outgrew the system supply capability due mainly to delay in implementing
the project and reduction in other works originally included in PEWC's
FY76-81 investment program. Consequently, substantial load shedding had to
be implemented.  Losses have been high reaching 27% in FY81.  These losses
reflect an undeveloped and inefficient power transmission and distribution
system as well as unmetered or unbilled consumption.
7.02           In FY75  PEWC's  170 MW  of  generating facilities  in the
interconnected system included diesel, thermal and hydro plants with the
hydro component representing about 60% of the total. Due to low reservoir
levels, the effective capacity of the hydroelectric generating sets were
reduced and diesel sets and thermal units were being used to cover the



- 14 -
excess energy requirements over existing hydro capacity and to meet peak
demand. During the dry period, thermal stations were operated at base load
to supply  the bulk of the system energy requirements.   The projected
maximum demand and energy requirements demonstrated that the interconnected
system would be capable of meeting peak demand and energy requirements
until FY79 after which the generating capacity to be provided by the
project would be required.
7.03        At appraisal the internal rate of return (IRK) on the project
located in the Blue Nile Grid was estimated at 21%, measuring benefits by
using the then orevailing average revenue per kilowatt hour. No increases
(in current or real terms) to the tariffs were expected during the
implementation of the project. The internal rate of return on the project
has now been estimated at about 14% using actual tarlrfs adjusted to FY83
price level.  The lower IRR than estimated at appraisal was mainly lue to
the higher cost of the project and delays in realizing benefits whicn were
not offset by the higher tariffs than estimated at appraisal.
VIII. IDA PERFORMANCE
8.01       The IDA maintainee' good working relations with the Borrower and
the Beneficiary during both credit processing and project implementation.
At appraisal the IDA staff underestimated the power subsector problems in
Sudan. Although serious financial and institutional problems in the power
system were identified, the project was considered worthwhile because of
the urgent need for improved power supply and for the correction of various
deficiencies in power supply operations. The credit was essential for the
financing of the project's physical facilities and consultants' services.
The project objectives regarding the institution-building and financial
aspects have only partly been achieved.   The IDA staff did not foresee the
seriousness of the various difficulties in connection with the Juba diesel
power  station.    It  appears  that  this  project  component was  not  as
thoroughly  studied  as  demanded  by  the  situation.         Transportation
difficulties, local conditions and the necessity of competent project site
management  had  not  been  timely  identified.         Furthermore,  project
implementation timing vas not  realistic.   IDA's assistance in project
implementation matters should have been offered much earlier. There was no
continuity of IDA, staff in the first and last years of the project
implementation. Joint project supervisions for Power II and Power III have
been regular (twice a year) since 1979 but more attention was given to the
preparation and supervision of the Third Power project than to the Second
Power project.
8.02       IDA made a significant contribution to the project.  In future,
increased investments in rehabilitation of power facilities are likely to
be needed and IDA support for the priority investments needs to be
accompanied by substantial improvements in the power system efficiency and
NEC's institutional performance.



- 15 -
IX.  CONCLUSIONS
Overall Achievements
9.01       The principal objectives of the project's physical facilities,
with the exception of the Juba component, by and large have been achieved.
The project has provided additional capacity to the Sudanese power system,
thus reducing chronic power supply cuts. Although the institutional goals
and the financial objectives of the credit have not been fully achieved,
the IDA lending was instrumental in preparing the long-range development
program, introducing various changes in PEWC/NEC's operations and planning
procedures, separating electricity and water supply activities,improving
organizational structure, and establishing more appropriate electricity
pricing.    However,  still  much  remains  to  be  done  for  establishing
autonomous, technically and managerially sound, and financially viable
power supply entities in Sudan..
Lessons Learned
9.02      The main lessons to be drawn from this lending operation are:
(i)  institution-building, objectives  in  the Sudanese power  supply
system are unlikely to be achieved without basic reform of the
policy framework for public corporations to enable them to (a)
attract and retain qualified and experienced staff by providing
them suitable salaries and benefits and (b) operate on a sound
Einancial basis with appropriate tariff levels and ability to
collect its revenues;
(ii)  careful analysis of institutional and policy issues and their
impact on corporate performance is required; future power lending
operations should seek to achieve a satisfactory resolution of
the basic institutional and policy problems and to improve power
system efficiency in Sudan;
(iii) the scale and scope of projects should be more coherent and
manageable to enable close monitoring of the execution of all
project components;
(iv)  operational difficulties such as those due to excessive reservoir
siltation should be fully studied during project preparation and
their impact reflected in project design and selection of
equipment; and
(v) long-range development plans and the timely implementation of
realistic investment programs are essential to avoid chronic
power supply shortages and interruptions.



-16-                          __
Page. 1 of 2
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 564-SU)
Compliance with Main Covenants of Legal Documents
Section of Credit
Agreement (CA)/
Project Agreement (PA)                 Covenants                Compliance
CA 4.01             The Borrower shall consult with    Complied
the  IDA  before  appointing  any   with.
person to a position of General
Manager, Chief Engineer and Chief
Financial Officer.
CA 4.02             The Borrower shall, inter alia,
cover any deficit arising between   Complied
net internally generated cash from   with.
PEWC's water operations and the
cost of  its  water  construction
program.-
PA 2.01             PEWC shall carry out the project   Not complied
with due diligence and efficiency.    with
(paras. 3.02
and 3.03).
PA 3.01             PEWC shall manage its affairs and    Not complied
conduct   its   business   in   an   with
efficient manner.                      (paras.
and 6.01).
PA 3.02             PEWC shall take out and maintain    Complied
insurance against such risks and   with.
in such amounts as shall be
consistent    with    appropriate
practices.
PA 3.03             PEWC shall place the operation of   Complied
Roseires hydropower station under   with.
qualified and experienced person.
PA 4.01             PEWC  shall  maintain  records  in   Complied
accordance    with    appropriate   with.
accounting practices.



-17 -                          KANNEX 1
Page 2 of 2
PA   4.02   (a)    PEWC  shall  have  its  accounts    Not complied
audited  and  submitted  to  IDA    with  (para.
within six months after the end of    5.13).
fiscal year.
PA 4.02 (b)          PEWC   shall   maintain   separate    Complied
accounts for electricity and water    with.
operations.
PA 4.03 (a)          Rate of return for electricity 8%,    PEWC   never
and for water 4%.                       achieved the
4X on its
water
assets. For
electricity,
the 8% was
achieved in
FY80     and
FY81   only.
(Paras 5.04
-5.05).
PA 4.03 (b)          PEWC shall adjust its electricity    Not complied
tariffs to reflect (i) the cost of    with  (para.
providing  services  at  various    5.04)
times and places to its customers
(ii) any changes in the price of
fuel used by PEWC in its operation
PA   4.03   (c)    PEWC  shall  effect  the  initial    Complied
adjustments  in  its  electricity    with.
tariffs required under PA 4.03 (b)
by January 1, 1976.
PA 4.03 (d)          PEWC shall complete a revaluation    Complied
of  its  assets  by  December  31,    with.
1975.
r                                                                               _
PA 4.04              Debt service coverage requirement    Complied
of 1.5.                                 with  except
for     FY78
(para. 5.09)



-18-                                ANNEX 2
Page 1 of 2
SUDAN
SECOND POWER PROJECT
(Credit 564-SU)
Awarded Contracts for Equipment and Works
Contract  Date of                      Contract
Category of Work          No.    Signiog                        Value
1) Transmission lines      P.II 104  01/28/76                   US$1,130,000
and substations                                              + £Sd 210,000
2) Transmission lines      P.II 105  07/07/76                   US$475,000
and substations                                              + £Sd 119,000
3) Burri diesel station    P.II 106  04/25/76                   £Sd 2,069,000
(diesel units)                                               + £Sd 17,000
4) Burri diesel station    P.II 107  01/08/77                   US$1,128,000
(switchgear)                                                 + £Sd 79,000
5) Burri diesel station    P.II 108  01/27/77                   £Sd 576,000
(civil works)
6) Unit No. 4 Roseires    P.II 200   11/30/75                   AS 61,960,000
(water turbine)                                              + £Sd 11,000
7) Unit No. 4 Roseires    P.11 201   04/09/77                   SKr 10,719,000
(generator)                                                  + £Sd 69,000
8) Unit No. 4 Roseires     P.II 202   09/08/77                  SwF 983,000
(switchgear)                                             I   + £Sd 18,000
9) Unit No. 4 Roseires    P.II 203   06/07/77                   AS 22,050,000
(gate plant)                                                 + £Sd 33,000
10) Unit No. 4 Roseires    P.II 204   05/23/77                   US$1,720,000
(civil works)                                                + £Sd 386,000
11) Stringing of 220 kV     238        06/19/77                  US$1,260,000
line (conductor)
12) Stringing of 220 kV     239        06/19/77                  US$87,500
line (earthwire)
13) Stringing of 220 kV     239        06/19/77                  Yen 141,580,920
line (insulators)



;_D_ - 'F- -- ts-zci--  i  
i - -~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ -                         - . X.-:
319-                        ANNB
Page 2 of 2
14) Stduglg  of 220 kV    239        1977                     E 61,500
limn (erectim equip.)
15) Stringing of 22D kV    239       1977                     £ 129,500
line (vehicles)                                           + £Sd 30,000
16) Juba per station      300        01/29177                 Dt7,897,000
diesel (generator)                                        + £Sd 58,000
17) Juba power station    301                                 £Sd 250,000
(foundation)
18) Juiba power station   302        03 14177                 E 130,000
(steel framed structore)



20 -                        A R     3
(Credit 56"U)
toe   Cost Estlte
Th 7ousmim)
-ippraialEtinste- -O3rrent Fatimste-
Local Foec    Total  local E?!     Total
A. Project Works
(i) 15-EU diesel
(Khartoum)          2,990      3,070   6,060   3,693   7,216    10,909
(ii)  4th Rwseires Uniit   5,110     5,210  10,320   6,516  13,253    19,799
(ILii) 220-kV Roseires
to Singa Circuit    2,640      2,560   5,200   3,265   5,456      8,721
(iv) 110-kY Singa to
Keina el Sharif
iln                1,880      1,780   3,660   2,319   1,164      3,483
(v) 54th of diesel
(Juba.)             1,390      1,440   2,830   2,405   5,848     8,253 41
(vi) Juba distribution      920        600-  1,520
B. Long-Term Planning
Studies  I/                350      1,090   1,440   2,952   1,143      4,095 51
c. EaJK Program                150      1,090   1,240
Subtotal            15,430     16,840  32,270
D. Contingencies
Physical               140        320     460
Price                  720      6,520  7240~
Total            16,290 2/  23,680  39,970  21,150  34,110 6/ 55,260
I/ Powaer market survey and hydroelectric investigations.
2/ Includes custous duties and local taxes of [Sd 3.8 million.
S1 At prevailing exchange rates:
1975 - US$1 - [Sd 0.34
1976-80 - US$1 - [Sd 0.5
1981-82 - US$1 - [Sd 0.9
1982-83 - US$1 - Sd 1.31
4/ Includes distribitiont and remaining erection works.
/Includes ECUK program.
US$31.6 million financed by Credit 564-SU and OPEC Fund; US$2.5 million to be
financed by Credit 1006-SU (Juba US$2  1lon, co5sultancy US$0.5 million).



=',~~~~~~~~~~~                                            ~   ~ .-  -~.~-$ -. -'  '  .    
-21 _ _                   A -   -   .
SUDAN
SECOND POE PROJECT
(Credit 564-SU)
Schedule of Disbursements
(US$ millions)
Actual as Z
Appraisal           Actual            of Appraizal
Quarter Ending          Es1tinate        Disbsrseaents           Estimate
Sept. 30, 1975             0.3
Dec. 31, 1975              0.7
Mar. 31, 1976              1.5                 0.5                  33
June 30, 1976              3.0                 1.4                  47
Sept. 30, 1976             4.5                2.6                   58
Dec. 31, 1976              6.9                3.0                   43
Mar. 31, 1977              9.3                3.9                   42
June 30, 1977             11.5                5.5                   48
Sept. 30, 1977            13.9                6.2                   45
Dec. 31, 1977             16.5                10.4                  63
Mar. 31, 1978             18.0                15.5                  83
June 30, 1978             20.5                17.1                  83
Sept. 30, 1978            22.2               18.0                   81
Dec. 31, 1978             22.5               19.2                   85
Mar. 31, 1979             22.8               20.0                   88
June 30, 1979             23.0               21.3                   93
Sept. 30, 1979                               21.3
Dec. 31, 1979                                21.3
Mar. 31, 1980                                21.5
June 30, 1980                                21.6
c      Sept. 30, 1980                                21.7
Dec. 31, 1980                                21.8
Mar. 31, 1981                                21.9
June 30, 1981                                22.0
Sept. 30, 1981                               22.0
Dec. 31, 1981                                 1/
1/ Closed on February 22, 1982 and the undisbursed amount of US$974,256.55
cancelled.



.         ~~ii  0l1 ~i §|i           N $ 0         ii 1      
*    ...                              ~~J
*:           I        ii  II pll    §gE§                                      I   §81   
.1. ~   ~      1i       l    |ag           8g'          1     R|
*  21i1  l41|1    AllNl@t | g g 0810 1            a |         11
1   |]  2   lfilEl i20§Rt   8i3iE0             R:- 
,    X   l  1~~~ii    ||  2@l                      1      
11 §      ]    21lp1 I § ii'M |8|p1   1           Rf 



-23 -
4nn= 6
Saall- Mmctckl-3r md Van cam
Tow  uD         :3                       1976                 1977               1978                1919                  19                   l19
1er  Sl   (GO                        556    526          611    543            611    635          738    679          8L1   6W5             899    7m
'a     salesI22    1316                             13      136          1£5121  1M59         16c    18475        7I94    3921         196    3O15
D. &       .                     1461   Z316         1578    1915         17(5                 MI52Z  181   34     158    4625         - 2147   5W5
*eMl-                           31      24          3622    32           3597   3622         3863    5718        4112   7517            4273   M
nis       m                       M        m1961  ZB68  2118    2119    2a        2540        27      3263         2668   40             2882   55N
An&Caaem1Ez.                       -     1486          -     392            -     197           -      36            -    539              -  -   -
Dq_-at,,                         1566   2127         1731   Z377          209    22D 7262   2955                   2D     3135          2768   36
Total Cp-          -           8D    30652         81#5s9   D120        5690   13631        WY07    806         15i8   2463)          IZIR
00L        Im                       4523   2716         5K2    gm            5441    2518         5S58    1i9         6575  1359            7391   7578
Otb_rT.,                             45D     15          45D    667           450     53           40    6m            45D   -50             450    62
get  mle 211F   L        t          A7    275           5512    1569         5891   3Df8         6301 851            I705   14097           7841    82
1ntacet Ouzd oe                      675    669          956    1065          121       2         1        209        1m3    134U           1250    140
I. e lriam Cip     w taq              0       0           0      0             0       0           0       0           0      407             0    476
To_ta 6h&                      675   W   10 IZ                        S 2S   Wi-   mD 1         i 54          Z -lZ                   ID   581
nat                                 AM8    2206         4556    56           460   28D6          4954    642          5691   8611           6651    2386
(8peatIllg Rmoi I
6fter  d     fnat)                 64      78          64      99           66      92          64      96          63      64            62      79
=         lace aswe                39806  4358B        435D1   49562        54060  54511        63625   57736        6GM5  64115          6S7ZZ   754
E8t  cE lam -                       11.4    6.6         1L6      3.2         I01      5.6         9.2      1.5        9.9   220             10.8   10.9
1/ AL  rapua1saL  Wm & Fmu1 c          sere lodied Iu dlent1UCanSIn  geneatmx ad trSs1z guts.
21 kb-I  flmwas rebqle to qm=t1g           m -id3e      Dts   d
C



24
SI-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Tba ad er              -93Ua  him
ONd dwano)
Yawr eafyg J1e 30:1976                                        1977                  198                 1!9                   1m                    198
FaLkLAM            Est.       Am.       St.    Act.            KuL                 ht Act.               Nut.    Act.pt. Ar
aut In   q rumiti                 754      96ZD        85136  19054        306785  148S         1108  131M                   ;1I                      1301
Tamzlta    dmc1stde               16431   31611        1BM    3671          219     441          25336   52759         290D6   623          33sm    73525
Net P1AKIC. In       an         5                    6690 -7-                                -~    -m              -i        -9                    
I  pIn                          7572    3809        1299    9027          462    14013         5766   21             872   253             30     388
Imh                                1992      881         937    4911          341    4168         135    205            1268    1490          62fn    45
*        hc u                      2681   1399         326   10405           3336   EM'           3610   15M4           4K8   3066           439D   42747
rnvtdm                             5324    7249         5856    9847         6442   13      7Y9 ;t96   21974           7795  S7              8574   4958
M133     so         143       667        1553      644        167      636          1812     639          1956     66U
1~~~~~~~~I                          ZT                 1         36@S 3Fi  14 92 im                         -ff  sIE   -iu
I Assets                        776      86156       8B      107198      1)1166  1238         11046  145769         11984  11_           13_    296
h1     ~ coIZal-Al                30508   3341        0 3 8   3615          30508   36U5         3D52    3415          30508   3U415        3X0M    3415
eaind  E-amdl                     L        5605        1786    6411         23193    7514       28546    250          262   5869            414'   7214
*Ra     ts                         3M00    6868         3000   16010        M3      19017        3000   2Z609          3       269           3M00   415Z
Bhvalmtlm Rem                      5316   13733         5316   3012          5316   37216        5316   44699           5316   5309          S316   6011
-Tal                            51824    0210        56660   86737        621D   9816Z         6737D  14663          73716  124w          a11  1f5615
law1re  -LabirIti                     1524   16910        21302   12906   D      25    16110        2365  2750            30188   33   Z         I0 32 3 51
A euts PaVble                      6963    78649        7682   4648          843S    7731       9334     1321         1M       25073        11       271
Cuton    depasiz                   1642     663         1795     932         M141    1240      2D         1319          246    1660          2i0       Z
0tIBr                              193M      526        2127    1775         2350       5       2574         5          331      867         3115        6
Tt st aepty    Lt                   -        -           -       -            -       -         -         -             -       5233          -      11361
Total                           10541    9036        1160    73           1289    W6         14116     1460         I        31           i       74U9
OtLf iri                               295     -            35      -            295     -          35        -             295     -              95 -
Total ) tymd   d LUaMitl          7768    8615         8961  107M          10116   1Z48   110146    14576             119844  1811         130562 231
DIbtKqduty                           2278   2278          27:73  13:87         29:71  14:86       30:70     20:8          29.71 n   8          29n71  26:74



-25- 
ARM 7
-~~~~ -*-                                                  M
TOWr       Jawi ~    30:              1976                  197                   397                  1979                 190m
SE   of -p
t Nme bIer           t         5753   23B   60         0      62           7179    912         71Z5  -2890                  13W    8         7   tWB
DqpecLal632743   29348                               2506   3D72           2970   373          3426   4177           3M2    429           a es 
Nw. far bed dbt                         58                                          271                                      1720                385
T-as &Sh rAMOU    i9                       9 Z s                  1        09                           7M6                               -m  
E      Sscdmt                           83                    33                    3D7                 - _ _
Gm tsd Advmhi  fz
Hfn1mty of 2E28                                             9142                  307                 3N2                   4514               1462
IadE oE S                             2ZO 
Qs (z EL         36&)         330                   37                     2302     68        27o        1          272       19        3678       1
GM                                                                                 an 8m                                       s5                 37
MI 564                        1266                  3405   4645           2151   318           48     2 z1                   2)                  101
AM~                             8e    755                    414                   1                   m                     63                  m
Em.iLt                                 3s                    us                    143                 160                   2                 136
Sat6i                                                        248                   531                I=                     513                 300
NEC                                                                                                                         OMS                 W
Otbinr                                                                            16925741                            --   39  -                   3
TOeaI                                                                            7288 sa            li  ZZ3 3                          367823502
Tcai SMzCs                  12M    12             15198 B                15302  1552        13963   16435         14945     53                49565
I411atmil of a.xId
Froje                         199    1788           _       430           5015   5960         1196   I00             -      572          -       750
Octr                          9650   2M6            91L4     65s             54    636        916    81            12193  1134         1410   19663
Tootal                     I5g6W                                                                                  WI 129             1
AtlMIZW-tm                     269   2781            321   39              53)   4             78    1067             m    4103         1026   223
jntera                         853    973           IZ4   1;7            1712    262         1972    209           2156   1355         2308   l0W
L2teLot iFqixy                                                                                                              5236           -     61-
Total                        1112   W               31I                                                                    WI          MN  3W
C(dereme) In W.C.      -33   3805          -129   4lS             --g    4"Z           729   4067           -34   IO05            m    1913
Total hpl±catin             17    12185           1518   D243            15302  15523       13863  16435          14965  353           16606  49565
aft *ezwIh    r16e 1d by
1ntezml Ca.h Camdz               7.2      1.6          5.5    1.2            4.4    1.1          3.9    1.2           4.0    3.6           3.9    3.4



=-0-~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ - -0f
-26                                                     9
AINEK 9
Seo Poe Project
Retura aa I    It 1/
PI       Projec              Aditional                 Total      Total_
Ff years    sales    Revmes 2/  Cbst    C0sts 3/   0 & M    Dstr.    0 & M                Revenues 4/ Qbsts 4/
(GWh)                             (ESd' 000)                                      'LS   '0
1976                                          1451                                           0        7037
1977                                          6083                                           0       25305
1978                                          3581        303                                0       13555
1979                                          1521        350                                0        4977
1980         30         1710        217-       346        409      400        70            3625      3057
1981         51         2754        433        125                 600        20            4572      280
1982         92         5244       1429         0          '       700       200           6817       3559
1983        142         8804       4835         0                  300       230            8B04      5774
1984        177        22302       7851         0                   0         '            17842      8490
1985                   26373         '          0          '                               21908      8490
1986-95                              '          0                                                     8490
1996         '           '                    1451                                                    9941
1997                                          2921              '             '               '      11411
1998                                 '        1560         '                  '                      10050
1999         '           '                      10                                            '       8500
2000-01                  '           '          0          '        o         '                       8490
2002                                 '          80                 400        '                       8970
2(D03         '          e                    1900                 600I                              1099D
2004         '                                2390                 700        '                      11580
2005         '           '                     220                 300                        '       9010
2006-12     177        26373       7851         0         409       0        23D           21908      8490
IRR -14%
1/ Excluxg the project compont related to Juba
/Based on actl average tariffs.
_/ Exldling costcss andl duis.
4/ Expred in FM83 price leel acording to the fofliing price irxx: 1976 = 4.85, 1977   4.16; 1978 = 3.49,
1979 = 2.66, 198D = 2.12, 1981 = 1.66, 1982 = 1.30, 1983 = 1.00, ald 1984 = 0.80.



APPENDIX A
- 27 -
CONNENTS FROM THE GOVERMENT OF SUDAN
P.CL5268
248423 WORLDBANK
22324 EINAR SD
DATE 4112/84
FROM: 22324 EIMAR SD
TO: WORLD BANK/ WASHINGTON
FOR: MR. YUKINORI WATANABE
¶       ACTING DIRECTOR - GENERAL OPERATIONS EVALUATIONS
RE: YOUR LETTER OF OCTOBER 23, 1984 REGARDING PROJECT COMPLETION
REPORT ON SUDAN, SECOND POWER PROJECT (CREDIT 564-SU) (.) WE HAVE
THE FOLLOWING REMARKS WHICH WE HOPE TO BE CONSIDERED.
AAA/ PARA 3.4 LINE 12 AND PARA 3.6 LINE 7, INDICATE THAT THE
GOVERNMENT IS NOT INTERESTED, WE DONT AGREE TO THIS POINT
SINCE THE CAUSES OF DELAYS ARE DUE TO CERTAIN PROBLEMS
AND NOT OF NON INTEREST OF THE GOVERNMENT.
BBB/ PARA 3.4 LINE 11, INDICATES THAT MATERIALS AND GOODS SENT
TO JUBA FOR THE POWER PLANT WERE DIVERTED BY LOCAL AUTHORITIES
TO OTHER USES, WE AGREE IF THERE ARE STRONG EVIDENCES.
CCC/ THE LANGUAGE CONCERNING NEC PERFORMANCE IS VERY HARD
AND WE NEED TO BE TO SOME EXTENT REASONABLE (PARA. 3.3,
3.4, 3.5, 3.6 AND 3.8) REFERRED (.) ALL OTHER CONTEXT
IS ACCEPTABLE (.) BEST REGARDS.
EIMAR-KEARTOUM                                               OED NOTE
248423 WORLD BANK
22324 EIMAR SD                                               Para. 3.04 - Revised






