Report No. 516a-SU                                                                           ILE  COPY
The Sudan
Appraisal of the Sudan
Power 11 Project
April 25, 1975
Public Utilities Projects Division
Eastern Africa Regional Office
Not for Public Use
Document of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development
International Development Association
This report was prepared for official use only by the Bank Group. It may not
be published, quoted or cited without Bank Group authorization. The Bank Group does
not accept responsibility for the accuracy or completeness of the report.



DHE SUDAN
SUDAN P0WEt II PROJMT
CURRENCIES. WEIGHTS AND EASURES
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
US$ 1.00          =  ZSd O.348
SSd l.00          =   US$ 2.87 1/
£Sd 1,000,000         US$ 2,8741,000
£Sd 1                 1000 millimes (mrs)
WEIGHTS AND MEASURES
1 meter (m)                         =   3.28 feet
1 square meter (m2)                 =   10.75 square feet
1 kilometer (km)                    -   0.621 miles
1 square kilometer (km2)                 0.386 square miles
1 cubic meter (m3)                      35.3 cubic feet
1 cubic meter per second (m3/s)     -  35.3 cubic feet per second
1 kilovolt (kV)                     =   1000 volts
1 kilowatt (kW)                     =  1000 Watts
1 kilowatt hour (kWh)               =   1000 watt hours
1 megawatt (MW)                     -  1000 kilowatts
1 gigawatt hour (GWh)                   1 million kilowatt hours
GLOSSARY AND ASSREVIATIONS
ADB       a   African Development Bank
CEWA      -    Central Electricity and Water Administration
CEWC      -    Central Electricity and Water Corporation
BEUK      -    Electricity Council of the United Kingdom
Gibb      -    Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (U.K.)
GRS       -    Government of the Democratic Republic of the Sudan
M/M       -   Merz and McLellan (U.K.)
MWSC      -   Middle West Service Company (U.S.A.)
PEWC      -    Public Electricity and Water Corporation
PWD       -    Public Works Department
SI&PCo.   -    Sudan Light and Power Company (U.K.)
FISCAL YEAR
July 1 - June 30
1/ Official rate: an exchange tax of 15% levied on most foreign
transactions makes the effective rate L&d 1.00 = US$2.50.
The tax is included in the cost estimates.



THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Page
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS ..................... i - ii
I. INTRODUCTION.. ..                                     * *   1
II.   THE ECONOMY ... ..        ..... . . .. .. *. .    2
III.   SECTOR BACKGROUND ............ .   3
Energy Sources.... .............. a .   3
Coordination of Electricity Development and
Irrigation ........           ....                   3
Integration of Electricity Development and
Urban Water Supply ...........           ............   5
Available Electricity Supply Facilities and
the Present Situation.......-............            5
IV.   THE PROJECT            ... o..                              6
Investment Program  ..............                         6
Description of the Project.                                6
Engineering and Construction.                              7
Project Cost Estimate .                 .                  7
Amount of Proposed Credit                       .          9
Unit Costs.....  9
Procurement and Disbursement . .                           9
Ecological Aspects.. . 9
V. JUSTIFICATION .                       .                       9
Power Market...  9
Forecast of Electricity Requirements ...........   10
Need for Additional Capacity  ..................   10
Available Alternatives:  Least Cost Solution ....  11
Return on Investment .... ......................    12
vi.   THE PUBLIC  ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION ...  13
Historical Background         ...                         13
Present Institutional Friamework ...                      13
Organization and Managemient              .     ..        14
The New Act  . ..... .... ... 15
Staff                         ...  15
Training ........16



TABLE OF CONTENTS (Continued)
Page
VII.   FINANCIAL ASPECTS ...................... ........*          16
Background ........ . ......... ...... .. ....              16
Accounting and Audits .-.......                             17
Tariffs and Rate of Return         ........................    17
Past and Present Financial Position .          ......       18
Past Operating Results ......       ................        21
Fi-nancing Plan .....................       ....0 ..        22
Future Operations and Financial Position .......            23
VIII.   AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION: ................     24



APPRAISAL OF THE SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
LIST OF ANNEXES
Annex
1. Detailed Description of PEWC's Facilities and of the Proposed Project
2. Installed Plant Capacity in January 1974
3. Project Implementation Schedule
4. Cost Estimate
5. Estimated Schedule of Disbursements
6. Growth of Consumption by Category - Low Forecast - Blue Nile Grid
7. PEWC's Power Market Forecast - Blue Nile Grid
8. Electric Power Demand and Supply - Blue Nile Grid
9. Electric Energy Requirement and Supply - Blue Nile Grid
10. Demand and Capacity Chart - Blue Nile Grid
11. Least Cost Solution
12. Return on Investment
13. Existing Organization Chart
14. PEWC's Computerized Billing System
15. Organization Chart Proposed by the Electricity Council of the U.K.
16. Management Consultancy Services
17. PEWC's Tariffs
18. Balance Sheets
19. Income Statements
20. Cash Flows
21. Financial Assumptions
22. PEWC's Water Operations
23. Project Monitoring
M A P
10992-Ri Public Electricity and Water Corporation - The Blue Nile Grid






THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS
i.        The Government of the Democratic Republic of the Sudan (GRS) and the
Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC) have requested assistance
from the Association in financing a program of expansion of electricity
generation, transmission and distribution facilities for its Blue Nile grid
and its Southern area. In 1967, the Bank made a loan to PEWC (loan 522-SU)
to finance the Roseires power station and related transmission facilities;
the Sudan Power II Project is a sequel to this initial development.
ii.       The project comprises:
(a) Addition of a 42-MW hydro unit at Roseires hydroelectric
station and of 15 MW of diesel capacity at the Burri
station in Khartoum with complementary transmission line
extensions;
(b) Addition of 5-MW diesel capacity to Juba power station,
upgrading and extending the Juba distribution system;
(c) Long term planning studies; and
(d) Management consultancy services by the Electricity Council of
the U.K. (ECUK).
The project represents the least cost solution (para. 5.10) and the rates of
return on the main sub-projects (a) and (b) are 23% and 12% respectively
(para. 5.14).
iii.      The project cost is estimated at about US$40 .0 million of which the
foreign exchange cost is US$23.7 million equivalent. Procurement would follow
international competitive bidding in accordance with Association Guidelines
and the proposed credit would cover almost the entire foreign cost of the project
(para. 4.07). The Association has agreed, on its usual conditions, to PEWC's
request to implement ECUK's management assistance program from September 1974
and to employ engineering consultants. Retroactive financing for this is not
expected to exceed US$300,000 (para. 4.09). Local costs would be fully
covered by internally generated cash (para. 7.20).
iv.       PEWC is solely responsible for all public electricity and urban
water supply in the Sudan. Institutionally, it was weak when loan 522-SU was
made. Expectations of improvement have not been realized, as many undertakings
given to the Bank Group have gone by default (para. 1.04). In view of this,



- ii '_
the Association required and the Democratic Republic of the Sudan passed the
PEWC Act of 1975 which has restored PEWC's autonomy (para. 6.12 - 6.15) and
introduced several other important organizational and staff measures. Not-
withstanding these measures, past experience suggests that it will be an
uphill struggle to attain the institutional development objectives (paras. 1.04
to 1.06).
v.        Electricity development in the Sudan is crucially dependent on
proper operation of multiple purpose reservoirs and on irrigation development
plans. Lack of coordination between PEWC and the Ministry of Irrigation and
Hydroelectric Power in the past has led to weakness in carrying out power
surveys and drawing up long term development plans and to consistent delays in
preparing schemes for expansion (para. 3.01). Responsibility for this work
was divided earlier, but under the new Act will rest with PEWC (para. 3.05).
A Committee for Coordination of Operation of Roseires Reservoir, required by
the Bank Group in 1967, has been set up in February 1974, with the General
Manager of PEWC, as one of its members (para. 3.06). GRS has now directed
that the committee referred to above, should also coordinate all future investi-
gations of projects involving hydroelectric generation (para. 3.07).  These
arrangements should remove the basic planning weaknesses. PEWC and ECUK have
entered into a contract for a detailed program of management and technical
assistance. The Association considers that development of PEWC as a viable
entity depends crucially on successful implementation of this program (para.
6. 10).
vi.       PEWIC's overall financial performance in recent years has not been
satisfactory. Since July 1971, when the corporation had to take over the
operations of the Public Works Department, PEhC has been incurring increasing
losses on its water operations. The financial performance on its electricity
operations was satisfactory until July 1974 when substantial fuel cost in-
creases were introduced. lb rectify the situation, GRS has agreed to increase
the electricity and water tariffs by 30%and 70% respectively.  The increase in
the water tariffs is a condition of effectiveness of the credit (para. 7.07).
The increases will leave the charges on the lower income groups at a reasonable
level and will make PhWC a financially viable entity.
vii.      On the basis of the agreements reached, the proposed project is
suitable for an IDA credit of US$23.0 million equivalent to be relent to
PEhC by the Govermnent at 8% interest and repaid over a period of 24 years
including a grace period of 4 years.



THE SUDAN
APPRAISAL OF THE SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
I. INTRODUCTION
1.01      This report covers the appraisal of a project of the Public Elec-
tricity and Water Corporation (PEWC) which is solely responsible for all
public electricity and urban water supply in the Sudan. The borrower would
be the Government of the DemDcratic Republic of the Sudan (GRS) which would
relend the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit of US$23.0 million to PEWC to
finance the Sudan Power II Project for expansion of its generation, trans-
mission and distribution facilities and for consultancy services. The credit
represents almost the entire foreign cost of the US$ 40.0 million equivalent
project, which in turn constitutes 30% of the beneficiary's investment program
in electricity during the period 1973/74 through 1978/79.
1.02      In 1961, the Bank Group provided US$32.5 million to GRS through loan
284-SU and credit 2-SU to assist in the financing of the Roseires Irrigation
Project; and in 1963, a further US$6.3 million to cover the construction of
the substructure and related works of the Roseires dam power station. The
Bank made its first loan, 522-SU, to PEWC in 1967 to finance the installation
of the first three 30-MW generating sets at the Roseires dam, a 15-MW gas
turbine, and complementary transmission facilities. The power stations have
been in operation since 1971. The original amount of the Loan of US$24.0
million was subsequently reduced to US$19.0 million due to savings on con-
struction of transmission lines. A feasibility study for PEWC's next expan-
sion project was included under loan 522-SU and carried out by Merz and
McLellan (M/M)(U.K. Consultants).
1.03      The Bank Group has not financed PEWC's water supply operations so
far; nor is the proposed credit intended to cover them. However, in connec-
tion with loan 522-SU, PEWC agreed to separate targets of performance for
its water supply and combined operations. Primarily due to high electricity
tariffs, the financial performance of PEWC's electricity operations until
1974 was satisfactory. However, PEWC's combined operations have not yielded
even the expected moderate financial results because of inadequate water tariffs
resulting in heavy losses in these operations and there has been a default on
PEWC's financial undertakings to the Bank Group.
1.04      Institutionally, PEWC was weak when loan 522-SU was made.  It was
expected, however, that with the constitution of an autonomous Corporation
in 1967, employment of management consultants and modernization of billing,
PEWC's operations would improve significantly. These expectations have not
been realized as several undertakings given to the Bank Group have gone by
default. PEWC's organizational structure was greatly weakened in 1969 when
the Board of Directors was abolished and its powers were transferred to the



-2-
Minister in charge, with no delegation of responsibility to the General
Manager, as agreed; and the required Committee for Coordination of Operation
of Roseires Reservoir was not set up, resulting in sub-optimal operation and
continued delay in planning for future development.
1.05      It has also to be observed that the management consultant employed
by PEWC for six years failed in the task of computerizing billing. This
obscured the deterioration in PEWC's financial performance after 1970. The
unsettled conditions in the country, the military coup in 1969, and political
changes, also contributed to the poor results. Finally, Bank supervision
concentrated more on project implementation than on institutional development.
l.Oo      To correct institutional deficiencies oRS and PEWC have agreed to a
number of reorganization and staffing measures; some of which have already been
implemented.  On past performance, and notwithstanding agreements reached and
proposed, it will be an uphill struggle to quickly attain the objectives of
building up a financially viable national entity capable of carrying out for-
ward planning and timely expansions of electricity supply, ensuring proper
maintenance of its generation and transmission facilities to minimize costs,
and improving reliability and safety standards.
1.07      The project is a short term solution and is urgently needed by the
Sudan to meet the growth of demand from 1977 until 1980. It poses no parti-
cular difficulties in construction and PEWC should be able, with the assist-
ance of consultants. to implement and operate it satisfactorily. This report
is based on information obtained by Messrs C.K. Chandran, M.L. Heitner and
D.A. Ruiz during the appraisal mission in January-February 1974 and during
appraisal-updating missions in July 1974 and March 1975.
II. THE ECONOMY
2.01      The Republic of the Sudan is the largest country in Africa, covering
an area of 2.5 million km2. About 12% of its population of 17 million lives
in towns and cities and one third of this urban population is concentrated in
the metropolitan area around Khartoum. Over half of the country's population
lives in Khartoum province and the intensively cultivated triangular strip in
Central Sudan between the White Nile and the Atbara River, where most of the
irrigated areas are situated. Many projects for development of irrigation
and electricity supply have been built in this area which has so far been the
main focus of development.
2.02      With an estimated per capita GNP of US$120 (1972) the Sudan is one of the
poorest countries in Africa. It has a predominantly agricultural and pastoral
economy in which 85% of the population is engaged. Agriculture accounts for
40% of GDP. Commercial agriculture is confined to Central Sudan; cotton is
the most important cash crop and accounts for over 60% of the country's ex-
ports. Although occurrences of iron ore, gold and copper are known, there



-3-
has been lftle mineral exploitation so far.  There are no heavy industries
in the Sudan, but a range of light indlustries, covering textiles, foodstuffs,
beverages, footwear, and consumer goods for the local market have sprung up in
and around Khartoum; mining and manufacturing now contribute 13% to GDP.
III. SECTOR BACKGROUND
3.01       Electricity supply in the Sudan is crucially dependent on the dams
constructed by the irrigation sector, whereas the electricity sector is
administratively linked with the urban water supply sector (paras. 3.08 and
6.01). Separate ministerial responsibilities for the irrigation and elec-
tricity sectors is one of the reasons why a long-term electricity development
plan has not been prepared in the Sudan and PEWC has not been able to prepare
appropriate projects for timely expansion.
Energy Sources
3.02      The Sudan has no known reserves of fossil fuel; imported oil and
hydroelectricity are the main sources of energy. Its existing hydro stations
are capable of generating 700 GWh of energy annually; potential sites yet to
be investigated in detail are believed to be capable of producing additional
annual energy of the order of 8,000 GWh.
3.03      Until 1962 the demand for electricity was too small and the distances
of load centers from potential hydroelectric sites too great to warrant intro-
duction of hydroelectric power. The Sennar and Roseires dams were completed
in 1925 and 1962 respectively; but power stations were installed at these dams
only in 1962 and 1966. They supply half of the country's total electric energy
today and their contribution is expected to increase to 75% by the end of the
decade. The characteristics of the Sudan's hydroelectric resources - which
are located on the main stem of the Blue Nile - are such that its practical
utilization is closely linked to, and in some ways restricted by, the develop-
ment of irrigation. 1/
Coordination of Electricity Development and Irrigation
3.04      Traditionally, investigations and development of hydroelectric
power have been the responsibility of the Ministry of Irrigation and Hydro-
electric Power, which has no direct responsibility for electricity supply.
1/   The dam structures which provide the power potential are in most cases
economically justifiable only in association with schemes which, in fact,
have been initiated for irrigation and have borne the entire costs of the
existing dams. It is, therefore necessary to coordinate closely irriga-
tion and electricity planning (paras. 5.07 and 5.08).



- 4 -
That Ministry, through its consultants, carries out hydroelectric investi-
gations and has developed hydroelectric potential, wherever feasible, at
sites of irrigation storage dams, leaving operation of the power stations
to PEWC. 1/ Ministerial responsibility for PEWC has shifted from time to
time. Presently, the Minister for Local Government, Housing and Community
Development has responsibility for the work of PEWC.
3.05      The 1966 Act did not specifically charge PEWC with the duty of
carrying out investigations of power projects or preparing long term develop-
ment plans. Nor has PEWC done so. The PEWC Act of 1975 (para. 6.13) now
specifically assigns this responsibility to PEWC. PEWC has agreed to under-
take and complete, by 1976, the investigations of certain hydroelectric pos-
sibilities (at Jebel Aulia on the White Nile and Sabaloka on the Nile) which
are not covered by the ongoing program of the Ministry of Irrigation and
Hydroelectric Power and do not provide additional irrigation. However, these
investigations are required to draw up a long term electricity development
plan covering all available alternatives. The proposed credit would meet the
foreign consultancy costs of these studies which should provide adequate data
for preparing a 15-year development plan for electricity supply. ECUK has
agreed to provide PEWC with the necessary technical assistance to build up a
system planning unit within PEWC which will prepare and continuously update
a long term development plan. PEWC has confirmed, during negotiations, that
it would (a) carry out or arrange for necessary investigations of all alterna-
tives for expansion of generating capacity and (b) prepare by 1976 a long
term electricity development plan up to 1990 based on the estimated market
demand and least cost solutions. This would remedy the weakness described in
para. 3.01.
3.06      In connection with loan 522-SU, GRS agreed to set up a Committee
(including PEWC representatives) for Coordination of Operation of Roseires
Reservoir to optimize use of stored water for development of both irrigation
and power. This committee was not set up, and PEWC and its consultant have
had difficulty in obtaining reliable information on utilization of water in
the Blue Nile irrigation system on which it could plan the most economic
alternative for expansion of PEWC's generating capacity. Eventually, in
February 1974, this committee was established with the General Manager of
PEWC as one of its members. The rise in oil prices places a high premium
on the development and use of hydroelectric energy in the Sudan. The current
assessment of the Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power is that the
1/   The construction of the power house superstructure and installation of
the generating plant at Roseires, was done by PEWC (para. 1.02). The
Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power is currently carrying
out investigations of two multiple purpose projects: Rahad II project
and Atbara river multiple purpose development (Stage II).



ultimate storage at Roseires reservoir would be ample for both irrigation
and hydroelectric development rather than primarily for irrigation, as held
hitherto. 1/
3.07      GRS has now directed the Committee for Coordination of Operation of
Roseires Reservoir (para. 3.06) to coordinate the investigations of all proj-
ects involving hydroelectric generation. Under the PEWC Act of 1975 the
Director-General of Irrigation Affairs of the Ministry of Irrigation and
Hydroelectric Power is a member of PEWC's Executive Administrative Board
(para. 6.12). These arrangements should ensure proper coordination of develop-
ment in these two closely related sectors.
Integration of Electricity Development: and Urban Water Supply
3.08      Historical circumstances rather than functional reasons are re-
sponsible for the present situation ir, which electricity and urban water
supply operations have been combined within a single entity (para. 6.01).
In fact, there is a duality of overall responsibility for water supply in
the Sudan with rural water supply constituting a separate responsibility of
the Ministry of National Resources and Rural Development. There are strong
pressures from the power wing of PEWC for splitting off the functions of
electricity and water supply. An administrative reorganization committee
of GRS supported it in 1973. ECUK also agreed with this suggestion. One
of the reasons that prompted the recommendation was the proposed decentral-
ization of responsibility for water supply to regional and provincial organ-
izations. Although the People's Local Government Act of 1971 does indicate
this trend, the actual position is presently unclear. As it has not yet been
established that splitting the functions of electricity and water supply would
be in the national interest PEWC has agreed to carry out a detailed study of
the advantage or otherwise, of combining the two unrelated functions. GRS
has agreed that the study be carried out by ECUK in coordination with the
World Health Organization (WHO) survey for the water supply sector of
November 1974.
Available Electricity Supply Facilities and the Present Situation
3.09      Except for the Port Sudan refinery and a few industrial under-
takings who have their own generating plant (aggregating to about 30 MW),
PEWC now operates all public electricity services in the Sudan. PEWC has
about 190,000 electricity customers of whom 140,000 are supplied by the Blue
Nile grid.
1/   The Minister for Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power, Mr. Yahya Abdel
Magid, informed the appraisal mission that on the basis of recent
information the expectation was that roughly half of the additional
storage which would be provided by the contemplated increase in the
height of Roseires Dam by 10 meters, could be made available for elec-
tricity generation. This, if borne out by ongoing investigations, would
considerably influence the course of future electricity development in
the Sudan for some time to come.



3.10      Out of a total installed capacity of 210 MW, the Blue Nile grid
has a capacity of 170 MW, of which 105 MW is hydro; the balance is made up
of diesel and thermal units. PEWC's isolated systems have an aggregate
capacity of 42 MW, mainly diesel. Some of the small diesel powered systems,
particularly the Eastern and Northern areas, will eventually be absorbed
into the Blue Nile grid. Many of the systems feeding large population
centers like Atbara, Juba and Port Sudan will remain isolated for a long
time to come. Annex 1 describes PEWC's electricity supply facilities and
Annex 2 lists the particulars of PEWC's generating plant.
3.11      Although power supply is generally adequate to meet current require-
ments, in the Blue Nile grid, reliability of supply has been poor, due to
low plant availability generally and particularly to the unsatisfactory
operation of Roseires power station (para. 6.10), frequent breakdowns, and
reliance on a single 220-kV transmission circuit. Industries complain of
disturbing interruptions and high tariffs. Technical operations of the
system are unsatisfactory and safety precautions poor. The proposed project
aims at eliminating these weaknesses.
IV. THE PROJECT
Investment Program
4.01      PEWC has prepared a 6-year construction program 1974-79 estimated
to cost about iSd 46.2 million (US$132.7 million equivalent), to expand its
generation by about 80 MW, and its transmission and distribution facilities.
The program is balanced and broadly adequate.
Description of the Project
4.02      The proposed project, which is part of the program, comprises the
following:
(a)  (M)  Addition of 15 MW (3x5 MW) of diesel generating
capacity at Burri thermal station in Khartoum
by 1978 (the first two units to be installed by
end 1977);
(ii)  Addition of a 42-MW generating unit at Roseires
hydroelectric power station by December 1978;
(iii) Complementary extensions of the transmission system;
(iv)  Addition of 5 MW (5x1 MW) at Juba diesel power
station; and
(v)  Upgrading (from 3.3 kV to 11 kV) and extending
the Juba distribution system.



(b) Long-term planning studies for preparation of a 15-year
electricity development plan by early 1976; and
(c) ECUK's program for reorganization of PEWC and improvement
of its technical operations and management (paras. 6.08 to 6.10).
Details of the project are given in Annex 1. Locations are shown on the map.
Engineering and Construction
4.03      PEWC needs, and has agreed to employ, consultants for engineering
and construction of the project. Considering the gestation period of the
expansion projects and the preconstruction engineering involved, the Associa-
tion agreed in March 1974 to PEWC's request to choose consultants for the
project in advance and to initiate preparation of specifications and invita-
tion of bids, etc. With the Association's approval, PEWC has chosen its
former consultants, Merz and McLellan (U.K.) and Societe Gingrale Pour
l'Industrie (Switzerland) for the engineering work on item (a) of the project.
PEWC has agreed to continue to employ acceptable engineering consultants under
conditions satisfactory to the Association for the design and construction
-of the project.
4.04      The various components of the project represent extensions to
existing power stations and power system facilities; no special problems
are therefore expected in the construction of the project. The construction
schedule prepared by the consultants (Annex 3) is realistic. It aims at
commissioning the first two 5-HW units at Burri by end 1977, the third
in 1978 and the fourth hydroelectric unit at Roseires hydroelectric station
and the transmission lines in December 1978.
Project Cost Estimate
4.05      The project cost estimates are detailed in Annex 4, and summarized
below:



-8-
Project Cost Estimate
Description
-  iSd Thousands   -    -     US$ Thousands
(A)  Project Works             Local  Foreign    Total   Local   Foreign    Total
(1)  15-MW diesel         1,040   1,070      2,110   2,990    3,070       6,060
(Khartoum)
(ii)  4th Roseires Unit   1,780   1,810       3,590   5,110    5,210    10,320
(iii)  220-kV Roseires to
Singa Circuit          920      890     1,810   2,640    2,560       5,200
(iv)  110-kV Singa to
Meina El Sharif Lri  650        620     1,270   1,880    1,780       3,660
(v)  5-MW of diesel (Juba) 490       500       990   1,390    1,440       2,830
(vi)  Juba distribution      320      210        530     920       600     1,520
(B) Long-term planning
studies 1/                  120      380        500     350    1,090      1,440
(C)  ECUK Program                  50     380        430     150   1090        1,240
Subtotal             5,370   5,860    11,230  15,430   16,840   32,270
(D)  Contingencies
Physical                     50      110        160     140       320       460
Price                       250   2,270       2,520      720    6,520    7,240
Total                5,6702/ 8,2L0    13,910  16,290   23,680   39,970
1/   Power market survey and hydroelectric investigations.
2/   Includes customs duties and local taxes of iSd3.8 million.
4.06      The project cost estimate has been prepared by PEWC's consultants,
Merz and McLellan (M/M), in March 1974 and represents prevailing costs for
the equipment and services. The estimates of cost have been prepared on the
basis of quotations for similar equipment (diesel generating plant) received
late in 1973 by PEWC. The consultant has provided for physical contingencies at
at about 5%; this is in order for this project, which has a high equipment
component. Escalation on foreign costs has been provided for at the rate of
14% in 1974, 11% in 1975 and 7.5% during 1976-78. Local costs have been
assumed to escalate at 5% annually between 1974 and 1978 and cover primarily
local labor. The 5% escalation rate for local costs is based on the Sudan's
labor index, and has been applied to all costs other than customs duties
which f-^llow foreign escalation.



-9-
Amount of Proposed Credit
4.07      The cost of the entire project is estimated at US$40.o million
equivalent with an estimated foreign exchange content of about US$23.7 million,
which represents 60% of the total cost. The proposed credit would cover almost
the entire estimated foreign cost of the project.
Unit Costs
4.08      Excluding custom duties, taxes and future price escalation, the
cost per kW installed of the diesel installations is US$240 per kW and of
hydroelectric plant, US$138 per kW; these accord with recent experience.
Customs duties and taxes of 56% of CIF cost and provision for future escal-
ation (para. 4.06) increase the above figures to US$525 per kW for diesel
plants and US$308 per kW for the hydroelectric plant.
Procurement and Disbursement
4.09      All goods and services costing over US$20,000 would be procured
through international competitive bidding in accordance with Association
guidelines. No regional preferences apply. The civil works involved are
mainly in connection with the installation of the fourth unit at Roseires
power station. There are no Sudanese contractors experienced in this special-
ized construction. The funds of the credit account would finance the CIF
cost of the imported equipment and the entire cost of the engineering services.
At PEWC's request, the Association agreed, on its usual conditions, to the
PEWC implementing ECUK's program from September 1974 and selecting engineer-
ing consultants to commence timely preparation of bidding documents. The
retroactive financing involved would be for consultancy services and would
not exceed US$300,000. Any credit funds remaining undisbursed upon comple-
tion of the project would be cancelled. The estimated disbursement schedule
appears in Annex 5.
Ecological Aspects
4.10      The project mainly involves extension of existing hydroelectric
and diesel power stations and additions to the existing transmission system
and does not have any adverse impact on the environment.
V. JUSTIFICATION
Power Market
5.01      Electricity use in the Sudan 1/ has doubled during the six
years 1967-1973 to 352 GWh (Annex 6) but has not kept pace with the histor-
ical growth rate of 16.4% per annum in the preceding 5-year period. Industrial
1/   Refers to the Blue Nile grid which accounts for 82% of public supply.
PEWC has little statistical data on past sales in the isolated areas with
it took over from PWD in 1971.



- 10 -
consumption accounts for 40% of the total sales equalling the combined domestic,
commercial and municipal use. The share of agriculture has increased from 6%
in 1967 to 12% in 1973.
5.02      The growth of maximum demand on the Blue Nile grid from 48 MW in
1967 to 82 MW in 1973 has been slower than the energy growth rate, as the
system load factor increased by about 10% in this period. The annual system
load factor is presently about 60%.
5.03      The power market is characterized by marked seasonal variations,
which are significant both for system operations and for planning capacity
expansions. The maximum requirement (both demand and energy) occurs in April
and May (when the agricultural processing industries, mainly cotton ginneries,
work to full capacity) then falls off sharply by about 15-20% during the rains
(July-August). The demand increases again when irrigation pumping resumes
in October. The needs of irrigation pumping and agricultural industries
are complementary, but for a short interval in the winter, the demand slackens.
With the increasing share of irrigation pumping, the October peak has recently
been moving towards the April-May demand.
Forecast of Electricity Requirements
5.04      PEWC original forecast of annual electricity requirements up to 1980
could not be taken as realistic. During the appraisal PEWC prepared separate
low, median and high forecasts (Annex 7), of maximum demand and energy re-
quirements. PEWC also provided detailed evidence of developing industries and
progress of large irrigation projects (which account for 30% of the increase
in demand) to recommend acceptance of its low forecast as an adequate basis
for projection of revenues. As this estimate does not provide any allowance
for unforeseen loads, it was agreed by all concerned that planning for gener-
ating capacity expansions should be based on PEWC's median forecast.
5.05      PEWC does not at present have the expertise necessary for carrying
out the power market surveys required for its complex system in which the
peak demands and energy requirements have seasonal variations. The short
term (5-year) forecasts mentioned above were inadequate for long-term plan-
ning. PEWC has now agreed to initiate a long term power market survey
utilizing consultants and with the assistance of ECUK it will build up within
PEWC a unit which would gain experience of this work and thereafter continue
it.
Need for Additional Capacity
5.06      PEWC's facilities have been described in para 3.10.  In the isolated
areas now being fed by small diesel units, capacity expansions will be through
diesel capacity. In the Blue Nile grid there is the possibility of hydroelectric
expansion at Roseires. However, as the output of Roseires station is greatly
influenced by the pattern of irrigation development, it has to be evaluated
taking into account both the pattern of electricity demand and the growth of
irrigation.



- 11 -
5.07      The irrigation period in the Sudan extends from October to March
when water releases are high and there is, naturally, an abundance of hydro-
electric potential. After March the reservoir levels are low; further,
releases from storage until late June are limited to the water use for do-
mestic supply and other small riparian requirements. Little firm energy can
be guaranteed during the dry period (April/May/early June) which are the
months when power requirements are highest and of crucial importance. The
existing hydroelectric installations at Roseires were therefore planned on
the basis of coordinated operation with back-up thermal generation.
5.08      During April, May and early June, these thermal stations are operated
at base load to supply the bulk of the system energy requirements. The con-
strictions continue even after the rains start and river-flows increase during
July and August as the effective capacity of the hydroelectric generating sets
reduces by about 30% due to (a) low reservoir levels (which are intentionally
kept low to prevent silt accumulation in the reservoir) and (b) high down-
stream levels due to floods. The slackening of electricity requirements at
this time (para. 5.03) does not therefore ease the power supply situation
and thermal stations have to be continued to be operated merely to meet the
maximum demand.
5.09      During the appraisal a simulation study was undertaken by PEWC's
consultants where the patterns of electricity consumption were matched
against the future pattern of water availability for power generation from
the Roseires reservoir. It was based on the Ministry of Irrigation's latest
program for progressive use of storage for irrigation, which appears realistic.
The power supply situation was examined during three critical periods of the
year, both in regard to capability to cover the maximum demand and the energy
requirements. River-flows were assumed to correspond to those of a represent-
ative dry year 1/ used for irrigation planning in the Sudan. The results are
set out in Annexes 8, 9 and 10 and show that, assuming proper coordination in
the use of Roseires reservoir, the Blue Nile grid would have adequate energy
resources to meet requirements until 1979, barring the incidence of exception-
ally poor river flows, with a probability of about 10%. There would however
be a shortage of capacity of 53 MW by 1980. The project is needed to cover
this shortage.
Available Alternatives: Least Cost Solution
5.10      The following alternatives available to meet the deficits anticipated
in para. 5.09 were evaluated by the consultants:
(i) installation of oil-fired steam generating capacity
of 60 MW (2 units of 30 MW each) at Khartoum;
1/   A synthetic 80% water year constructed out of 50-year gauge flows.  Firm
hydroelectric power is generally assessed on the basis of reliability
of the order of 95% of the time. In this particular case, the river
flows used were found to correspond to an actual availability of about
90% of the time on the basis of past records. The basis was therefore
accepted.



- 12 -
(ii)  installation of gas turbine generating units of equivalent
diesel capacity;
(iii)  installation of the 4th and 5th generating sets at
Roseires hydroelectric station, stringing the second
220-kV circuit from Roseires to Khartoum (485 km); and
(iv)  installation of the 4th generating set at Roseires station
with 15 MW of diesel capacity at Khartoum, and complementary
transmission facilities.
5.11      Studies detailed in Annex 11, have indicated that alternative (iv)
is the most economical. For the Juba subproject, a review of the hydro-
electric potential of the White Nile and its tributaries revealed that no
hydro alternative is available to meet its small demand. Therefore diesel
installations will have to be built up until the demand reaches the order of
magnitude required for a possible hydro development.
Return on Investment
5.12      The return on the project has been calculated separately for the
Blue Nile grid capacity expansions - both generation and transmission - and
for the Juba system expansions. The strengthening of the transmission system
provides capacity adequate for the output of the subsequent generating sets.
However, the entire cost has been added to this project, as it is difficult
to apportion the cost of transmission accurately. The analysis therefore
understates the return.
5.13      The return on the project was taken to be the discount rate at
which the present worth of its associated system costs, including all capital
and operating costs but excluding taxes and depreciation, is equal to the
present worth of the associated system revenues obtained over its lifetime.
5.14      The equalizing discount rates have been established at 23% for the
Blue Nile grid expansion project and 12% for the Juba expansion scheme (Annex
12). These rates would reduce to 21% and 10% respectively when the local
exchange tax of 15% is added to the project costs. The figures above re-
present a minimum estimate of the economic rate of return as the full economic
benefits of the project are not adequately reflected by the electricity
revenues.



- 13 -
VI. THE PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
Historical Background
6.01      PEWC's origin goes back to 1925 when a group of British companies
negotiated an agreement to supply basic services of electricity and water
supply to the cities of Khartoum, Khartoum North and Omdurman. The Sudan
Light and Power Company (SL&PCo.) was then formed to provide capital, technical
advice and management, while ownership of the assets was vested with the govern-
ment. The Wad Medani Light and Power Company, similarly licensed to operate
in Wad Medani, received assistance from SL&PCo. Concurrently with the work of
SL&PCo., the Public Works Department (PWD) developed electricity and water
supply in other towns on a smaller scale.
6.02      SL&PCo. was nationalized a few years before the Sudan became a
sovereign state in 1956, and the Central Electricity and Water Administration
(CEWA) was set up in 1959 as a government department, directly responsible
to a Minister, to take over SL&PCo's functions. SL&PCo's largely expatriate
staff left the.Sudan in 1964.
Present Institutional Framework
6.03      In 1966, the Central Electricity and Water Corporation (CEWC) was
established as a statutory corporation to take over CEWA's functions. The
powers of the corporation were vested in a Board of seven members (including
the Chairman and the General Manager), all appointed by the Council of
Mlinisters, the five ordinary members being nominated by the Minister. The
Bank was satisfied with the enactment, except that it asked that the General
Manager be delegated sufficient authority to conduct the day to day business
of the corporation.
6.04      The 1966 Act required CEWC to take over the operations of PWD as
directed by the Minister. It also required CEWC to extend its services to
such areas as the Ilinister directed, on the understanding that the government
would subsidize any operating losses. CEWC was required to take over and
operate all PWD installations on July 1, 1971 and did so. However, CEWC did
not have the title for all these assets (para. 7.11). Besides, CEWC did not
receive any subsidies from GRS on account of these uneconomic operations.
It supplies both electricity and water to 31 towns, water alone to 19, and
electricity alone to 2.
6.05      In 1969, CEWCts board of Directors was abolished by a resolution
of the Council of Ministers and the powers of the Corporation were vested
in the Minister. Its first General Manager was removed from service. Since
then, the present General Manager has been running the corporation without
any statutory or formally delegated authority and in violation of a specific
assurance given to the Bank Group in 1967 in connection with loan 522-SU.
Control has been complicated by frequent shifts of ministerial responsibility.
Corrective action taken is described in paras. 6.12 to 6.15. With the enact-
ment of the new Act of 1975, the name of the utility has been changed to the
Public Electricity and Water Corporation (PEWC).



- 14 -
organization and Management
6.06      The present organizational structure is shown in Annex 13.  It is
hardly representative of the working of the corporation, as several top posts
are either vacant or manned by personnel chosen on the basis of seniority, with-
out the necessary expertise. Actual responsibility for moh of the work devolves
on caqpetent staff at lower levels who, given proper training and leadership, oould
handle wuch greater responsibilities. The organizational structure itself has not
responded to the change from a utility serving the Khartoum area to a national
corporation with a staff of 13,000; nor has it been paralleled by adequate develop-
ment of managemnt, training of staff, and improvements in financial operations.
6.07      Between 1966 and 1973, PEWC employed the MLddle West Service Compazn
(MWSC) as management consultants. During this period, MISC concentrated ons (i)
a revaluation of assets; (ii) the setting up of a computerized billing aystem;
(iii) assistance in general acoounting and (iv) periodic financial forecasts.
PKWC and the Association have been dissatisfied with the performance of MWSC.
Computerized billing has not worked satisfactorily to date (Annex 14)1 the
performance of the accounts section has not improved over the years, and the
periodic financial forecasta have been grossly inaccurate, representing nothing
more than unfounded expectations without identifying prevailing weaknesses or
suggesting remedies. MWSC's services were terminated in August 1973.
6.08      In January 1973, the General Manager requested ECUK for assistance
in reorganizing PEWC's electricity operations, reviewing its organizational
structure, preparing Job specifications for various posts, and setting up
appropriate training programs, An expert team visited the Sudan in June 1973,
examined the situation thoroughly and submitted a detailed report in September.
The report dealt fairly exhaustively with the aymptos of trouble and their
causes and presented specific recomendations to deal with them.
6.09      ECUK has proposed a new three-tier organizational structure (Annex
15), with a policy making and directing head office at Khartoum, and functional
area and district managements in charge of all operations. Detailed specifi-
cations have been drawn up for the key positions. The proposals have been
discussed in detail between PEWC and ECUK and have been accepted by PEWO and
ORB.
6.10      ECUK has offered its servicea to implement a comprehenrive two-year
program, covering assistance in selection of peronnel to fill key posts in
the now structure and providing experienced expatriates for periods ranging
from one month to two years where necessary (Annex 16 describes ECUK's pro-
gram). It includes placing of the operation of Roseirea power station under
an expert from the UK, which has been agreed to by GRS and PEW in February
1974. Thia arrangepent would oontinue until the Association is satisfied that
propor procedures have been instituted and PEWC personnel are well trained for
this responsibility.  3B1Ka program also provides for intnsive training of
PEWC staff both in the Sudan and the U.K. PEWC and ECUK have entered into a
contract to implement the entire program. The Association considers that
development of PEWC as a viable entity depends cruoially on the suecessAfl
implementation of this program.



- 15 -
6.11      PEWC  has also requested ECUK to undertake a review of its pro-
posals for improvement of its water operations.
The New Act
6.12      The PEWC Act of 1975 has been enacted to reorganize the Corporation
and particularly to restore its autonomy. Under this act, all executive
responsibility will vest in an Executive Administrative Board, headed by the
General Manager, which will have all the necessary powers, and frame admin-
istrative and financial regulations. The new act stipulates that the General
Manager will be responsible for all the day to day work of the corporation.
The General Manager would be appointed by the President of the Sudan on the
recommendation of the Minister, while the other members would be appointed by
the Minister. The Board membership comprises the General Manager, the Deputy
General Manager, the heads of departments, three representatives of unions
of PEWC's staff and two outside members - the Director General, Irrigation
Affairs and one outsider with experience of financial and commercial operations.
6.13       The new act gives the Board the authority to develop an efficient
and financially viable electricity and water supply system throughout the
country, and to carry out all necessary investigations and prepare long term
plans. The Board would have full powers to appoint all its staff. It would
require ministerial approval mainly for its borrowings, approval of PEWCts
annual budget and changes in tariffs.
6.14      The new act would also create an advisory planning council, com-
prising a chairman and 23 members, appointed by the Minister and representing
government departments, people's executive councils in the provinces, trade
unions, large consumers and important public personalities. The Council's
role is to suggest general policies, criteria for assigning priorities for
PEWC's schemes, and review the corporation's progress. GRS expects the
Council to make PEWC's management responsive to the needs of its consumers
and the country's requirements.
6.15      It is more usual for a Board to be independent of the actual opera-
tional management, but the Association has accepted GRS's preference, espe-
cially since the Executive Administrative Board has all functional responsi-
bilities and neither it, nor the General Manager, will be fettered in the
discharge of their day to day functions as hitherto.
Staff
6.16      The General Manager of PEWC, who has been in charge since 1971,
is an experienced water supply engineer but is not familiar with the technical
and management problems of the electricity sector. In general, the younger
members of PEWC's staff are well educated and able. Proper selection of key
personnel (para. 6.10) should improve management under the new Act. GRS has
agreed that the Association will be consulted prior to future appointments of
General Manager, Chief Electrical Engineer and Chief Financial Officer.



- 16 -
6.17      The position of Chief Financial Officer has frequently been vacant.
Three persons have held the post since 1970 without distinction. PEWC has
asked ECUK for assistance in selecting a suitable officer for this post;
the appcintment of a suitable Chief Financial Officer is a condition of
effectiveness of the proposed credit.
6.18      The lack of firm leadership and autonomy has led to low morale at
all levels of PEWC. A general salary reduction in 1969 in order to adjust
PEWC's salaries to the government level and the cancellation of some fringe
benefits is another reason. Salary scales have now been suitably revised.
6.19      With a staff over 13,000, PEWC is one of the largest employers in
the Sudan. About 10,000 employees are manual workers with little professional
qualifications and the corporation is overstaffed. This is partly because
PEWC was obliged to take over all PWD staff in 1970. Reduction of this staff
would create difficulties for the government. Further, the size of the country
and the scattered small operations of the corporation entails considerable
duplication. PEWC has agreed that it would not increase its non-technical
unclassified staff beyond the present level without prior consultation with
the Association.
Training
6.20      PEWC provides two types of training programs to its staff.  Under
a recently established program, about 30 engineers are sent each year for
practical or academic training abroad for periods ranging from 18 to 24 months.
PEWC also runs a 4-year apprenticeship program for skilled workers which
includes two years of theoretical training and two years of on-the-job train-
ing. The present training program, which is not entirely satisfactory, has
been reviewed by ECUK and a more comprehensive program will be worked out and
implemented along with the proposed reorganization. The emphasis will be
shifted from academic training to practical training both in the Sudan and in
the U.K.
VII. FINANCIAL ASPECTS
Background
7.01      Whei the first power project was appraised (Loan 522-SU), consider-
able difficulties were experienced in evaluating PEWC's finances. These were
due to: (i) a lack of reliable and consistent information on past performance;
(ii) long delays in closing the books; and (iii) billing difficulties due to
equipment failures. These conditions continue today. MWSC was expected to
provide the necessary assistance to solve these problems (para. 6.07), but its
performance was poor; the difficult conditions caused by frequent changes of
Chief Financial Officers and the weaknesses of PEWC's management after 1969
also contributed to lack of improvement.



- 17 -
7.02      A preappraisal mission, which visited the Sudan in July 1973 found
that the financial data compiled by PEWC continued to be inconsistent and un-
reliable. Data on units sold, collections and arrears were particularly un-
satisfactory. To a large extent, this was attributable to the poor perform-
ance of the computerized billing system introduced by MWSC in 1970 (Annex 14).
Besides, PEWC suffered from a critical shortage of qualified accountants;
techniques such as cost accounting and budgetary control had not even been
introduced. PEWC mounted a major effort to improve the situation on lines
suggested by the mission and it has now enabled compilation of some improved
data, but the situation remains unsatisfactory.
7.03      The financial statements presented in this report therefore repre-
sents the mission's best judgement on PEWC's financial performance. PEWC's
continuing shortcomings in the areas of accounting and finance should be borne
in mind while reviewing these statements. ECUK has agreed to provide sub-
stantial assistance to PEWC in these areas and it is expected that the quality,
the reliability and the timely submission of the financial data will improve
in the future (Annex 16 describes the proposals of ECUK).
Accounting and Audits
7.04      PEWC's accounts are presented in accordance with public utility
practice. While the system provides separate income statements for the
electricity and the water operations, it does not permit compilation of sep-
arate balance sheets and cash flows. PEWC has agreed to review its system
and prepare separate sets of accounts from FY1973/74 onwards. This is neces-
sary to monitor strict adherence to financial covenants.
7.05      PEWC's accounts are audited annually by a competent independent
Sudanese firm, Mohamed Abdel Halim & Co. The auditors have repeatedly under-
lined the shortcomings of PEWC's accounts and their reports have always been
qualified.  PEWC's accounts should continue to be independently audited and
assurances in this regard were obtained during negotiations.
Tariffs and Rate of Return
7.06      PEWC's present electricity and water tariffs were put into effect
following a MWSC study, in August 1967. Annex 17 contains a detailed descrip-
tion of PEWC's tariffs.
7.07      A covenant under the first loan provided  for PEWC to earn a
rate of return of not less than 4% on net operating assets for its water
operation. However, in recent years, PEWC has experienced increasing operat-
ing losses due to the unprofitability of the undertakings taken over in
1971/72. PEWC has proposed, and GRS has agreed, to increase the water tariffs
by approximately 70%; this would bring the rate of return to a 4% level.
The increase wiU still leave the charges on the lower income groups at a
reasonable level. Implementation of the new water tariffs, which is a
condition of effectiveness of the credit, is expected to take place on
July 1, 1975.



- 18 -
7.08      Although a 15% increase in the electricity tariff level would meet
the 8% rate of return covenant, PEWC has decided on a 30% tariff increase,
which GRS has accepted and intends to authorize effective July 1, 1975.
The tariff increase is appropriate in view of the fact that PEWC's assets
are undervalued and are to be revalued by December 31, 1975 (para. 7.11).
On the present book value, the new tariffs would enable PEWC to earn an
average rate of return of about. 11% during the next three years.
7.09      PEWC was required by the Bank to revise the structure of its
electricity tariffs on completion of the Roseires power project. Tffis has
not been done. PEWC's electricity tariff structure was examined by a Bank
mission including Mr. R. Turvey (consultant), which has advised PEWC on
how to restructure its electricity tariffs. PEWM has agreed to the mission's
recommendation and with ECUK assistance will set up a new tariff structure
which will reflect costs and include mandatory provisions to cover escalation
in fuel costs. PEWC has agreed to introduce cost reflecting tariffs by
January 1, 1976.
Past and Present Financial Position
7.10      Balance sheets as of June 30, 1971, 1972 and 1973 are shown in
Annex 18. The financial position as of June 30, 1973A1can be summarized
as follows:
1/  Actual results for FY 1973/74 are not expected before mid 1975.



- 19 -
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of June 30, 1973
(millions)
Assets                                            bSd      US$ Equivalent
Net power assets in operation          33.7           96.8
Net water assets in operation          13.1           37.6
Work in progress                        1.0            2.9
Total fixed assets               47.8          137.3
Net Accounts receivable                 6.7           19.3
Other current assets                    6.6           19.0
Total Assets                     61.1          175.6
Equity and Liabilities
Equity
Retained earnings                       6.5           18.7
Revaluation of assets                   5.3           15.2
Total                             11.8          33.9
Long Term Debt
Bank of Sudan                           3.0            8.6
GRS Advances                           30.5           87.7
IBRD (Loan 522-SU)                      7.0           20.1
Total                            40.5          116.4
Current Liabilities
GRS clearing account                    2.3            6.6
Other current liabilities               6.5           18.7
Total                              8.8          25.3
Total Equity and Liabilities           61.1          175.6
7.11      PEWC's assets are underestimated since the last revaluation of
assets was made in 1970, with the assistance of MWSC at a time when the
Roseires power station was not in operation, and before the take-over from
PWD of large number of undertakings in l971/72 (para. 6.04). While some
assets were recorded at book value, others have not even been included in



- 20 -
PEWC's books. This was the case, inter alia, of the intake substructure and
other appurtenant works of the Roseires power station and the entire cost of
the Khasm El Girba hydroelectric station. As a result, PEWC has recently
obtained the titlesof the major assets which it operated without them, and
has agreed to revalue its operating assets with the assistance of ECUK,
before December 31, 1975.
7.12      As of June 30, 1973 the gross accounts receivable of iiSd 6.9 million
represented nine months of sales; of this hSd 4.1 million was due by residen-
tial customers and 3Sd 1.3 million by municipalities. While PEWC has always
experienced difficulties in collecting arrears, the situation has been consider-
ably aggravated in the last few years with the introduction of computerized
billing in Khartoum.  Since June 1973, PEWC has made a major effort to collect
these arrears, and it has recently provided the Association evidence, certified
by the auditors, that gross accounts receivable have been reduced to the equiv-
alent of five months' sales. Further targets were established during negotia-
tions. In view of the poor performance of municipalities in paying their
bills, an assurance has been obtained from GRS that it will cause the muni-
cipalities to pay such arrears and such current bills as they become due to
PEWO.
7.13      PEWC has been solely financed through debt.  GRS advances, which
amounted to bSd 30.5 million on June 30, 1973, originated at the time when
the assets of SL&PCo. were taken over by PEWC in 1959. These advances were
subsequently increased to reflect the takeover of some assets of PWD (para.
7.11). Interest on these advances at 4% and 6% has been capitalized between
1967 and 1973 (altogether about bSd 8 million). The Bank of Sudan has lent
PEWC a total of bSd 3.0 million at 6% interest in the 1971-73 period. In
view of the liquidity problems of PEWC, GRS has decided to convert its advances
into equity and the loan of the Bank of Sudan into a contribution in aid of
construction.
7.14      PEWC's position as of June 30, 1973 also indicates as a liability
the bSd 2.3 million clearing account with GRS. When the first power loan
was made, GRS and PEWC had agreed that semiannual settlements of such account
would be made. However, since such settlements did not take place in the
last three years, the amount of the clearing account has increased sub-
stantially. GRS and PEWC have recently settled this account.



- 21 -
Past Operating Results
7.15      PEWC's income statements for the three years ending June 30, 1973
are shown in Annex 19. These can be summarized as follows:
Millions of bSd
Year Ending June 30:                      1971      1972       1973
Operating Revenues
Electricity                          5.5        6.6       7.7
Water                                1.2        1.7       2.2
Total Operating Revenue            6.7        8.3       9.9
Operating Expenses
Electricity                          3.8        4.6       4.9
Water                                1.3        2.1       2.8
Total Operating Expenses           5.1        6.7       7.7
Operating Income
Electricity                          1.7        2.0       2.8
Water                               (0.1)      (0.4)     (0.6)
Total Operating Income             1.6        1.6       2.2
Rate of Return (%)
Electricity                          8.7        7.3       8.2
Water                               (1.0)      (4.1)     (4.7)
Electricity and Water                5.8        4.1       5.6
7.16      Operating income is well below the estimates made during the ap-
praisal of the first project.  As regards electricity, this was due to a
two-year delay in the commissioning of the Roseires power station and conse-
quently higher fuel bills; also, electricity sales were 30% below expectations.
As regards water, it was expected that the undertakings taken over from PWD
would yield a 5X return, but in fact they have operated at a loss. In these
three years, however, about 80% of the electricity construction program was
financed from electricity cash generation; less than 10 percent of the water
construction program was self-financed; the balance was provided by electri-
city earnings, short-term loans and capitalization of interest due. These
solutions were not geared to solve PEWC's long run liquidity problems and
therefore an increase in water tariffs (para. 7.07) is considered essential
to put PEWC's finances on a sound footing.



- 22 -
Financing Plan
7.17      A summary of the financing plan during the six-year period 1973/74
through 1978/79, as abstracted from the forecast cash flow (Annex 20) is shown
below:
Amount (in millions)
bSd   US$ Equivalent    _
Internal Cash Generation
Electricity                             37.7       108.3          59
Water                                    6.3         18.1          10
Decrease in Working Capital              5.3        15.2           8
Less:  Debt Service                     (9.2)       (26.4)       (14)
Net Internal Cash Generation            40.1       115.2          63
External Sources
ADB Loan                                 1.6          4.6           3
Proposed IDA Credit                      8.0         23.0         12
GRS Loan (Rahad Irrigation)              3.3          9.5          5
GRS Loan (Water)                        10.8         31.0         17
Total Borrowings                        23.7        68.1          37
Total Sources                           63.8        183.3        100
Construction Program
Electricity                             46.2        132.7         72
Water                                   17.6         50.6         28
Total                              63.8       183.3         100
7.18      The financial projections in this report should be taken with caution
as they are based on information for recent years which is not entirely reli-
able. Assumptions regarding future sales of electricity (para. 5.04) and
water are conservative. The projections assume that there will be no increase
of unqualified staff (para. 6.19) and that Roseires station will operate
satisfactorily (para. 6.10).
7.19      The bSd 63.8 million construction program consists of iSd 46.2
million for electricity projects and MSd 17.6 million for water projects.
The Sudan Power II project accounts for bSd 13.9 million and represents 30%



- 23 -
of the electricity construction program. The African Development Bank (ADB) pro-
ject, which consists of installing 17 MW of diesel units in isolated areas,
accounts for hSd 2.8 million and the electrification of the Rahad irrigation
scheme accounts for &Sd 5.3 million. The balance of the electricity construc-
tion program is in distribution schemes in different areas.
7.20      GRS will onlend the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit to PEWC at
8% interest for a period of 24 years, including a four-year grace period.
The ADB loan is expected to be for a lperiod of 19 years, including a 4-year
grace period, at 7% interest. All local costs for the electricity con-
struction program will be covered by internally generated cash. If additional
financing would be needed for the Sudan Power II Project assurances have been
obtained that GRS will provide or cause PEWC to be provided with such funds as
needed to complete the project. As required by the Rahad irrigation project
agreement (Credit 364-SU), GRS will onlend to PEWC the foreign exchange com-
ponent of the Rahad ancillary electrical facilities.
7.21      During the construction period, PEWC will need to borrow from GPS
ISd 10.8 million to finance the deficit arising between net internally generated
cash from the water operations and the water construction program. Assurances
on this were obtained during negotiations. It has been assumed that these
loans wiU be for a period of 20 years, no grace, at an interest rate of 8%.
Since PEWC's water operation will earn only 4% on net operating assets, PEWC
can only afford limited borrowings to finance the water construction program.
Therefore assurances were obtained that GRS will not lend to PEWC, on commer-
cial terms, more than bSd 15.0 million during the construction period, to
finance the water construction program.
Future Operations and Financial_Position
7.22      Operating results for the period 1973/74 through 1980/81 are shown
in the income statement, Annex 19. Details of the depreciation charges are
provided in Annex 21. PEWC's electricity operations are expected to produce
from 1975/76 onwards an annual rate of return varying between 9.2% and 11.6%
on net operating assets. PEWC's water operations will result from 1975/76
onwards in an average annual rate of return of 4%. Overall, PEWG will earn
between 7.7% and 9.4% on its net operating assets. This is considered
satisfactory. During negotiations, assurances were obtained that PEWC will
adjust its tariffs from time to time in order to maintain an annual rate of
return of not less than 8% for the electricity operation and not less than
4% for the water operation.
7.23      The financial position at the end of each year through 1980/81 is
shown in the balance sheets, Annex 18. The debt/equity ratio will increase
from 13/87 in 1973/74 to 28/82 in 1980/81. Tb ensure that adequate debt
service coverage will be maintained, assurances were obtained during negotia-
tions that PEWC will not incur any debt additional to the loars included in
the financial plan unless internal cash generation is sufficient to cover the
maximum future debt service, including services of any proposed loan, by not
less than 1.5 times.



- 24 -
7.24      The Association  will  monitor closely the financial performance
of PEWC; special attention will be given to (i) the effectiveness of the
billing system and (ii) the effectiveness of the drive to reduce accounts
receivable to acceptable levels (Annex 23). Attention will also be given
to intra-company transfers from the electricity operation to the water oper-
ation in case they should have an adverse effect on the future development
of electricity in the Sudan.
VIII. AGREEMENTS REACHED AND RECOMMENDATION
8.01      Agreement have been reached on the following:
(a)  GRS will:
(i)  Consult with the Association prior to appointment of
the General Manager, the Chief Electrical Engineer
and the Chief Financial Officer (para. 6.16);
(ii) cause the municipalities to pay such arrears and such
current bills as they become due to P$WC (para. 7.12);
and
(iii) during the construction period, provide, at reasonable
terms, long-term loans to PEWC, not in excess of iSd 15
million, in order to finance the deficit arising between
the water construction program and net internally gen-
erated cash by the water operation (para. 7.21).
(b) GRS and PEWC will:
(i)  Carry out, with the assistance of ECUK, a detailed study
of the advantage or otherwise of continuing the functions
of electricity and water supply within a single entity
(para. 3.08);
(ii) introduce cost reflecting electricity tariffs on Ja5u1ry 1,
1976 (para. 7.08); and
(iii) revise PEWC's tariffs from time to time in order to
maintain an annual rate of return on net operating
assets of not less than 8% for the electricity operation
and not less than 4% for the water operation (para. 7.22).
(c)  PEWC will:
(i)  (a) immediately undertake a comprehensive long-term power
market survey, (b) carry out or arrange for necessary
investigations of all alternatives for expansion of gen-
erating capacity, and (c) prepare by 1976 a long-term



- 25 -
electricity development plan until 1990 based on
least cost solutions (paras. 3.05 and 5.05);
(ii) place the operation of the Roseires Power Station
under an expert arranged by ECUK until the Associa-
tion is satisfied that its operation and maintenance
can be safely taken over by PEWC personnel (para. 6.10);
(iii) request ECUK to review its proposals for improvement
of its water operations (para. 6.11);
(iv) not increase the size of its nontechnical unclassified
staff above the present level without prior consultation
with the Association (para. 6.19);
(v) produce separate sets of accounts for the electricity
and water operations from FY1973/74 onwards (para. 7.04);
(vi)  complete a revaluation of all its assets by December 31,
1975 (para. 7.11);
(vii) continue the drive to reduce accounts receivable and
reach agreed targets (para. 7.12); and
(viii) not incur any debt additional to the loans included
in the financial plan unless internal cash generation
is sufficient to cover the maximum future debt service,
including services on any proposed loan, but not less
than 1.5 times (para. 7.23).
8.02      Appointment of a Chief Financial Officer (para. 6.17) and the in-
crese in water tariffs (para. 7.07) are conditions of effectiveness of the
Credit.
8.03      On the basis of the above agreements reached the project provides a
suitable basis for an IDA Credit of US$ 23.0 million to be repaid over 50
years including a grace period of 10 years to be relent to PEWC through a
subsidiary loan agreement acceptable to the Association.
April 1975






ANNEX 1
Page 1 of 6
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECrRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF PEWC'S FACILITIES AND OF THE PROPOSED PROJECr
PEWC's Existing Power System
1.01      At present the Blue Nile grid constitutes the main interconnected
power system in the Sudan and comprises the following:
220-kV System
(a)  The Roseires hydro power station at the foot of the
Roseires dam on the Blue Nile with three hydro sets rated
30 MW each. The units have been designed to operate under
a head range from 17.0 m to 48.0 m and deliver 22 MW at the
lowest head;
(b) A 220-kV double circuit tower line (with a single circuit
strung initially), approximately 485 km long, connecting
Roseires power station to a receiving station at Kilo X
near Khartoum:
(c) An intermediate 220/110-kV stepdown station at Meringan and
a terminal 220/110-kV substation at Kilo X.
110-kV System
(a)  A hvdro power station at Sennar situated at the Sennar dam
on the Blue Nile with two hydro sets rated 7.5 MW each. The
units operate under a head range of 6.2 m to 17.5 m and
deliver a total of 7,5 MW under low head conditions;
(b) A diesel station at Wad Medani with an aggregate capacity
of about 8 MW situated approximately midway between Sennar
and Khartoum, and interconnected to the main system at
Meringan substation;
(c) A gas turbine at Kilo X rated at 15 MW and interconnected to
the main system via a stepup 11/33-kV, 18.8-MVA, transformer;
(d) A thermal power station at Burri in the outskirts of Khartoum
with total capacity of 44 MI and interconnected to the main
system via 33-kV subtransmission power lines (particulars of
plant appear in Annex 2):



ANNEX 1
Page 2 of 6
(e)  A 110-kV single circuit transmission line, 270-km long,
connecting Sennar power station to Kilo X, with two inter-
mediate 110/11-kV stepdown substation at Meringan and at
Hassa Heissa town;
(f)  A 110-kV single circuit line, 110 km in length, from the
Sennar power station to the Rabak 110/33/11-kV receiving
station on the White Nile near Kosti;
(g)  A 110-kV double circuit overhead power line 15 km in length
connecting Kilo X substation to Khartoum North Substation.
Subtransmission Network
PEWC's subtransmission network comprises the following:
(a)  A 33-kV line from Sennar to Singa town about 60 km in
length, to supply the pumping schemes, villages and towns
enroute;
(b)  A 33-kV Sennar-El-Suki line, about 45 km long, supplying
El-Suki pumping scheme and the ginning centers, villages
and towns enroute;
(c)  Five 33-kV power lines from Khartoum North subtransmission
substation to the load centers of Khartoum area and for
interconnection with Burri power station.
Local distribution is at 11 kV and lower voltages.
1.02      The eastern Khasm El Girba system comprises the following existing
generating installations at the Khasm El Girba dam:
(i)  2 Kaplan generating units (2 x 3600 kW)         7,200 kW
(ii)  3 pump turbine units (3 x 1900 kW)              5,700 kW
(iii)  3 diesel generating units (3 x 1400 kW)         4,200 kW
17,100 kW
1.03      A fairly extensive (200 km) 66-kV grid connects Khasm El Girba
power station to the New Halfa town, as well as Showak and Gedaref. The use
of hydro power has been severely restricted due to increased irrigation water
requirements and a recent decision to curtail all downstream water releases.
The only reliable source is the diesel unit, and the prevailing maximum de-
mand is limited to its output. Further diasel capacity of 5000 kW has been
ordered to meet load growth in the'system.



ANNEX 1
Page 3 of 6
1.04      In order to increase water supplies for irrigation the possibility
of constructing dams at sites upstream in the Atbara valley in being actively
investigated, with an emphasis on maximizing hydro generation. The question
of linking the Eastern Grid at Gedaref with the Blue Nile Grid, through ex-
tensions from Meringan or Singa is also concurrently under consider4tion.
Other Blue Nile Grid Extensions
Sennar Substation
2.01      In connection with power supply to the Rahad Irrigation Project
(Stage I) (Cr. 364-SU), construction of a stepdown substation, with a 50
MVA power transformer and the following associated electrical equipment at
Sennar is being arranged.
Detailed Description of Sudan Power II Project
3.01      The project comprises the following seven main sub-projects:
(i)  Addition of 15 MW (3 x 5-MW) of diesel generating capacity
at Burri thermal station in Khartoum by 1977 (the first
two units to be installed in 1976);
(ii)  addition of a 42-MW generating unit at Roseires
hvdro-electric power station by 1978;
(iii) stringing of the second 220-kV circuit from Roseires to
Sennar (238 km) on the existing double circuit tower line
by 1978;
(iv)  construction of a 110-kV single circuit line from Sennar to
Meina el Sharif (60 km) by 1977;
(v)  Addition of 5 MW (5 x 1 MW) at Juba diesel power station;
(vi)  upgrading (from 3.3 kV to 11 kV) and extending the Juba
distribution system;
(vii) long-term planning studies.
15-MW Extensions at Burri
3.02      This would consist of the following:
(i) Preparatorv engineering, comprising preparation of tender
specifications, invitations to tender, scrutinizing offers
and placing contracts;



ANNEX 1
Page 4 of 6
(ii) purchase, erection and commissioning of 15-MW diesel gen-
erating plants comprising the following:
(a) three diesel engines complete with all acces-
sories, working on furnace oil and each of ade-
quate power to run 5--MW alternators continuous
rating at site conditions;
(b) three alternators capable of developing 5 MW
each at 0.8 P.F. generating at 11 kV; and
tc) the ancillary equipment.
Addition of the Fourth Generating Unit at Roseires
3.03      Engineering work to decide on the exact rating of the generator;
preparation of tender specifications, invitations to tender, scrutinizing
offers and placing contracts.  Purchase, erection and commissioning of the
fourth generating set at Roseires comprising the following:
(i) Preliminarv works;
(ii)  Civil engineering comprising:
(a) Civil works;
(b) Gates and penstock to suit the existing structure;
(iii)  Mechanical and electrical engineering comprising:
(a) Vertical shaft Kaplan turbine similar to the three
existing turbines; and
(b) Vertical shaft, salient pole synchronous generator
to be rated according to the results of the engineer-
ing study referred to above, with generation voltage
of 11 kV, suitable to work in parallel with the
existing generators, complete with excitation equipment.
220-kV Grid Extensions
3.04      This involves stringing the second 220-kV circuit on the existing
double circuit tower line under live line conditions, duplicating the pre-
sent transmission line capability from Roseires to Sennar. It requires a
rearrangement of the equipment at the switchyard at Roseires. Special safety
precautions would need to be instituted for live line construction. The work
covers consultancy for initiation of such procedures, preparation of suit-
able specifications and for contracting and supervising the construction of
this work.



ANNEX 1
Page 5 of 6
110-kV Grid Extensions
3.05      The cost estimates are for the construction of a 110-kV line be-
tween Sennar and Meina el Sharif. The Consultant will prepare specifica-
tions for procurement of equipment and materials and construction services.
New Juba Diesel Station
3.06      This project would consist of the purchase, erection and commis-
sioning of the following:
(i)  Five diesel engines complete with all accessories working
on furnace oil and each of adequate power to run a 1-4W
alternator continuous rating at site conditions;
(ii)  five alternators capable of developing 1 NW each at 0.8
power factor generating a 11-kV; and
(iii)  ancillary equipment.
Juba Distribution
3.07      This project consists of erection and commissioning of the following:
(i)  150 km of 415/240 overhead lines;
(ii)  45 km of 11 kV overhead lines; and
(iii) ancillary equipment.
Long Term Planning Studies
3.08      The following investigations are currently being organized by the
Ministry of Irrigation and Hydroelectric Power:
(a)  The investigation of Rahad (Stage II) Irrigation Project
involving heightening Roseires dam for extension of irriga-
tion and increased power generation, and
(b)  the multipurpose irrigation and hydroelectric project of
Atbara river currently under investigation.
3.09      Other potential hydroelectric sites revealed by earlier investiga-
tion which need to be Investigated further are:
(a) Jebel Aulia on the White Nile; and
(b) Sabaloks on the Nile.



ANNEX 1
Page 6 of 6
The investigations would involve minimum geological investigations to estab-
lish feasibility of proposed structures, and surveys to prepare project
designs and cost estimates.  The foreign cost of the investigations of (a)
and (b) above should be covered by IDA Credit.
3.10      The other studies to be covered by the credit comprise;
(i) A long-term power market survey;
(ii)  A long-term development plan:
Studies of economic choice of alternatives for long-term
power development in the Blue Nile grid and adjacent grids,
during the period 1980-1990 (or beyond, as appropriate).
3.11      The work on 3.08 to 3.10 above must be completed by 1975 or early
1976 s0 as to be useful for deciding the most advantageous steps for future
power supply.
APAls, M95



ANNEX 2
THE STJDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
INSTALLED PLANT CAPACITY IN JANUARY 1974
No.of
Area            Location                  Me    Capacity (kW)  Year Installed
Blue Nile Grid      Khartoum          13   Diesel       18,500          1927-1964
Khartoum          4   Steam Turbine 26,000          1957-1961
Khartoum           1   Gas Turbine 14,700              1969
Roseires           3   Hydro        90,000          1971-1972
Sennar             2   Hydro        15,000             1962
Wad Medani         8   Diesel        5.,500         1948-1963
Total Blue Nile Orid                       169,700 V/
Blue Nile           El Duiem           3   Diesel          800             1963
Isolated          El Get ina        3   Diesel           150             1969
Stations          El Gourashi       4   Diesel           760             1962
Total Blue Nile Isolated                     1,710
Darfur              El Fasher          5   Diesel          450             1967
Eastern             Kassala        /  9   Dieael         1,660          1956-1972
Khasm el Girba-  4   Diesel          5,000          1954-1973
Total Eastern                                6,660
Kordofan           El Obeid          12   Diesel         1,510          1948-1973
Northern            Atbara             9   Diesel        8,200          1955-1961
Dongola           4   Diesel           200             1972
Shendi            7   Diesel           950          1959-1970
Total Northern                               9,35
Red Sea             Port Sudan         9   Diesel        6,800          1955-1964
Southern            Juba               8   Diesel          920          1960-1973
Malakal           5   Diesel           840          1962-1970
Wau               6   Diesel           600          1960-1971
Total Southern                               2,360
GRAND TOTAL                                198,540 /
I/ Due t- age cf s me of the diesel thermal generating units, the effective capacity
of the machines has beern derrated by about 5,000 kW.
/ Excludes 17,1CU kV of hydroelectric capacity.
T/ This would increase to about 210,600 kW when allowances are made for (1) and (2) above.
April, 1975



THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
PROJECT IMPLEMENTATION SCHEDULE
1974                     [1975                                                               1575                                            1977                                           1978-
-   A   M            AJ                 iJ  A  S                            ONN       Di   F  M IA   M   J J   N ) FMA Ji  A  S    ON    DiJ  F  M  A   M   J   J  A   SO0   N      D   J  F  M      A   Mi J     A   SO0N    D
EXTENSIONSTO ROSEIRES POWER STATION                                              INSTRUCTION TO ROCEED
NL4
E           T  R  C
I          T              R 
Rr Ol. -Coln     &  M-in,g (NngOIioS.d C-Afl.I .     ....     .   ......   .    ....  .I.. ..     .   ......:. ....     .i....     .   ......i........:
EXTENSIONS TO TRANSMISSION SYSTEM
FE  TIFRI C ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~COMMISSION
22GKV EQUIPMENT ROSEiIRES / SINGA                                                             I01 ISI 
I                                              ~     ~    ~~           ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E  T  R C
0.0-1ud Lin.e..............    ..                    .  .  ........... .... ... ... ...1 ..-.. ...              .. ..  ..........    ..............N                          V.mT...EE                                                      E    U     
115GKV EQUIPMENT SINGA / SENNAR                                                                                              
O0.h.d Li ....................... ...... ..... .*... *....        IF                                                             ...*. .
EXTENSIONS TOSURNI POWER STATION                       IFINSTRUCT-ION TO NCED
COMISSON                COMMISSION
IF2 DIESELS (EACH 5 MW)       I DIESELS IS MWI
CIo.I EFran   .k.............  .   .  . ..  ..  ....  ldIg.-1 ..  ...                       .....*..... ........IF                                                                                                -- --
E  T      R~~ TC 
Va T.... .....                                 m       m      .......             .
.~E      TN RC
CoolingTEn..r...~~~~~~~~~~ ..                                                                                        ~         ~        ~            mU7... ... ......*E.
E         T
_ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _ _                                                                                                     *1i         .~~~~. .   ....   . .   .... .. .. .. .. .  .. .. .
E- ISSUE ENOUIRY & SPECIFICATION
T - RECEIVE TENDERS                  . .   .     -..  WORK OFF SITE
N -    j           TENDRS                   - WORK ON SITE
C - ASSES CONTRACT                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            L
World B.rk-873315R1
Apil, 1975



ANNEX 4
Page 1 of 3
TTHE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
DETAILED PROJECT COST ESTIMATE
(£Sd Thousands)
I.   Installation of Three 5-MW Diesel Generating Unitstrri  Khartoum)
Local      ForejZn      Total
i.   Project Cost:
Foundations and Buildings    -43                     17          60
Cooling Towers                          23           24          47
Fuel Storage                            24           23          447
Diesel Generators                       51          885          936
Cables and Switchgear                    9           46          55
Subtotal                   150          995        1,1)45
ii.   Engineering                                 -           46           46
iii.   Site Supervision and Administration         22          35           57
iv.   Contingencies - Physical                    11          20           31
- Price                     37          558          595
V.   Customs and LoQal Ta-xes                  869           -           869
Total                   _12089 21654               2,743
II.  Installation of Roseires No. 4 Generating Set
i.   Project Cost:
Civil Engineering Work                 192           64.        256
Gates and Penstock                      71          274.        345
Water Turbine                           10          876          886
Generator                               32          403         435
Switchgear                               2           42          44.
Cabling and Lighting                     9           36          )45
Remote Control and Metering              -            8            8
Subtotal                   316        1,703       2,019
ii.   Engineering                                 -          110          110
iii.   Site Supervision and Administration         43          -            43
iv.   Contingencies - Physioal                    10           20          30
- Price                     67          810          877
v.   Customs and Local Taxes                 11419           -         1,419
Total                    1,855        2_649



ANNEX 4
Page 2 of 3
III. Construction of the Roseires-Senrar 2nd 220-kV Circuit
Local       Foreign      Total
i.   Project Cost:
Switchgear                               25           98          123
Overhead Lines                          133          733          866
Civil Works                              33           -            33
Subtotal                    191          831        1,022
ii.   Engineering                                 -            61           61
iii.   Site Supervision and Administration          38           -            38
iv.   Contingencies - Physical                      7           20           27
- Price                      45          395          440
v.   Customs and Local Taxes                    690           -           690
Total                       971        1 307        22278
IV.  Construction of the Singa-Sennar 11°-kV Line
i.   Project Cost:
Switchgear                               21           83          104
Overhead Lines                           90          495          585
Civil Works                              45           _            45
Subtotal                    156          578          734
ii.   Engineering                                 -            4.2          42
iii.   Site Supervision and Administration         30            -            30
iv.   Contingencies - Physical                      6           25          31
- Price                      33          258          291
v.   Customs and Local Taxes                    467           -           47
Total                       692          903        1,595
V.   Installation of 5 MW Diesel Capcittuba
i.   Project Cost:                              120          500          620
ii.   Engineering                                  -            -            -
iii.   Site Supervision and Administration           IJ          -             4
iv.   Contingencies - Phiysical                     6           19          25
- Price                      13         14.3         156
V.   Cust(on;i an;l T,c)al Taxes                362           -           362
Tota:l.                   )5,5          662        1 XlS7



ANNEX 4
Page 3 of 3
VI. Strengthening of Juba's Distribution System
Local       Foreign       Total
i. Project Cost                                  172        193            365
ii. Engineering                                     3          15            18
iii. Site Supervision and Administration             9          -              9
iv. Contingencies - Physical                        6           9            15
- Price                        58         100           158
v. Customs and Local Taxes                      136          -             136
Total                       384         317           701
VII. Long-Term Planning Studies                       120         380           500
VIII.Management Consultants                            52         377           429
Grand Total               5,668       8,243        13,911
April, 1975



ANNEX 5
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
_ 
ESTIMATED SCHEDULE OF DISBURSEMENTS
Cummulative Disbursement at
IBRD Fiscal Year and Quarter                            the End of the Quarter
(US$ thousands)
1-97h/75
September 30, 19714
December 31, 1974
March 31, 1974
June 30, 1975
1-975/76
September 30, 1975                                       300
December 31, 1975                                        700
March 31, 1976                                         1 ,500
June 30, 1976                                          3,000
1976/77
September 30, 1976                                      4,500
December 31, 1976                                      6,900
March 31, 1977                                         9,300
June 30, 1977                                         11,500
1-977/78
September 30, 1977                                    13,900
December 31, 1977                                     16,500
March 31, 1978                                        18,600
June 30, 1978                                         20,500
1978/79
September 30, 1978                                    22,200
December 31, 1978                                     22,500
March 31, 1979                                        22,800
June 30, 1979                                         23,000
j The schedule assumes that the credit would become effective by
September 1975.
April, 1975



THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
BLUE NILE GRID
GROWTH OF CONSUMPTION BY CATEGORY
(Figures in GWh)
A  C  T  U  A  L                                                 F  O  R  E  C  A  S  T
Year Ending June 30                            1967    1968    1969    1970    1971    1972    1973    1974    1975    :976               1977    1978    1979    1980    1981
Domestic                                         75       79       84       91       98     110      129      139       153      165       178      190      202      216      231
Commercial                                        8        9       10       10       11       11      11        14       15       16        17       18       19       20       21
Industrial                                       74       83       93     107      121      136      153      163      179      195        212      232      253      277      309
Agriculture                                      12       20       26       24       24       34       41      47        59       68        81       99      120      141      160
Street Lighting                                   6        6        6        7        7        6        6        7        7        7         8        8        8        8        9
Interdepartmental                                12       11       10       10      11       11       13       14       14        14        15       15       16       18       18
TOTAL                                 187      208      229     249      272      308      353      384      427      465        511      562      618      680      748
Note:
(1) Includes PEWC's sales and interdepartment supplies (not charged for) mostly for water operations.
(2) Follows the prevailing main tariff categories of the PEWC.
0%
Source - PEWC
April 1975



THlE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ZACTRICITY AND WAJE1T C(kFURATION
PEWC'S POWER MARKET FORECAST - ELUE NIL GRID
gMAXDUM FOWER DRW(AD (MW)                             E;RMO GWERATM  (oWh)
Jun. 30                              Median                               Low             Median             High
1973/74               91                 91              91               48o                480              48o
1974/75               99                101             102               528                537              545
1975/76              108                112             116               581                600              619
1976/77              117                123             130               639                670              701
1977/78              127                135             144               703                749              795
1978/79              138                150              161              773                838              902
1979/80              149                168              186              850                940             1030
1980/81              164                184              205              935               1050             1170
1981/82              181                206              231             1030               1180             1320
April, 1975



THE SUMAb
SUDAN POWEI I  PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
ELECTRIC POWER DEMAND & SUPPLy - BLUE NILE GRID
(During April atd May1/)
FINANCIAL YEAR                 1974i75               1975/76               1976/77               1977/78               1978/79               1979/80
DATE                      Aug.  Oct.  Apr./   Aug.  Oct.  Apr./   Aug.  Oct.  Apr./   Aug.  Oct.  Apr;/   Aug.  Oct.  Apr./   Aug.  Oct.  Apr./
74    74  May 75    75    75  May 76    76    76 May 77    77    77  May 78    78    78  May 79    79    79  May 80
REQUIREMENT
Maximum Demand         MW 82.6   95  101.5    92.5  108   111         103.5 122  122        115   135  131.5    127.5 150  147          143   168   154
Spinning Spare        MW 20Y/  30   30          20     30    30        20    30   30         20    30   30         20    30   30         20    30    30
Maintenance 3/         MW  -       -   30        -       -    30        -      -   30        _      -   30          -      -30            -      -    30
Total                 MW 102.6  125 161.5   112.5  138   171          123   152  182        135   165  191.5    147.S 180  207          163   198   214
AVAILABILITY
Roseires              MW  60-    90  90         60     90    90        60    90   90         60    90   90         60    90   90         60    90    90
Sennar                 MW   7.2/   15  15        7      15    15        7    15   15          7    15   15          7    15   15          7    15    15
Burri & Wad/
Medani Diesel        MW  20      20  20       20      20    20       20    20   20         20    20   20         20    20   20         20    20    20
Burri Steam            MW  25      25  25       25      25    25       25    25   25         25    25   25         25    25   25         25    25    25
Kilo X Gas Turbine   MW  12        13  11       12      13    11       12    13   11         12    13   11         12    13   11         12    13    11
Total                 MW 124    163 161        124    163   161       124   163  161        124   163  161        124   163  161        124   163   161
DEFICIT               MW   -        -   1.5      -       -    10        -      -   21        11      2   30.5      23.5  17   46         39    35    53
POSSIBLE NEW
CONSTRUCTION
Roseires No. 4        MW   -        -   -        -       -     -        -      -    -         -      -   30      20       30   30        20    30    30
Diesel                 MW   -       -   -                     10       10    10   15         15   -15 .15        15       15   15         15    15    15
Note:   1/ Based on pEWC's median forecast of demand.
2/ Takes into account loss of output of hydroelectric units due to decrease in operating head.
3/ Maintenance of hydroelectric generating units scheduled during periods of low energy availability to ensure maximum possible energy
utilization and consequently fuel savings. Shifting the maintenance of these units away from the April/May period would not significantly
alter the capacity shortages indicated in 1975/76 and 1976/77 when the total maintenance program is considered.                                             >
Source: PEWC and M/M. January 1974
April, 1975



T THE SUDAN
SUDAN R)WE II P1t)JECT
PUBIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATIUN
3LECTRIC ENERGY REQUIRUET & SUPPLY1-/  - BLUE NILE GRID
(Dar g Apri , May & Early June21)
1975       1976      1977        1978        1979       1980
POSSIBLE MDN1MI
FIWS AT aSEIRES3           106m3/DAY     23.3       22.7       22.0       21.3        20.7       20.0
GENERATDN REQUIf13           GWh/DAY        1.64       1.8        1.96       2.15        2.25       2.56
GEIERAT13DN AVAILAELE
Roseires (limited by
water availability)        Gih/DAY        1.29       1.26       1.22      '1.18        1.15        1.11
Smiar                        GWh/DAY        0.36       0.36       0.36       0.36        o.36       0.36
Essential Thenmal Generation GWh/DAY        0.24       0.24       0.24       0.24        0.21        0.24
Other Themal Plant
Operating at
80 percent Load Factor     GWh/DAY        0.91                  0.91       0.91         0.91       0.91
¶DTAL                        GWh/DAY        2.80       2.77       2.73       2.67        2.66        2.62
G1tSS DEFICIT                 W/DAY           -          -           -          -           -
NOTE: 1/  Fbrecast of energy requirenent corresponds to  WiS's median forecast.
2/ Analysis limited to the critical months of April, May and early June, as energy supply during other
months is substantially higher and adequate to meet all foreseeable requirements.
3/ Takes into account progressive increase in the use of stored waters at .Roseires for irrigation.
SOURCE:  PEWC and  /M. January 1974
April, 1975



THE SUDAN
CAN POWER 11 PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
BLUE NILE GRID
PLANT PROqRAM BASED ON MIDDLE FORECAST
250-                                                                            -
20C                         -              ROSEIR I
No. 4 SET - 42MWV ~-0
DIESELS
2 x SMW-0--
INSTALLED CAPACIT 
AVAILABLE CAPACITY
_o             REQU~ w ~ ~ I RED CAPACITY
-h
a.
1973        1974        197S5       1976        1977        1978        1979        1980
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30
Loads are only plotted for critkal
April/May period.
April - 1975                                                        World Bank-8732(3R)



ANNEX 11
Page 1 of 3
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
LEAST COST SOLUTION
1.        The following alternatives available to meet the deficits antici-
pated in Chapter 5 were evaluated by the consultants
(i) Installation of oil-fired steam generating capacity of
60 MW (2 units of 30 MW each) at Khartoum;
(ii) installation of gas turbine generating units of equivalent
diesel capacity;
(iii) installation of the 4th and 5th generating sets at Roseires
hydroelectric station, stringing the second 220-kV circuit
from Roseires to Khartoum (485 kn); and
(iv)  installation of the 4th generating set at Roseires station
with 15 MW of back-up diesel capacity at Khartoum, and com-
plementary transmission extensions.
2.        The consultants estimated that the capital cost of alternative
(i) above (bSd 6.6 million) would be higher than that of alternatives (iii)
06Sd 6.181 million) and (iv) (6Sd 4.750 million) and was ruled out because
of this and the additional fuel and maintenance costs involved. These are
late 1972 prices, without allowing for future price escalation and local
duties. On the other hand, alternative (iv) involved the least capital and
operation costs and would provide additional system capacity as needed. At
all discount rates, it would represent the least cost solution out of these
alternatives.
3.        M/M estimated that with relatively high prices of light fuel needed
for gas turbines - bSd 62 1/ per ton - the diesel units use (furnace) residual
oil at ESd 18.31 1/ per ton, the diesel alternative would be more economical.
Prevailing costs of equipment and a discount rate of 10X was assumed for the
study of the two alternatives whose results are presented below:
!J January 1974 prices.



ANNEX 11
Page 2 of 3
COMPARISON OF DIESEL PLANT WITH
GAS TURBINE PLANT
All figures are LSd million based on a 15 MW installation:
GAS TURBINE PLANT                  DIESEL PLANT
CAPITAL     FUEL      TOTAL      CAPITAL    FUEL   TOTAL
& LUB.
OIL
1975/76               1.200       -        1.200        1.100      -      1.100
76/77                   -       0.118      0.118        0.550    0.031   0.581
77/78                   -       0.177      0.177          -      0.047   0.047
78/79 to 91/92          -       0.177      0.177          -      0.047   0.047
TOTAL                 1.200     2.600      3.800        1.650    0.690   2.340
Total discounted at 10% to 1975/76.
1.200     1.295      2.495       1.600    0.343   1.943
At 10% discount rate the present valued cash flows are:
bSd million
Gas Turbine                             2.495
Diesel Plant                            1.945
Saving in favour of diesel plant        0.552
The consultants concluded from the sensitivity studies that the gas turbine
would be competitive only if the annual load factor falls below 2%, and the
capital cost of gas turbines would have to be about half.
4.        With respect to the second alternative, the actual experience of
the existing 15 MW gas turbine is relevant. It is currently held as an
idle reserve and is sparingly used. Even so, it operates at upwards of 5%
annual load factor. As irrigation requirements increased there would be a
progressive increase in the energy contributions needed from thermal sta-
tions after 1979. The mission therefore agreed with the consultant's con-
clusion that diesel units would be preferable to gas turbines. This rules
out alternative (ii) at para (1) above, leaving the chosen project alterna-
tive (iv) as the least-cost solution.



A"ThR' 1 1
rafte I of 1
5.        Roseires dam has been constructed to permit a 10 m height increasq.
The question of overcoming the limitations of alternative (iii) explained in)
para. 2 above, by increasing the Roseires dam height was also considered.
The irrigation consultants - Sir Alexander Gibb & Partners (Gibb) and
Coyneet-Bellier are currently being engaged by the Ministry of Irrigation
and Hydroelectric Power to prepare detailed proposals and cost estimates in
this regard. Gibb's tentative estimates show that the cost of hightening
the dam by 10 m would be of the order of LSd 30 million (at 1973 prices
without escalation).. This would be prohibitive if considered purely for
power generation. As irrigation extension programs have not yet been formu-
lated, these cannot help to justify any portion of this investment at this
stage. A partial increase in storage was also considered, but as the main
concrete dam has to be increased in height in a single operation, these cos4s
were also found to be very high; the cost of increasing the dam height by
2 m was estimated at USd 8 million at 1973 prices. Moreover, it could not
be regarded as an alternative to avoid the 15 MW diesel capacity needed froi#
1976 onwards. It would be one of the important alternatives for considera-
tion for the next step in expansion of generating capacity of the Blue Nile
grid - a decision whlch should be reached by 1977. Investigations are in
progress to ensure this.
6.        The project provides for a limited diesel expansion in Juba, where
the existing capacity is old, less than 1.0 MW and is inadequate to meet ex-
isting demands. To meet the demand until 1980, a 5 MW expansion and the
strengthening of the city's distribution system is urgently needed; 3 MW
would be required by 1976 and the rest by 1980. A review of the hydroelectr,ic
potential of the White Nile and its tributaries revealed that no hydro altern-
ative is available to meet this small demand. The market would, therefore,
have to be built up with diesel installations, until the demand reaches the
order of magnitude required for a possible hydro development. This is not
expected until the mid-eighties.
April, 1975



ANNEX 12
Page 1 of 3
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
RETURN ON INVESTMENT
1.        The Sudan Power II project comprises two independent components
viz (i) the Blue Nile grid generation and transmission expansion project
and (ii) the Juba generation and distribution project. Their rates of re-
turn have therefore been calculated separately.
Blue Nile Grid Generation and Transmission Expansion Project
2.        The return on investment has been computed on the basis of capital
cost of the project for expansion of generation and transmission facilities
of the Blue Nile grid exclusive of customs duties and price escalation. The
return on investment is taken to be the discount rate at which the present
worth of the costs of the project, net of duties and taxes is equal to the
present worth of these benefits. In the present calculations the additional
revenues expected to be derived from the project are used as a minimum esti-
mate of the benefits.
3.        The project provides an additional effective capacity of 57 MW to
the Blue Nile grid. The progressive utilization of the potential of this
project (para. 2) has been assessed on the basis of operation studies of the
Blue Nile grid in which utilization of hydro and thermal (diesel) energy re-
sources has been optimized. As explained in Chapter 5 of this report, the
Blue Nile grid has adequate energy resources from existing facilities to
meet energy requirements until 1979. In view of this, although the capacity
value of the project would be utilized from 1976 onwards, the energy potential
would not be needed until 1980 and would be fully utilized only in 1982.
PEWC and the consultants carried out these detailed operation studies which
are satisfactorv.
4.        Revenues have been calculated on the basis of the additional energy
generation provided by the project and the prevailing average energy tariff
of the Blue Nile grid. It does not take into account the benefits due to
capacity value which are available to the grid between 1977 and 1979. An
estimate of this additional benefit would require arbitrary evaluation of
this benefit, as the present tariff structure does not provide an appropriate
costing.



ANNEX 12
Page 2 of 3
5.        The entire capital cost of transmission extensions has been taken
into account as an additional charge on this generation expansion project
even though it provides substantially higher additional capacity which could
be utilized by subsequent expansions at Roseires. The return on the project
is therefore understated. In addition to the costs of transmission an appro-
priate share of the investment costs on PEWC's distribution system has been
added to reflect the total costs up to the consumers. Page 3 of this annex
gives the details of the calculations. The discount rate at which revenues
equals costs in the above computation is about 23%. The return on the in-
vestment of the project for expanding the generation and transmission capacity
of the Blue Nile grid is therefore at least 23%. The return works out to 21%
when the exchange tax of 15% is added to the project cost.
The Juba Generation and Distribution Project
6.        The economic return on the project has been calculated on the basis
of the capital costs of the 5-MW diesel expansion and the cost of upgrading
the distribution system necessary in order to utilize the benefits of the
project. The project would provide about 4 MW of effective capacity and at
prevailing load factor of 50% would enable about 15 million kWh of additional
sales by 1980. The revenues afe based on the prevailing average tariff in
the Southern area. The table below shows the details of the computation of
the return on investment. The discount rate at which revenues equal costs in
this computation is about 12%. The return on investment is therefore at
least 12%. It is low because of the total dependence on relatively high
cost fuel. However, the return does not measure the full economic benefits
which would be associated with the provision of electricity supply in this
developing area. The return works out to 10% when the exchange tax of 15%
is added to the project cost.
JUBA - RETURN ON INVESTMENT
Additional Additional Additional /1 Project /2 Fuel Costs /3 Operating &
Generation Consumption Revenues          Cost       (ISd -      Maintenance
Year      (GWh)       (GWh)    (LSd-mills)  (iSd-mills)  (mills)    CostsE(Sd-mills)
1975         -           -         0.0          0.150         -
1976         -           -         0.0          0.630         -              -
1977        5.0         4.0        0.19)        0.220       0.105        0.030
1978        9.0         7.2        0.342        0.060       0.189         0.060
1979       13.5        10.8        0.513        0.000       0.283         0.090
1980-1992  18.0        14.4        0.684        0.000       0.37          0.120
/1   Based on the average retail tariff of PEWC in the Southern area -
47.5 mms/kWh.
/2   Project cost excludes contingencies, customs and duties.
/3   Based on 1973/74 fuel prices (Annex 21).



THE SUDAN
ST"OA, IOWER II PROJECT
Return on Investment Calculations
BLUE NILE 5RIJ EXPANSION (GEUZRATION AID TRANSl-SSICN)
Additional                                      Operation &                           Operation &
Additional Additional    Additional              Diesel       Additional         Project       Maintenance         Additional    Maintenance Cosis
Years     Generation  Consumption      Revenues 1/        Generation    Fuel Costs 2/       Costs  /    Project Costs        Distribution 4/Addl. Distribution
(CGwh)      ( Gwh)    ( Lsd-rdilii:ons)        (Gwh)      (Lsd-millions)   (ILsd-millions)  (Lsd-millions)    (Isd-il2 ions)    (Lsd-mlllions)
1975         0           0             0                     0            0                 0.022            0                  0                  0
1976         if           n            n                     it           i                 0.885            0                  n
1977         iV                        n                     it           o                 1.671            0.11)4            it
1978                      it T         n                     t            n                 2.161            it
1979        40           32            0.656                 5            0.078             0.193            0.154
1960        68          55             1.128                 8            0.125             0                it                 0.300              0.046
1961       122           98            2.009                22            0.343             ft               It                 0.!OC              0.082
1962       109         170             3.485                62            0.967                              n                  0.500              0.143
1963       236         189             3.874                86            1.342             it               ft                 0.200              0.159
19S_ -1994      it           n            nt n                                  It  i                                              0 
1995         n            n                                                                 0.022            iI t?                                 1f
1996         it           n            n                                                    0.722            n                  1n
1597         if                        n                     U                              0.381            n
1998         nT           n                                  t n                            0.020            it                 it
1999-2000   n       n    n                                                    it               0                11 n
2001         ft                        T V                   it           if                0.031            it                 0.300               n
2002                                   f t n                 1             it               0.758            if                 0.400              11
2003         t            n            TV f                  ft                             0.900            it                 0.500              it
200.                                                                       IT                0.083                              0.200
20C5-201        if           t            TV                   It             i                0                 it                0
V/ Based an the average retail tarif of PWC in the Blue Nile grid - 20.5 nns/;kWh.
2/ Based m June 1974 fuel prices (Annex 21, page 5).                                                                                                       (D
3/ Project costs exclude  price contingencies, cuttoms and duties and are recorded in the repart prepared by the PEdC and its
consultants for the appraisal in January 1974.  Conerultant's cost estinmtes are appended to this repcrt.                                          I!
4   X Nomi   aount to aeoetmt fr additional distribtt ion facilities.
April, 1975



THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
EXISTING ORGANIZATION CHART
GENERAL MANAGER; 
CHIEF                                                                                   CHIEF CHIEF  C R r    CEIEF   M     E   ELEC E   L    ELE. E
IN.ER NIGAL                     OESTORES                     WATER            ( ME CHANICAL  C L               (                E      EER  (CO R        N
OAFICER                                                     ENGINEER                    ENGPNEER ATI
Er                                                             'E'Li6. i~~~~~ PLNNINGHPLANERNO
ELECTRICAL
ASST.CHIEFWATE                  ST  HE                                                                ENGINEER
NINE AREA                                             WATER ENG.         ENGINEER         WATER ENG.                                                             KHARTOUM
MANAGERS                                              (PLANNING)        (KHARTOUM)        (OPERATION)                                                             LOCALITY
World Bank-8731(4R)    I
APril, 1975



ANNEX 14
Page 1 of 2
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PEWC's COMPUTERIZED BILLING SYSTEM
Background
1.01      PEWC has introduced a computerized billing system for the cities
of Khartoum and Khartoum North in 1970. Since then, it has experienced
serious collection problems and the financial soundness of the corporation
has been jeopardized to a large extent as the two cities account for about
40% of PEWC's sales. The computer was installed by PEWC's consultants,
the Middle West Service Company (MWSC) in 1969.
Beginning of the difficulties
2.01      As PEWC's staff was totally unfamiliar with computers, all decisions
on the choice of the machine, its design, its capability were left up to the
consultants. They selected and trained machine operators, key punchers, pro-
grammers and analysts. The consultants prepared the software and this task
was complicated by the need to prepare bills in Arabic.
2.02      The few who were selected for the different training programs
quickly became a special "class". Over the years, their salaries were
raised 1/ much faster than those of, say, average accountants. Simultaneously,
rumors began to circulate to the effect that a large number of accountants
would be fired. As a result, NWSC had to face some resistance from within
the corporation.
2.03      The IBM 360/20 Computer was installed in September 1969 but the
billing system became operational only in January 1971. Between February
and September 1971 a mark-sensing system was in use. This permits to save
key punching time. However billing was not effective for the following
reasons: (i) The software contained large errors causing some bills to
become unduly high, (ii) the master file 2/ had many errors (iii) the mark
sensing system was not adapted to the climate.
2.04      It took about 2 years (September 1971 - September 1973) to convert
the mark-sensing system into a simpler system adapted to the local condi-
tions. In that period billing was largely inaccurate; some parts of Khartoum
1/ As additional computers are being installed in the Sudan, PEWC will
have to make even bigger efforts to retain their computer experts.
2/ The master file contains all the details of the customers (name,
address, account number, etc.).



ANNEX 14
Page 2 of 2
were not billed at all over a one year period. In most cases, billing was
several months behind. The management of the computer center was given to
an expatriate who was in permanent conflict with MWSC.
2.05      The damage to the corporation has been enormous.  Besides the loss
of revenues 1/, the amount of arrears largely increased as customers refused
to pay unsubstantiated bills and PEWC's prestige suffered greatly.
Billing and the Appraisal of Power IT
3.01      A Bank mission which visited the Sudan in May 1973 found that:
(i)  Billing was 4 to 6 months behind;
(ii)  no reliable information existed to prepare a financing
plan;
(iii)  the auditors were a year behind in closing the books
because of the delays in data processing.
Although pre-appraisal conditions were fulfilled on technical grounds,
actual appraisal had to be postponed for the above reasons.
3.02      In July 1973, the Bank sent a billing expert for three weeks in
order to (i) identify the problem areas from a technical angle, (ii) assess
the needs of PEWC in terms of data processing equipment and trained staff
(expatriate and local), (iii) prepare practical recommendations to be sub-
mitted to PEWC's management and (iv) prepare an implementation program.
3.03      The appraisal took place in January 1974.  Billing then was up
to date but a few areas still caused concern: (i) approximately 30% of the
master file contained errors, (ii) an audit carried out in March 1973 of
the customer files of the engineers and the accounts sections lead to the
identification of 15,000 customers which were not billed - one may wonder
how many such customers are left - (iii) revenues per unit sold appeared
to be on the low side when compared with the tariff. Nevertheless, the
improvements since July 1973 have been substantial.
Conclusion
4.01      Despite recent improvements, billing is not yet satisfactory and
lack of proper control could allow the situation to deteriorate very rapid-
ly. The management consultants are expected to provide PEWC with much
needed assistance in billing matters and the Association will supervise
tightly this aspect of PEWC's activities in the future.
1/ Billing In Khartoum decreased between 1970/71 and 1971/72 by 4Z whereas
the supply of electricity and water increased by roughly 13%.
April, 1975



THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
ORGANIZATION CHART
PROPOSED BY THE ELECTRICITY COUNCIL OF THE U.K.
GENERAL
ELECTRICAL         ~CHIEF                     FINACEA
CHIEF                         COMMERCIAL                  FRINANCIAL                   PESONELTARY
ENGINEER             ~~~~OFFICER               COTOLROFFICER
ASST.                       ASST.                                                ASSO. CHIEr
CHIEF ENGINEER            CHIEF COM. OFFICER
(GENERATION)                  (TARIFFS)                   MANAGER                      AINING AND
TION)                                                      ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ELFARE)
ASST..                      ASST.
CHIEF ENGINEER                 TCOM.OFFICER               TRNALER
(TRANSMISSION AND          C      M      EN                           OTY OFFICER
DISTRIBUTION)              (NRGY SALES)III
EIGHT AREA MANAGERS
ASST.          ASST.                  ~~~~~~~~ASS. FINANCIAL         ASST. CHIEF
CHE  NIiNEER           CHE  OOFCRCONTROLLER                                     PERSON OFFICER
(TECHNICAL)  CUSTOMERS SERVICE          (OPERATIONAL               (LEGAL RELATIONS)
I  ASST.   I                                     1 ASST. FINANCIAL               ASST. CHIEF
CHIEF ENGINEER                                           CONTROLLER                PERSON OFFICERS
(PLANNING AND                                           (MANAGEMENT                  (MANPOWER
OPERATIONS)                                            ACCOUNTING)                  PLANNING)     |
1 In accordance with Ecurs recommendation, the                                                                                   World Bank-8741(4R)
chart excludes the water operations of PEWC.
April, 1975



ANNEX 16
Page I of 3
THE SUDAN
POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY SERVICES
The Electricity Council of the U.K.
The electricity supply industry in the U.K. consists of fourteen
statutory corporations: the Electricity Council (ECUK), the Central
Electricity Generating Board (CEGB) and twelve Area Electricity Boards
(AEB). The CEGB is responsible for generation and transmission of
electricity; it provides bulk supplies to the twelve SEBs which operate
the distribution networks.
The Electricity Council consists of the Chairman and two other
members from the CEGB, the twelve chairmen of AEBs and five members
appointed by the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry. The Elec-
tricity Council advises the Secretary of State on all matters affecting
the industry and coordinates the maintenance and development of an
efficient and economical system of electricity supply.
The Overseas Consultancy Service (OCS) of the Electricity
Council has, as an objective, to make the skills of the British electricity
supply industry available outside Britain. OCS uses staff of the CEGB
and AEBs for consultancy assignments overseas.
Background
In January 1973, Mr. Zein El Abdin Mustafa, General Manager of
PWEC asked ECUK to send a team of experts to the Sudan in order to (i)
set up a new organization structure, (ii) establish the specific duties
of each department, (iii) lay out job specifications for department and
division heads, (iv) put up proposals for a training program in accordance
with the new organization tree and (v) provide any further advise which
should improve the general efficiency of PEWC. The terms of reference
only covered the electricity operations. Two ECUK experts visited the
Sudan in June 1973 following which a report entitled Organization
Investigation was released in September 1973.
ECUK's Recommendations
ECUK in its report has suggested an organizational framework
within which PEWC should operate and offered its assistance in implementing
the new structure. Besides, ECUK has identified a number of areas where



ANNEA' i
Page 2 o. X
PEWC needed urgent assistance. On the institutional side, ECUK has
recommended (i) the restoration of the autonomy of PEWC by establishing
a Board of Directors, (ii) the inclusion of the Director General of Irri-
gation in the Board, and (iii) the splitting of the functions of electri-
city and urban water supply. PEWC felt that a split of the operations of
electricity and urban water supply would be premature at this stage and
the Association recommended that a thorough study be undertaken, possibly
with assistance from the U.K. Water Board on whether such a split would
benefit the Sudan, to enable a final decision to be taken.
On the organizational side, ECUK's recommendation focuses on (i)
the need to decentralize PEWC operations and therefore to delegate more
authority to the Area Managers, (ii) the creation of departments dealing
with commercial policy and staff development, areas which are neglected
at present, and (iii) the need to improve the financial management of PEWC.
ECUK has proposed a more effective organization chart and has prepared job
specifications for key posts of the reorganized PEWC.
Implementation
The successful implementation of ECUK's proposals depends on (i)
selecting adequate personnel to the key posts of the new organization and
(ii) giving proper training to PEWC's officers within the new organizational
framework. Beyond these two points ECUK's report has identified a number
of areas where it felt that PEWC's operations were inadequate technically
and which therefore needed immediate corrective action. ECUK's proposals
therefore include both the restructuring of PEWC's organization and
appropriate training programs.
To implement the new organization, ECUK has proposed to send a
Senior Manager from CEGB or an AEB to assist and guide the General Manager.
Experts in staff selection, manpower planning, education, training and
office organization would visit the Sudan at different stages to provide
guidance in their different fields.
On the technical side, ECUK has given priority to generation
plant operations and maintenance, safety procedures, transmission line
operations under live conditions, metering and systems operations. As
urgent action was needed, an expert in hydroelectric power stations
visited the Sudan between March and May 1974; his work concentrated on
the maintenance of the Roseires station. He has evaluated the competence
of PEWC's staff and provided on site training in various aspects of plant
operations and maintenance.
On the financial side, ECUK report recommends improvement of
the areas of general accounting, managerial accounting and computerized
billing. Following a detailed diagnosis of PEWC's problems in accounting
and finance, ECUK recomends that two expatriate experts should be engaged
for assignments of up to two years to build up effective systems. During
these two years, they would train and guide PEWC's officers so that these



ANNEX 16
Page 3 of 3
will be able to take up full operational responsibilities when the experts
depart. An expert in computerized billing with experience in IBM systems
would be engaged for PEWC's Computer Center where urgent assistance is
needed (Annex 14).
PEWC has not developed an effective planning unit and ECUK
has proposed assistance from abroad in building up planning expertise
within PEWC. This will parallel the special studies provided under the
proposed credit that will be made by consultants.
As PEWC does not have enough expertise in the commercial field
in general, and tariffs in particular, ECUK's program recommended here
also technical assistance. One of the first tasks will be the revision
of the structure of electricity tariffs (Annex 17).
PEWC has requested the consultants to undertake a study of its
plans to reorganize its water operations. As this will also help to build
a viable instutituion of PEWC, a provision has been made in the proposed
credit for this.
Conclusion
The Association considers ECUK's program as vital to the success
of this project. Therefore, an amount of LSd 377 thousands has been
allocated for this item. This covers about 670 man-weeks spent by
different experts in the Sudan (excluding their local expenses) and more
than 2,000 man-weeks for the training of PEWC staff abroad.
April, 1975



ANNEX 17
Page 1 of 4
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECr
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
TARIFFS
A. Electricitv
1.01      PEWC's present tariffs for the Blue Nile, Khartoum, Northern and
Eastern Regions were introduced in 1967 after the Council of Ministers
accepted the Board's recommendation that a higher tariff level was neces-
sarv to increase the Corporation's internal contribution to the financing
ot its investment program. These were based on costs of operation reflecting
high fuel costs of a predominantly thermal (diesel) system. The new tariff
system was to be reviewed prior to the completion of the first stage of
Roseires hydroelectric station, after an evaluation of the corporations'
fixed assets. Neither the study nor a review of tariffs has been undertaken
so far.
1.02      The tariff structure for the Khartoum area is as follows:
Tariff 1 - Domestic and Commercial
First 75 kWh at 30 mns
Next 125 kWh at 24 mms
Over 200 kWh at 20 mms
Minimum charge 450 mms
Tariff 2 -,Light Industrial
First 250 kWh at 25 mms
Next 250 kWh at 20 mms
Over 500 kWh at 16 mms
Minimum charge 450 mms
Agriculture Tariff
Fixed charge of 400 mms per {.P. connected
First 50 kWh at 15 mins
Next 150 kWh at 10 mms
Over 200 kWh at 9 mns



ANNEX 17
Page 2 of 4
Heavv Industrial and Bulk Tariff
(i) Metering at 11 K.V.
900 mms per K.V.A. of M.D.
First 30,000 kWh at 12 mms
Next 50,6Ou kWh at 10 mms
Net 50,000 kWh at 8 mms
Over 130,000 kWh at 7.5 nus
Minimum annual bill at I6Sd 14,5CO per K.V.A. of
M.D. in past 12 months
(ii) Metering at 415 Volts
920 mms per K.V.A. of M.D.
First 30,000 kWh at 12.3 mms
Next 50,000 kWh at 10.3 mmrs
Next 50,000 kWh at 8.2 nms
Over 130,000 kWh at 7.7 mms
Minimum annual bill at LSd 15,000 per K.V.A. of
M.D. in past 12 months.
For this tariff category, there is a 10% discount for electricity
consumed between 12.00 and 6.00 a.m.
1.03      In the remainder of the country, the tariff is essentially the
same excepting domestic and commercial consumers who pay higher rates
(35 to 55 mms per kWh - depending on the location).
1.04      Electricity tariffs are on the high side when compared with
neighboring countries. Average revenue per kWh sold in 1972/73 was 18.7 mms
or 5.4 US cents. This compares with an average of 3.0 US cents in Kenya
and Ethiopia. Considering that (i) PEWC has not shared the capital costs
of the Roseires and Khasm El Girba dams (except for the superstructure of
Roseires power station and the cost of equipment thereon) and (ii) about
two-thirds of the power supplied to the Blue Nile grid (which represents
more than 80% of sales) is now derived from hydro-electric sources, it
would appear bothi that the tariff is high and that the average 8% rate of
return on net recorded assets until 1973/74 reflects PEWCs
inefficient operation and over-staffing.  A reduction in the tariff level
would, hiowever, be inappropriate because of the large contribution which
it woul(d have to make between 1977 and 1981 to the next stage of the
expansion program for power.  The tariff revision study agreed to by PEWC,
expected to he completed by FY1975, slhould provide firm conclusions.
1.05      In view of the increase in the price of oil and the exceptional
salary increase of July, 1974, PEWC is expected to increase its electricity
tariffs by about 30% on July 1, 1975. This is an interim measure until the cost
reflecting tariffs are put intx effect (para. 7.09). The interim tariff
structure will be the same as the existing one.



ANNEX 1;_
Page 3 of 4
1.06      The structure of PEWC's present tariffs is unsatisfactory.  The
tariffs are not economically efficient since they do not reflect cost of
supply. Consumers are charged the same price per kWh for off-peak
consumption, where cost of supply is low, and for consumption during peak
hours, when expensive thermal plant is operating. PEWC's methods to reduce
peak demand - a fuel surcharge for large customers during months of high
thermal generation and agreements on the reduction of irrigation pumping
during peak hours - have not been very effective. Although mandatory fuel
price escalation exists in some individual supply contracts, it has not
often been enforced.
1.07      Current social idleas in the Sudan are not reflected in PEWC's
electricl_v tariffs. Tariffs for domestic customers are strongly regressive
with a high average unit for small customers and a considerably lower one
for Lirje customers. High connection charges of about bSd 30 are an
additional burden for small customers. Heavy industrial and agricultural
consumers in the Blue Nile grid, paying an average of 10.6 mms and 10.1
.ms per kWh, respectively, do not cover the cost of supply (11.6 nms).
They are subsidized by domestic, commercial and light industrial customers
who pay about twice as much per kWh.
1.08      In May 1973, a mission including Mr. R. Turvey, U.K. consultant,
and Messrs. D. Anderson and E. Bolte from IBRD, reviewed PEWC's present
tariffs structure and recommended the introduction of a cost reflecting
tariff system. It suggested that customers in the Blue Nile grid should
be allowed a low price during periods of abundant surplus hydroelectricity
supply from Roseires and Sennar power stations, and that the charges should
be increased during the periods of thermal supply. High tariffs should
particularlv be imposed during peak hours in the critical periods of the
year, as this demand can only he met by increasing the thermal capacity.
1.09      Due to the lack of reliable information on water requirements for
irrigation, on firm generation and transmission expansion plans for PEWC's
supply system, andl on distribution capital costs, Dr. Turvey's tariff mission
could only (demonstrate methods for determining cost reflectingn tariffs in
PEWC's system.  PEWC has agreed to develop a new tariff structure on the
basis suggested bv Dr. Turvey's missioni.  The new tariff will reflect cost
and incorporate a fucl price escalation clause for all customer categories.
It is expected to be made effective on July 1, 1975.
B. Water Tariffs
2.01      PEWC's present water tariffs date from 1968.  They consist of a
minimum charge (equivalent to 12 - 15 m3 of water) and a variable charge
ranging from 35 mms per m3 in the Khartoum areas to 50 mms in most of the
other urban centers and up to 100 mms in some remote cities of the Darfour
area.  Overall, the Corporation collects about 41 mms per m3 sold.



ANNEX 17
Page 4 of 4
2.02      The present tariff level is unsatisfactory as PEW, has been incurripg
increasing operational losses in the water operation. The operations taken
over by PEWC in 1971/72 have been largely responsible for this situation.
2.03      PEWC has proposed and GRS has agreed to increase the water tariffs
sufficiently to attain a 4% rate of return level. The structure of the
proposed tariffs is essentially the same as the existing one. The new water
tariff is expected to be put into effect on July 1, 1975.
April, 1975



ANNEX 18
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
ACTUAL AND FORECAST CONSOIlDATED1 8AIANCE SHEET'S
(R.Sd Thiousands)
Actual                                                        Forecast
June 30                                             1971        1972        1973        1974        1975        1976        1977         1978         1979         1980         1981
ASmM
Fixed Assets
Gross in Operation                                 36,1127     53,658      57,012      62,500      68,420      75,214     85,136      106,783       116,018      125,005      134,989
Less: Depreciation                                  7,180       8.613      10.312      12.166      14.191      16.434      18.940       21.910       25.336       29,056       33.081
Net in Operation                                   29,647      45,045      46,700      50,334      54,229      58.780     66,196       84,873        90,682       96,949      101.908
Work in Progress                                   11,148         494       1.040       1.765       L722        7.572      12.499        4.621        5.766        8972        13.092
Sub-Total                                     40.795      45.539     47,740       52.099     56.951       6.352      78.695       89.494       96.448       104.921      1
Current Assets
Inventories                                         2,902       3,806       5,449       4,400       4,840       5,324       S.856        6,442        7,086        7,795        8,574
Accounts Receivable                                 4,010       5,283       6,687       3,933       2,662       2,684       2,935        3,336        3,610        4,068        4,390
Cash                                                   85         128         154         200       1,497       1,992         937          341        1,325        1,248          622
Other                                                  221        324       1.054       1,142       1.233       1.332       1,438        1.553        1.677        1,812        1.956
Sub-Total                                      7.218                  13.347      9.675      10,232      11.332      lI.lte       11.(79       1             14,923       15.542
Total Assets                                  48,013      55,080      61.087      61,.774    67.183      77.684      89,861      101,166      110,146       119.844      130.542
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Capital                                                                                30,508      30,508      30,508      30,508       30,508       30,508       30,508       30,508
Accumulated Surplus                                 5,334       5,755       6,495       8,080       8,090      13,000      17,836       23,393       28,546       28,892       41,487
Contribution 11                     ~5.316                      5 5.316    856                       .3 8.316  8811_1       8.316        8,316        8.316        8.316          3
Sub-Total                                     10,650      11,071     j11811      46.904      46.914      51,824      56.660       62.127       67.370        73.716       80.311
Debt
Long-Term Debt Gross                               31,299      36,548      40,538       6,994      10,566      15.024     21,30.'       25,925       28,365       30,188       32,840
Lass: CurrenL Maturities                                           251         198        209         269         324         530          782          900         1      .1026  I04
Long-Term Debt Net                            31,29       36. 297     40,340       6.785     10.297      14.700      20,772       ?5.143                     29.162       31,736
Cosrent Liabilities
Accounts Payable                                     3,064      3,427       4,036       4,533       6,375       6,965       7,682        8,438        9.334       1(,328       11.298
Oustomer Deposits                                     675         866         910         950       1,275       1,642       1,795        -_...1       2,208        2,486        2,683
Deferred & Other Items                                 951      1,683       1,453       1,598       1,758       1,934       2,127        2,340        2,574        2,831        3,115
Current Maturities                                                 251        198         209         269         324         530          782          900        1.02         1.104
Sub-Total                                      4,690       6,22       -6.597       7.290      9.677      1(.865      12.134       13.601       1     6       16,671       18.200
Other Liabilities                                    1,374      1,485       2.339         795         295         295         295          295          295          295          295
Total Equity and Liabilities                  48,013      5671.07                 618774     6713        77.684      89.861      101.166      110( 146      119,844      130,542
Debt as h of Long-.erm Capitalization
(excluding revaluation)                              75          77          37          13          18          22         27            29           29           28           28
Receivables/Revenue h                                   60          64          67         38          23          15          15           15           15            15           15
1/ Includes Revaluation Surplus of 1Sd 5,316.
APRIL, 1975



ANMIEX 19
Page 1 of 3
TIE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PRO ECT
PUBLIC ELECTRI4CITY AND WATER CORPORATION
ACTJAL AND FORECAsr INCUME STAT1NTS - EIECTRICITY
ikZd Thousands)
Actual                                          Forecast
Year Ending June 30               1971     1972      1973     1        1975      1976     1977     I78       1979     1980     1981
Energy Sales 1/
Domestic    -  OWH                                              139      153       165      178      190       202      216       231
mms/kWh                                                     24.90    24.90    35.70    35.70    35.70    35.70    35.70    35.70
Revenue   -  GwH                                            3,461    3,810    5,890    6,355    6,783    7,211    7,711    8,247
Commercial  -  GWH                                               14       15        16       17       18        19       20       21
mms/kWh                                                     17.80    17.80    23.80    23.8o    23.80    23.80    23.80    23.80
Reverne                                                       219       267      381      405       428      452       476      500
Industrial  -  GWH                                              163      179       195      212      232       253      277       309
mms/kWh                                                     10.60    10.60    10.60    10.60    10.60    10.60    10.60    10.60
Revenue                                                     1,728    1,897    2,067    2,247    2,459    2,682    2,936    3,275
Goverrnment  -  GW 4                                              7         7        7        8         8        8        8         9
mms/kWh                                                     38.70    38.70    38.70    38.70    38.70    38.70    38.70    38.70
Revenue                                                       271      271       271      310      310       310      310      348
Agriculture -  GWH                                               47       59        98       81       99       120      141      160
ms/KWh                                                      10.10    10.10    15.10    15.10    15.10    15.10    15.10    15.10
Revenue                                                       475      596    1,027    1,223    1,495    1,812    2,129    2,416
Other Areas -  OMM                                               78       87       105      115      124       136      149      159
mns/kWh                                                     62.10    22.10    29.40    29.40    29.40    29.40    29.40    29.40
Reves  e                                                    1,724    1,923    3,087    3,381    3,646    3,998   14,381    4,675
Total Units                                                1j48      500      556       611      671       738      811      889
kverage Price                                             17.65    17.53    22.88    22.7e    22.54    22.31    22.12    21.89
Operating Revenues
Energr Sales           5- 493    6,556    7,728    7.908    8,764   12,723   13,921                          465   17,943   19,461
Operating Expenses
Gen. and Trans.                     915      999    1,221    1,167    1,353    1,461    1,578    1,705    1,841    1,988    2,147
Fuel                              1,220    1,333       970    1,421    3,037    3,214    3,432    3,597    3,863    4,112    4,273
Distribution                        767    1,221    1,491    1,566    1,816    1,961    2,118    2,288    2,471    2,668    2,882
Depreciation                        890    1,031    1253    1,311    1,434        . j4   1,731    2,090    2,432    2.600    2,768
Total Operating Expenses      3,792    4,584    4,935   .5,465    7,640    8,200    8859    9680   10,607   11.368   12,070
Operating Income                  1,701    1,982    2,793   _2443    1,124    4,523    5,o62    5,441    5,858    6,575    7,391
Other Income Net                    319      389       450   -  450                4        45      J5         450)    h450      450
Net Income Before Interest        2,020    2.361    3,243    2,893    1,574    4.973    5,512    5,891    6,308    7,025    7,841
Interest Nct Capitalized          1,287   _1508    2.297        624      511      675       956    1,241    1,354    1,334    1,290
NET INCCE                           733      853       946   2,269       063    4,298             ,650    4,954    5.691    6.551
Operating Ratio %
(after depreciation)              69       70       64        69       67       64        64       64       64        63       62
Average Rate Base                19,549   26,828   33,580   34,661   37,173   39,806   43,501   54,060   63,625   66,265   68,722
Rate of Return                     8.70     7.35     8.32      7.05     3.02    11.36    11.64    10.06      9.21      9.92    10.75
Depreciation as % of
Average Gross Asset             3.63     3.15     3-08      3.05     3.06      3.o6     3.07     3.04      3.01     3.03     3-04
I/ The first five categories apply to the Blue Nile Grid only.
April 1975



ANNEX 19
Page 2 of 3
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC =LECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATIOiN
ACTUAL ALD FORECAST INCOHE STATEHIENT - UATER
(LSd Thousands)
Actual                                                     Forecast
Year Ending June 30                          1971       1972      1973        19714                 1976       978                 1979      1980       1981
No. of Connections                               116       168       179         194        214        227        242       259       277        296      316
Total Population                              2,007      2,105     2,210       2,320     2,435       2,557     2,6814     2,819     2,961     3,110    3,267
Population Served                                719     1,056     1,113       1,200      1,321      1,406     1,503      1,607     1,717      1,835    1,960
7 Population Served                               36        50        50          52         54         55        56         57        58         59       60
Volume Produced                              149,300    71,400    90,800      95,100    99,900    104,100   112,000   120,500   128,400   138,000  145,900
Volume Sold - Water                           29,100    42,100    53,600      59,900    68,900      75,000    81,800    89,000    95,000   102,000  109,000
Unaccounted for Water                            141        41        41          37         31         28         27        26        26         26       25
mms/m3                                         40.76     40.76      40.76      40076      40.76      69.00     69.00      80.00     80.00    -190.00    90.00
OPERATING REVENUES
Water Sales                                    1,188     1,719     2.185        2,442     2.808      5,175     5.644      7,120     7X600      9,180    9,810
OPERATING EXPENSES
Production                                       472       808     1,062       1,167      1,423      1,602     1,861      2,163     2,488      2,889    3,298
Distribution                                     490       941     1,255       1,416      1,847      2,114      2,430     2,789      3,211    3,694      4,193
Depreciation                                     310      1402       446         543        591        679        775       880        994    1,120    1.257
Total Operating Expenses                 1,272      2,151     2,763       3,126     3,861       4,395     5,066      5,832     6,693      7,703    0,7 78
Operating Income                                 -84      -432      -578        -6814   -1,053         780        578     1,288       907      1,L77    1,062
Other Income Net                                                     372
Net Income Before Interest                       -84      -432      -206        -684    -1,053         780        578     1,288       907      1,477    1,062
Interest Not Capitalized                                                                               168        298       471       618        822    1,018
NET INCOME                                       -84      -432      -206         -684     1.           612        280       817       2                     4
Ooerating Ratio  , (After Depreciation)         107       125       126         128        138         85         90        82        88         814       89
Average Rate Base                              8,377    10,518    12,293      13,855    15,109      16,699    13,987    21,875    214,153    27,051   30,207
Return on A-verage Rate Ease                   -1O00     -14.11    -1.70        J4.95     -6.97       4.67       3.04      6.00      3.76       5@.6      3.52
Depreciation as ;- of Average Gross Asset       3.10      3.22      3.(14       3.24       3.18       3.27       3.26      3.25      3.23       3.23     3.22
April, 1975



ANNEX 19
PAGE 3ROF 3
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER il PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
ACTUAL AND FORECAST INCOME STATEMENTS - CONSOLIDATED
(ISD THOUSANDS)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30             A9TU             197                19_763ml 1975              i197           6 1980
OPERATING REVENUES
ENEgGY SALES REV        5493    6556    7728    7908    8764   12723   13921   15121   16465   17943    19461
NAT~R 3ILLINGS          1188    1719    2185    2442    2808    5175    56f44    7120    7600    9180            9810
TOTA,L OP REVENUE       6681    8275    9913   10350i  11572   17898   19565   22241   24065   27123    29271
OPEtATING EXPENSES
S--   ----_---- --
LABqR                    915      999    1221    116,    1353    1461    1578    1705    1841    1988            2147
FUEL                    1220    1333       970    142:.    3037    3214    3432    3597    3P63    4112          4273
TRA1iSMISsION/DISTR      767    1221    1491    1566    1816    1961    2118    2288    2471    2668             2882
OTFIER                   472      308    1062    1167    1423    1602    1861    2163    2488    2889            3298
OTHgR 11                 490      941    1255    1416    1847    2114    2430    2789    3211    3694    1'193
DEP*ECIATIOII           1200    141    169    15L    202?    2243    2ro5    2973    R42r)    z720   -4020
TOTAL OP EXPENSE        50t64    6735    7698    859:.   11501   12595   13925   15512   17300   19071   -?0818
OPERATING INCOME        1617    1540    2215    1759          71    5303    5640    6729    6765    3052    83453
OTHER INCOME NET         319      389      822      45c0     450     450      450      450      450      450      450
NET INCOMiE BEF INT    1936    1929    3037    2201          521    5753    6o90    7179    7215    8502         8903
INTEREST NOT CAPIT    1287    1508    2297          6211    511      843    1254    1712    1972    2156    .2308
NET INCOr1E              649      421      740    158i        10    4910    4836    5467    5243    6346    6595
OPERATING RATIO S
(AFTER DEPR)              76       81       78       33       99      70       71       70       72       70       71
AVERAGE RATE 3ASE    27926   37346   45873   48516   52282   56505   62488   75535   87778   93316   9392)
RATE OF RETURN          5.79    4.12    4.83    3.63    0.14    9.39    9.03    8.91    7.71    8.63    3.54
Fri1, 1975



ANNEX 20
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PJBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
ACTUAL AND FORECAST CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOWS
(bSd Thousands)
Six Year
Summary
Actual                                             Forecast                                       1973/74-              Forecast
Year Ending June 30                                  1971         1977        197         1976        1           1976        17          198           199         1978/79          1980           1981
.SOURCES
Internal Cash Generation
Net Income Before Interest                       1,936       1,929       3,037       2,209          521       5,753       6,090       7,179        7,215          23,967         8,502         8,903
Depreciation                                     1,200       1,433       1,699       1,854       2,0)25       2,243       2,506       2.970        3,426          15,024         3,720         4,025
Other
Sub-Total                                  3,136        3,362       4,736       4,063       2-546       7.996       8,596      10i149        10,641         43,991        12,222         12.928
Sank of Sudan                                    2,400         600
CF5                                               -236       3,557       3,040                    2,405       3,380       3,197       2,302         2,740         14,024        2,723          3.678
IBRD (Loan 522-SIJ)                              1,965       1,092       1,201
Proposed IDA Credit                                                                                           1,266       3,405       2,851           482          8,004
ADB                                                                                     162       1,376          81       _ _     _                                1.619        _
Sub-Total                                  4,601        5,249       4,241         162       3,781       4,727       6,602        5,153        3,222         23,647         2,723          3,678
Other Sources
Change in Current Liabilities                      402       1.286         423          682       2.327       1.133       1.063       1.215         1.297          7,717         1.529         1.451
Total Sources                               8,139       9.897  8 994 1486 16,261                                                _16.             6474                                    18.057
APPLICATIONS
Construction 1/
Electricity                                      5,512       3,445       1,939       3,788        5,252       8,719      11,624      10,244         6,555         46,182         7,968        9,479
Water 2/                                         1,186       2,342        1,961       2,425       1,625       2,925       3,225       3,525         3,825         17,550         4,225        4,625
Interest Capitalized                               276         390                               _____                                             _____          _____
Sub-Total                                  6.974        6.177       3,900       6,213       6,877      11.644      14.849      13.769        10,380          63 732       12,193       14,104
Debt Service
Amortization                                                                251         198         209         269         324         530           782          2,312           900        1,026
Interest Not Capitalized                         1,287       1,508       2.297          624         511         843       1.254        1.712        1.972          6.916        2.156         2.308
Sub-Total                                   1,287       1,508       2,548         822         720       1,112       1,578        2,242        2,754           9,228        3.056        3,334
Other A&Ulications
Change in Cash                                     -38          43           26          46      1,297          495      -1,055        -596           984          1,171           -77         -626
Change in Other Current Assets                   1,290       2,280       3,780      -3,718         -740         605         889       1,102         1,042           -820        1,302         1,245
Other Application - Net                         -1,374        -111        -854        1.544         500         _                                                  2.044          _
Sub-Total                                    -122       2,212       2,952      -2,128       1.057       1.100        -166          506                        2.395        1.225           619
Total Application                           82.139      9.897       9           4.907       8.654      1.856       16.261       16,517       15.16   ,5.355              16 474       18.057
Debt Service Covered by Internal
Cash Generation (Times)                           2.44        2.23        1.86        4.94         3.5'        7.1e        5.45        4.35         3.86                         4.00          3.88
Accumulated Cash at End of Year                         85         128        154          200       1,497       1,992         937          341        1,325                        1,248          622
v  The detailed electricity construction program appears on page 6 of Annex 21
/ The detailed water construction program appears on page 7 of Annex 21
/ The detailed debt repayment schedule appears on page 8 of Annex 21
April, 19t5



ANNEX 21
Page 1 of 10
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
FINANCIAL ASSUMPTIONS
Balance Sheets
Acr'runts Receivable
PEWC .has always experienced difficulties in collecting arrears; the
ineffective computerized billing system has aggravated the problem as many
customers have challenged their bills.  Besides, some semi-governmental units
such ss municipalities have been unable to pay their bills for years because
of lack of ftunds.  As of June 30, 1973, the breakdown of the accounts receiva-
bles was as follows:
Gross Accounts Receivable as of June 30,
1973
iSd - thousands
Khartoum Area   Rest of PEWC  Total  Percent
Residential                           2,762            1,316     4,078    59
Conunercial                             113               19        132     2
Industrial                              886              100        986    14
Agricultural Pumping                    265              166        431     6
Semi-Government                         874              386     1 260    19
Total                                 42900            1,987     6,887   100
The Khartoum area accounts for more than 70% of total receivables
and residential customers accounts for almost 60% of the total.  The Corpora-
tion has made a drive to reduce the amount of gross accounts receivable and
has recently attained the equivalents of 5 months sales. The following sched-
ule reflects further targets agreed to during negotiations.
Provi-
Actual       sional          Forecast
Year Ending June 30       1971    1972       1973    1974 1975  1976-1981
Gross Accounts Receivable in
months of sales equivalent           7.5       8.0      9.0    5.0  3.0         2.0
Ten percent has been deducted from gross accounts receivable to
reflect uncollectibles.



ANNEX 21
Page 2 of 10
Accounts Payable
Accounts Payable, amounted to 1Sd 4.0 million at the end of 1972/73.
It has been assumed that from 1972/73 onwards Accounts Payable will increase at
a rate of 10% per annum.
Inventories
PEWC has a high level of inventories because of the transportation
difficulties in the Sudan. The level of inventories should decrease by hSd 1.0
million in 1973/74 as some were sold; it has been estimated that from 1973/74,
inventories would increase by 10% per annum.
Consumer deposits
Consumer deposits were estimatec to grow at the same rate as gross
sales.
Construction Program
The detailed construction programs for the electricity and water
operations for the years 1973/74 to 1980/81 appears on pages 6 and 7 of this
Annex. Average investment in common plant is estimated at ISd 500 thousand
per annum.
Borrowin
Estimated borrowings for the 8-year period 1973/74 through 1978/79
total LSd 23.5 million and are shown below:
Proposed IDA Credit (Electricity)           USd  8.0 million
ADB (Electricity)                          hSd  1.6 million
GRS (Rahad)                                6Sd  3.3 million
GRS (Water)                                MSd 10.8 million
Total                                      LSd 23.7 million
The Covernment will onlend the proceeds of the proposed IDA credit
to PEWC at an interest rate of 8%. The loan would be for 24 years including
a 4-year grace period.
PEWC has received a loan from the African Development Bank (ADB) to
finance diesel sets in four isolated systetms. The ADB loan is for 19 years
including a 4-year grace period; the interest rate on that loan is 7%, with
a commitment fee of 3/4%.
GRS will onlend to PEWC 3.3 million, from our Rahad Irrigation
credit (Cr.364-SU), to finance ancillary electrical equipment for this project.



ANNEX 21
Page 3 of 10
For the water operations it was assumed that the Government will lend
to PEWC the balance necessary to finance the construction program for water.
This balance was calculated on the basis of internal cash generated from the
water operation less the debt service on previous Government loans for the
water operation. It was assumed that these loans would be at 8%, no grace,
and amortized over 20 years. Details of the annual drawings from the various
loans and annual debt service on these loans appear on page 8 of this Annex.
Depreciation
PEWC is using a straight line depreciation method. For the electri-
city assets, the composite rate of depreciation was of 3.0% in FY72/73; this
rate appears to be on the low side and will be revised with the assistance
of PEWC's consultants. Page 9 of this Annex shows the depreciation schedule
of electricity assets over the period 1973/74 - 1980/81. Common plant is
depreciated at a composite rate of 4% and its cost is allocated to the elec-
tricity and water operations in a ratio of 75:25. Page 10 shows the deprecia-
tion schedule of common plant. Depreciation of water assets is taken to be
3% of gross plant in operation. PEWC follows the practice of commencing de-
preciation in the year the asset is placed into service. However, in the
first year only one half of the relevant depreciation rate is applied.
Income Statements
Electricity
Sales (GWh)
Separate sales forecasts were prepared for each customers category
in the Blue Nile grid. They are summarized below:
Sales Forecast - GWh
Actual                        Forecast
Year Endgg Jue-    1973  1974  1975   1976   1977   1978   1979  1980  1981
Blue Nile Grid
Domestic                129   139   153    165    178    190    202   216   231
Commercial               11    14    15      16      17     18      19    20    21
Industrial              153   163   179    195    212    232    253   277   309
Government                6     7      7      7       8      8       8      8     9
Agriculture Pumping    41    47   _59        68      81     99    120   141   160
Sub-total               340   370   413    451    496    547    602   662   730
Isolated Areas           74    78    87    105    115    124    136   149   159
Total_- PEwC_ 414   448   500    556    611    671    738   811   889



ANNEX 21
Page 4 of 10
No breakdown by customer category for isolated systems could be
prepared as the data base was inadequate.
Revenues
A detailed analysis was made for FY 1972/73 to determine average
revenues per unit sold in mms per kWh. The forecast reflects the new electricity
tariffs to be made effective on July 1, 1975.
Generation Expenses
PEWC's generation forecast is as follows:
Generation Forecast (GWh)
Year Ending June 30            1974   1975   1976   1977   1978   1979  1980  1981
1) Blue Nile Grid
.Thermal                    98      98      98     99    100    103   106   120
Roseires 1-3              310    342    377    434    497    529   578   609
Roseires 4                 -       -       -      -       -       35    60   100
Sennar                     72      88    106    106    106    106   106   106
Total                     480    528    581    639    703    773   850   935
2) Isolated Area                104    116    140    153    166    181   198   212
thermal)
Grand Total               584    644    721    792    869    954 1.048 1,147
On the basis of this forecast, a fuel consumption forecast was prepared:
Fuel Consumption Forecast (tons)
1974   1975    1976   1977   1978   1979    1980  1981
Gas Oil                    3,500  2,500  3,100   3,400  3,700  4,100  5,100  5,500
Diesel Oil                15,800 15,400 16,200  14,100 15,500 18,300 19,600 21,000
Furnace Oil               47,700 51,600 53,500  62,200 63,600 65,200 67,100 68,100
The price of the different fuels reflects the increases in prices of December
1973 and June 1974 includes customs and duties.



ANNEX 21
Page 5 of 10
These are:
June 1974 Oil Prices
Gas Oil            :     hSd 102.00/ton
Diesel Oil         :      MSd  60.00/ton
Furnace Oil        :     1Sd  36.00/ton
PEWC's revised electricity tariffs are expected to include a fuel escalation
clause for all customers categories. Consequently, there was no need to pre-
dict future oil prices as PEWC will be automatically protected from escalation
in oil prices.
Labor and Materials
On the premises that PEWC's staff will not be increased in the
future (see para. 6.20), the forecast assumes a 16% increase in labor charges
in 1974/75 over 1973//4 to retlect the general salary increase of July 1974.
Beyond 1974/75 an 8% increase per annum has been assumed. The same assumption
had to be applied to the cost of supplies as PEW's accounting system does not
provide a better basis for projections.
Water Sales
In view of the financial limitations of PEWC a modest objective has
been established. Population served through house connections will increase
from 1.1 million in 1973 to 2.0 million in 1981. The percentage of population
served will thus increase from 50% to 60% in the corresponding period.
Production
In 1973, unaccounted for water was estimated to be 40% of the total
production. A reasonable target of 25% has been assumed for 1981 and water
production has been calculated on the basis of these assumptions and PEWC's
water sales forecast.
2peEki   Expenses
Production costs are expected to increase at the same rate as the
production volumes, incorporating the same assumption on inflation as for
electricity (i.e. a 16% increase in 1974/75 and 8% onwards). Distribution
expenses are expected to increase at the same rate as the total population
served with similar inflation contingencies.



TRLE SUDAN                                                 ANNEX 21
THE SUDAN                                   ~~~~~~~~~Page 6 of 10
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER. CORPORATION
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM - ELECTRICITY 1'
(LSd Thousands)
Six-Year
Sumixary
Year EndinR June 30                                  1974     1975       1976      1977       1978      1979         1973/74-1978/79  1980        1981
ID-A lto1¢ct
Li>olr.s  milt "b. 4                                                     3)5     1,091      2.106     1.009           4.496
IS U  blese  -  ,artotm                                                  200     1,506      1,000        43           2.743
S U Diesel - Juba                                                       231       7"         146                     1,167
Transmission
220 kV Reseires - Sennar                                                  38       646      1,450       144           2,278
110 kV Sennar - Meina el Sharif                                          330     1,000        265                     1,595
Distribution
Juba Town                                                                220       400         81                        701
Consultancy Services
Management Consultants                                                   330        88         11                       429
Special Surveys                                                          310       190                                  500
Total IDA Project                                         1,994      5,706     5,015      1,196          13,911
Rahad Electrification                                            450      2.850     1.480        520                      5.300
ADB Prolect
17 MW of Thermal Power in 4 isolated towns           162    2.594         SI                                           2.837
Other
Generation                                           251        33       219       163         34        184            884            593        904
Distribution                                       3.000    1.800      3.200     3.400      3.600     3,800          18,800         .4000       4.200
Total Other                           3,251    1.833      3.419      3.563     3.634      3.984          19,684          4.593      5,104
Unidentified Blue Nile Grid Extension                                                  500        700     1,000            2,200         3,006    4,000
Cotstruction Program - Grand Total                     3,413    4,877      8,344    11,249      9,869     6,180          43,932           7,593    9,104
1/ Excludes investment in Common Plant (ESd 325,000 per annum)



THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATIONJ
CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM - WATER
(£Sd thousands)
Six-Year Summary
Year Ending June 30                   1974    1975    1976    1977    1978    1979         1973/74 -1978/79       1980    1981
:'hartoum North (Ongoing)              230     335      260                                       825
)m.durman           "                   80      25       -                                        105
Pipe Purchase                          987      -                                                 987
Khartoum Villages                      188           -                                            188
Water Supply to 33 towns (Ongoing)  545         260      90                                       895
El Obeid                               162       -       -                                        162
Port Sudan                     "        55     300      155                                       510
Medani                                  L0       -       -                                         )°n
Fasher                                  13            -                                            13
Juba (Special Program)                  -        40      90                                       130
Other Programs                          -      540   2,205   3,100   3,7C00   3700            12,945             L,100    4,500
Total                      2,300   1,50    2 2       3,100   3,400   3,700           14,100   14,500
o
0



ANNEX 21.
PAGE 8 OF 10
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
P.UBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER COPORATION
DEST FORECAST
(LSD THOUSANDS)
YEAR ENDING JUNE 30                                                                                12.2 197 ti        1998
BORROWINGS                                                 -
BANK OF SUDAN            21400     600         0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        o
GRS                       236     3557      3040        0    2405      3380      3197     2302     2740    2723       3C73
IBRD (LOAN 522-SU)i   1965        1092     1201         0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0
IDA CREDIT                  0        n         0        o        0    1266      3405      2851     14R2         0        0
ADB                         0         0        0      162     1376        81        0        0         0        0        0
TOTAL                    14601    5249      4241      162     3781     4727      6602    5153      3222     2723      3678
AMORTIZATION
BANK OF SUDAN               0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0                  O 0
GRS                         0         0        0        0         0       46       87      215      275       356      4i4
IBRD (LOAN 522-SU)          0        0      251       198 -   209       223       237      252      267      285       303
IDA CREDIT                  0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0      171      186       201
ADB                                   0        0        0         0        0        0 o     6         69            71 _3
TOTAL                       0         0      251      198      209      269       324      530      782       900     1026
LONG-TERM DEBT
BANK OF SUDAN            2400     3000      3000        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        o
GRS                     23911   27468   30508           0    2405    5739        8849   10936   13401   15768    10002
IBRD (LOAN 522-SU)        i982    60 8s    7030      6832     6623    64oo    6163        5911     56s44    5359      5056
IDA CREDIT                  0         r                 0        0    1266    4671        7522     7833     7647      7446
ADB                         0         0               162     1538    1619       1619    1556      1487      1414     1336
TOTAL GROSS             31299   36548    40538    6.94   10566   15024   21302   25925   28365   30188    32340
;URRENT MATURITIES          0      251       198      209      269      324       530      782      900     1026      1104
tOTAL NET              31299   36297    40340    6785   10297   114700   20772   25143   27465   29162    31736
INTEREST AND
COMMITMENT CHARGES
BANK OF SUDAN               0      2014      210      105         0        0        0         0        0        0l       0
GRS                      1287     1304      1575        0        12      260      496      720       874     1072     1261
IBRD (LOAN 522-SU)i    276         390      512       502      434      421       407      392      376      359       3141
IDA CREDIT                  0         0        0        0        0        51      235      488      6114     622       608
ADB                          0        n        °           17   65       1ll      113      112       loS      103       98
TOTAL-OF WHICH           1563     1898      2297      6211     511       843    1254      1712     1972      2156;   2308
CAPITALIZED               276      390         0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0
NOT CAPITALIZED          1287     1508      2297      624      511       843    1254      1712     1972      2156    2308
DEBT SERVICE
OANK OF SUDAN               0      204       210      105         0        0        0        0         0        0        0
SRS                      1287     13011   1575 -        °       12       306      583      935     1149    1428    1705
IBRD (LOAN 522-SU)        276      390      763       7°°      643      644      6144      62i44    643      G44       644
IDA CREDIT                  0         0        0        0        0        51      238      488      785      208       309
ADB                         0         0        0       1       65       1ll      113      175      177       176      176
TCrAL                    1563     1898      2548      822      720     1112      1578     22142    2754    3056    3334
OLD BORROWItGS -
OLD DE;iT SERVICE
INC.CAP.INT.                 0        0        0        0         0        0        0         0        0        0        0
NE  1 BOR-NEI DEBT-S    3038       3351     1693  -34168      3061      3615     50224    2911       468    -333       344
CHANGE IN CASH
[LJE TO DEBT CHANGE      3038     3351      1693  -34168      3061      3615     5024     2911       468    -333       3 414
OLD CASH  OSITION           0        0        0         0        0        0        0         0        0        0        0
ACCUM.C11G. Itl CASH    29736    33087   34780        612     3673      7288   12312    15223   15691   15353   15702
NEtl CASH POSITION      29736    33087   34780        612     3673      7288   12312    15223   15691   15358   15702



ANNEX 21
Page 9 of 10
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
SCHEDULE OF DEPRECIATION CHARGES - ELECTRICITY
(£Sd Thousands)
Year Ending June 30                                     1974      1975      1976      1977      1978-    1979      1980      1981
Gross Operating Assets on June 30, 1973
Generation       15,775      Rate = 2.8%
T'ransmission     5,625      Rate = 2.5%
Distribution    17 420       Rate = 3.3%
Composite Rate = 3.0%          1,147    1,147    1,147    1,147         1,147    1,147    1,147   1,147
Additions in 73/74
Distribution      3,057                              51       101       101       101       101       101       101      101
Additions in 74/75
Generation        3,060                                        43        86        86         86       86        86       86
Distribution         900                                       15        30        30         30       30        30       30
Additions in 75/76
Generation          833                                                  12        23         23       23        23       23
Distribution      2,721                                                  45        90         90       90        90       90
Additions in 76/77
Generation        1,270                                                           18         36        36       36       36
Transmission      1,473                                                           60        120       132       132      132
Distribution      3,639
Additions in 77/78                                                                                 89       178       178     178
Generation        6,365                                                                       96      192       192      192
Transmission      7,699                                                                      62       123       123      123
Distribution      3,741
Additions in 78/79
Generation        1,210                                                                                 7         4        4
Transmission        1414                                                                                2       123      123
Distribution      3,741
Additions in 79/80                                                                                                      8      16
Generation          567                                                                                          65      129
Distribution      3,900
Additions in 80/81
Generation          964                                                                                                   68
Distribution      14,1006 8 _                                          _ 
Total Depreciation                                     1,198    1,306    1,421    1,573         1,917    2,244    2,397   2,550



Annex 21
Page 10 of 10
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PIFJECT
PUBLIC LECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATIDON
SCHEDULZ OF DNIR3CIATIDN CHARGES - QN)LN PLANT
(LSd - thoueands)
Year Ending June 30                         1975   1976   1977   1978   1979   1980   1981
Gross Operating Plant
on June 30, 1973P  3,314             141   :141   141    141    141    141    141    141
Additions in
73/77         :500                10      20     20     20      20     20     20      20
Additions in
74/75         s500                        10     20     20      20     20     20      20
Additions in
75/76        s  500                              10     20      20     20     20      20
Additions in
-  76/77      s  500                                    10      20     20      20     20
Additions in
77/78        :  500                                             10     20     20      20
Additions in
78/79        s   500                                                   10      20     20
Additions in
7978r         s  500                                                           10     20
Additions in
SO/=1        s   500                                                                  10
Total Depreciation                   151    171    191    211    231    251    271    291
.... 1975.. .m    mu..  mmmm            .   mm..       .
April, 1975



ANNEX 22
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
PEWC'S WATER OPERATIONS
1.        PEWC is responsible for urban water supply for the whole country;
it operates about 50 independent systems, thus serving a population of about
2 million. Some 1.2 million customers are supplied through house connections
and 0.8 million through public hydrants. PEWC is serving very few industrial
customers as these usually have their own sources of supply. The Khartoum
area accounts for about 90,000 residential customers out of a total of
190,000; the total plant capacity amounts to 67 Mgd of which 35 Mgd is located
in the metropolis.
2.        The main sources of water are the White Nile and the Blue Nile.  Out-
side the Nile basin, boreholes are used. Some provinces suffer from drought
and meagerness of raw water, in particular Kordofan, Darfur and the Red Sea.
3.        PEWC is making efforts to Lmprove the efficiency of the production
and distribution systems in the cities where it presently operates. A new
water works is under construction at Khartoum and in different cities, the
distribution networks are extended.
4.        A survey of the water suppLy sector isade by the World Health
Organization in November 1974 should vastly increase our knowledge of this
aspect of PEWC's operations, particu;Larly outside Khartoum and should lead
to the identification of objectives and the formulation of precise strategies
for the next decade.
April, 1975



ANNEX 23
THE SUDAN
SUDAN POWER II PROJECT
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
PROJECT MONITORING
It is difficult to monitor effectively the performance of PEWC in
view of the unreliability of the data generated by the Corporation. However,
the prevailing general inefficiency calls for close supervision of this en-
tity. Substantial improvements could be made in a large number of areas;
listed here are those which, in the mission's view, are the most important
ones.
1.   Monthly Reporting System
A monthly reporting system whereby each area where PEWC operates
would provide basic data on sales, cash, staff, etc., was expected to be im-
plemented in January 1974. At appraisal time the system was still not effec-
tive but the Acting Controller of Accounts had agreed to implement it. The
main obstacle apparently was the reluctance of the accountants in the differ-
ent areas to follow it up. Since this item is of fundamental importance to
the whole monitoring system, progress made should be followed closely.
2.   System Technical Performance Targts
Actual  Est.             Targets
72    73    74  75  76  77  78  79  80  81
Unaccounted-for Water (%) /1   41    41    37  31  28  27  27  26  26  25
Energy Losses /1
Blue Nile Grid (%)             20    20    20  20  20  20  20  20  20  20
Other Areas (;)                2'S   25    25  25  25  25  25  25  25  25
3.   Staffin                       7,328  10,624  No increase in unclassified
staff beyond 1974.
4.   Accotnts
CGross Accounts Recei vable
(Months of Sales)            8     9     5   3   2   2   2   2   2   2
5.  Billin. .Iffectiveness
AveraAe revenue collected per unit sold:  Comparison of tariff struc-
ture and actual results.
/1   These targets were used in the financial projections.
April, 1975






I BRD 10992 RI
SARALOKA 0    ~~To Port Soon                                                                                                     ARAB REP E EF i$P' -
5ABAZOKA 0                                      1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~3,1                     35,                     t/
KHARTOUM                                                                                                                                   f
B ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~E~                                                       111T
1/  *                                                                                           k-'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~5"  F CAI  A 
Kilo X                                                                                      [EPUBL C~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~HS   LCSB     ~O
qDA, Il
New Haifa CY-'
S>4w
7~/v \            KASSALA                                              KEHA M EL
'Ta,                      <e    \\                                                                   /RBA DAMA
c4sM  ssni Heissa                                         BUTANA    AREA
EN   ~ ~~~~~~zj;>CPR'                                   IN       
ole    ~~~~~~~&M6OSAG5 1A                                                                        Sitowak c
A                                /                                                                            V~~~~~~W4"  cfz
DA~~~~~
KENAN   ~ ~ ~ ~ ~~~~~~~0A5
Esuk SI                        Hawai(i             R7 FR
Rahak  EAHAD PUMP/NO S TATI                                          E~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~         ~~PROIEC`7  SECONVD  
SUDAN                                                                                 NE<                           ~
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY & WATER CORPORATION                                                                                                                     t,
-~'- 0
THE BLUE NILE GRID                                                                           A
EXISTiNG 
Hydra Stations             -.   2Exsoting Irr,gOtion Schemeos                                              DINDER
*  Thermal/Go5l-Turbine/               E~istiog Irrigatcion Scheme                              7GAME PAREK                     ______________
Diesol Stations                     Fotensions
-   220 kV Tran,smission Lin,es   R'--.--.  Ra ways/
1...... I10 kV Tronsrnsston Lines       Bridgos                                                                         -
®     S,bsIiromias                        R Aers 
12'      S,bsor:s ,/de, Cor,structron     rau, ncio Boundaries 
PROJECT:                     - - Inieraritooncl Bu,oundres                                                                                                   12-
1L Hydra SbiacIn                                                                                     N'APRC
Thermal /Gas lThinoe/                  ,, ,
Diesel Sra/.ans                   D..u...-mB.a 
220 kV Tronsm,sso,a Lines                                                    RD5E/RES' DAM 
110 kV Tror,smssan Lines        210    AT0    60      SC)   too
LEKCLMETEUTRS5I
33,      341                                     I"                                      36'~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~S,   NOVEMBER 1974



