7%13o
CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 564 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1975


﻿CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 564 SU
Development Credit
Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
AND
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1975


﻿DEVELOPMENT CREDIT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated June 25, 1975, between THE DEMOCRATIC
REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN (hereinafter called the Borrower) and
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the
Association).
WHEREAS (A) The Borrower has requested the Association to assist in the
financing of the Project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement by extending
the Credit as hereinafter provided;
(B)   The Project will be carried out by the Public Electricity and Water
Corporation with the Borrower's assistance and, as part of such assistance, the
Borrower will make available to the Public Electricity and Water Corporation the
proceeds of the Credit as hereinafter provided; and
(C)   The Association is willing to make the Credit available upon the terms
and conditions set forth hereinafter and in a project agreement of even date
herewith between the Association and the Public Electricity and Water Corporation.
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all the provisions of the
General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit Agreements of the
Association, dated March 15, 1974, with the same force and effect as if they were
fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Applicable to Development Credit
Agreements of the Association being hereinafter called the General Conditions).
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions have the respective
meanings therein set forth and the following additional terms have the following
meanings:
(a)   "Project Agreement" means the agreement between the Association
and the Public Electricity and Water Corporation of even date herewith, as the
same may be amended from time to time, and such term includes all schedules
to the Project Agreement; and


﻿4
(b)   "Subsidiary Loan Agreement" means the agreement to be entered into
between the Borrower and the Public Electricity and Water Corporation pursuant
to Section 3.01(b) of this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time
to time, and such term includes all schedules to the Subsidiary Loan Agreement;
and
(c)   "Public Electricity and Water Corporation" or "PEWC" means the
Public Electricity and Water Corporation established by the Borrower's Public
Electricity and Water Corporation Act, 1975.
ARTICLE II
The Credit
Section 2.01. The Association agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms
and conditions in the Development Credit Agreement set forth or referred to, an
amount in various currencies equivalent to     twenty-three  million dollars
(S23,000,000).
Section 2.02. The amount of the Credit may be withdrawn from the Credit
Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule I to this Agreement, as
such Schedule may be amended from time to time, for expenditures made (or,
if the Association shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost
of goods and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds
of the Credit.
Section 2.03. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions set forth or referred to in the Schedule to the Project Agreement.
Section 2.04. The Closing Date shall be December 31, 1979 or such other
date as shall be agreed between the Borrower and the Association.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Association a service charge
at the rate of three-fourths of one per cent (3/4 of 15) per annum on the principal
amount of the Credit withdrawn and outstanding from time to time.
Section 2.06. Service charges shall be payable semi-annually on February I
and August 1 in each year.
Section 2.07. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Credit
in semi-annual installments payable on each February I and August I commencing


﻿5
February 1, 1985 and ending August 1, 2024, each installment to and including
the installment payable on August 1, 1994 to be one-half of one per cent (1/2
of 1%) of such principal amount, and each installment thereafter to be one and
one-half per cent (1-1/2%) of such principal amount.
Section 2.08. The currency of the United States of America is hereby
specified for the purposes of Section 4.02 of the General Conditions.
Section 2.09. Without any limitation or restriction to Section 5.04 of the
General Conditions, the General Manager of PEWC, or any person duly acting in
that behalf, is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of
taking any action required or permitted to be taken under the provisions of Section
2.02 of this Agreement and Article V of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) Without any limitation or restriction upon any of its other
obligations under the Development Credit Agreement, the Borrower shall cause
PEWC to perform in accordance with the provisions of the Project Agreement and
the Subsidiary Loan Agreement all the obligations therein set forth, shall take and
cause to be taken all action, including the provision of funds, facilities, services
and other resources, necessary or appropriate to enable PEWC to perform such
obligations, and shall not take or permit to be taken any action which would
prevent or interfere with such performance.
(b)   The Borrower shall relend the proceeds of the Credit to PEWC under
a subsidiary loan agreement to be entered into between the Borrower and PEWC
under terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association.
(c)   The Borrower shall exercise its rights under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and the
Association and to accomplish the purposes of the Credit and, except as the
Association shall otherwise agree, the Borrower shall not assign, nor amend, abrogate
or waive the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof'.
Section 3.02. The Borrower shall authorize its Committee for Coordination
of the operation of Roseires Reservoir established in February 1974 to coordinate
investigations of all projects involving hydro-clectric generation in the Sudan.


﻿6
Section 3.03. The Borrower shall consult with the Association regarding any
recommendations arising out of the studies to be carried out under Parts C and
D of the Project.
ARTICLE IV
Other Obligations of the Borrower
Section 4.01. The Borrower shall consult with the Association before
appointing any person to a position in PEWC of General Manager, Chief Electrical
Engineer or Chief Financial Officer.
Section 4.02. The Borrower shall for the period ending June 30, 1979, make
available to PFWC on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Association loans
not exceeding 15,000,000 Sudanese pounds in the aggregate to cover any deficit
arising between net internally generated cash from PEWC's water operations and
the cost of its water construction program.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Association
Section 5.01. For the purposes of Section 6.02 of the General Conditions,
the following additional events are specified:
(a)  The Borrower's Public Electricity and Water Corporation Act, 1975
shall have been amended or repealed so as to materially and adversely affect the
operations or financial condition of PEWC; and
(b)   PEWC shall have failed to perform any of its obligations under the
Project Agreement.
Section 5.02. For the purposes of Section 7.01 of the General Conditions,
the following additional event is specified, namely, any event specified in Section
5.01 of this Agreement shall occur and shall continue for a period of 60 clays
after notice thereof shall have been given by the Association to the Borrower.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to
the effectiveness of the Development Credit Agreement within the meaning of
Section 12.01(b) of the General Conditions:


﻿7
(a)   the execution and delivery of the Project Agreement on behalf of
PEWC have been duly authorized or ratified by all necessary corporate and
governmental action;
(b)   the execution and delivery of the Subsidiary Loan Agreement on behalf
of the Borrower and PEWC, respectively, have been duly authorized or ratified
by all necessary corporate and governmental action;
(c)   the assumption of duty at PEWC by a duly appointed Chief Financial
Officer;
(d)   the appointment of the member of PEWC's Executive Administrative
Board representing industry and commerce; and
(e)   the adjustment by PEWC of its water tariffs to produce the rate of
return required under Section 4.03 of the Project Agreement.
Section 6.02. The following are specified as additional matters, within the
meaning of Section 12.02(b) of the General Conditions, to be included in the
opinion or opinions to be furnished to the Association:
(a)   That the Project Agreement has been duly authorized or ratified by,
and executed and delivered on behalf of, PEWC, and is legally binding upon PEWC
in accordance with its terms; and
(b) That the Subsidiary Loan Agreement has been duly authorized or
ratified by, and executed and delivered on behalf of, the Borrower and PEWC
respectively, and is legally binding upon the Borrower and PEWC in accordance
with its terms.
Section 6.03. The date September 26, 1975 is hereby specified for the
purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the 'Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Commissioner General for Development of the Borrower
is designated as representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03
of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions:


﻿8
For the Borrower:
National Planning Commission
The Democratic Republic of the Sudan
P.O. Box 2092
Khartoum, Sudan
Cable address:
EIMAR
Khartoum, Sudan
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first a, ove written.
THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE SUDAN
By /s / Francis Mading Deng
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
South Asia


﻿9
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Credit
1.   The table below sets forth the Categories of imported items to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit and the allocation of amounts of the Credit
to each Category:
Amount of the
Credit Allocated
(Expressed in
Category                                         Dollar Equivalent)
(1)  Diesel generating                                     3,060,000
units at Burri
(Khartoum) thermal
station
(2)   Fourth generating                                    5,210,000
set at Roseires
hydro-electric
power station
(3)   Diesel generating                                    1,440,000
units at Juba
(4)   Roseires-Sennar                                      2,560,000
second 220-kV
circuit
(5)   Sennar-Meina el                                      1,780,000
Sharif I 10-kV line
(6)  Upgrading Juba's                                       600,000
distribution
system
(7)  Technical                                             2,170,000
assistance
and studies
(8)   Unallocated                                          6,180,000
TOTAL        23,000,000


﻿10
2.    Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph I above, no withdrawals shall
be made in respect of:
(a)   expenditures in the currency of the Borrower, or for goods or services
supplied from, the territory of the Borrower;
(b)   expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement except that
withdrawals may be made in respect of consultancy services under Categories (1)
to (5) and (7) on account of expenditures made after June 1, 1974 in an aggregate
amount not exceeding $300,000; and
(c)   payments for taxes levied by, or in the territory of the Borrower on
the goods or services, or on the importation, manufacture, procurement or supply
thereof.
3.    Notwithstanding the allocation of an amount of the Credit set forth in the
second column of the table in paragraph I above, if the Association has reasonably
estimated that the amount of the Credit then allocated to any Category will be
insufficient to finance all expenditures in that Category, the Association may, in
consultation with the Borrower, reallocate to such Category to the extent required
to meet such estimated shortfall proceeds of the Credit which are then allocatec
to another Category and which in the opinion of the Association are not needed
to meet other expenditures.
4.    If the Association shall have reasonably determined that the procurement
of any item in any Category is inconsistent with the procedures set forth or referred
to in this Agreement, no expenditures for such item shall be financed out of the
proceeds of the Credit and the Association may, without in any way restricting
or limiting any other right, power or remedy of the Association under the
Development Credit Agreement, by notice to the Borrower, cancel such amount
of the Credit as in the Association's reasonable opinion, represents the amount
of such expenditures which would otherwise have been eligible for financing out
of the proceeds of the Credit.


﻿11
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The Project consists of the following:
A.    (1)   Installation of 15-MW of diesel generating capacity at Burri thermal
station in Khartoum in the form of three generating units each rated
5-MW.
(2)   Installation of a 42-MW fourth generating set at Roseires hydro-electric
power station.
(3)   Installation of five generating units each rated 1 -MW at the Juba diesel
power station.
B.    (1)   Construction of a second 220-kV circuit from Roseires to Sennar on
the existing double circuit tower line.
(2)   Construction of a I 10-kV single circuit line from Sennar to Meina
el Sharif.
(3)   Upgrading and    extension of Juba distribution system   involving
installation of: (i) 150 km of 415/250 kV overhead lines, (ii) 45 km
of I 1 kV overhead lines, and (ii) ancillary equipment.
C.    (1)   A long-term power market survey:
(2)   Investigations of the following sites for hydro-clectric generation: (i)
.Jebel Aulia on the White Nile; and (ii) Sabalok. on the Nile;
(3)   Preparation by the end of 1976 of a long-term electricity development
plan, based on the long-term power market survey and the investigation
of all alternatives for responding to demand growth;
(4)   A  study of the advantages and disadvantages of continuing the
provision by one entity of both electricity and urban water supply;
and
(5)   An examination of PEWC's plans for improvement of its water
operations.


﻿12
D.    Reorganization of PEWC and improvement in PEWC's technical and financial
management as set out in the February 1974 report of the Electricity Council
of the United Kingdom.
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 1978.


