CONFORMED COPY
CREDIT NUMBER 564 SU
Project Agreement
(Second Power Project)
BETWEEN
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
AND
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION
DATED JUNE 25, 1975


﻿PROJECT AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated       June   25, 1975, between    INTERNATIONAL
DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION (hereinafter called the Association) and PUBLIC
ELECTRICITY AND WATER CORPORATION (hereinafter cal'-d PEWC).
WHEREAS by the Development Credit Agreement of even date herewith
between The Democratic Republic of the Sudan (hereinafter called the Borrower)
and the Association, the Association has agreed to make available to the Borrower
an amount in various currencies equivalent to twenty-three million dollars
($23,000,000), on the terms and conditions set forth in the Development Credit
Agreement, but only on condition that PEWC agrees to undertake such obligations
toward the Association as are hereinafter set forth; and
WHEREAS PEWC, in consideration of the Association's entering into the
Development Credit Agreement with the Borrower, has agreed to undertake the
obligations hereinafter set forth;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
ARTICLE I
Definitions
Section 1.01. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context shall
otherwise require, the several terms defined in the Development Credit Agreement
and in the General Conditions (as so defined) have the respective meanings therein
set forth.
ARTICLE II
Execution of the Project
Section 2.01. PEWC shall carry out the Project described in Schedule 2 to
the Development Credit Agreement with due diligence and efficiency and in
conformity with appropriate administrative, financial and engineering practices.
Section 2.02. In order to assist PEWC in carrying out (i) the detailed design
and construction of Parts A and B of the Project and (ii) the studies under Part
C of the Project, PEWC shall employ consultants whose qualifications, experience
and terms arid conditions of employment shall be satisfactory to the Association.


﻿4
Section 2.03. In carrying out Parts A and B of the Project, PEWC shall
employ contractors acceptable to the Association upon terms and conditions
satisfactory to the Association.
Section 2.04. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, the goods,
works and services (other than consultants' services) for the Project to be financed
out of the proceeds of the Credit, shall be procured in accordance with the
provisions of the Schedule to this Agreement.
Section 2.05. (a) PEWC undertakes to insure, or make adequate provision
for the insurance of, the imported goods to be financed out of the proceeds of
the Credit relent to it by the Borrower against hazards incident to the acquisition,
transportation and delivery thereof to the place of use or installation, and for
such insurance any indemnity shall be payable in a currency freely usable by PEWC
to replace or repair such goods.
(b)   Except as the Association may otherwise agree, PEWC shall cause all
goods and services financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the
Borrower to be used exclusively for the Project.
Section 2.06. (a) PEWC shall furnish to the Association promptly upon their
preparation, the plans, specifications, reports, contract documents and construction
and procurement schedules for the Project, and any material modifications thereof
or additions thereto, in such detail as the Association shall reasonably request.
(b)   PEWC: (i) shall maintain records adequate to record the progress of
the Project (including the cost thereof) and to identify the goods and services
financed out of the proceeds of the Credit relent to it by the Borrower, and to
disclose the use thereof in the Project; (ii) shall, without limitation upon the
provisions of paragraph (c) of this Section, enable the Association's representatives
to visit the facilities and construction sites included in the Project, and to examine
the goods financed out of such proceeds and any relevant records and documents;
and (iii) shall furnish to the Association all such information as the Association
shall reasonably request concerning the Project, the expenditure of the proceeds
of the Credit so relent to it and the goods and services financed out of such
proceeds.
(c)   PEWC shall enable the Association's representatives to examine all of
its plants, installations, sites, works, buildings, property and equipment and any
relevant records and documents.
Section 2.07. PEWC shall duly perform all its obligations inder the Subsidiary
Loan Agreement. Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PEWC shall not


﻿I
5
take or concur in any action which would have the effect of amending, abrogating,
assigning or waiving the Subsidiary Loan Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 2.08. (a) PEWC shall, at the request of the Association, exchange
views with the Association with regard to the progress of the Project, the
performance of its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan
Agreement and other matters relating to the purposes of the Credit.
(b)   PEWC shall promptly inform the Association of any condition which
interferes or threatens to interfere with, the progress of the Project, the
accomplishment of the purposes of the Credit, or the performance by PEWC of
its obligations under this Agreement and under the Subsidiary Loan Agreement.
ARTICLE III
Management and Operations of PEWC
Section 3.01. (a) PEWC shall at all times manage its affairs and conduct its
business in an efficient manner under competent and experienced management and
in accordance with appropriate public utility and financial practices.
(b)   Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PEWC shall at all times
take all necessary steps on its part to acquire, maintain and renew all rights, powers
and privileges which are necessary or useful in the conduct of its bLlsiness.
(c)   PEWC shall at all times operate, maintain, renew and repair its facilities,
plant, equipment and machinery in accordance with appropriate public utility
practices.
Section 3.02. PEWC shall take out and maintain with responsible insurers,
or make other provisions satisfactory to the Association for, insurance against such
risks and in such amounts as shall be consistent with appropriate practice.
Section 3.03. PEWC shall place the operation of the Roseires Power Station
under a qualified and experienced person assigned by the Electricity Council of
the United Kingdom and responsible to PEWC until such time as the Association
and PEWC are mutually satisfied that appropriate alternative arrangements can be
substituted for the above.
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Section 4.01. PEWC shall maintain records adequate to reflect in accordance
with consistently maintained appropriate accounting practices its operations and
financial condition.


﻿6
Section 4.02. (a) PEWC shall: (i) have its accounts and financial statements
(balance sheets, statements of income and expenses and related statements) for
each fiscal year audited, in accordance with sound auditing principles consistently
applied, by independent auditors acceptable to the Association; (ii) furnish to the
Association as soon as available, but in any case not later than six months after
the end of each such year, (A) certified copies of its financial statements for such
year as so audited and (B) the report of such audit by said auditors, of such
scope and in such detail as the Association shall have reasonably requested; and
(iii) furnish to the Association such other information concerning the accounts
and financial statements of PEWC and the audit thereof as the Association shall
from time to time reasonably request.
(b)   PEWC shall as from its fiscal year 1973/74 maintain and transmit to
the Association separate sets of accounts for its electricity and water operations.
Section 4.03. (a) Except as the Association shall otherwise agree, PEWC shall
take or cause to be taken, from time to time, all necessary steps within its power
(including adjustments of its tariffs) to provide revenues sufficient to produce an
annual rate of return of not less than 8% in the case of its electricity operations
and not less than 4/ in the case of its water operations, on the value of the
net fixed assets of PEWC in operation.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the annual rate of return shall be calculated by relating the net
operating income for the year in question to the average of the
value of the net fixed assets of PEWC in operation at the
beginning and at the end of the year;
(ii)        the term   "net operating income" shall mean the difference
between:
(A)   gross operating revenue accruing from   PEWC's services;
and
(B)   all expenses   of operation, administration, adequate
maintenance, taxes or any payment in lieu of taxes and
adequate provision for depreciation but excluding interest
and other charges on debt;
(iii)       the term "value of the net fixed assets of PEWC in operation"
shall mean the gross book value of such assets, less the amount


﻿7
of accumulated depreciation, both as valued from time to time
in accordance with sound and consistently maintained methods
of valuation acceptable to the Association.
(b)   Without any limitation or restriction upon PEWC's obligations under
paragraph (a) above, PEWC shall so adjust its electricity tariffs that they reflect:
(i) realistically the differences in cost of providing services at various times and
places to PEWC's customers and (ii) mandatorily any changes in the price of fuel
used by PEWC in its operations.
(c)   PEWC shall effect the initial adjustments in its electricity tariffs
required under paragraph (b) above by January 1, 1976.
(d)   PEWC shall complete a revaluation of its assets by December 31, 1975.
Section 4.04. Except as the Association and PEWC shall otherwise agree,
PEWC shall not incur any long-term indebtedness unless PEWC's net revenues for
the fiscal year, or a later twelve consecutive months' period, immediately preceding
the date of such incurrence shall be at least 1.5 times the maximum debt service
requirements in any succeeding fiscal year, including the fiscal year in which the
debt is to be incurred, on all the PEWC's long-term indebtedness (including the
debt to be incurred) and the outstanding Borrower's advances to PEWC.
For the purposes of this Section:
(i)         the term "long-term indebtedness" shall mean any debt maturing
more than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred, other than the Borrower's advances to PEWC;
(ii)        debt shall be deemed to be incurred on the date of execution
and delivery of the contract or loan agreement providing for
such debt;
(iii)       the term  "net revenues" shall mean gross revenues from all
sources adjusted to take into account rates in effect at the time
of incurrence of such debt even though they were not in effect
during the twelve consecutive months to which such revenues
related, less operating and administrative expenses, including
provision for taxes, if any, but excluding provision for
depreciation and interest and other charges on debt;


﻿I
8
(iv)       the term "debt service requirements" shall mean the aggregate
amount of amortization (including sinking fund contributions,
if any), intcrest and other charges on debt; and
(v)        whenever it shall be necessary to value in currency of the
Borrower debt payable in another currency, such valuation shall
be made on the basis of the rate of exchange at which such
other currency is obtainable by PEWC, at the time such valuation
is made, for the purposes of servicing such debt or, if such
currency is not so obtainable, at the rate of exchange that will
be reasonably determined by the Association.
ARTICLE V
Effective Date; Termination;
Cancellation and Suspension
Section 5.01. This Agreement shall come into force and effect on the date
upon which the Development Credit Agreement becomes effective.
Section 5.02. (a) This Agreement and all obligations of the Association and
of PEWC thereunder shall terminate on the earlier of the following two dates:
(i)        the date on which the Development Credit Agreement shall
terminate in accordance with its terms; or
(ii)       a date 20 years after the date of this Agreement.
(b)   If the Development Credit Agreement terminates in accordance with
its terms before the date specified in paragraph (a)(ii) of this Section, the
Association shall promptly notify PEWC of this event.
Section 5.03. All the provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force
and effect notwithstanding any partial cancellation or suspension under the
Development Credit Agreement.
ARTICLE VI
Miscellaneous Provisions
Section 6.01. Any notice or request required or permitted to be given or
made under this Agreement and any agreement between the parties contemplated
by this Agreement shall be in writing. Such notice or request shall be deemed


﻿9
to have been duly given or made when it shall be delivered by hand or by mail,
telegram, cable, telex or radiogram to the party to which it is required or permitted
to be given or made at such party's address hereinafter specified or at such other
address as such party shall have designated by notice to the party giving such
notice or making such request. The addresses so specified are:
For the Association:
International Development Association
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
INDEVAS
Washington, D.C.
For PEWC:
Public Electricity and Water
Corporation
P.O. Box 1380
Khartoum
Sudan
Cable address:
AMPERE
Khartoum
Section 6.02. Any action required or permitted to be taken, and any
documents required or permitted to be executed, under this Agreement on behalf
of PEWC may be taken or executed by the General Manager or such other person
or persons as PEWC shall designate in writing.
Section 6.03. PEWC shall furnish to the Association sufficient evidence of
the authority and the authenticated specimen signature of the person or persons
who will, on behalf of PEWC, take any action or execute any documents required
or permitted to be taken or executed by PEWC pursuant to any of the provisions
of this Agreement.


﻿10
Section 6.04. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each
of which shall be an original, and all collectively but one instrument.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their
representatives thereunto duly authorized, have caused this Agreement to be signed
in their respective names in the District of Columbia, United States of America,
as of the day and year first above written.
INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT ASSOCIATION
By /s / S. Shahid Husain
Regional Vice President
South Asia
PUBLIC ELECTRICITY AND WATER
CORPORATION
By /s / Francis Mading Deng
Authorized Representative


﻿11
SCHEDULE
Procurement
A.    General Procedures
1.    Except as provided in Part A.2 hereof, contracts shall be let under procedures
consistent with those set forth in the "Guidelines for Procurement under World
Bank Loans and IDA Credits" published by the Bank in April 1972, as revised
in October 1972 (hereinafter called the Guidelines), on the basis of international
competitive bidding.
2.    Contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of S20,000 or less shall be let
after competitive bidding based on advertising in the Sudan.
B.    Review of Procurement Decisions by Association
1.    Review of invitation to bid and of proposed awards and final contracts:
With respect to all contracts estimated to cost the equivalent of S20,000
or more:
(a)   Before bids are invited, PEWC shall furnish to the Association, for
its comments, the text of the invitations to bid and the specifications and other
bidding documents, together with a description of the advertising procedures to
be followed for the bidding, and shall make such modifications in the said
documents or procedures as the Association shall reasonably request. Any further
modification to the bidding documents shall require the Association's concurrence
before it is issued to the prospective bidders.
(b)   Promptly after the bids have been received, PEWC shall inform the
Association of the names of the bidders and the respective amounts of the bids.
(c)   After bids have been received and evaluated, PEWC shall, before a
final decision on the award is made, inform the Association of the name of the
bidder to which it intends to award the contract and the reasons for the intended
award and shall furnish to the Association, in sufficient time for its review, a
detailed report on the evaluation and comparison of the bids received, together
with the recommendation for award and such other information as the Association
shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines that the intended
award would be inconsistent with the Guidelines or this Schedule, promptly inform
PEWC and state the reasons for such determination.


﻿I
12
(d)   The terms and conditions of the contract shall not, without the
Association's concurrence, materially differ from those on which bids were asked
or prequalification invited.
(e)   Two conformed copies of the contract shall be furnished to the
Association promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract.
2.    With respect to each contract to be financed out of the proceeds of the
Credit and not governed by the preceding paragraph, PEWC shall furnish to the
Association, promptly after its execution and prior to the submission to the
Association of the first application for withdrawal of funds from the Credit Account
in respect of such contract, two conformed copies of such contract, together with
the analysis of bids, recommendations for award and such other information as
the Association shall reasonably request. The Association shall, if it determines
that the award of the contract was not consistent with the Guidelines or this
Schedule, promptly inform PEWC and state the reasons for such determination.


