CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 596 ET
Guarantee Agreement
(Finchaa Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 9, 1969


﻿CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 596 ET
Guarantee Agreement
(Finchaa Hydroelectric Project)
BETWEEN
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
AND
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
DATED MAY 9, 1969


﻿(6uarautrr Agmutr~ut
AGREEMENT, dated May 9, 1969, between the EMPIRE
OF ETHIOPIA (hereinafter called the Guarantor) and INTER-
NATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
(hereinafter called the Bank).
WHEREAS by the Loan Agreement of even date herewith
between the Bank and the Ethiopian Electric Light and,
Power Authority (hereinafter called the Borrower), the
Bank has agreed to make to the Borrower a loan in various
currencies equivalent to twenty-three million one hundred
thousand dollars ($23,100,000), on the terms and conditions
set forth in the Loan Agreement, but only on condition
that the Guarantor agree to guarantee the obligations of
the Borrower in respect of such loan as hereinafter pro-
rided; and
WHEREAS the Guarantor, in consideration of the Bank's
entering into the Loan Agrement with the Borrower, has
agreed so to guarantee such obligations of the Borrower;
Now THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as
f ollows:
ARTICLE I
SECTION 1.01. The parties to this Agreement accept all
the provisions of the General Conditions Applicable to
Loan and Guarantee Agreements of the Bank dated Jan-
uary 31, 1969 with the same force and effect as if they
were fully set forth herein (said General Conditions Ap-
plicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements being here-
inafter called the General Conditions).
SECTION 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless
the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined


﻿4
in the General Conditions and in Section 1.02 of the Loan
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth.
ARTICLE II
SECTION 2.01. Without limitation or restriction upon any
of its other covenants in the Guarantee Agreement con-
tained, the Guarantor hereby unconditionally guarantees, as
primary obligor and not as surety merely, the due and
punctual payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, the premium, if
any, on the prepayment of the Loan or the redemption of
the Bonds prior to their maturity and the punctual per-
formance of all the obligations of the Borrower, all as set
forth in the Loan Agreement and in the Bonds.
SECTION 2.02. Without limitation or rcstriction upon the
provisions of Section 2.01 of this Agreement, the Guaran-
tor specifically undertakes, whenever there is reasonable
cause to believe that the funds available to the Borrower
will be inadequate to meet the estimated expenditures re-
quired for the carrying out of the Project, to make ar-
rangements, satisfactory to the Bank, promptly to pro-
vide the Borrower or cause the Borrower to be provided
with such funds as are needed to meet such expenditures.
ARTICLE III
SECTION 3.01. It in the mutual intention of the Guarantor
and the Bank that no other external debt shall enjoy any
priority over the Loan by way of a lien on governmental
assets. To that end, the Guarantor undertakes that, except
as the Bank shall otherwise agree, if any lien shall be
created on any assets of the Guarantor as security for any
external debt, such lien will ipso facto equally and ratably
secure the payment of the principal of, and interest and
other charges on, the Loan and the Bonds, and that in the
creation of any such lien express provision will be made
to that effect; provided, however, that the foregoing pro-


﻿5
visions of this Section shall not apply to: (i) any lien
created on property, at the time of purchase thereof, solely
as security for the payment of the purchase price of such
property; or (ii) any lien arising in the ordinary course
of banking transactions to secure a debt maturing not more
than one year after the date on which it is originally
incurred.
The term "assets of the Guarantor" as used in this
Section includes assets of the Guarantor or of any of its
political subdivisions or of any agency of the Guarantor or
of any such political subdivision, including the National
Bank of Ethiopia or any other institution at any time
performing the functions of a central bank of the Guar-
antor.
SECTION 3.02. (a) The Guarantor and the Bank shall co-
operate fully to assure that the purposes of the Loan will
be accomplished. To that end, each of them shall furnish to
the other all such information as it shall reasonably request
with regard to the general status of the Loan. On the part
of the Guarantor, such information shall include informa-
tion with respect to financial and economic conditions in
the territories of the Guarantor and the international bal-
ance of payments position of the Guarantor.
(b) The Guarantor and the Bank shall from time to time
exchange views through their representatives with regard
to matters relating to the purposes of the Loan and the
maintenance of the service thereof. The Guarantor shall
promptly inform the Bank of any condition which inter-
feres with, or threatens to interfere with, the accomplish-
ment of the purposes of the Loan or the maintenance of
the servi 3e thereof.
(c) The Guarantor shall afford all reasonable opportu-
nity for accredited representatives of the Bank to visit any
part of the territories of the Guarantor for purposes re-
lated to the Loan.


﻿6
SECTION 3.03. The principal of, and interest and other
charges on, the Loan and the Bonds shall be paid without
deduction for, and free from, any taxes imposed under the
laws of the Guarantor or laws in effect in its territories,
and free from all restrictions imposed under such laws;
provided, however, that the provisions of this Section shall
not apply to taxation of payments under any Bond to a
holder thereof other than the Bank when such Bond is bene-
ficially owned by an individual or corporate resident of the
Guarantor.
SECTION 3.04. The Guarantee Agreement, the Loan
Agreement and the Bonds shall be free from any taxes
that shall be imposed under the laws of the Guarantor or
laws in effect in its territories on or in connection with the
execution, issue, delivery or registration thereof.
SECTION 3.05. The Guarantor shall cause the Charter of
the Borrower (Imperial Charter promulgated as General
Notice No. 213 of 1948 (1956) in the Negarit Gazeta of the
Empire of Ethiopia) to be at all times in a form and
substance such as will, in the opinion of the Bank, be re-
quired to enable the Borrower to properly carry out the
Project and operate its facilities.
SECTION 3.06. The Guarantor shall inform the Bank of
any proposed change in or new appointment to the post
of General Manager of the Borrower prior to any such
change or new appointment, and shall afford the Bank a
reasonable opportunity to express its views thereon.
ARTICLE IV
SECTION 4.01. The Guarantor shall endorse, in accord-
ance with the provisions of the General Conditions, its
guarantee on the Bonds to be executed and delivered by
the Borrower. The Minister of Finance of the Guarantor


﻿7
and such person or persons as he shall appoint in writing
are designated as authorized representatives of the Guar-
antor for the purposes of Section 8.10 of the General
Conditions.
ARTICLE V
SECTION 5.01. The Minister of Finance of the Guar-
antor is designated as representative of the Guarantor for
the purposes of Section 10.03 of the General Conditions.
SECTION 5.02. The following addresses are specified for
the purposes of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions:
For the Guarantor:
Ministry of Finance
Post Office Box 1905
Addis Ababa, Ethiopia
Cable address:
Ministry of Finance
Addis Ababa
For the Bank:
International Bank for
Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D. C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Intbafrad
Washington, D. C.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties hereto, acting through
their representatives thereunto duly authorized, have


﻿8
caused the Guarantee Agreement to be signed in their
respective names and delivered in the District of Columbia,
United States of America, as of the day and year first
above written.
EMPIRE OF ETHIOPIA
By /s/ MINASSE HAILE
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By /s/ J. BURKE KNAPP
Vice President


