Report No. PID8807
Project Name                     Guatemala-Competitiveness Project
Region                           Latin America and Caribbean Region
Sector                           Institutional Development; Privatization
Project ID                       GTPE55084
Borrower(s)                      GOVERNMENT OF GUATEMALA
Implementing Agency
Address NATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS
PROGRAM/MINISTRY OF ECONOMY
Address: Ministry of Economy
Contact Person: Dr. Emmanuel Seidner
Environment Category             C
Date PID Prepared                March 14, 2000
Projected Appraisal Date         May 10, 2000
Projected Board Date             July 6, 2000
1. Country and Sector Background
1. Main sector issues and Government strategy: 3. Weaknesses in
International Competitiveness. The long-term aggregate indicators of the
state of the Guatemalan economy in 1996, when the Peace Accords ended the
country's long civil war, reflect the basic need to improve Guatemala's
international competitiveness: I low per capita growth - very modest long
run economic growth rates, combined with elevated population growth (2.9w
over 1990-96 versus a benchmark 1.49 for lower-middle income countries),
have yielded either declining GNP per capita (-0.9w over 1975-85) or only
marginal gains (+0.6w over 1986-96); I low capital investment - gross
domestic investment averaged a low 6.1- of GDP over 1986-96, while FDI
inflows largely stagnated over 1992-97 at a low 0.5w of GDP ($84 million
in 1997)---versus benchmarks of 1.19 for LAC and 3.1- in East Asia;I low
integration with international markets - total goods and services
exports/GDP ratios were virtually stagnant between 1992-97, amounting to
only 18.5-19.0w which, when combined with import trends, yield an openness
index which actually declined over the period from 46t to 44w; and    I low
domestic content in exported products - the share of low value-added
primary products in total exports (mainly coffee, sugar, bananas,
petroleum, and cardamon) remained a high 84t in 1997, and were generated
by relatively few producers. The ratio of manufacturing exports/GDP,
which some consider as a rough proxy for a country's access to
international learning and technology transfer and ability to produce at
world standards, amounted to just 99 of total exports or 19 of GDP.4.
Since 1996, efforts to build the economy in the post-conflict era have
produced some encouraging initial results. Government investments in
basic services---education, health, water and housing---rose notably and
were reflected in improvements in a number of social welfare indicators.
Access to basic infrastructure-power, roads and telecommunications---has
increased largely through a combination of legislative action and
privatization. Production of non-traditional agro-exports grew over
1996-98 by over 10t per annum and generated over US$300 million per year
in export revenues (1998), mainly from vegetables, fruits and preserves,



natural rubber, flowers, ornamental plants and sesame. In the
manufacturing sector, maquila assembly of imported materials for re-export
of textiles and clothing, which represent first-stage entry into
international markets, now employs over 70,000 workers (1998) in mostly
large garment manufacturers, textile mills and manufacturers of garment
components. 5. Still, a variety of indicators show that very strong
efforts will be required to substantially boost social welfare. For
example, the Global Competitiveness Index, prepared by the Center for
International Development of Harvard University, ranked Guatemala 43rd
among the 59 countries assessed. Its Competitiveness Index is built on the
average of eight sub-indexes: openness, government, finance,
infrastructure, technology, management, labor and institutions. Though
such a ranking should not be overemphasized, it brings out the fundamental
weaknesses that must be addressed. Labor productivity is relatively low,
relative to its Central American neighbors, and is particularly a
reflection of low investment in worker skills, and inadequate technical
and management training. The costs of transport, energy and
telecommunications infrastructure are elevated. Product quality and
certification systems are not available to most firms and seriously
compromise product competitiveness in both local and international
markets. Investment in information technology/connectivity, and adaptive
product research and development for export markets are similarly low.
The cost of capital from the financial sector reflects operating
inefficiencies and inadequate competition. And, while import tariffs have
been reduced to an average of around 9t, non-tariff barriers on imports
remain significant, and export facilitation is relatively low.6. In the
export sector, despite recent gains, executives of the Guatemala Export
Promotion Agency (AGEXPRONT) indicate that the majority of the country's
3,000 smaller exporters (not to mention potential exporters) are
inexperienced and lack practical understanding of market quality, price
and delivery requirements. The maquila sector, which represents about
three-quarters of the country's clothing exports to the USA and is
operated frequently by large foreign investors, continues mostly to
assemble imported components and has not yet internalized design, skills
and technologies that would enable it to move up the value chain to higher
income and more secure markets. Many maquila firms, which were attracted
to Guatemala in part by the availability of US quota allocations and
ten-year income tax incentives, now face the expiration of such
incentives. These firms need to make steep investments in pre-commercial
research and development, skills training and new market linkages to
sustain growth , profitability and employment creation---or leave the
country. 7. In the formal small business sector, there is a wide
imbalance in competitive factors in relation to Guatemala's larger firms.
This sector represents the vast majority of businesses, provides the
economic livelihood for over 75t of the labor force, accounts for at least
one-third of GDP, and continues to grow in number---the number of formally
and informally established small businesses tripled over the 30 years
between 1964-94 to over 824,000 business units and is now estimated at
nearly 1 million units. Source: the National Statistics Institute (IEN).
The Federation of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Businesses (FEPYME), in
its report of March 1999, places the total closer to 700,000 units. Of
these, about 290,000 firms were officially registered in Guatemala
(including 65-70w in Guatemala City)---of which some 230,000 are small
businesses consisting of some 190,000 microbusiness units with 0-4
employees and 40,000 small firms with 5-20 employees each.    The remaining
-2 -



350,000-400,000 units are found in the informal sector. A survey of 296
formal sector firms to help Project design identified several major
firm-level constraints to competitiveness in Guatemala: See The Skills,
Technology and Productivity Survey in Working Paper 1, elaborated with the
support of the Bank, which covers a representative sample of 296 small,
medium and large scale firms in the manufacturing and service sectors in
metropolitan Guatemala City and in secondary cities.     The survey elicited
information on employer-sponsored training and on a wide range of firms'
attributes including size, industry, local or foreign ownership,
equipment, technology, quality control systems, markets and exports,
workforce characteristics, wages, subcontracting linkages and on
production. (i) the quality and cost of raw materials, (ii) the quality
and skills of workers (comparable severity among different sized firms),
(iii) the availability of workers, and (iv) access and cost of
technology. Small businesses voiced a substantially greater severity of
impact than large firms among these four production constraints identified
by the survey.8. For example, large firms employ on average 70 college
graduates or college students (15t of their employees), whereas small
businesses rely at best on one employee with such schooling. About
one-half of businesses surveyed do not spend resources on research and
development, with a clear relationship observed between firm size and the
incidence of such investment (even for those that do, average spending is
small---US$8,000-9,000, with large manufacturing companies spending only
US$27,700). The use of information and communications technology (IT) is
drastically different between small and very large firms for office
administration (21. vs. 929-), production (199- vs. 68%) and quality control
and testing (6%- vs. 55%). Constraints to greater use of IT are due
particularly to the cost of acquiring and maintaining it, the lack of
qualified personnel and technical assistance to incorporate it, and a view
that it has a poor return on investment. Subcontracting work, which could
be an important market for small firms, is infrequent---only 3 businesses
in 10 for industry and 2 in 10 for services use it---which is due mainly
to limited knowledge about such options, a lack of product and process
quality control by smaller firms, or a lack of production and price
competitiveness. 9. In the informal microbusiness sector, analyses
indicate that, while capital shortages often head the list of problems
among startup businesses, entrepreneurs in ongoing businesses most often
define three other areas as highest priority: (1) weaknesses in business
skills, (2) weak buyer-seller market linkages to higher purchasing power
markets and related logistics, and (3) low operating productivity,
resulting particularly from disproportionately high prices for materials
and supplies and a failure to take advantage of modern methods and
production technologies. Human capital constraints stem from a
combination of modest formal education, the necessity of performing most
key business functions in the absence of affordable outside help, and
inadequate business training. Most micro-entrepreneurs have no training
in small business management, and are either self-taught or have learned
on-the-job usually in technical areas such as sewing, woodworking and
masonry, to the almost total neglect of planning, purchasing, and other
basic business management functions. The costs and logistics of
transportation to purchase materials and to deliver products are usually
very significant. This is coupled with difficulties in communication and,
for small formal sector businesses, a virtual absence of IT.
Notwithstanding a desire to grow, most microbusinesses do not have a clear
idea of how they want to expand their businesses or which assistance they
- 3 -



need.  Market signals from higher income markets---both domestic and
international---are weak, as product promotion is almost always
word-of-mouth and limits the entrepreneur to a small circle of community
clients instead of taking advantage of growth opportunities through, for
example, subcontracting with larger firms and international trade. 10.
Government Strategy. A concerted strategy to raise international
competitiveness crystallized in Guatemala when public and private sectors
leaders united in 1997 with help at the regional level from the Central
American Project for the Competitiveness and Sustainable Development
(CLADCDS), a project started with the support of the Harvard Institute for
International Development and Michael Porter, and coordinated by INCAE.
This informal Government-business partnership, named the National
Competitiveness Program (PRONACOM), has become a strong and
well-recognized initiative which, in December 1999, became a legally
constituted entity by Presidential decree.    PRONACOM is headed by the
Vice President of the Republic, who is charged with facilitating the
Program's agenda for improvement in the national business environment.
PRONACOM is directed by an Executive Committee, consisting of the Vice
President, the Minister of the Economy, a Private Sector Coordinator named
by the Vice President, and two members of the private sector named by the
Chamber of Industry of Guatemala and the Exporter's Association
(AGEXPRONT), and others named by common agreement of its members. Its
principal functions are to define PRONACOM's agenda and make decisions
regarding program focus and management, and to make recommendations to the
Government on public policy and institutional matters. Day-to-day
management and technical support for PRONACOM is the responsibility of the
PRONACOM Management Team. It is anchored in the Ministry of Economy and
consists of a five-member team led by an Executive Director with rank of
Vice-Minister. 11. PRONACOM's strategy since mid-1998 has focused on
three levels: (i) the business environment - changes at the macro-level
in selected laws, regulations and institutions influencing business
investment and operating performance; (ii) cluster development programs -
support at the mezzo-level for the process and substance of cluster
initiatives to stimulate new international competitiveness programs among
firms and business associations; and (iii) firm-level support programs -
facilitation at the micro-level to promote specific investments to
increase competitiveness. PRONACOM's work program has involved vigorous
analysis of various business environment issues with the assistance of the
Japan PHRD Grant administered by the Bank. It has used cluster concepts
to both facilitate development of a basic knowledge base on competitive
strengths and weaknesses---to date in textiles and clothing, 3
agro-business lines, tourism and forestry---and to raise public awareness
in Guatemala of competitiveness issues, in part by sponsoring training by
local consultants and universities of over 200 people in the cluster
methodology. This has been reinforced by participation of PRONACOM and
senior public officials in various national, regional and international
fora (such as in Costa Rica at INCAE to an audience of Presidents from
Central America and, most recently, at the Cluster Conference in Varese,
Italy to an audience of over 26 country representatives).
2. Objectives
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex
1):1. Objective. The purpose of the Guatemala National Competitiveness
Program (PRONACOM), a public-private partnership launched in 1998 under
the Vice President of the Republic, is to advance the nation's
- 4 -



international competitive standing and accelerate its economic growth. As
part of this Program, the proposed Project would help to develop micro-
and small businesses, including those found in smaller towns outside of
Guatemala City where women and indigenous people play a particularly
important role, as a vehicle to help implement the Peace Accords
Especially the two Accords on the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous
People (March 31, 1995, Mexico City) and on Socioeconomic Aspects and the
Agrarian Situation (May 6, 1996, Mexico City). and reduce high rates of
poverty and economic inequity in Guatemala. To do so, the proposed
Project would support a diversified and mutually reinforcing set of
initiatives on two levels: (a) in the business environment - seek to
increase the competitiveness of product and factor markets via regulatory
changes and new public-private institutional partnerships. This component
would entail selective interventions in the following areas: (i) domestic
competition, (ii) foreign investment and trade, (iii) in-firm skills
training; and (iv) product quality technology infrastructure. It is
intended to motivate and facilitate larger firms to increase efficiency
and build international market linkages; much of it should also have a
strong enabling effect on small business growth; and (b) at the firm level
- aim to broaden small business participation in entrepreneurship and
national economic growth via the expansion of sustainable business
development services (BDS). This would involve (i) promoting increased
investment in firm-level pre-competitive learning and innovation, (ii)
piloting service and delivery innovation in information technology-based
BDS, and (iii) expanding business development clusters and social
responsibility. This program would also help activate and accelerate a
supply response to the business environment changes sought under the
Project.
3. Rationale for Bank's Involvement
The PRONACOM Executive Committee and Bank view the Bank's main role to
date as helping to (i) leverage the existing cluster work by increasing
analytical work, cross-country experience and internal dialogue on key
cross-cluster policy and institutional development issues, and (ii) ensure
that the PRONACOM agenda is closely linked with social objectives, and
that policy/institutional analyses and program development incorporate the
interests of a wide spectrum of socio-economic groups in Guatemala. The
Bank is also helping to strengthen the PRONACOM processes---particularly
in deepening public-private cooperation and expanding public and private
sector involvement in the PRONACOM.
4. Description
Increasing domestic market competition - advisory services, training
programs and study tours, office facilities, equipment and materials,
information dissemination and recurrent cost support on a declining basis
to implement a Competitiveness Commission Institutional Development Plan
over 3 years to help (i) adopt a competition law, (ii) establish the
functional capacity of the Competition Commission, (iii) execute a public
information and voluntary compliance promotion program, and (iv) carry out
an agreed program of investigations, advocacy and enforcement of the
competition law.
Accelerating foreign investment and trade - advisory services, training
programs and study tours, office facilities, equipment and materials, FDI
promotion programs and recurrent operating costs on a declining basis (i)
- 5 -



to implement an FDI Institutional Development Plan over 4 years to upgrade
PROGUAT into an effective public-private FDI promotion agency and improve
one-stop investment facilitation; (ii) prepare a new FTZ legal framework
and privatize the ZOLIC zone; and (iii) prepare a new legal framework for
maritime transport.
Expanding in-firm skills training markets - advisory services, training
programs and materials, facilities upgrading, equipment, information
dissemination and recurrent cost support on a declining basis to help
implement a Skill Training Market Development Plan to (i) adjust the
regulatory framework to create the National Training Council and reform
the payroll-levy management system, (ii) establish a private training
providers accreditation program, (iii) implement an in-firm training
promotion and extension services program for small business, and (iv)
upgrade public technical skills and equipment to respond effectively to
the new system.
Upgrading firm product and process quality - advisory and institutional
twinning services, training and study tours, quality promotion programs,
information, accreditation and certification services, and recurrent cost
support on a declining basis to help implement a National Quality System
Development Plan to (i) promote quality awareness, and provide training in
quality assurance practices & in ISO 9000 & 14001 assessment, (ii)
establish an SCA international information center, (iii) establish an
internationally recognized laboratory accreditation system, and (iv)
certify non-traditional activities such as sustainable tropical wood
exports, eco-tourism and cultural sites, and factory working conditions in
maquila industries
Increasing firm investments in learning and innovation - promote increased
pre-competitive investments by (i) establishing a temporary
Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program to provide (a) under
agreed firm competitiveness plans, 50-50 matching grant financing to
enterprises, associations and clusters on an individually-approved basis,
(b) voucher grant financing for low-income microbusinesses; and (c) a
Program client assistance and management contract to promote the value of
BDS & the program; assist clients to develop competitiveness plans, select
service providers & implement the plan; and administer approvals and
disbursement of funds; and (ii) piloting through Guatemala Micro Net
IT-based BDS to help low-income micro- and small businesses to raise
earnings by increasing their business skills, market access and
operational competitiveness.
Expanding the competitiveness-building process - advisory services,
training programs and materials, and information dissemination to support
(i) a program to promote new business clusters and carry out cross-cluster
business environment diagnostics, and (ii) help develop business social
responsibility to support small business development.
PRONACOM Management Unit
5. Financing
Total ( US$m)
Government               0
IBRD                     10
IDA
Total Project Cost       10
6. Implementation
-6-



3. Institutional and implementation arrangements. The Executive Committee
of PRONACOM, a public-private partnership, has exercised strong leadership
and closely collaborated with the Bank in the design of the Project. It
would continue to play this role in the implementation phase by having
overall responsibility for its execution, as well as the evaluation of
progress and impact against agreed targets. The Project would be managed
by the PRONACOM Management Unit, which already exists and reports to the
Executive Committee. This Unit, which is physically housed in the
Ministry of Economy, has developed a strong implementation management
capacity and has operated efficiently since late 1998. It has gained this
capacity through considerable experience in implementing the PRONACOM
program and in collaboration with the Bank in the execution of the Project'
s PHRD Grant, include with respect to Bank procurement and financial
management practices. 4. To implement the Project, the Management Unit
would be expanded from its current five full-time and one part-time staff
members These staff currently have specific or shared responsibilities for
day-to-day PRONACOM management, cluster development, coordination on
business environment issues, and the national quality system. by adding
three additional specialists coordinators for the areas of domestic
competition, foreign investment/international supply chain, and in-firm
skills training. Since it is critical that the Management Unit be fully
operative from the start of Project implementation, the staffing of the
Unit and creation of the Supervisory Committee within the Unit,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
For business environment issues, Management Unit staff would work in a
fully integrated fashion (as it has in the past) with the Ministry of
Economy, which has portfolio responsibility The Ministry has first-line
responsibility for competition policy, foreign direct investment and
trade, product quality technology infrastructure, micro and small
business, and supporting responsibility for in-firm training and maritime
transport. for all Project components. At the outset, staff
responsibilities would involve leading day-to-day efforts under the aegis
of PRONACOM and with counterparts to upgrade public policy and
institutional frameworks based upon the Development Plans
prepared---either building upon existing entities (the PROGUAT and FTZ
Units of the Ministry of Economy, INTECAP, COGUANOR), or developing new
ones (the Competition Commission). As these entities gain new regulatory
identify and are staffed, the role of the Management Unit would
progressively shift increasingly to procurement support, financial
management, monitoring and reporting, and to impact evaluation. 5.
Regarding firm-level Project activities, an independent private contractor
would be hired to provide client assistance and manage the Competitiveness
Learning and Innovation Program and would report to a Supervisory
Committee within the PRONACOM Management Unit. Implementation of the
Guatemala MicroNet pilot would be led initially by the Management Unit to
help complete pre-startup preparations, after which it would support a
dedicated management team hired under the business plan. The business
cluster and social responsibility program would be directed by the
Management Unit as a continuation of its work over the past two years on
PRONACOM's four existing cluster programs.6. The core support service
responsibilities of the Management Unit for Project implementation would
include the following: n Carry out the Project Launch Plan for 2000;f
Perform all Project procurement functions according to the Bank's
Guidelines in coordination with Project institutions;f Perform all Project
financial management functions, including management of Bank loan
-7 -



disbursements;n Prepare annually by November 30, with inputs from Project
institutions and in agreement with the Bank, Annual Action Plans for the
years 2001-2004;n Prepare Quarterly Project Monitoring and Evaluation
Reports on execution and impact against agreed institutional development
and other performance targets. Quarterly reports would include financial
management reporting used to monitor progress and future disbursements;n
Hold a Project Mid-term Review by June 30, 2002;f Ensure general Project
coordination between PRONACOM, the Ministry of Economy, and other entities
involved in Project execution; andn Prepare the borrower's portion of the
Project Implementation Completion Report in coordination with the managing
agencies.3. Project Financial management. The Management Team would
manage Project funds under a Project-specific financial management system
for accounting, reporting, and auditing. This system, to be defined in a
Project Manual of Administrative-Financial Procedures [to be prepared],
would cover financial management responsibilities, procedures, documentary
formats for use of the Special Account, procurement of goods and services,
the Integrated Accounting System, internal documentary controls and
inventory controls over office equipment and supplies. The accounting and
auditing practices, standards and controls, and reporting format and
content defined in the Manual would meet those defined in International
Accounting Standards of the International Accounting Standards Committee
and be consistent with the Bank's Financial Accounting, Reporting and
Auditing Handbook (FARAH).    4. Auditing of Project accounts would be
carried out by an independent private sector firm acceptable to the Bank.
A specific shortlist of such firms for the Project would be prepared and
reviewed by the Bank for its no-objection. A long-term contract for the
life of the project, subject to annual performance acceptable to the Bank,
would be concluded for Project auditing services with the firm selected.
Terms of reference for such audits would be prepared and agreed upon in
accordance with Bank model TORs, covering statements of income and
expenses, all sources and uses of project funds and comparisons with the
Bank's Project Appraisal Document, assets and liabilities, SOEs, Special
Account, internal control system, conformity with the Bank's Loan
Agreement. Audit work would begin at the Project's startup to confirm the
auditability of the financial management system. Audit reports would be
submitted within 4 months following the end of the fiscal year. The costs
of such annual audits are incremental costs and would be included in
project costs and Bank financing. This financial management system would
conform to the Bank's requirements under BP10.02. As a condition of loan
effectiveness, the Government would have put into operation a system,
satisfactory to the Bank, for the administrative, financial and accounting
control of the Project which meets (i) the Bank's minimum project
financial management requirements, or (ii) the Bank's higher standard for
such management under the Loan Administration Chang Initiative
(LACI).Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Management Team would be
responsible for Project monitoring and evaluation of progress toward
project development objectives and use the Project Design Summary in Annex
1 as a basis to track the key Project inputs, processes, outputs and
outcome/impact. A data collection system would be prepared for this
purpose, which would utilize a baseline data set from the 296 firm-level
survey prepared at Project identification as a control group and "
barameter" of project progress. These same firms would be tracked at the
mid-point and end of the Project and their evaluation data compared with
similar evaluations of firms participating in the Project. The Management
Team would utilize the system to (i) prepare quarterly Project Monitoring
- 8 -



and Evaluation Reports on execution and impact against agreed performance
targets, (ii) prepare annually by November 30 of 2001-2004 an Annual
Action Operating Plan for the following year with inputs from the Managing
Agencies, and (iii) hold a Project Midterm Review by June 30, 2002. While
the Management Team itself would be responsible for monitoring
implementation activities and outputs, a qualified local firm would be
responsible for preparing within this reporting system a regular
independent evaluation of Project outcome and impact.
7. Sustainability
The design of the business environment reforms has been highly
participatory with both the public and private sectors. While further
dialogue is needed in the next stages of loan processing with the new
Government administration at a detailed level, the commitment voiced in
initial discussions along with continuity in the private sector's
involvment suggests that there is a good possibility of sustained momentum
under the implementation phase of the Project and of meeting its
institutional development goals.The Competitiveness Learning and
Innovation Program is not intended to be sustained. It has a defined exit
policy, deliberately making it a temporary one-time efforts to reduce
market failures. However, experience elsewhere with mechanisms of this
kind show that they are likely to create three sustainable effects: (i)
having helped firms to meet the usually high costs of pre-commercial
learning, particularly for entry into the export market, they encourage a
durable commitment to new markets as long as operating costs are covered;
(ii) having introduced firms to the benefits of using business development
services, firms tend to recognize their full value and no longer need
subsidies to motivate their use; and (iii) they encourage development of a
local market of entrepreneurial learning and businesses support
8. Lessons learned from past operations in the country/sector
3. The Project concept addresses policies and issues which are well known
through cross-country analyses and other sources to have strong bearing on
international competitiveness.   The approach to each component---the
issues to be addressed and methodology to be used---reflect a blend of
specific problems identified in discussions with the Government and in
cluster work, and the cumulative experience of the Bank and other
development partners in these areas. In general, the Project's approach
to programs and institutional development relies very much on
demand-driven resource allocation and decentralized, participatory
delivery mechanisms, which have tended to work far better in meeting needs
at the firm-level to increasing competitiveness.      Like the El Salvador
Competitiveness Enhancement Project, the emphasis is on specific changes
in the regulatory environment, facilitating public or public-private
partnerships and firm-level help. The Project at entry is targeted to
achieve early public policy changes and launch institutional support
systems to build firm-level competitiveness, as well as progressively
expanding business cluster and social responsibility development programs.
9. Program of Targeted Intervention (PTI)     N
10. Environment Aspects (including any public consultation)
Issues     :  The Project would provide support for training in
the application of ISO 14,000 environmental management practices,
development of a system to certify environmental conformity to ISO 14000,
-9-



and training of qualified assessors to perform this task. Part of the
application of this system is developing internationally recognized
standards, assessment and certification for eco-tourism and cultural
heritage facilities.Under the Product Standards component, the Project
would respond to requests from the private sector for the provision of
training in the application of ISO 14,000 environmental management
practices, development of a system will be established to certify
environmental conformity to ISO 14000, and training of qualified assessors
to perform this task. Part of the application of this system is expected
to be an explicit system to develop internationally recognized standards,
assessment and certification for eco-tourism and cultural heritage
facilities.
11. Contact Point:
Task Manager
James C. Hanna
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington D.C. 20433
12. For information on other project related documents contact:
The InfoShop
The World Bank
1818 H Street, NW
Washington, D.C. 20433
Telephone: (202) 458-5454
Fax:        (202) 522-1500
Web: http:// www.worldbank.org/infoshop
Note: This is information on an evolving project. Certain components may
not be necessarily included in the final project.
PID processed by the InfoShop week ending March 17, 2000.
- 10 -



