Document of
The World Bank
Report No: 21327-GU
PROJECT APPRAISAL DOCUMENT
ONA
PROPOSED LOAN
IN THE AMOUNT OF US$20.3 MILLION
TO
THE REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
FORA
COMPETITIVENESS PROJECT
November 20, 2000
Finance, Private Sector and Infrastructure Sector Management Unit (LCSFP)
Central America Country Management Unit (LCC4C)
Latin America and the Caribbean Region (LCR)



Page 2
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                   Project Appraisal Document
CURRENCY EQUIVALENTS
(Exchange Rate Effective September 21, 2000)
Currency Unit   Quetzal
7.84 Quetzals = US$1
US$] = Quet7-1
FISCAL YEAR
January 1 - December 31
ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS
AGEXPRONT - National Export Promotion Agency
ANACAFE - National Coffee Association
BDS - business development services
CAS - Country Assistance Strategy
COGUANOR - Guatemalan Standards Organization
CUTRIGUA - Council of Intemational Transport Users of Guatemala
FDI - foreign direct investment
FIAS - Foreign Investment Advisory Service
ICAITI - Central American Institute of Research and Industrial Technology
ICB - International Competitive Bidding
IFC - International Finance Corporation
IT - information technology
LCR - Latin America and the Caribbean Region
NGO - non-governmental organization
NQS - National Quality System
PROGUAT - Guatemalan foreign investment promotion agency
PRONACOM - National Competitiveness Program
SCA - standards and conformity assessment
SOE - statement of expenditures
TOR - terms of reference
Vice President: David de Ferranti
Country Management Unit Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Sector Management Unit Director: Danny Leipziger
Task Manager: James Hanna



Page 3
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                                                                        Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala
Competitiveness Project
CONTENTS
Project Financing Data ..........................5
A. Project Development Objective ..........................6
1. Project development objective
2. Key performance indicators
B. Strategic Context ..........................6
1   Sector-related  CAS  goal supported by the project ....................................................................
2. Main  sector issues and Government strategy.............................................................................
3.  Sector issues to  be addressed  by the project and  strategic choices............................................
(. Project Description Summary .........................                                                                                        17
1. Project components....................................................................................................................
2.  Key policy and institutional reforms supported  by the project.................................................
3. Benefits and target population ...................................................................................................
4. Institutional and implementation  arrangements.........................................................................
D. Project Rationale .........................                                                                                                  21
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection ..........................................................
2. Major related projects financed by the Bank and/or other development agencies....................
3. Lessons learned and reflected  in proposed project design.........................................................
4.  Indications of borrower commitment and ownership ................................................................
5. Value added of Bank  support in this project..............................................................................
E. Summary Project Analyses .........................                                                                                          23
1. Economic              ..............................................................................................................................
2. Financial and fiscal ....................................................................................................................
3.  Technical and institutional.........................................................................................................
4. Social
5.  Environmental assessment .........................................................................................................
6. Participatory  approach ...............................................................................................................
F. Sustainability and Risks .........................                                                                                           27
1.  Sustainability..............................................................................................................................
2.  Critical risks  .............................................................................................................................
3. Possible controversial aspects....................................................................................................



Page 4
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
G. Main Loan Conditions ........................                                         28
1.  Loan  effectiveness......................................................................................................................
2.  Conditions of disbursement.......................................................................................................
R. Readiness for Implementation ........................                                 29
I. Compliance with Bank Policies ........................                                29
Annexes
Annex 1.   Project Design Summary .30
Annex 2.    Detailed Project Description.
2.1       Increasing domestic market competition .33
2.2    Accelerating foreign investment .37
2.3       Expanding in-firrn training and information markets .41
2.4       Upgrading firm product and process quality .43
2.5       Competitiveness learning and innovation program .45
2.6       IT-based business development services pilot .53
2.7       Business cluster & social responsibility program .55
Annex 3.   Estimated Project Costs .57
Annex 4.  Financial Summary .58
Annex 5.         Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements .59
Table A   Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements .66
Table Al Consultant Selection Arrangements .................................      68
Table B   Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review .71
Table C Allocation of Loan Proceeds .72
Annex 6.         Project Processing Budget and Schedule .73
Annex 7.    Documents in Project File .74
Annex 8.    Statement of Loans and Credits .75
Annex 9.  Country at a Glance .76



Page 5
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                                                                     Project Appraisal Docunent
Guatemala
Competitiveness Project
Project Appraisal Document
Latin America and the Caribbean Regional Office
Central America
_Date: November 20, 2000                                                                Task Manager: James Hanna
Country Unit Director. Donna Dowsett-Coirolo                                             Sector Unit Director: Danny Leipziger
Project ID: GT-PE-550S4                           Sector: Multi Sector   Program Objective Category: Private Sector Development
Lending Instrument: SIL                                                                 Prograr of Tageted Intervention:    f 1 Yes  [X I No
Project Fiuau1cing Datta                                     [X]  Loan                   [1 Credit    [IGuarantete                                 1   Other
[specify]
.... ........ ..... .    ... .... ....... -... ..........I.... .......... ... .......... .......... .. ..... .... ... . .... ............ . ... .....   .... ...... .... -.... ......   ........ ...I.... ..... . ........... .......  ....... ................. ....... ...... .. ....... ... ....I.................     .......
Loan Amount (US$): 20.3 million
Proposed Terms: Fixed Spread
Grace period (years): 5 years                                                                                       Years to maturity: 17 years
Commitment fee: 0.85% first 4 years, 0.75% thereafter                                                               Service charge: 0.00%
Front end fee on Bank loan: 1.00%
Local                Foreign                  Total
I........... .......-. ... ... ..... ......... ....  ......... ...I..... ............  ............. .  ... .  ..... ...... .............. ........... .............. .    ........ .....-..... ........ . . ..... .... .....  . ..........   .I. ......I..... ........ ........ .... ............    .............. ....... .  .........  ......   .....   ..     ..
G;uatemalan Government                                                                                        1.7                    0.0                   1.7
Guates alan private sector (individual matching funds   fees)    .
IBR                        2001               202                   2032200
Annual  4.4               7.8                  5.8                 2.3~~~~~~~~~Tta     1.5158                                        3.
Borrower: Republic of Guatemala
-.- ... .............. .......  ... .......                       ..... .......I... ....   ..... ...  ..  .......  . ... ... ...... .. .....    ... ........ .  ....   . _...... .... ............. .... . ..   ............ .... ...... ....   ..... .......... ......   ...... ........ . . ...
Responsible agency: The Management Unit of the National Competitiveness Program (PRONACOM)
~                                                                                        ~ ~    E s tim i <^" ~ ~~~ ~ ~~  ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~ ~ ~~~-q----4#-^--------w-a-----------wv--0 ................................................ -. v0.> 9.S v 9~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~... . ......
FY                         2001               2002                  2003              2004
Annual                      4.4                 7.8                  5.8                  2.3
Cumulative                  4.4               12.2                 1 8.0                20.3
Project implementation period: 2001 - 2004
Expected effectiveness date: April 2001   Expected closing date: June 30, 2005



Page 6
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                              Project Appraisal Document
A: Project Development Objective
1. Project development objective and key performance indicators (see Annex 1):
1. Objective. The purpose of the Guatemala National Competitiveness Program (PRONACOM), a
public-private partnership under the Vice President of the Republic, is to advance the nation's
international competitive standing and accelerate its economic growth. The proposed Project would
advance the Program's objective as well as those of the nation's Peace Accords' by helping
primarily small and micro businesses to generate higher income and reduce high rates of poverty in
Guatemala. To do so, the proposed Project would support a diversified and mutually reinforcing set
of initiatives on two levels:
(a) in the business environment - seek to increase the competitiveness of product and factor
markets via regulatory changes and new public-private institutional partnerships in the areas
of: (i) domestic competition, (ii) foreign investment, (iii) in-firm skills training and
information; and (iv) product quality infrastructure; and
(b) at the firm level - aim to broaden micro- and small business participation in national
economic growth by (i) promoting increased investment in firm-level pre-competitive
learning and innovation, (ii) piloting service and delivery innovation in information
technology-based business development services (BDS), and (iii) expanding business
development clusters and social responsibility.
2.    Performance Indicators. The Project's outcome metrics would be the incremental value
added and employment generated among micro and small businesses. The Project's outputs would be
measured at two main levels: (a) specific institutional development targets for the Competition
C(ommission (new), "Invest in Guatemala" (upgrade), the National Training Council (upgrade), and
the National Statistics Superintendency (upgrade); and (b) firm-level (i) foreign direct investment,
(ii) worker skills training investments, (iii) pre-competitive investments in product/market learning
and innovation, (iv) internationally recognized product and process quality certifications, and (v)
investments and sub-contracting relationships generated by business social responsibility programs.
Project performance would be measured by a representative sample of Project clients stratified by
income segment, geographical location and sales market, and compared with the baseline control
group of 296 firms already surveyed to help define Project design.
B: Strategic Context
1. Sector-related Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) goal supported by the project (Annex 1):
CAS document number:                                               18036 GU
Date of latest CAS discussion:                                   July 14, 1998
3.    The World Bank Group's Guatemala Country Assistance Strategy (CAS) for FY99-01
supports the implementation of the Guatemala's Peace Program in four priority areas: building social
cohesion, reducing poverty, improving economic management to maintain stability and foster
growth, and modernizing the public sector. The CAS underscores the importance of supporting
programs designed ultimately to end the exclusion that has characterized Guatemala's dualistic
society---Guatemala has the third highest degree of income inequality (after Brazil and Pakistan)
worldwide among low- to middle-income countries. The proposed Project focuses primarily on the
Especially the two Accords on the Identity and Rights of the Indigenous People (March 31, 1995, Mexico City) and on
Socioeconomic Aspects and the Agrarian Situation (May 6, 1996, Mexico City).



Page 7
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
poverty alleviation objective of the CAS, though it also involves other CAS objectives insofar as it
aims to (i) foster inclusion of small business through private sector participation in, and
decentralization of, business development programs, (ii) increase access of lower-income businesses
to productive opportunities, and (iii) reform the public sector institutions managing policies related
to domestic competition, foreign trade and investment, in-firm skills training, and the product quality
infrastructure.
4.    The Project complements other projects in the Bank's CAS which also relate to advancing
Guatemala's international competitiveness: notably, in the areas of land reform, the administration of
justice, rural financial markets, natural resources management, and private participation in
infrastructure. It also reflects the CAS emphasis on an integrated Bank Group approach to private
sector development issues, which was prepared jointly with FIAS and IFC. A joint Bank/FIAS team
has collaborated closely on the foreign investment and trade component, which builds upon a FIAS
1998 FDI promotion strategy for Guatemala. The Project should also offer opportunities for
enhanced IFC and MIGA cooperation. IFC's assistance strategy entails both investments in
Guatemala and development of regional financial and physical infrastructure in Central America.
IFC's current areas of focus in Guatemala include investment and TA support for modernization and
expansion of internationally competitive companies, infrastructure, capital markets, agro-industry
and tourism. MIGA currently guarantees one investment in Guatemala for a power generator.
2.    Main sector issues and Government strategy:
5.    Weaknesses in International Competitiveness. The long-term aggregate indicators of the
Guatemalan economy in 1996, when the Peace Accords ended the country's long civil war, reflect its
basic need to improve Guatemala's international competitiveness:
* low per capita growth - very modest long run economic growth rates, combined with
elevated population growth (2.9% over 1990-96 versus a benchmark 1.4% for lower-
middle income countries), have yielded either declining GNP per capita (-0.9% over
1975-85) or only marginal gains (+0.6% over 1986-96);
* low capital investment - gross domestic investment averaged a low 6.1% of GDP over
1986-96, while FDI inflows largely stagnated over 1992-97 at a low 0.5% of GDP ($84
million in 1997)---versus benchmarks of 1.1% for LAC and 3.1% in East Asia;
* low integration with international markets - total goods and services exports/GDP ratios
were virtually stagnant between 1992-97, amounting to only 18.5-19.0% which, when
combined with import trends, yield an openness index which actually declined over the
period from 46% to 44%; and
low domestic content in exported products - the share of low value-added primary
products in total exports (mainly coffee, sugar, bananas, petroleum, and cardarnon)
remained a high 84% in 1997, and were generated by relatively few producers. The ratio
of manufacturing exports/GDP, which some consider as a rough proxy for a country's
access to international learning and technology transfer and ability to produce at world
standards, amounted to just 9% of total exports or 1% of GDP.
6.    Since 1996, efforts to build the economy in the post-conflict era have produced some
encouraging initial results. Government investments in basic services---education, health, water and



Page 8
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
housing---rose notably and were reflected in improvements in a number of social welfare indicators.
Access to basic infrastructure-power, roads and telecommunications---has increased largely
through a combination of legislative action and privatization. Production of non-traditional agro-
exports grew over 1996-98 by over 10% per annum and generated over US$300 million per year in
export revenues (1998), mainly from vegetables, fruits and preserves, natural rubber, flowers,
ornamental plants and sesame. In the manufacturing sector, maquila assembly of imported materials
for re-export of textiles and clothing, which represent first-stage entry into international markets,
now employs over 70,000 workers (1998) in mostly large garment manufacturers, textile mills and
manufacturers of garment components.
7.     Still, a variety of indicators show that very strong efforts will be required to substantially
boost social welfare. For example, the Global Competitiveness Index, prepared by the Center for
International Development of Harvard University, ranked Guatemala 43rd among the 59 countries
assessed.2  Though such a ranking should not be overemphasized, it brings out the fundamental
weaknesses that must be addressed. Labor productivity is relatively low, which is particularly a
reflection of low investment in worker skills and inadequate technical and management training. The
costs of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure are elevated. Product quality and
certification systems are not available to most firms and seriously compromise product
competitiveness  in  both  local  and  international  markets.    Investment  in  information
technology/connectivity, and adaptive product research and development for export markets are
similarly low. The cost of capital from the financial sector reflects operating inefficiencies and
inadequate competition.
8.    In the export sector, despite recent gains, executives of the Guatemala Export Promotion
Agency (AGEXPRONT) indicate that the majority of the country's 3,000 smaller exporters (not to
mention potential exporters) are inexperienced and lack practical understanding of market quality,
price and delivery requirements. The maquila sector, which represents about three-quarters of the
country's clothing exports to the USA and is operated frequently by large foreign investors,
continues mostly to assemble imported components and has not yet internalized design, skills and
technologies that would enable it to move up the value chain to higher income and more secure
markets. Many maquila firms, which were attracted to Guatemala in part by the availability of US
quota allocations and ten-year income tax incentives, now face the expiration of such incentives.
These firms need to make steep investments in pre-commercial research and development, skills
training and new market linkages to sustain growth, profitability and employment creation---or leave
the country.
9.    In the formal small business sector, there is a wide imbalance in competitive factors in
relation to Guatemala's larger firms. This sector represents the vast majority of businesses, provides
the economic livelihood for over 75% of the labor force, accounts for at least one-third of GDP, and
continues to grow in number---the number of formally and informally established small businesses
tripled over the 30 years between 1964-94 to over 824,000 business units and is now estimated at
nearly I million units.3 A survey of 296 formal sector firms to help Project design identified several
2 Its Competitiveness Index is built on the average of eight sub-indices: openness, government, finance, infrastructure,
technology, management, labor and institutions.
3 Source: the National Statistics Institute (IEN). The Federation of Micro, Small and Medium Scale Businesses
(FEPYME), in its report of March 1999, places the total closer to 700,000 units. Of these, about 290,000 firms were
officially registered in Guatemala (including 65-70% in Guatemala City)---of which some 230,000 are small businesses
consisting of some 190,000 microbusiness units with 0-4 employees and 40,000 small firms with 5-20 employees each.
The remaining 350,000-400,000 units are found in the informal sector.



Page 9
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                      Project Appraisal Document
major firm-level constraints to competitiveness in Guatemala:4 (i) the quality and cost of raw
materials, (ii) the quality and skills of workers (comparable severity among different sized firns),
(iii) the availability of workers, and (iv) access and cost of technology. Small businesses voiced a
substantially greater severity of impact than large firms among these four production constraints
identified by the survey.
10.   For example, large firms employ on average 70 college graduates or college students (15% of
their employees), whereas small businesses rely at best on one employee with such schooling.
About one-half of businesses surveyed do not spend resources on research and development, with a
clear relationship observed between firm size and the incidence of such. The use of information and
communications technology (IT) is drastically different between small and very large firms for
office administration (21% vs. 92%), production (19% vs. 68%) and quality control and testing (6%
vs. 55%). Constraints to greater use of IT are due particularly to the cost of acquiring and
maintaining it, the lack of qualified personnel and technical assistance to incorporate it, and a view
that it has a poor return on investment. Subcontracting work, which could be an important market
for small firms, is infrequent---only 3 businesses in 10 for industry and 2 in 10 for services use it---
which is due mainly to limited knowledge about such options, a lack of product and process quality
control by smaller firms, or a lack of production and price competitiveness.
11.   In the informal microbusiness sector, analyses indicate that, while capital shortages often
head the list of problems among startup businesses, entrepreneurs in ongoing businesses most often
define three other areas as highest priority: (1) weaknesses in business skills, (2) weak buyer-seller
market linkages to higher purchasing power markets and related logistics, and (3) low operating
productivity, resulting particularly from disproportionately high prices for materials and supplies and
a failure to take advantage of modern methods and production technologies. Human capital
constraints stem from a combination of modest formal education, the necessity of performing most
key business functions in the absence of affordable outside help, and inadequate business training.
Most micro-entrepreneurs have no training in small business management, and are either self-taught
or have learned on-the-job usually in technical areas such as sewing, woodworking and masonry, to
the almost total neglect of planning, purchasing, and other basic business management functions.
The costs and logistics of transportation to purchase materials and to deliver products are usually
very significant. This is coupled with difficulties in communication and, for small formal sector
businesses, a virtual absence of IT. Notwithstanding a desire to grow, most microbusinesses do not
have a clear idea of how they want to expand their businesses or which assistance they need. Market
signals from  higher income markets---both domestic and international---are weak, as product
promotion is almost always word-of-mouth and limits the entrepreneur to a small circle of
community clients instead of taking advantage of growth opportunities through, for example,
subcontracting with larger firms and international trade.
12.    Government Strategy. A  concerted  strategy  to  raise  international  competitiveness
crystallized in Guatemala when public and private sectors leaders united in 1997 with help at the
regional level from the Central American Project for the Competitiveness and Sustainable
Development (CLADCDS), a project started with the support of the Harvard Institute for
4 See The Skills, Technology and Productivity Survey in Working Paper 1, elaborated with the support of the Bank,
which covers a representative sample of 296 small, medium and large scale firms in the manufacturing and service
sectors in metropolitan Guatemala City and in secondary cities. The survey elicited information on employer-sponsored
training and on a wide range of firms' attributes including size, industry, local or foreign ownership, equipment,
technology, quality control systems, markets and exports, workforce characteristics, wages, subcontracting linkages and
on production.



Page 10
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                             Project Appraisal Document
International Development and Michael Porter, and coordinated by INCAE.    This informal
Government-business partnership, named the National Competitiveness Program (PRONACOM),
has become a strong and well-recognized initiative. PRONACOM is headed by the Vice President
of the Republic, who is charged with facilitating the Program's agenda for improvement in the
national business environment. PRONACOM is directed by an Executive Committee, consisting of
the Vice President, the Minister of the Economy, a Private Sector Coordinator named by the Vice
President, and two members of the private sector named by the Chamber of Industry of Guatemala
and the Exporter's Association (AGEXPRONT), and others named by common agreement of its
members. Its principal functions are to define PRONACOM's agenda and make decisions regarding
program focus and management, and to make recommendations to the Government on public policy
and institutional matters. Day-to-day management and technical support for PRONACOM is the
responsibility of the PRONACOM Management Unit anchored in the Ministry of Economy.
13.   PRONACOM's strategy since mid-1998 has focused on two levels:  (i) the business
environment - changes at the macro-level in selected laws, regulations and institutions influencing
business investment and operating performance; and (ii) firm-level support programs - facilitation
at the micro-level and among business clusters and associations to promote specific investments to
increase competitiveness. PRONACOM's work program has involved vigorous analysis of various
business environment issues with the assistance of the Japan PHRD Grant administered by the Bank.
It has used cluster concepts to both facilitate development of a basic knowledge base on competitive
strengths and weaknesses---to date in textiles and clothing, 3 agro-business lines, tourism and
forestry---and to raise public awareness in Guatemala of competitiveness issues, in part by
sponsoring training by local consultants and universities of over 200 people in the cluster
methodology. This has been reinforced by participation of PRONACOM and senior public officials
in various national, regional and international fora (such as in Costa Rica at INCAE to an audience
of Presidents from Central America and, most recently, at the Cluster Conference in Varese, Italy to
an audience of over 26 country representatives).
3. Sector issues to be addressed by the project and strategic choices
14.   Within the PRONACOM framework, the Project would have a two-pronged focus: (a) in the
business environment, it would make selective regulatory changes and build public-private
institutional partnerships to increase the competitiveness of product and factor markets. These
actions are expected to have a strong enabling effect on small business growth, combined with (b) at
the firm level, the promotion of sustainable business development service (BDS) markets in order to
substantially broaden small business participation in entrepreneurship and national economic
growth. The following sections summarize the analytical and design work done to date with the
support of the Japan PHRD Grant. Further background and details regarding these proposals are
found in the 9 Project Working Papers available in three separate volumes.
15.  Increasing Domestic Market Competition. Although the Guatemalan economy is one of the
most open and business-oriented of Latin America, domestic market competition appears to be still
quite limited in a number of areas. This issue, which the new Government administration has
already signaled as high priority. While there is generally intense competition at the retail level in
the distribution of final goods and services, market structure and/or business practices restrain
competition in some non-tradables, in upstream industries and services, and in some goods of mass
consumption. Interviews with consumers and newcomer entrepreneurs highlight several practices,
which raise barriers to entry for new businesses and diminish competition: (1) vertical integration
with exclusive distribution arrangements in local markets; (2) restrictive product agreements through



Page 1 1
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
international cartels, mergers and acquisitions or licensing; (3) predatory or discriminatory pricing,
through resale price maintenance, market segmentation, or collusion by local dominant firms; and
(4) protection and preferential treatment from the government to forestall increased import
competition arising from liberalization of the trade regime. Such practices tend to undercut the
growth potential of the economy in general and small business in particular, contribute to rent-
seeking behavior, and to government capture by powerful firms.
16.    The previous Guatemalan Government administration enacted a number of important
framework laws to promote increased investment and production efficiency---for example, related to
foreign investment, telecommunications and intellectual property rights.  In case a domestic
competition law is enacted under the Project and thereafter a competition commission is created, it
would fill an important remaining gap by establishing protection against anticompetitive business
practices, reducing barriers to entry for new firms, and providing consumer protection. It would also
be essential to support future international trade negotiations by Guatemala. The basic premise of
such a framework law would be that, insofar as firms do not abuse such provisions, producer
structures must be allowed to evolve under market competitive rules.
17.   The execution and enforcement of the law would depend on transparency and minimalist
government intervention. The Project concept envisions the creation of a new Competition
Commission, modeled after the US Federal Trade Commission, Canada's Competition Bureau, or
Mexico's Federal Trade Commission, as an authority independent of Government charged with
competition advocacy within Government and the business community, and with exclusive law
enforcement powers. In this way, the proposal seeks to isolate the Commission from political or
budgetary interference by interest groups. The Project would support an implementation plan
consisting of preparation of a competition law, establishment of a Competition Commission and
development of its functional capacity, a targeted public information and voluntary compliance
campaign to promote increased competition, and a program  of competition analysis.  This
component, reinforced by the broader pro-competition program to be supported by the Project,
would be expected to ferret out anti-competitive business practices mainly in segments of the
economy with low export-orientation and high concentration in the production structure.
18.   Accelerating Foreign Investment. Countries able to achieve higher levels of integration
with the global economy tend to exhibit higher output growth according to Bank research and other
sources. This is derived largely from a combination of (i) increased international competitiveness,
when firms incorporate international best practice technologies, products, designs, technical and
managerial skills, and (ii) substantially higher growth rates of world trade markets than domestic
markets. The Project would address three issues that restrain Guatemala's foreign direct investment
inflow, namely, weak foreign investment promotion, bottlenecks in investment registration, and
inefficient supply chain services.
19.   Guatemala has very modest levels and declining inflows of foreign direct investment (FDI),
moving from 1.4% of GDP in 1980 to 0.5% in 1997, and is in danger of falling further behind other
reforming countries in Central America, like Costa Rica, Honduras and Panama. Guatemala adopted
a new foreign investment law in 1998 that is now comparable to its competitor countries for FDI in
the region. The law provides guarantees of equal treatment for national and foreign investors,
unrestricted participation of foreign investors in the economy, safeguards against double taxation
and unrestricted remittance of profits and capital. However, with the convergence towards greater
openness and the similarity of investment policies across developing countries, this law needs to be



Page 12
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                Project Appraisal Document
complemented with much more effective national promotion and investment facilitation in order to
attract increased FDI.
20.   The current FDI promotion unit in the Ministry of Economy, PROGUAT, is constrained by
an overly bureaucratic approach to promotion and by limited resources. In addition, while the
Government's investment facilitation service has improved business registration time over the past
two years, it still takes months according to a separate foreign investors survey conducted for the
Project. It suffers from many administrative bottlenecks and lacks a variety of best practice features.
Under the Project, a public-private joint FDI Promotion Council ("Invest in Guatemala") would be
created, incorporating the private sector's strategic vision and management, along with the capacity
built to help preserve the existing investor base, promote Guatemala as an attractive investment
location for new investors, and provide ongoing inputs to policy-makers on how to create a
supportive environment for FDI.
21.   Improving the international supply chain of services---that delivers imported inputs to farms
and factories and ships finished goods to export markets---will also be supported under the Project.
In LAC countries, the supply chain---mainly road and maritime transport, freight forwarding,
warehousing, information systems and insurance services---has become an important competitive
factor, as its aggregate cost amounts to an estimated average of 30-40% of the market price of
manufactured products. Increasing supply chain efficiency typically yields substantial sales and
profitability increases via lower producer-to-market delivery times, lower firm inventory levels and
related costs, and reductions in overall freight costs. In Guatemala, the Government and many small
businesses are very concerned that they will not be able to realize such benefits particularly in the
absence of more competitive maritime and road transport services.
22.   For example, the Council of International Transport Users of Guatemala (CUTRIGUA),
representing a large number of Guatemalan importers and exporters, has observed that rates for
maritime transport of containers seem unreasonably high against international benchmarks. Recent
analyses in Guatemala determined that local and international companies associated with
Guatemala's major traditional exports are in a relatively strong position to negotiate transport
services; however, small businesses are subject to bunker, theft risk and other surcharges, as well as
inland haulage charges that are indeed substantially above benchmarks. The basis for such charges
both lack transparency and amount to a very substantial proportion of base rates. To improve
Guatemala's market position for exported goods (including related production of inputs for such
exports), the Project would provide for analyses of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework
of this and other modes of transport in order to identify barriers to entry and, if needed, regulatory
and institutional changes to reduce the cost and time of transport of exported goods.
23.   Expanding In-Firm Skills Training and Information Markets. Formal in-firm training
sponsored by employers and supplied either in-house or by a variety of external institutions can play
an important role in improving the performance and competitiveness of employers. A study of
Guatemalan firms, prepared as part of Project design, suggests that firms that do such training are on
average about 49% more productive than firms that do not train, controlling for other factors that
influence productivity. Given a firm's unique market-based perspective on skill needs and its
interests in practical application, in-firm training is also a very efficient means of expanding the
nation's endowment of human capital. However, in Guatemala, only about 37% of the firms
surveyed provide such training to their employees. What is more, the incidence of such training is
highly skewed---toward Guatemala City vs. secondary towns and rural areas, toward managerial



Page 13
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                              Project Appraisal Document
employees vs. production workers (that make up the majority of the workforce), toward large firms
vs. small businesses, and toward firms using new technology vs. those that do not.
24.   About 62% of in-firm training in the formal sector is provided through the public training
institution, INTECAP, which imposes a payroll training levy of 1% on all enterprises with more than
five employees. The remainder is provided by other sources---larger firms secure their own training
resources (often from overseas), while others utilize a relatively small market of private training
institutions. More robust development of the private training market faces several constraints,
especially for small businesses, including high labor turnover, poor information on the benefits of
training, and inadequate financial resources for training. The payroll levy grant system, as managed
and structured thus far, has not proved effective in addressing these constraints---in fact, only a
relatively small amount of the current payroll levy' is even dedicated to this purpose, as the bulk of
INTECAP's resources are directed towards pre-employment training, the informal sector, facilities,
and surplus resource management.
25.   With the payroll levy as a funding core, a number of initiatives will be implemented under
the Project to address market failures in the training market, improve delivery of demand-driven
training, and foster development of a private training market. These include (i) carrying out analyses
of the current framework governing the application and administration of the payroll training levy
and thereafter design and implement a plan to improve it, including the possible creation of a public-
private National Training Council to promote diversification of qualified private sector training
suppliers; and (ii) establish under the Council's aegis extension services on a grant basis to provide
information targeted at smaller businesses on the benefits of in-firm training and to help firms to
establish their own in-firm training programs. These initiatives would be complemented by the
Project's firmn-level and business association level Competitiveness Learning and Innovation
Program component (described below), which would expand funding available for in-firm
upgrading of technical skills of trainers, employees and training facilities in order to better respond
under the new system.
26.   Reinforcement of national information systems is equally important to both firm level
competitiveness and national economic management. In 1999, the Government's Commission on
the Improvement of the National Statistical System prepared a diagnostic of the system which
showed that such infornation is both very limited and not reliable enough. This is in part due to
inadequate coordination within the System, where there is duplication of effort, inadequate ability to
verify data generated by different entities making up the System, and insufficient financial, technical
and human resources devoted to it. Under the Project, a draft law, acceptable to the Bank, would be
prepared which would, if enacted,  would convert the National Statistics Institute into an
autonomous National Statistics Superintendency and key technical services and products upgraded---
including the census and surveys, economic statistical systems, and demographic and social studies.
27.   Upgrading Firm Product and Process Quality.  Any country that expects to compete
successfully in today's global economy needs to know the standards of the markets to which it
exports, have access to internationally recognized testing and certification organizations, and sustain
a commitment to quality. In turn, these require an appropriate infrastructure for standards and
conformity assessment (SCA). This infrastructure is critically important to a country's ability to
improve quality, reduce costs and keep pace with constantly evolving technology-essential factors
in determining a country's competitiveness. A reputation for complying with standards and assuring



Page 14
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                              Project Appraisal Document
quality can increase market share and merit premium prices for exported commodities and
manufactured goods. Product certification can be a major asset in breaking into new markets.
28.   The findings of the Guatemala Skills, Technology and Productivity Survey reflect very
serious firm-level deficiencies in this area: (i) the majority of firms use only a final inspection of the
finished product or service---few have in-process quality control and its incidence correlates strongly
with firm size; (ii) a third of small manufacturing firms have no quality checks whatsoever; (iii) the
lack of quality control by subcontractors and suppliers is an issue of considerable relevance in all
sectors; and (iv) there is limited recognition of ISO 9000, particularly among small businesses, and
little understanding of its principles and practices. On the supply-side, country benchmarking for
SCA systems for Central America and elsewhere show Guatemala and most of Central and South
America to be far behind the rest of the world in implementing effective quality practices---
providing standards enquiry points, applying the WTO Code of Good Practice where developing
standards, particularly in regional and international standards and accreditation bodies, and
providing infrastructure (inspection, testing, product certification, quality systems registration and
laboratory accreditation). For example, while ten organizations provide calibration services, only
one is accredited by a recognized body. Only three firms provide consulting in quality. Training is
limited to two short courses---one offered by AGEXPRONT and another by the Chamber of
Industry.
29.   At one time, Guatemala had the basic building blocks for a national SCA system; but the
pieces have fallen into disarray and experienced staff is no longer employed. The Comision
Guatemalteca de Normas (COGUANOR) was founded in 1962 to provide standards and inspection
services particularly in the areas of health, safety, and consumer protection. By 1988 it had
developed 600 standards, all of which were mandatory, and had a total staff of eight professionals.
In this same time-frame, the Instituto Centroamericano de Investigacion y Tecnologia Industrial
(ICAITI) was established in Guatemala City as a regional resource. Hundreds of thousands of
dollars were invested in its metrology laboratory and staff training, but the institute's capabilities
were never utilized to any great extent by Guatemala's neighbors, and its limited number of clients
were almost exclusively from Guatemala. ICAITI, is no longer functioning, while COGUANOR is
in a stand-by mode awaiting renewal under the proposed Project.
30.   To address these issues, the Government aims to enhance product and process quality in
Guatemala and strengthen the Government's position in negotiating trade pacts and mutual
recognition agreements. The Project would support the promotion of awareness of quality issues
and practices, provide training to private enterprises and government agencies, and provide technical
assistance focused on the demand-side. This would complement existing assistance totaling US$1.4
million from Sweden, Germany and Taiwan, which are establishing institutions to supply quality-
related services such as accreditation, metrology and standards development.
31.   Increasing Firm-Level Pre-Competitive Investments in Learning and Innovation. An
important element of a near-term poverty reduction strategy in Guatemala is assistance at the firm
level to help broaden micro and small business participation in entrepreneurship and mainstream
economic growth.  Like larger firms, smaller firms face obstacles like a scarcity of modem
management skills and information, technological obsolescence of plant and equipment, and inadequate
investment financing. But, as in many emerging countries, Guatemalan smaller firms are more likely
to face a number of additional impediments to becoming more competitive, both domestically and in
export markets. Such firms are constrained in making the needed investments due to (i) economic
factors---such as insufficient information, externalities in skills investments, the perceived (and



Page 15
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                            Project Appraisal Document
frequently actual) high cost of pre-competitive product/market development in relation to extremely
uncertain returns, and access to financing; and (ii) "softer" factors---like a lack of experience, the
absence of supportive local business development tradition, or a lack of entrepreneurial confidence.
32. Traditionally, government intervention to promote small business development has often focused
on providing subsidized credit for the purchase of capital goods through various means that, instead,
has generally inhibited the development of sustainable financial institutions. Such intervention has
also promoted business development services (BDS) through public institutions or NGOs---training
of labor and management; extension, consultancy, and counseling; marketing and information;
technology development and diffusion; subcontracting, etc. However, here too, there is broad
consensus among many that publicly-provided BDS often suffers from being too general and supply-
driven, lacks sufficient client attention and quality, and gives little specific attention to building
delivery systems with strong service outreach and financial sustainability.
33. A more markets-oriented strategy is needed in Guatemala which addresses these problems and
focuses on increasing small business access to markets: for the goods and services that micro- and
small businesses produce (both domestic and export); for the inputs that such businesses use
(including information, technology, and competitively-priced materials); and for a diverse range of
financial services and BDS needed to support business growth and competitiveness. Accordingly,
the Project would sponsor three initiatives aimed to help strengthen firm-level entrepreneurship and
build BDS markets by (1) promoting increased small business investments in pre-competitive
learning and innovation which utilize BDS, (2) piloting supply-side innovations in information
technology-based BDS dedicated to low-income micro and small businesses, and (3) expanding
concerted action among firms on competitiveness through promotion of a cluster and business
responsibility program.
34. Experience in an impressive list of countries suggests that stimulating increased investment in
well-planned, practical learning and innovation among small firms can help increase their
competitiveness substantially as a result. Under the Project, a Competitiveness Learning and
Innovation Program would support pre-competitive investments in entrepreneurial learning and
innovation by at least 300 small and medium scale private firms, associations and microclusters
(with legal identity), and at least 10,000 microbusinesses. The Program would provide temporary
matching grant support to such businesses (50% business recipient, 50% Program) to modify
business conduct and help develop a tradition of investment in areas such as business planning,
market research, product and process development, management and technical training, acquisition
of market and technical information, quality assurance, marketing and distribution pilots. The
Program would utilize an independent private contractor for Program client assistance and
management, selected in accordance with the Bank's Consultant's Guidelines and reporting to a
separate Supervisory Committee setup within the PRONACOM  Management Unit.  The
Government would adopt the Program Operational Manual, satisfactory to the Bank, and hire the
contractor as a condition of loan effectiveness.
35. To help accelerate BDS market development among low-income businesses, the Project would
pilot innovation in information technology (IT)-based BDS services.   The pilot, Guatemala
MicroNet, aims to demonstrate in Guatemala the commercial viability and development impact of
greater "connectivity" between lower- and higher-income markets, and how to substantially boost
BDS client scale with financial sustainability. With the reform of the telecom sector in Guatemala in
1996, substantial progress is being made in basic services and it is a promising time to introduce
higher value-added IT services toward these ends.



Page 16
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
36. MicroNet would deliver under a business plan integrated communications and information
technology IT-based business development services to at least 25,000 micro and small businesses
through a network of a hub and ten community-based business development centers, tentatively to
be located in Guatemala City (3), Chimaltenango, Quezaltenango/Totonicapan, Escuintla,
Suchitepequez, Sacatepequez, San Marcos and Alta Verapaz. MicroNet services would (i) provide
basic entry-level business skills training, information technology training and distance learning on
microbusiness issues; (ii) make accessible mnodem traditional communications (phone, fax and
photocopying) and marketing outreach tools (advertising, packaging and labeling) with coaching
assistance, and (iii) offer PC-based workstations, software and coaching for more advanced
microbusinesses to expand entrepreneurial knowledge, prepare strategies on how to grow their
businesses and to solve common problems in production, finance/credit and marketing, and begin to
build networks and basic electronic commerce.
37. To help expand the competitiveness-building process among groups of firms, the project would
support a business cluster and social responsibility program. The initial development of integrated
clusters in Guatemala---to date in textiles/clothing, agro-industry, forestry and tourism---was
initiated following the study managed by Michael Porter of Harvard University on the
competitiveness of the Central American region. The Guatemalan approach is distinct from most
other countries, relying mainly on regional and local specialists to conduct a first-round overall
diagnostic of competitive strengths and weaknesses of a cluster and to benchmark it internationally.
This more "bottom-up" approach has been largely effective, and has promoted cluster development
in a locally-rooted and cost-effective manner.
38. PRONACOM is consequently planning to strengthen the number of facilitators to manage the
cluster development process and to establish "micro-clusters" to involve a larger number of micro
and small businesses. The Project would extend this cluster experience to other parts of the
economy, with a projected 1-2 new clusters or micro-clusters per year over two years. To do so, the
PRONACOM Management Unit would contract service providers to (i) continue broad promotion,
dissemination and training in the methodology (100% Bank loan financing) in order to foster new
microclusters, (ii) facilitate the organization of new clusters and undertake initial cluster diagnostic
and benchmarking assessments (50% financing), and (iii) address cross-cluster business environment
issues, such as on labor mobility, technical barriers to trade, etc. (100% financing). The Project
would also support nascent efforts in Guatemala to promote the development of a culture of business
social responsibility (BSR) within the objectives of the Project; namely, toward lower-income
businesses and related households. Under the Project, PRONACOM would first try to develop
through local and cross-country exchanges, workshops, case studies and consulting support a
common understanding of the definition and scope of BSR (100% Bank loan financing), then help
generate specific BSR projects (a) in support of micro and small business development, and (b) in
support of communities located in areas in which large-scale business operates to pursue common
socio-economic interests (50% financing). This initiative would be extended via collaboration in
international BSR events and a public communications campaign.



Page 17
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
C: Project Description Summary
1. Project components (see Annex 2):
.~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~M cos Of i w 
Increasing domestic market competition - advisory services, Regulatory    0.8    2%    0.8      4%
training programs and study tours, office facilities, equipment reform and
and materials, information dissemination and recurrent cost institution-
support on a declining basis over 4 years to help (i) design a draft building
a competition law that would establish the functional capacity of
a Competition Commission, (ii) execute a public information and
voluntary compliance promotion program, and (iii) carry out an
agreed program of investigations and advocacy on competition
policy.
Accelerating foreign investment - advisory services, training  Regulatory    7.8    24%  3.6    18%
programs and study tours, office facilities, equipment and  reform and
materials, promotion programs and recurrent operating costs on a  public-
declining basis to help over 4 years to (i) create a public-private  private
FDI Promotion Council, (ii) improve the one-stop investment sector
facilitation, and (iii) upgrade the international supply chain.  institution-
building
Expanding in-firm skills training and information markets -  Regulatory    2.6    8%   2.6     13%
advisory services, training programs and materials, facilities  reform and
upgrading, equipment, information dissemination and recurrent public-
cost support on a declining basis to help over 4 years to (i) adjust private
the regulatory framework for the payroll-levy management sector
system  and implement an in-firm  training promotion and  institution-
extension services program for small business, and (ii) adjust the  building
regulatory  system  to  create  the  National  Statistics
Superintendency (NSS), and upgrade the scope, quality,
reliability and operating efficiency in the production economic
and business statistics.
Upgrading firm  product and process quality - advisory, Regulatory    2.0    6%       2.0      10%
training and information services, and recurrent cost support on a  reform &
declining basis to help implement a plan over 4 years to (i) public-
promote quality awareness, (ii) provide training in quality  private
assurance, (iv) establish an SCA international information center, sector
and (ii) prepare a program to certify non-traditional activities  institution-
such as sustainable tropical wood exports, eco-tourism  and  building
organic foods, and factory working conditions in maquila
industries.
Increasing firm  investments in learning and innovation -  Firm, cluster   19.2   570/o   10.0  50%
promote  increased  pre-competitive  investments  by  (i)  &
establishing  a  temporary  Competitiveness  Learning  and  association
Innovation  Program  to  provide  under  agreed  firm  institutional
competitiveness plans 50-50 matching grant financing to  development
enterprises, associations and clusters on an individually-approved
basis,  and  voucher  grant  financing  for  low-income
microbusinesses; and a Program client assistance and
management contract to implement the Program; (ii) piloting IT-
based BDS to help low-income micro- and small businesses to
raise earnings by increasing their business skills, market access
and operational competitiveness; and (iii) providing advisory



Page 18
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
services, training programs and materials, and informnation
dissemination to support a program (i) to promote new business
clusters and carry out cross-cluster business environment
diagnostics, and (ii) help develop business social responsibility to
support small business development.
PRONACOMManagement Unit (operational expenditures)    I_I  11    3%                1.1     5%
Bank loan capitalized front end fee                                 0.2     -     0.2
==t=l             i'3    1j<,,i 700                       20>30 3
2. Key policy and institutional reforms to be sought:
*  Increasing domestic market competition - (i) a competition law reflecting local and
international best practice to ensure competitive behavior in the marketplace and a
competition commission to implement it, (ii) development of the commission's
functional capacity, (iii) implementation of a program of investigation and advocacy of
competition policy, and (iv) a program of public information and promotion of voluntary
compliance;
*  Accelerating foreign investment - (i) upgrade PROGUAT via a Government Decree into
an effective public-private FDI Promotion Council and improve one-stop investment
facilitation, and (ii) preparation of regulatory changes to reduce the cost and time of
transport of exported goods by the international supply chain;
- Expanding in-firm skills training and information markets - (i) address market failures in
the training market, improve delivery of demand-driven training, and foster development
of a private training market via adjustments in framework governing the application and
administration of the payroll training levy and sponsor an in-firm training extension
program for small firms, and (ii) an autonomous National Statistics Superintendency
which upgrades the scope and quality of economic information;
- Expanding product quality technology infrastructure - (i) promotion of quality awareness
and training in quality assurance practices & in ISO 9000 & 14001 assessment, (ii)
establishment of a standards and conformity assessment international information center,
and (iii) certification of non-traditional activities likely to include eco-tourism, workplace
standard and tropical timber.
3. Benefits and target population:
39. The Project would be expected to lead to greater competitiveness through (a) the direct near-term
reduction of firm-level costs or raising of margins, and (b) less tangible but equally critical medium-
and long-term improvements in skills, product and process quality, and R&D innovations. The
adoption and implementation of a competition law would be expected ultimately to foster more
broad-based growth in the private sector, helping to ensure that all firms are treated uniformly, have
reasonably equal market opportunities, and to prevent or correct market failures and distortions that
arise from  anti-competitive business practices.  For firms participating in the Project's other
programs, benefits would include incremental (i) domestic and foreign direct capital investment, (ii)
investment in worker skills, (iii) pre-competitive investments in product/market learning and
innovation, (iv) internationally recognized product and process quality certification, and (v)



Page 19
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
investments and sub-contracting relationships generated by business social responsibility programs;
ultimately taking the form of increased value added, employment, and fiscal revenues.
40. The Project's direct target population for action on the business environment would be those
institutions and stakeholders involved with development of the Competition Commission, "Invest in
Guatemala", the possible National Training Council, and the National Statistics Superintendency.
The clientele of such entities, as well as the other elements of the Project that would provide direct
support to the firm level, are expected to be primarily micro businesses (less than 5 employees) and
small and medium firms (fewer than 50 employees), which employ a large segment of Guatemala's
economically active population and involve lower income groups in such areas as agro-business,
textiles and clothing, leather goods, wood products, metalworking, and artisanry. Particularly as firm
size decreases, women and indigenous entrepreneurs are expected to benefit as, in some sectors, they
represent a majority (clothing) or a significant share of producers within an industry (food, shoes and
leather).
4. Institutional and implementation arrangements:
41. Institutional and implementation arrangements. The Executive Committee of PRONACOM,
a public-private partnership, has exercised strong leadership and closely collaborated with the Bank
in the design of the Project. It would continue to play this role in the implementation phase by
providing directives to the PRONACOM Management Unit for Project execution, as well as the
evaluation of progress and impact against agreed targets. The Project would be managed by the
PRONACOM Management Unit, which would be formally established by Ministerial Accord and is
a condition of loan effectiveness, would report to the Executive Committee. The Unit's managing
Director is appointed by the Executive Committee. The Unit, which is physically housed in and has
operated since 1998 as part of the Ministry of Economy, has developed a sound implementation
management capacity. It has gained this capacity through considerable experience in implementing
the PRONACOM program and in collaboration with the Bank in the execution of the Project's
PHRD Grant, including with respect to Bank procurement and financial management practices.
42. To implement the Project, the Management Unit would double its current eight full-time
positions by adding lead specialists to coordinate work on domestic competition, foreign investment,
in-firmn skills training, product quality and IT-based BDS. For business environment issues,
Management Unit staff would work in a fully integrated supporting role as it has in the past for line
managers within the Ministry of Economy and institutions outside it for which the Ministry of
Economy has portfolio responsibility. The Ministry has first-line responsibility for competition
policy, foreign direct investment, product quality technology infrastructure, micro and small
business, and supporting responsibility for in-firm training and transportation.
43. Regarding firm-level Project activities, an independent private contractor would be hired to
provide client assistance and manage the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program and
would report to a Supervisory Committee within the PRONACOM Management Unit composed of
the Managing Director of PRONACOM and one representative each from the Ministry's Vice-
Ministry of Micro and Small Business and from the PRONACOM Executive Committee. The
Committee would be responsible for selecting the contractor, adopting the policies and procedures of
the CLIP in the Operating Manual, monitoring progress and compliance with Manual, and
evaluating impact. Initial implementation of the Guatemala MicroNet pilot would be led by the a
Coordinator in the PRONACOM Management Unit to complete pre-startup preparations, followed
by a management team hired to implement the business plan. The business cluster and social



Page 20
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
responsibility program would be directed by the current Coordinator in the Management Unit as a
continuation of its work over the past two years on PRONACOM's four existing cluster programs.
Since it is critical that the Management Unit be fully operative from the start of Project
implementation, the staffing of the Unit and creation of the Supervisory Committee within the Unit,
satisfactory to the Bank, would be a condition of loan effectiveness.
44. The core support service responsibilities of the Management Unit for Project implementation
would include the following:
* Carry out the Project Launch Plan;
* Perform all Project procurement functions according to the Bank's Guidelines in
coordination with Project institutions;
* Perform all Project financial management functions;
* Prepare annually by November 30, with inputs from Project institutions and in
agreement with the Bank, Annual Action Plans for the years 2001-2005;
* Prepare Quarterly Project Monitoring and Evaluation Reports on execution and impact
against agreed institutional development and other performance targets.  Quarterly
reports would include financial management reporting used to monitor progress and
future disbursements;
* Hold a Project Mid-term Review by July 31, 2002;
* Ensure general Project coordination between PRONACOM, the Ministry of Economy,
and other entities involved in Project execution; and
*  Prepare the borrower's portion of the Project Implementation Completion Report in
coordination with the managing agencies.
45. Project Financial management. The Management Unit would directly manage all project
planning, procurement, physical and financial monitoring and analysis. The Unit would manage
project funds under a Bank-certified financial management system for accounting, reporting, and
auditing. This system, to be defined in a Project Manual of Administrative-Financial Procedures,
would cover financial management responsibilities, procedures, documentary formats for use of the
Special Account, procurement of goods and services, the Integrated Accounting System, internal
documentary controls and inventory controls over office equipment and supplies. The accounting
and auditing practices, standards and controls, and reporting format and content defined in the
Manual would meet those defined in International Accounting Standards of the International
Accounting Standards Committee and be consistent with the Bank's Financial Accounting,
Reporting and Auditing Handbook (FARAH).
46. Auditing of Project accounts would be carried out by an independent private sector firm
acceptable to the Bank. A specific shortlist of such firms for the Project would be prepared and
reviewed by the Bank for its no-objection. A long-term contract for the life of the project, subject to
annual performance acceptable to the Bank, would be concluded for Project auditing services with
the firm selected. Terms of reference for such audits would be prepared and agreed upon in
accordance with Bank model TORs, covering statements of income and expenses, all sources and
uses of project funds and comparisons with the Bank's Project Appraisal Document, assets and
liabilities, SOEs, Special Account, internal control system, conformity with the Bank's Loan
Agreement. Audit work would begin at the Project's startup to confirm the auditability of the
financial management system. Audit reports would be submitted within 4 months following the end
of the fiscal year. The costs of such annual audits are incremental costs and would be included in
project costs and Bank financing. This financial management system would conform to the Bank's



Page 21
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
requirements under BP1O.02. As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Government would have put
into operation a system, satisfactory to the Bank, for the administrative, financial and accounting
control of the Project, and hire the external auditors mentioned in this paragraph.
47. Project Monitoring and Evaluation. The Management Unit would be responsible for Project
monitoring and evaluation of progress toward project development objectives and use the Project
Design Summary in Annex 1 as a basis to track the key Project inputs, processes, outputs and
outcome/impact. A data collection system would be prepared for this purpose, which would utilize a
baseline data set from the 296 firm-level survey prepared at Project identification as a control group
and "barameter" of project progress. These same firms would be tracked at the mid-point and end of
the Project and their evaluation data compared with similar evaluations of firms participating in the
Project. The Management Unit would utilize the system to (i) prepare quarterly Project Monitoring
and Evaluation Reports on execution and impact against agreed performance targets, and (ii) hold a
Project Midterm Review by July 31, 2002. While the Management Unit itself would be responsible
for monitoring implementation activities and outputs, a qualified local firm would be responsible for
preparing within this reporting system a regular independent evaluation of Project outcome and
impact.
D: Project Rationale
1. Project alternatives considered and reasons for rejection:
48. The initial Project concept has been driven by client interests, lessons of experience and a vision
of the most appropriate niche for Bank support, all as outlined below in Sections D3-D5. Given
PRONACOM's sound start with mezzo-level cluster programs, the main focus of attention has been
on understanding and addressing the constraints in the business environment and designing scaled-
up firm-level support systems.



Page 22
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
2. Major related projectsfinanced by the Bank and/or other development):
Bank-financed
* Inefficiencies in infrastructure  Private Participation in        U              S
Infrastructure
* Corruption, contract enforcement    Judicial Reform Project       S              S
* Inequitable access to land resources Land Fund and Land
and poor title registration systems    Administration Project
(pending signature)
* Improve use & protection of natural
resources in West. Altiplano Region  Natural Resources Project
(under preparation)
*  Increase  product  and  factor
market   competitiveness    and  El Salvador                      S              S
integration with the global economy  Competitiveness
Enhancement Project
*  Increase access of small business
to international trade markets   Argentina Export                 S              S
Development Project
*  Increase access of small business Ecuador Intemational Trade     S              S
to international trade markets   and Integration Project          S_S
Other Development Agencies
UNIDO                              Competitiveness project -
mainly environment issues
Sweden, Taiwan, Germany            Metrology and other quality
systems support
IP/DO Ratings: HS (Highly Satisfactory), S (Satisfactory), U (Unsatisfactory), HU (Highly Unsatisfactory)
3. Lessons learned and reflected in proposed project design:
49.   The Project concept addresses policies and issues which are well known through cross-
country analyses and other sources to have strong bearing on international competitiveness. The
approach to each component---the issues to be addressed and methodology to be used---reflect a
blend of specific problems identified in discussions with the Government and in cluster work, and
the cumulative experience of the Bank and other development partners in these areas. In general, the
Project's approach to programns and institutional development relies very much on demand-driven
resource allocation and decentralized, participatory delivery mechanisms, which have tended to
work far better in meeting needs at the firm-level to increasing competitiveness.   Like the El
Salvador Competitiveness Enhancement Project, the emphasis is on specific changes in the
regulatory environmnent, facilitating public or public-private partnerships and firm-level help. The
Project at entry is targeted to achieve early public policy changes and launch institutional support
systems to build firm-level competitiveness, as well as progressively expanding business cluster and
social responsibility.



Page 23
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
4. Indications of borrower commitment and ownership:
50.   Through its initial participation at the regional level and discussions with neighboring El
Salvador, the Government led by the Ministry of Economy has since 1997 developed a strong
interest in the international competitiveness theme. It has joined together with many private sector
leaders to organize a public-private partnership and prepare a program of action framed as the
National Competitiveness Program (PRONACOM). This core group has through concerted effort
organized a wide variety of workshops, training seminars and media events to expand public and
private sector interest and involvement in this work. In this sense, PRONACOM is developing into
a sound platform for the Project, and its stakeholders view the Bank and the Project as central to
moving forward the competitiveness agenda.
51.   The initial cluster programs in Guatemala have had several advantages. They have helped to
organize a wide range of entrepreneurs and other players in the production chain to make more
transparent their competitive position and constraints to improving it. They have emphasized the
firm-level view of competitiveness as a key analytical building block. They have highlighted the
need for public sector cooperation to address key bottlenecks originating in the public sector itself.
And they have used international benchmarks to help foster the change process, which has also
simultaneously increased interest in outward orientation. The Guatemalan brand of clustering also
appears to have been internalized by participating local businesses and government and the idea
seems to be spreading. To date, each cluster has operated with a modest budget and relied largely on
the grassroots participation of businesses and local consultants to establish a basic snapshot of the
industry and benchmark its competitive features. The Project concept is derived in large part from
the results of this experience as well as from discussions with and specific requests from
PRONACOM. Guatemala's new administration has provided substantial continuity in support of the
Project by incorporating it prominently in its 2000-2004 Economic Plan.
5. Value added of Bank support in this project:
52.   The PRONACOM Executive Committee and Bank view the Bank's main role as helping to
(i) leverage the existing cluster work by increasing analytical work, cross-country experience and
internal dialogue on key cross-cluster policy and institutional development issues, (ii) ensure that the
PRONACOM agenda is closely linked with social objectives, and that policy/institutional analyses
and program development incorporate the interests of a wide spectrum of socio-economic groups in
Guatemala, and (iii) help to strengthen PRONACOM processes---particularly in deepening public-
private cooperation and expanding public and private sector involvement in the PRONACOM---and
its program implementation capacity.
E: Summary Project Analyses
53.   Economic. The economic benefits of the Project are driven mainly by the policy and
institutional effects on the business environment generated by technical cooperation and financial
inputs and direct firm- level catalytic support. Assessing the approach being used and benchmarks
of experience in projects elsewhere, and taking into account the principal technical and operational
assumptions made, the best estimates of the expected outcomes over the four-year Project
implementation period are: (i) foreign direct investment---incremental investment of about $206
million, an increase in foreign exchange eamings of $280 million (merchandise and tourism), 20,500
new direct jobs and 40,000 indirect jobs due to increased linkages, (ii) worker skills training
investments - 120 newly accredited private in-firm training providers, and 300 new in-firm training
systems established in small businesses (incremental trained staff counted in CLIP below); (iii)



Page 24
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                              Project Appraisal Document
product and process quality - 2,500 small firms implementing or upgrading quality programs and
50,000 student class hours of quality training by year 4, 50 firms exporting certified eco-exports by
year 4, and 12 government agencies with accredited labs or certification programs, or ISO 9000
certification by year 4; and (iv) MicroNet---at least 25,000 microentrepreneurs utilize basic business
training services, make new use of business communications and marketing services, and engage in
e-commerce activities; MicroNet achieves financially sustainable network of 10 community IT-
based microbusiness centers by year 4.
54.   For the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program, at least 300 mainly smaller
private firms, associations and clusters would be expected to benefit under Window I and 10,000
microbusinesses under Window 2 for Project investments in entrepreneurial learning and innovation.
Qualitatively, beneficiaries are expected to accrue domestic and international market awareness and
know-how, forming the basis for changes in business behavior, which in many cases will lead to
increased international competitiveness and outward-oriented growth. In immediate terms, this
change would be reflected in new domestic and international business market partners---market and
product information sources, suppliers, private associations, potential buyers, potential foreign
investors, etc. Quantitatively, the Program is expected to produce incremental domestic and non-
traditional processed export output of at least $60 million, making a substantial and visible positive
impact on worker income and employment. These earnings would be to be felt in (i) higher value
added (mainly wages and profits) in products and new employment, (ii) broader domestic and export
market linkages (more products exported by more firms), and (iii) more linkages to domestic
producers as indirect exporters (share of local raw materials, intermediate & finished goods in
product cost). This incremental output would also generate additional tax revenues expected to
exceed by the fourth year of the Project the cost to the Government in grant funds and related
interest on the Bank loan from the following sources: (1) incremental payroll taxes paid by domestic
and exporting firms and by employees, (2) corporate income taxes, and (3) value added taxes
generated by incremental employee consumption outlays.
55.   Financial.  The strong institutional development orientation of the Project implies a
significant incremental recurrent cost requirement, estimated at $5.5 million over the four-year
implementation period. Given a highly constrained fiscal situation and in order to mitigate risks of
implementation delays, the Bank loan would meet a share of such financing ($1.8 million) on a
declining basis over this period, beginning with 100% of annual costs in Year 1 and falling linearly
to 33% in Year 3.
56.   TechnicaL  The main technical challenge of the Project would be to create information-
technology based business development services with strong impact on low-income micro- and
small businesses. While the basic IT infrastructure in telecommunications, internet service providers
and programmers are available to the more advanced portions of the economy, mainly in Guatemala
City, focusing this infrastructure and creating an effective interface with such clientele in the form of
IT software, program content and training will be a major task. However, initial support for the
MicroNet pilot is quite pronounced and high quality local and international resources are available to
address this challenge.
57.   InstitutionaL The experience during Project design and initial indications in the transition to
a new Government administration demonstrate a very strong commitment to PRONACOM and the
Project as one means of advancing it. Thus, while the institutional development agenda under the
Project is ambitious, it is reasonable in light of client ownership of it and the proven capacity of the
PRONACOM Management Unit to advance its implementation.



Page 25
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
58.   SociaL The Project would address product quality and process standards for non-traditional
activities, such as workplace conditions in maquila operations in the textiles and clothing sector.
This system would provide internationally recognized social assessments and certification, where
firms meet the standard of the adequacy of conditions in the workforce. Through the promotion of
new investment in pre-competitive learning and innovation by smaller businesses outside of
Guatemala City, the Project would also help to extend business development service support systems
to women and indigenous groups to help them build market linkages, upgrade business skills and
information access, and improve product designs and quality. Early consultations have been held
with indigenous groups about the design of MicroNet and will be continued through a series of focus
groups in the final design phase and implementation of MicroNet services. The social responsibility
program would also aim to build new linkages of support between the larger-scale business
leadership in Guatemala and the small business community.
59.   Environmental. Environmental category: [I   A     [I    B     [X]   C
The Project would provide support for training in the application of ISO 14,000 environmental
management practices, development of a system to certify environmental conformity to ISO 14000,
and training of qualified assessors to perform this task. Part of the application of this system is
developing internationally recognized standards, assessment and certification for sustainable tourism
and cultural heritage facilities. The Project is expected to consist primarily of broad-based policy
change, institution-building and technical assistance at the firm-level to build international
competitiveness. As per above, it is also likely to include promoting the use by private firms of
internationally recognized certification systems for environmental protection.
60.   Participatory Approach. As noted above, PRONACOM's basic cluster organizations have
been and will be an important vehicle to bring together public and private interests in the
implementation of the Project. In the analytical work done on the Project to date, inputs have been
provided directly by: the National Council for Development of Micro and Small Enterprises, the
Federation of Small and Medium Guatemalan Enterprises, the Comite Coordinador de Asociaciones
Agricolas, Comerciales, Industriales y Financieras (CACIF), the National Exporters Association of
Non-Traditional Products (AGEXPRONT), the VESTEX Commission Board of Directors and
Coordinator of the Textiles and Clothing Cluster, the Coordinators of the Agro-business Cluster, the
Tourism Cluster, and the Forestry Sector Cluster, the Council of International Transport Users of
Guatemala (CUTRIGUA), and the Camara de Industria. Senior Government authorities and
discussions to date at the cluster level have significantly determined the Project's focus regarding the
business environment and newly proposed institutions.  Work on specific issue has been
substantially informed and directed by potential clients and affected groups through the use of
representative surveys, focus groups, cross-country experience seminars, and workshops.



Page 26
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
8. Checklist of Bank Policies
This project involves:
[X ] Indigenous peoples (OD 4.20)      [    Riparian water rights
(OP 7.50)  (BP 7.50)     (GP 7.50)
[ ]   Cultural property (OPN 11.03)    []   Financial management (OP 10.02)  .       (BP 10.02)
[1]   Environmental impacts            []   Financing of recurrent costs  (OMS 1.21)
_(OP4.01)   (BP4.01)   (GP4.01)   _
[ ]   Natural habitats                 []   Local cost sharing
(OP4.01)   (BP4.01)   4GP 401           (OP6.30)  |       (BP6.30)         (GP 6.30)
[1 ] Gender issues (OP 4.20)           [    Cost-sharing above country three-year average
_7                                            (GP 6.30)        (OP6.30)        6(BP6.30)
[1 ] Involuntary resettlement (OD 4.30)  []   Retroactive financing above nonnal limit
(OP 12.10)       (GP 12.10)      l
[ ]   NGO involvement (GP 14.70)       [    Disputed territory
(OP 7.60)        (BP17.60)       (GP7.60)
___                                    [f ] Other (provide necessary details)
61.   Social Outreach Strategy. In Guatemala there are three main population sets that are called
indigenous: Mayas, Xinkas and Garifunas, which constitute approximately 60% of the population.
These groups share the Guatemalan territory with the Ladinos or Mestizos, which represent the
remnaining 40% and are mainly descendants of a mixture of Spaniards and indigenous population.
The Mayas are geographically located in the whole territory, but the higher concentrations are in the
northwestern highlands: Huehuetenango, Quetzaltenango, Totonicapan, San Marcos, Alta Verapaz,
Baja Verapaz, Chimaltenango, and Quiche. In Guatemala City, they hold 12% of the population.
They speak 21 different languages, of which Quiche, Kakchikel, Tzutuhil, Kecchi, Mam and
Pocomam are the more important. The Xinkas occupied what is now the Department of Santa Rosa,
the eastern section of Escuintla and Jutiapa near the frontier with El Salvador.
62.   Indigenous people from Guatemala are mainly engaged in agricultural activities. They often
work as low-skilled employees in agro-industry such as coffee, cotton, sugar and meat, as temporary
employment during about 6 months of the year. Another agricultural activity, as very small
producers, is the growing of corn and another alternative crop. Corn is used for the survival of the
family and the alternative crop is used to sell and obtain money to pay for basic needs; this crop is
typically a non-traditional agricultural product such as flowers, fruits and some vegetables (broccoli
and Chinese pea). In some cases, indigenous groups sell to medium and larger scale exporters and
are members of cooperatives that are recently trying to export to Central America. When there are
no jobs at the farms or there is no land for the growing of their crops, they become informal
entrepreneurs dedicated to commercial activities in the urban areas or mobile traders that travel to
many villages selling their artisan work and objects for basic needs.
63.   There are around 75 NGOs that work for the development of the indigenous population in
Guatemala. Mostly, they work in infrastructure, health related projects and training for agricultural
skills.  Others work with artisans and in literacy and basic arithmetic  classes. The largest
organizations are the Tzukin Pop and Mesa Nacional Maya, composed of indigenous people, which
are coordinators of coordinators of indigenous NGOs. Since 1990, there have been a relevant
number of indigenous organizations with their goals aimed to the Peace Accords. COPMAGUA -
Coordination of organizations of the Mayan people- is the most important one, an association of



Page 27
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
associations. This organization has been accredited by the Guatemalan government and is in charge
of the follow up of the Peace Accords. Academia de Lenguas Mayas, is a government autonomous
institution, its goal is to strengthen the Mayan Languages. There are also a number of cooperatives
associated in federations that have a large number of indigenous microbusinesses present, such as
the Federaci6n de Cooperativas de Cafe (Federation of Guatemalan Coffee Cooperatives),
Federacion de Cooperativas Agricolas de Guatemala (Federation of Guatemalan Agricultural
Cooperatives), Federaci6n Nacional de Cooperativas de Ahorro y Credito (Federation of
Guatemalan Cooperatives for Credit and Savings).
64.   The Project incorporates a collaboration strategy based upon the Peace Accords and strong
participation of indigenous people, particularly regarding Guatemala MicroNet, which incorporates
explicit geographical outreach, collaboration with organizations already closely involved with
indigenous peoples, alternative instruments and group-appropriate programmatic designs (including
translation of materials into principal indigenous languages).  Project design has included
discussions with community leaders to determine how best to bring business training and market
outreach to individuals in the towns and villages through the Committee for the Enhancement of the
Community and the Auxiliary Mayors. Consequently, the MicroNet draft business plan has
geographically configured its network of community IT-based business development services to
directly reach concentrated areas of indigenous groups, namely in Quetzaltenango/Totonicapan, Alta
Verapaz, San Marcos and Chimaltenango.  MicroNet will also engage the federations of
cooperatives, where most of them are affiliated, and with the Academia de Lenguas Mayas.
Through such cooperation, it will seek to recruit and train center staff experienced in working in
indigenous communities and adapt the services it provides, orally and in written materials, to use the
appropriate indigenous language according to the location of the center.
65.   MicroNet will also use the radio as a mean of delivering business training courses in business
planning, market research, production, marketing and finance to indigenous clientele. This is an
important means of communication, given that various radio stations in Guatemala broadcast several
programs in Mayan Languages, and nearly 90% of indigenous people own a radio and listen to it
according to data for approximately 4 hours per day throughout the week, including the late evening
and early morning hours. Further, at MicroNet community business centers, videos will be prepared
in both Spanish and the appropriate Mayan Languages that can be viewed in the indigenous
communities with the assistance of the NGOs, Coordinators, and Federations. Finally, in an effort to
enhance the applicability of e-commerce to indigenous people in Guatemala, MicroNet will also
prepare its IT training curriculum, its specialized microbusiness software, and key sector-specific
business information in the more important Mayan languages.
F: Sustainability and Risks.
1. Sustainability:
66.   The design of the business environment reforms and institutional improvements has been
highly participatory with both the public and private sectors. In addition, Guatemala's new
government administration at the highest levels have voiced their strong commitments which, along
with the continuity in the private sector's involvement throughout the preparation process will
ensure sustained momentum under the implementation phase of the Project and of meeting its
institutional development goals.



Page 28
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
67.    The Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program is not intended to be sustained. It
has a defined exit policy, deliberately making it a temporary one-time efforts to reduce market
failures. However, experience elsewhere with mechanisms of this kind show that they are likely to
create three sustainable effects: (i) having helped firms to meet the usually high costs of pre-
commercial learning, particularly for entry into the export market, they encourage a durable
commitment to new markets as long as operating costs are covered; (ii) having introduced firms to
the benefits of using business development services, firmns tend to recognize their full value and no
longer need subsidies to motivate their use; and (iii) they encourage development of a local market
of entrepreneurial learning and businesses support.
2. Critical Risks (reflecting assumptions in the fourth column of Annex 1):
Annex 1, cell "from Outputs to Objective"       
*  Systems designs not able to reach smaller frms  M      Explicit agreement with client and
and beyond urban areas                                delivery mechanisms to specifically
target these groups
Annex 1, cell "from Components to Outputs"
Lack of continuity in PRONACOM management          N      Strong private sector participation
expected to ensure sound.
Weak client commitment to and participation in     N      PRONACOM   management  and
implementation                                            strong program ownership.
Delayed passage of the domestic competition law,   M      Government to brief legislators
national statistics law, which require 2/3rd majority of  carefully and hold workshops to
Congress, and other regulatory changes, consequently,     develop/ensure consensus.
slowing Project implementation.
Risk Rating - H (High Risk), S (Substantial Risk), M (Modest Risk), N (Negligible or Low Risk)
G: Main Loan Conditions
1. Loan effectiveness:
*   The PRONCACOM  Management Unit has been established and staffed, and the
Supervisory Committee for the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program
created, both satisfactory to the Bank;
*   an Operating Manual for the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program  has
been adopted, a Program client assistant and management contractor selected per Bank
Guidelines, and an Management Agreement executed between the Government and
contractor, all satisfactory to the Bank; and



Page 29
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                              Project Appraisal Document
* a financial management system for the administrative, financial and accounting control
of the Project has been established by the Borrower and external auditors hired, both
satisfactory to the Bank.
H: Readiness for Implementation
1. (a) The engineering design documents for the first year's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation.
X     (b) Not applicable
2. The procurement documents for the first six months's activities are complete and ready for
the start of project implementation; and a framework has been established for agreement on
standard bidding documents that will be used for ongoing procurement throughout the life of
the project.
X 3. The Project's implementation plan has been appraised and found to be realistic and of
satisfactory quality.
4. The following items are lacking and are discussed under loan conditions (Section G): None
I. Compliance with Bank Policies
X 1. This project complies with all applicable Bank policies.
2. The following exceptions to Bank policies are recommended for approval. The project
complies with all other applicable Bank policies.
[signatureIr
Task Manager: mes       a
[signature]
Sector Directo   anny  eipzi
[signature]
Country Director: Donna Dowsett-Coirolo



Page 30
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                         Project Appraisal Document
Annex 1
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Project Design Summary
140Narrativ *Sumiary         K    eoa   Indatos                Monitorig and          Critical
:Valuation        Assumptions
Sector-related CAS Goal:                                                             (Goal - Bank
mission)
* Foster economic growth    * Country development benchmark is    *  National         * Effective
and  reduce poverty by     to raise overall economic growth to   accounts            policy
increasing   access  to    a sustainable 5-6% per year                               dialogue   &
sustainable  productive                                                              project
opportunities.                                                                       execution
Project Development                                                                   (Objective to
Objectives:                                                                           Goal)
* In the business           * Achievement   of  institutional    * A representative    * Macroecono
environment, increase the   development plans for Competition     sample     of      mic      and
competitiveness of product  Commission, National Training        Project clients     political
and factor markets via      Council, and National Statistics      stratified   by    stability
regulatory changes and      Superintendency.                     income
new public-private                                               segment,
institutional partnerships                                       geographical
which improve the business                                       location   and
environment for micro and                                         sales  market,
small business growth;                                            and compared
with a baseline
* At the firm-level, broaden    * Incremental  value  added  and    control group
micro- and small business   employment  generated  among          to         be
participation in national   participating  micro- and  small      established
economic growth             businesses.                           during Project
Outputs:                                                                              (Outputs to
* Increasing    domestic    * Complaints   received,    cases    * Analysis by        Objective)
market competition          investigated & resolved, laws and     PRONACOM
regulations assessed, product price  Management        * Systems
and industry structure adjustments,  Unit every six      designs  able
consumer  &   business  opinion      months, using       to     reach
surveys     of      Competition      regular             smaller firms
Commission's work                   reporting            and  beyond
statistics of       urban areas
* Accelerating    foreign    * Incremental FDI of $206 million by  Government
investment                  12/31/04                              agencies,
*20,500 new jobs created and an        Project
added 40,000 indirect jobs due to    monitoring and
linkages by 12/31/04                 evaluation
system, and
* Expanding       in-firm   * 120 newly accredited private in-firm  independent
training and information    training providers.                  impact
markets                    * 300 new  in-firm  training systems   evaluations.
established by small businesses and
2,500  managerial  &   technical
employees trained.



Page 31
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
* Upgrading firm  product   * 800 client firms per year served by
and process quality        SCA Information Center.
* 2,500 smaller firms trained in
application of process & product
quality systems
* 50 fims certified in eco-exports or
in-plant working conditions
* 800   firms   implementing   or
upgrading quality programs
* Increasing       firm    * Incremental local & non-traditional
investments m  learning    exported output of $60 million;
and innovation             related  wage  and  employment
growth;  incremental  tax  value
exceeding    CLIP    funding;
sustainable   business   process
improvements by CLIP clients in
management, new tech & marketing
by 12/31/04.
* 25,000   microbusinesses  utilize
business skills training, marketing &
e-commerce tools to increase market
outreach and income by 12/31/04;
MicroNet   reaches    financial
breakeven by 12/31/04.
* Public      policy      change
recommendations   presented  to
Cabinet in 2 major areas (eg., labor
policy, air transport) resulting from
cross-cluster    diagnostics    by
12/31/02.
* Established subcontracting & other
sustainable         commercial
relationships between small low-
income firms and larger firms
through BSR program.
Project Components/Sub-    Inputs: (preparation budget for each                    (Components to
components:                component)                                              Outputs)
* Increasing domestic market * Adopted    Competition    Law,   *  Monitoring      * Continuity in
competition                  regulations &  operational &  HR    system      of      PRONACOM
guidelines by 12/31/01.           PRONACOM             management
* Established functional capacity of   Management
Competition Commission within 6    Unit,  Executive    * Strong client
months  after  Law   approval,   Committee of the       commitment
including    complete   trained    NCP,  and  the      to       and
professional &  management staff   World     Bank       participation
and operational infrastructure.   supervision.         in
* Acquired   public  support  for                        implementati
competition policy by 06/30/02, as                     on
per survey results, through seminars,                 * Implementati
workshops and publications.                             on        of
* Completed program by 12/31/03 of                       proposed
of competitiveness diagnostics and                      institutional
investigations                                         development
plans    not
* Accelerating     foreign  * "Invest in Guatemala"  promotion                       delayed   by
investment                 council  established  &   begins                        slow  passage
Iproviding full investor services by                      of regulatory



Page 32
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                         Project Appraisal Document
12/31/01                                                 changes
* 105  new   foreign  investments
registered and 175 new projects in
pipeline by 12/31/04
* Expanding  in-firm  skills  * Established functional capacity of
training   &   information    Training Council by 6/30/02 to
markets                     administer revised regulations.
* Guidelines for accreditation of
private trainers & establishing
Training Council by 06/30/02.
* Completed    in-firm    training
promotion & extension services for
small businesses by 12/31/02.
* Established   national   statistics
superintendency & upgraded scope,
quality & reliability of economic &
business statistics by 12/31/02.
* Upgrading furm product and  * Established quality training system
process quality             &   50,000  training  hours  by
12/31/03.
* Established Standards & Conformity
Assessment Information Center.
* Twelve government agencies with
accredited  labs  or  certification
programs, or ISO 9000 certification
by 12/31/04.
* Increasing firm investments  * Completed  at least 300  small
in learning and innovation  business competitiveness plans and
10,000 microbusiness development
services by 12/31/03
* Established hub and 5 community
IT-based BDS centers by 06/30/02
and the remaining 5 centers by
12/31/03.
* Established 4 new business clusters
programs & completed cluster
diagnostics,   benchmarking   &
dissemination of results by 12/31/02
* Established  a  Business  Social
Responsibility    system     in
collaboration with the private sector
by 12/31/01.



Page 33
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
Annex 2
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Project Design Summary
2.1 Development of Effective Domestic Market Competition
Objectives
Under the Project, the Government will prepare a draft law acceptable to the Bank which, if enacted, would
adopt a new regulatory and institutional framework for competition which, in a neutral and horizontal manner, would
increase the competitive behavior of enterprises and the structure of industry. Such a framework would include (l)
development of the Competition Commission's functional capacity, (2) development of a public information and
dissemination strategy, and (3) implementation of a corporate competition policy program. The Project would provide a
variety of technical services to help implement this program.
Main sub-components
Law, regulations, guidelines and internal documents. The Government would design a draft law and thereafter
present it to Congress for approval. If approved, the Project would prepare implementing regulations, and corresponding
guidelines and interpretation documents, which contain standards, methodologies, policy sequence, and administrative
procedures for the enforcement of the remedies and actions provided by the Law. These would provide mainly for (see
Appendix 1 for further details):
*    specific clauses against cartels, distribution restraints, anticompetitive mergers/acquisitions and abuse of
dominant position, both by private and public owned enterprises;
*    mechanisms to guarantee a minimalist enforcement approach toward enforcement, with a focus on the
actual exercise of market power and not on the mere holding of a position of dominance or monopoly; and
*    clear provisions authorizing an independent commission to provide an ongoing pro-competition advocacy
role within the government to reduce entry barriers and market distortions created by public policies and
regulations.
Functional Capacity of the Competition Commission. The new Commission would develop a workable structure
and human resource strategy and profile, including job-position descriptions and organizational structure, giving due
weight to capacity utilization vis-a-vis capacity building; acquiring standard books, journals, reference materials,
documents, desk-top computers, filing software and other data-information management systems; establishing electronic
and other communication linkages with major competition authorities in the United States, Europe, Canada and some
other Latin American agencies; and strengthening local training mechanisms and with close monitoring of skills transfer
and in-house training.
Training of the Competition Commission staff on conducting competition case analysis would be another
priority. Such analysis requires a mix of legal and economic tools to address issues such as definition of relevant product
market, assessing barriers to entry, actual and potential exercise of market power, efficiencies and consumer welfare,
methods for collecting, safeguarding business confidentiality, and analyzing industry and firm level economic data and
evidence, determining fines, penalties, consent orders/decrees, and alternative approaches towards case resolution. To
this extent, the Commission would implement a program of short visits and staff internship programs in collaboration
with major competition authorities, i.e., the United States, Canada, Europe, Mexico or Peru.
Public Information and Dissemination Strategy.  The Government would organize a series of public
information-education seminars, workshops, and conferences for the general public, leading government authorities,
representatives of the main business associations, representatives of the main consumer associations, and leading legal-
economic professional communities in the capital and major regional centers. An informed and healthy public debate
must be fostered to address critical issues in the enforcement of these provisions. An assessment must also be made as to
current views are and what scope there may be to foster competition culture among business people, by providing
support to such communities to develop publications, and specialized forums. These activities would aim at generating a
consensus around best practices on the aspects of competition law-policy.



Page 34
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                         Project Appraisal Document
The program would also involve a strong emphasis on the creation of competition culture and ensuring
voluntary compliance with the principles of competition; incorporation of competition law-policy issues in academic
curricula, including at university level, with particular emphasis in managerial, financial, economic and legal career
streams; internalization of competition principles in business policies, strategies, structures, operations and culture;
effective advocacy role by competition authorities, underpinned by sustained credibility of both policy and implementing
institutions.
Corporate Competition Policy Program. The Government would design and execute a corporate program as
part of the efforts to ensure voluntary alignment of business activities to the law. The Program must recognize that most
businesses do seek to comply with competition policy and that they may benefit by implementing internal mechanisms
designed to assist them to remain within such policy.
Implementation
The PRONACOM Management Unit's Competition Policy Component Leader would be responsible for
implementation of this component with the support of the following technical assistance program:
Actividades Especificas                     Cost                 Periodo Ejecuci6n
Apoyo a la fase de diseflo y discusi6n del proyecto de ley de    US$ 50,000    6-8 meses fmanciado bajo el
competencia                                                             mecanismo de reembolso retroactivo
Desarrollo de legislaci6n y reglamentos de implementacion,   US$ 150,000   4 meses a partir del establecimiento de
incluyendo guias metodol6gicas y normas de organizaci6n y               la oficina
funcionamiento intemo de la oficina de competencia
Adiestramiento/capacitaci6n del personal de la oficina de   US$ 100,000   durante los dos primeros affos del
competencia para seleccionar y resolver casos (visitas a                programa
oficinas de competencia y visitas de expertos)
Contrataci6n de un experto-residente que asesore en las labores   US$. 100,000   12 meses. 6 meses en el primer afio, 6
de  fortalecimiento  institucional,  y  de  desarrollo  e               meses en el segundo affo.
implementaci6n de la agenda de trabajo
Estudios aplicados en sectores fundamentales de la economia   US$ 100,000   durante los dos primeros affos del
(i.e., transporte, infraestructura, agricultura, servicios) con         programa
miras a desarrollar una agenda de trabajo y de manejo de
prioridades
Informaci6n y diseminaci6n al puiblico, gremios empresariales   US$ 100,000   durante los dos primeros aflos del
y centros de formaci6n academica                                        prograrna
Financiamiento para la adquisici6n de equipos de oficina,   US$ 200,000   durante el periodo de cuatro afios del
infromatica, libros y materiales de referencia, e instalaci6n y         programa
operaci6n de sistemas de internet
Financiamiento de los costos operativos de la oficina de   US$ N/A      durante el periodo de cuatro affos del
competencia (i.e., salarios, oficinas y servicios) sobre una base       programa
decreciente en un periodo de cuatro aflos



Page 35
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
Appendix 1
Competition Law: Content Summary
Objectives and Scope
* Objective. The draft is conceived with the narrow objective of fostering economic efficiency and consumer welfare
through the protection of competition against anticompetitive business practices, and the reduction of government
constraints to new entry of firms.
* Structure. The draft is structured with substantive provisions as well as procedural ones. The areas covered include:
horizontal and vertical anticompetitive practices between competitors and non-competitors, abuse of dominant
position, merger and acquisitions, and competition advocacy to deal with govenrment measures affecting
competition.
* Coverage. The draft law applies to all public or private, national or foreign persons, firms and corporations
performing economic activities, with respect to all conduct, agreements, acts or transactions relating to the
production and marketing of goods and services. Territorially, the draft law applies to both practices effectively
performed in the national territory and practices performed abroad but with effects on the Guatemalan markets. It
has provisions granting primacy of the competition law over other laws, regulations, or administrative measures as
long as they collide with or oppose its goals and scope.
* Enforcement. The draft law also provides for enforcement mechanisms and procedural provisions dealing with the
powers and standards of the envisioned Competition Commission for the investigation, adjudication and sanction of
cases.
Anticompetitive Practices
* Horizontal and Vertical Anticompetitive Restraints. The draft law prohibits two types of agreements and practices:
(i) Horizontal or collusive agreements between competitors such as price-fixing, market allocation, bid-rigging,
collective exclusion and foreclosure of competition; and (ii) Vertical agreements among firms not belonging to the
same business chain such as exclusive dealings, resale price maintenance, and territorial allocation.
* Abuse of Dominant Position. The draft law proposes a prohibition of abusive behavior shown in practices tending to
drive competitors out of the market, obstruct their market access or establish exclusive privileges in favor of
particular agents. Examples of such behavior include such as predatory pricing, tied-in arrangements, use of
essential facilities, and exclusive dealings.
* Mergers and Acquisitions. The draft law treats agreements relating to ownership, integration and other ways of
controlling the entrepreneurial activities of competitors, at the center of which are mergers, acquisitions and joint
ventures under an abuse of dominance standard. It provides for an ex-post review if as a transaction restricts
competition or creates dominant firms able to reduce, impair or prevent competition.
Enforcement Mechanisms and Procedures
Government Agency Responsible. The draft envisions the creation of a Competition Commission, headquartered in
Guatemala City, with the possibility of having regional offices if necessary. The Commission, modeled after most
international pairs such as the US Federal Trade Commission, Canada's Competition Bureau, or Mexico's Federal Trade
Commission, is conceived as an authority independent of Government charged with exclusive law enforcement powers.
This way the draft seeks to isolate the Commission from political or budgetary interference by interest groups. The
annual budget is prepared and submitted to Congress independently by the Commission.
Organization. The Commission, as drafted, is envisioned as a small office with high technical capacity. It would have
an adjudicative decision-making body composed by three commissioners, one of them the president, all appointed for a
four-year term by the President. The president would represent the institution and provide leadership for education and
procompetition reforms. An independent Technical Secretary, also appointed by the President for four years, charged
with case investigations and policy analyses would support the Commission.
Transparency. The draft ensures transparent procedures for selection of officials to deliver services, including clauses for
confidentiality, conflict of interest, long-term commitment, independence, expertise and ethics.



Page 36
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Check and Balances. The draft/model incorporates a system of check and balances that provides for both the right of
request before the Commission and before the judiciary the review of decisions, and access to information on economic
or legal interpretation of the law according to contencioso-administrativo rules and procedures.
Accountability. The draft law requires the Commission to publish an annual report on policy, enforcement and budget
expenditures, and submit it to Congress for review.
Enforcement Powers: The envisioned Commission has two enforcement powers: investigation and adjudication of
anticompetitive practices. A technical unit headed by a Director following procedural rules set out in the draft law
conducts investigations. The Secretary's findings and draft decisions are submitted to the Commissioners for fnal
adjudication. In addition, the Commission would have regulatory powers that include the authority to issue guidelines,
public notice, individual advice and other regulations explaining the enforcement policy.
Competition Advocacy: The Commission would be also entitled to give advisory opinions on other government
agencies' actions, bids and regulatory frameworks for the privatization of public enterprises, and in general any law,
regulation or administrative act that may impact competition.
Administrative Procedures. The draft law sets forth administrative procedures for conducting investigations.
Investigations might be initiated at the Commission's own initiative or at a private party's request. It also sets a
sequential time frame for proceedings, including hearings, evidence gathering and fnal rulings, including instruments to
address issues such as definition of relevant product market, assessing barriers to entry, gauging exercise of market
power, evaluation of efficiencies and consumer welfare. Furthermore, the draft law allows for supplement reliance on
laws on civil procedure.
Confidentiality. The draft law ensures that the Commission through the opening of confidential files of restricted access
safeguards commercially sensitive information.
Decisions. The draft law foresees several case resolution alternatives. If the Commission's ruling finds that the
investigated practice violates the law, it may order the nullification of the transaction; order the defendant to cease the
practice or impose specific conditions upon its continuation; request the elimination of the anticompetitive effects arising
from the practice, or impose sanctions. The draft law also allows the Commission to alternatively issue consent
agreements (negotiated non-binding settlements) by which fmns commit themselves to cease specific practices and adopt
competitive behavior.
Penalties. Under the draft law, violations do not cause the imposition of criminal penalties. Rather the draft law
empowers the Commission to impose only administrative sanctions in the form of orders and meaningful fines. In
determining fines, the draft grants broad discretion. Fines vary depending on the type of infringement, the degree of
restriction on competition, the size of the market affected, the market shares held by the offenders and the impact of the
anticompetitive practice on the relevant market. The Commission may impose fines ranging from ten percent (10%) to
fifteen percent (15%) of either the violating firm's annual sales or its assets during the previous fiscal year, whichever is
greater. It may also impose meaningful fines on those offenders who do not comply with the decisions.
Private Actions. Under the draft law, an interested party that considers it has been affected by an anticompetitive
practice may sue violators for compensatory and punitive damages. This remedy is an independent action brought before
civil courts according to tort law. Admission of this action is dependent on a prior and favorable final decision issued by
the Commission. The amount of damages is measure by the complaining party and may be adjusted by the courts.



Page 37
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
2.2 Accelerating Foreign Investment
Foreign Investment. Best practice indicates that an investment promotion agency is particularly important for
small countries where domestic markets too small to be unable to attract significant foreign investment eg .Singapore
(EDB), Ireland (IDA) and Costa Rica (CINDE). In general, even the static (employment, foreign exchange) benefits that
result from investment promotion activities have been shown to exceed the typical costs of promotion. An investment
promotion programn that provides a package of fiscal and non-fiscal support services to foreign investors also leads to
better returns for a country than a reliance on long tax holidays alone. The existing investment promotion function in
Guatemala is performed within the Ministry of Economy and is known as PROGUAT. Its existing structure, limited
resources and absence of national investment promotion strategy have made it difficult to conduct an effective promotion
function.
Objective
A new FDI promotion council would be created under the Project that was more flexible than PROGUAT,
autonomous and of an appropriate size to carry out its mandate with efficiency while avoiding becoming unnecessarily
large or bureaucratic. It would have the legal status of a Presidential Commission to be appointed by the President of the
Republic. Once consolidated after three to four years, it could evolve toward a non-profit organization co-owned and
managed by the private and public sectors.
Activities
According to best practice, the council would conduct an appropriate mix of activities in the following four
areas:
(i) Image-building -- promotional activities with the objective of changing the image of a country to promote it
as a place to invest;
(ii) Investment Generation - firm specific research to identify potential investors followed by person to person
promotion efforts with decision makers;
(iii) Investor Servicing - pre- and post-investment services critical to expediting the investment process and
keeping existing investors happy in order to retain investment and encourage expansion. (Nearly half of
yearly FDI flows come from existing investors); and
(iv) Policy Advocacy - to provide feedback from private investors and make recommendations to the relevant
decision-makers such as departmental agencies (eg. Ventanilla Unica and ministries represented in the
Board of Directors) as to further improvements in the climate for investment.
Implementation
Invest in Guatemala would report to a Commisioner and Board of Directors. The PRONACOM Management
Unit's FDI Promotion Component Leader would be responsible for implementation of this component under the Board's
direction.
Invest in Guatemala would be implemented according to the following plan:
Phase              Acttvities                      Explanation
Phase 1. Creation of  Presidential Decree          Establishes legal framework for agency
the Agency
Month_16 _1_
President appoints Commissioner
President appoints private sector    Appointed from list of 10 candidates submitted by CACIF
(2) members of the board
Procurement of long-term advisor  World Bank to develop TOR and drive procurement
process
General Manager is recruited   Board and Commissioner establishes terms of reference
for recruitment of GM and supervise recruitment process
Recruitment of external auditor  Board approves
Auditor develops audit procedures  Board approves
and manual



Page 38
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
General Manager recruits staff  Commissioner supervises process  -
Develop business plan, operating   Developed by senior management and approved by Board
procedures and manual
Month 3 - 6        Training for:                   Expert trainers and international consultant
Development and        1. Investor servicing       Training includes internal capacity development by
Implementation of      2. Image-building           participating in the development of systems and materials
Promotional            3. Investor targeting
Capacity               4. Promotional materials
_____________   5. Fairs and missions
Month 3 - 9        Development of promotional      Promotional stand, country brochure, sector brochures,
materials                      video/CD Rom, development of advertisements
Ongoing            Establishment of ad hoc working   To address specific topics such as training needs, investor
groups                         welcoming, trade fair preparation
Month 3 - 6        Development of Management           1. Investor-tracking
Information Systems                2. Contact management
3. Investor information delivery
4. Target company database
Month 3 - 8        Competitive positioning and     Targets per sector, subsector with greatest promotional
Ongoing            strategy studies                and clustering potential
Targets per sector to be included in business plan
(quantitative targets and timeframe)
Month 6 - 8        Development of investor databases  Firm level targeting and promotional strategy
Month 6 onward     Investor servicing/ aftercare   Ongoing survey
Policy feedback and recommendations
Phase II           Establish two foreign offices   One-on-one presentations to target companies to generate
Initiate proactive                                 site visits
promotion phase
Month 13
Month 8 (start     Provision of full investor services  Investor information
provision)                                         Briefngs and debriefings
Investor site visits
Research and investigation on behalf of investors
Investor facilitation
Investor aftercare
Month 9 (start)     Working agreements with Foreign  To coordinate networking and promotion activities abroad
Affairs
Month 7            Participation in fairs and shows  In line with strategic objectives in target sectors and
regions
Evaluation         Independent extemal evaluation of  Strategic planning as a result of the evaluation process to
Month 35            agency performance in compliance  refine business strategy for future
with objectives and goals
Phase III          Establishment of third promoter    Expand promotional capacity in areas with greatest
Expand external                                    success
promotion
Month 37
Month 37 onwards    Long term institutional strategy  Determine long term institutional structure and funding
I and sustainability
The Minister of Economy, as Executive Board Member, and PRONACOM will have special roles to play in
monitoring and evaluating the project in the first four years. The General Manager of Invest in Guatemala will be
responsible for providing quarterly reports and an Annual Report for the Board of Directors. The Minister of Economy
will also play a key role in overseeing the coordination between Invest in Guatemala and Ventanilla Unica.
Investment Facilitation. Most governments around the world have established facilitating agencies or "one stop
shops" that aim to reduce the difficulties experienced by investors in obtaining approvals from the various agencies and
departments. The models for investment approval range from no coordination - where investors are expected to
approach each relevant government department or agency separately - to exclusive 'one-stop-shops' with total authority
to grant all approvals, permits and licenses. More common is the "single window" (ventanilla unica) form of the one-



Page 39
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
stop-shop model where ministries allocate a person to the one-stop-shop but retain control and authority. This has been
more successful, particularly where the "ventanilla unica" is constituted by "account executives" who are responsible
for following through with each investor and have considerable authority to facilitate approvals by relevant government
departments.
Guatemala currently has a Ventanilla Unica located in the Ministry of the Economy, with budget for 6 staff
members (3 of which are vacant, due to recent government changes). Over the past four years there have been significant
improvements in the number of steps required to register a company (from 24 to 8 steps, reducing time from up to two
years in some cases to a maximum of 3-4 months). Despite these considerable improvements, a number of bottlenecks
continue to plague the process for investors. These have been identified both in terms of cross-country benchmarks as
well as through the survey of over 75 investors and officials interviewed in Guatemala. The bottlenecks include
consularisation of documents, registration of immovable property/land, work permits and various special regime
approvals.
Objective
The Project proposes a process to streamline administrative and procedural barriers to improve the investment
climate. The project will also upgrade the skills of the staff of the Ventanilla Unica and other relevant agencies in line
with international best practice in investor servicing.
Main Sub-omponents and Implementation
Phase           Activities                       Explanation and expected outputs
Phase I --      Analysis                         Preparation work is done, which described the administrative
completed                                        processes for approval of investments and identified the major
bottlenecks.
Phase II:       Evaluate and prepare sponsors for    Find solutions and targets; identification of sponsors for change;
change                           and gain committment
Month I to 2    Procurement of Phase II          This includes: (i)- process consultants; and (ii)- databases and
consultants                     systems consultants.
Month 2 to 4    Contract consultants to design and    The international consultants will report on progress every three
implement process of change in all   months. A final presentation will be a detailed study of the
systems                          improvements and impact, using measurement instruments
developed during phase II including regional and international
benchmarks.
The information consultants will assess the systems aspects and
make recommendations for a comprehensive information system
based on best practice.
Month 1-6       Recruit 3 senior level staff "account  Upgrade investor servicing skills.
executives" and train all staff and    Training of local counterpart consultants to ensure such capacity
delegates from ministries.       is built for future changes.
Month 3         Establish multi-rninistry task team,   The leadership of Invest in Guatemala (Commissioner and the
with the leadership of Invest in  Board of Directors) is key in order to push the implementation of
Guatemala.                       changes.
Month 3-6      Identify and prepare the sponsors of  Develop pilot groups involved in identified bottleneck areas
the change (including individual  which will demonstrate level of commitment to change and
who is overall manager/champion),  implementation.
local counterparts and relevant
agencies.
Month 5-9       Procure information systems      Design information system in accordance with expert
consultants                     recommendations and pilot round tables.
Month 6-9       A study that evaluates the potential   The implementation plan will will examine the major themes and
for change and recommends next    barriers that are preventing change, recommend methods to
steps.                           address these and develop indicators to evaluate impact.
Phase III:      Design strategy and action plan for   The principal result will be the changes and simplification to the
Month 9         change program.                  existing procedures. Identify goals and benchmarks for each step
_______________________________  according to best practice in the region and interviews with



Page 40
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
Phase          Activities                        Explanation and expected outputs
government agencies.
Month 10-36    Implement and monitor the changes  The following tools will be used to assist in the change:
institutionalize the use of account executives, roundtables
and incognito inspections
provide training for managers and employers on how to
service customers effectively
establish key performance indicators and weights for
comparison of performance
recommend financial and non-financial incentive
mechanisms for staff
lift the level of responsibility by using various tools such as
suggestion boxes and newsletters
create competition between agencies through use of
I________________________________  published comparative times and costs for license applications
Month 9-18     Implement the new information     Implementation of the information system should complement
system and train staff           and enhance the new changes in procedures.
The Ventanilla Unica would report to Pronacom, the Minister of Economy, and Invest in Guatemala. Reports
will be made quarterly to the Minister of the Economy. The Ventanilla Unica will need to work closely with Invest in
Guatemala and the other relevant ministries to ensure coordination at the technical level and to benefit from the
leadership of the Board of Directors of Invest in Guatemala. Monitoring indicators specification will be a key output of
Phase 2, which will drive the implementation phase (3) and specify targets for the entire component. These indicators
need to be determined based on two factors: (i) regional best practice as a target; and (ii) the best possible outcome
given Guatemala's specific regulatory context.  Phase I will be used as a base for a target of 30% reduction in
processing time by 2002 (mid-term review) and by 50% by project completion.
To improve Guatemala's market position for exported goods (including related production of inputs for such
exports), the Project would also provide for analyses of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework of this and other
modes of transport in order to identify barriers to entry and, if needed, regulatory and institutional changes to reduce the
cost and time of transport of exported goods. In the area of maritime transport, this is expected to involve developing a
legal framework for maritime commerce, supporting institutional development of a national maritime administration and
technical assistance to help shippers better understand the freight markets, consolidate their shipments and improve self-
security measures for their freight shipments. In the area of the inland supply chain, the Project would foster strategic
recommendations for addressing constraints at firm, government and cluster level and the establishment of key
performance indicators for monitoring and evaluation, as well as technical assistance to be provided for regulatory
reforms, institutional and strategy development as determined from these recommendations.



Page 41
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
2.3 Developing In-Firm SkiOls Training and Information Markets
Objectives
This component would address the need for increasing the demand and supply of enterprise training in
Guatemala through greater private sector participation. When training is provided or sponsored by employers, the issue
of matching training supply and demand does not arise. Firms train only for needed skills. In most countries, the largest
share of training is provided by employers during employment, either in-house or from external training institutions,
equipment suppliers and buyers, industry groups, and joint-venture partners. Given the limited reach of the public
training institution, INTECAP, to meeting the training needs of small enterprises and firms in the interior, it is clear that
the private sector will have to take on greater responsibilities for meeting its growing skill requirements.
With changes designed to increase private sector "ownership" of training systems, create an impartial system of
accreditation of training institutions, and establish proper guidelines regarding the administration and control of the
payroll levy grant, it is anticipated that within a timeframe of three years, a larger number of private training institutions
will develop and a greater number of enterprises will provide formal training to their employees. Small enterprises that
are currently under-served will have greater access to training providers and training resources through better
administration of the levy-grant and through the matching-grant scheme. Micro enterprises which lack basic training in
simple administrative tasks will be better served under the micro net program. Better dissemination of information to
enterprises on the availability of training will increase the demand for training.
The demand for and investment in in- firm training would be further enhanced under the Project by expanding
the total resources available to formal sector businesses. In addition to reforming the levy system, the Competitiveness
Learning and Innovation Program (CLIP) will help motivate, on a 50-50 sharing basis with participating private firms,
producer associations and clusters increased individual investments in in-firm staff training as part of broader firm efforts
to increase their international competitiveness.
Main sub-components
Assess and adjust as needed the levy-grant system. The demand and supply analyses indicate a low level of
ownership of the training system in Guatemala. There is low use of services provided through the levy and a low level
of knowledge of the services that are provided. There is also some evidence to indicate a low level of confidence
amongst enterprises in the public training facility. To increase private sector participation, under the Project, the
Government would analyze the current framework and design and implement a plan acceptable to the Bank to improve
the training levy application and administration, including via the possible creation of a national training council to (a)
provide policy direction aimed to increase private participation in industry training and oversee management of the levy-
grant system; (2) bring about a substantial simplification in the regulations, procedures and administration required for
firms to use the levy-grant funds and an increase in its operational efficiency. The reforms of the payroll levy systems
would be supported by financing in the first year of an estimated $300,000 from the World Bank loan, diminishing by
$100,000 in each successive year over a three-year period to total $600,000..
Expand information and outreach to helpfirms increase their capacity to invest in in-firm training. Information
about and access to in-firm training, including the payroll levy in Guatemala is poor. Enterprises need information in
order to be convinced to participate and invest in training programs and in order to be able to access programs. Under
the Project, (1) a strong information campaign would be undertaken targeted particularly to the smaller firms which
would (a) inform them of the benefits of in-firm training, (b) inform them of both the public and private sources of
training, (c) inform them of the process by which such training and funding can be accessed; and (2) a system of
extension services would be established and implemented which help individual firms to assess their in-firm training
needs, establish in-firm training policies and management facilities, and identify existing training provider options in
order to accelerate the absorptive capacity of firms to increase in-firm training investments.
The development, piloting and expansion of this training promotion and extension services to increase firm-level
absorptive capacity to invest in training would be financed $1,000,000 of the Bank loan over a three-year period. It
would cover the cost of promotion and consulting services to help introduce and design in-firm worker training systems.



Page 42
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Diversify and develop the sources of qualif ed training suppliers in the private sector. The supply of training in
Guatemala is relatively weak and lacks diversity, in no small measure due to monopoly control over the levy fund and
the apparent inaccessibility of the 80% rebate provision for most enterprises. There has been no significant entry of
private providers into the training market. Enterprises lack choice when seeking training, and are discouraged by the
double payment that would be involved in using providers other than INTECAP. Other mechanisms for industry
direction and leadership in training do not exist. There is limited capacity for industry needs in training to be expressed
at the policy level. If created, it is expected that the National Training Council would with INTECAP take steps to (1)
encourage firms now paying the training levy to use this obligation as a credit against approved in-firm training
programs, and (2) substantially broaden the use of private providers eligible to supply in-firm skills training under levy-
grant funding by accrediting qualified private sector training providers.
Upgrading the national statistics system.  Under the Project, the system  would undergo regulatory
improvements by designing and taking promotional activities to encourage adoption of a National Statistical System
Law, followed by a program to prepare specific regulations to implement the Law. Ifthe draft law is enacted, the
existing National Statistics Institute will be redesigned as a National Statistics Superintendency. Work under the Project
would include preparation of a restructuring plan, with detailed organization, functions, and working statistical
methodologies, and a campaign to communicate to stakeholders and the public such changes. It would also include the
contracting of technical advisors in the fields of census and surveys, economic statistical systems, and demographic and
social studies to prepare sound technical organizational units and starting working programs for the Superintendency. It
would further include facilities upgrading, equipment and computer systems modernization and staff training of
approximately 40 staff who will manage and operate the Superintendency.
Implementation
The PRONACOM Management Unit's Training Component Leader would be responsible for implementation
of this component. The component will be accomplished over a three year period. It benefits from one year of project
preparation that identified the main constraints to private sector training and recommended policy measures required to
increase training in firms. Execution milestones (I) development of guidelines regarding the administration and control
of the payroll levy grant system, and (2) development of a system of accreditation of training providers. Total cost of the
component is $1.6 million, to be spent in technical support and in-firm training promotion and extension services
respectively, and on revisions to the payroll training levy system. These costs cover equipment costs for support
facilities and technical upgrades, staff and consultant fees, travel costs and technical assistance.



Page 43
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
2.4 Upgrading Firm Process and Product Quality
Implementation of effective quality principles and complementary standards and conformity assessment
practices are integral elements of today's global economy. Too many Guatemalan enterprises and government agencies
do not fully appreciate the role of quality in this economy or its markets. Quality is associated with additional costs
rather than less waste, fewer "seconds", and increased profits. A lack of demand for improved quality within domestic
markets is adversely affecting the overall competitiveness of Guatemalan suppliers. The few product certification
programs which exist have high transactional costs and in many sectors insufficient credibility to enhance Guatemala's
reputation as a producer of quality goods and services.
Objectives
This component would facilitate implementation and assure sustainability of a comprehensive National Quality
System (NQS) fully conformning to international criteria and adoption of effective quality practices by both the private
and public sectors. The stature of the NQS and Guatemala's enhanced reputation for quality will strengthen its position
in negotiating trade pacts and mutual recognition agreements, and the application of quality practices would make
Guatemalan goods more competitive in global markets while improving profit margins of enterprises adopting these
practices. The component addresses the need for significant improvements in quality consciousness to assure sufficient
demand for standards and conformity assessment services to sustain the NQS and institutions being established through
Swedish, Taiwan, German, and UNIDO grants. An outreach program would assist 2500 small enterprises to improve
their operations. More than 50,000 student class hours of general quality training would be provided. It is noteworthy
that this component does not address supply-side institution building. That is being accomplished through the bilateral
grants. As this component focuses almost entirely on demand-side quality initiatives, it is not paced by passage of
legislation establishing supply-side institutions or the framework within which they will operate.
Main Sub-components
Training is sorely needed throughout Guatemala in basic and advanced quality practices. A major
portion of the component addresses these needs at various levels. Assistance provided under the Project would train
small businesses and selected government entities in quality assurance practices, with special outreach to smaller
businesses using proven practices tailored to their particular needs. A Standards and Conformity Information Center
would be established, not only to comply with WTO obligations, but also to provide a wide range of export-oriented
services to enterprises and government entities. Resources of the information center would be accessible through
MicroNet. A cohesive program will be developed for certification of non-traditional activities to enhance their credibility
and international competitiveness, including (i) sustainable management practices for tropical woods used in exports
under ISO 14000 environmental management systems, (ii) sustainable tourism, and (iii) social assessments against
standards for child labor and factory work conditions, particularly in maquila export industries. Awareness and
promotion of quality and opportunities afforded by the project would be accomplished by revitalizing the Guatemalan
Organization for Total Quality and enabling it to carry the quality message through the country.
Technical assistance would be provided to enable Guatemala to implement its recently defined modern,
coordinated, outward-focussed national quality system. This assistance complements Swedish, Taiwan, German and
UNIDO grants, which focus on institutional elements within the NQS. Study missions would enable government and
industry leaders to observe best practices of some very successful NQSs so the most appropriate practices can be
incorporated in Guatemala's system, including incentives to encourage adoption of effective quality practices within the
public and private sectors. Government agencies, which have major stakes in the NQS, would have opportunities to
observe how counterparts in other countries use public and private standards and conformity assessment resources to
achieve their statutory objectives. Government agencies would be allocated funds for training and technical assistance to
upgrade their conformity assessment operations particularly to implement effective quality practices and accredit
laboratories and certification programs.  Private enterprises can access the project's Competitive Learning and
Innovation Program matching-grant fund for these purposes.
The potential benefits of these initiatives would only be realized if the owners and chief executives of
Guatemalan enterprises recognize the link between quality and competitiveness; are motivated to take action within their
operations, and provide incentives and preferences to suppliers that implement effective quality practices. Because



Page 44
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala is lagging in all aspects of standards, conformity assessment, and quality-related training and services, it is
essential that government incentives and/or preferences be introduced to get the attention of the private sector and "jump
start" Guatemala's pursuit of quality. It is also important for the Government to demonstrate it is really committed to
quality by implementing quality management systems within its own agencies.
Implementation
The PRONACOM Management Unit's senior Quality Coordinator would be responsible for implementation of
this component over a three-year period. The total cost of the Quality Component is $2.0 million. More than 75 percent
will be invested in training, study tours, and information dissemination. Twenty four percent is allocated for technical
consultancy, primarily by foreign experts. Expenditures within Guatemala will exceed 67 percent for a range of services
including stipends to Guatemalan trainers while they are being trained; salaries to field agents working with small
enterprises and tuition subsidies for these enterprises; and public relations services and expenses associated with
promotion of quality awareness. Less than $9,000 will be expended for computer equipment associated with databases
for the information center, and standard reference materials to support laboratory accreditation. Based on experience on
similar projects it is anticipated that more than 60 percent of the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program
matching-grant fund may be utilized by private enterprises to implement quality-related initiatives.
The overarching objective of nearly every subcomponent is to develop demand for quality services to assure
the sustainability of the institutions providing these services. Each training subcomponent is based on training trainers
so that Guatemalan enterprises and government agencies can utilize qualified domestic trainers rather than depend on
itinerant consultants and trainers or sending staffto other countries for training. Seed money is provided not only to train
trainers, but to acquire classroom-proven curricula and course material. Operational training costs including instructors'
fees will be met through conventional tuition fees. Key factors in assuring sustainability are the quality awareness and
promotion campaign and a system of preferences and incentives for suppliers to improve quality. The Standards and
Conformity Assessment Information Center should develop a reliable revenue stream by selling very useful information
and services. However, the center will also fulfill Guatemala's obligations under the WTO Agreement and serve as the
nation's "Enquiry Point." In this role it must compile, maintain, and distribute lists of Guatemala's mandatory standards
and regulations. The center will also be called upon to assist ministries and sectors in a variety of ways particularly to
prepare for trade negotiations. Together, these will increase demand for this training and other quality services. The
special initiative to small enterprises should be self-supporting after three years if it follows the path developed in Brazil
where small enterprises form self-managed regional chapters within a larger national organization. There will be
occasions, however, where special projects may be beyond the resources of individual chapters or the national
organization.



Page 45
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
2.5 Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program
The Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program (CLIP) would help in immediate terms Guatemalan
frms to substantially boost growth, employment and income, particularly through highly beneficial export-oriented
investments that increase integration with the global economy. The CLIP would provide non-reimbursable co-financing
from the proceeds of the Bank's loan to help implement investments in pre-competitive entrepreneurial learning and
innovation programs---mainly at the firm level and particularly by small firms and microbusinesses. The CLIP has a
strong economic rationale as a public policy instrument for co-investment in learning, much the same as the country's
formal education system, and is patterned after successful programs commonly found in OECD countries, advanced East
Asian countries, and many other client-countries of the World Bank. A CLIP is often preferred to purely public and
centralized support, as it represents a public-private sector partnership in which resource allocation and service
contracting is made at the market level on a demand-driven basis without targeting. The program is expected to have
strong economic benefits over about 3 years in incremental exports, workers' income and firm profits, and fiscal
benefits from corporate taxes, payroll taxes and domestic VAT which are likely to substantially exceed the cost to the
Government of the Program.
CLIP Policies and Operations
Temporary support and exit policy. The Program is deliberately a temporary effort to reduce market failures.
Consequently, (a) funding is provided only once to a frm (though several grants may be provided to implement one
Competitiveness Plan) to help overcome such failures and facilitate market development of international business
support services, and (b) the Program itself would terminate after its 3-year implementation period. Experience
elsewhere shows that, once the Program has introduced firms to the benefits of the activities being supported, they will
recognize their full value and the asymmetry of information and under-valuation of the benefits of international business
support services will be substantially alleviated;
CLIP Core Services. The Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program would provide technical and
financial assistance mainly to smaller private sector companies and to micro-business enterprises, with the objective of
assisting them to improve their international competitiveness and integration with the global economy. To facilitate the
rapid development of this market place, the CLIP would use a combination of four interventions:
e  active promotion to the private sector of the benefits of using business development services to build
competitiveness;
- continuous technical assistance, free to individual firms, on how to (i) develop a competitiveness plan, (ii)
decide on service usage and apply to Window I or 2; (ii) select service providers; and (iii) implement the
plan and use the results;
* Window I grantflnancingfor enterprises, associations and clusters to support through matching grants the
business development activities of small and medium-sized firms, funded by US$5 million from the
proposed World Bank loan to the Government to co-finance activities and projects that would improve the
competitiveness of their operations; and
*  Window 2 grant financingfor low-income microbusinesses to support through a voucher system the use of
development services by micro-enterprises, funded by US$1 million from the proposed Bank loan to co-
finance the cost of basic business development services.
Window 1 for small firms, associations and clusters
Objectives. Window I (WI) would offer grant support and related services to about 300 firms over about a two-year
commitment period. These services would be in respect of client-designed projects that would tend to require from 3-12
months to complete; as a result, the whole program would be completed within about three years. Eligible firms would
be those in the industrial, agro-industrial, agricultural and services sector. The goals of WI would be:
* to facilitate the preparation of firms' business development plans, through the provision of free technical
assistance in that process



Page 46
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
*  to co-finance 50% the execution of these business plans through the offer of non-repayable matching grants,
reimbursable to WI clients for eligible expenditures
*  to develop the private sector support infrastructure, by offering similar services to sector associations, cruster
committees and commercial service providers.
Coverage. A fund of US$5 million for WI would meet the anticipated demand, based on an assumed average grant
size of US$ 17,000 per firm, of an estimated 300 productive firms in the manufacturing, agro-industry and services
sectors and would be expected to be committed and disbursed over a period of three years. Underpinning this average
would be a client segment with a larger average grant size (perhaps as much as US$ 30.000) for the larger and more
organized firms, with a smaller grant size (less than US$ 10.000) for less developed firms. The actual usage of the total
amount should, however, be determined only on the basis of actual demand; there would be no pre-allocation or system
of reservation of funds for any particular sector or activity type.
Level of externalflnancial support offered per transaction  The level of public sector support has usually been
set at 50% of the total cost of each frm's Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Plan. There are several reasons
justifying this approach:
*  to help motivate frms to increase competitiveness in the face of significant barriers perceived particularly by
inexperienced firms as imperfections in the business environment and high risks of entering new markets (domestic
or intemational);
  to reflect the fact that the benefits of such plans tend to have both privately appropriated benefits and
externalities of benefit to others in society;
-  to ensure significant contributions by fims to the costs of such plans in order to
-  reduce the likelihood of irrelevant or low-value services being procured, which may otherwise result from providing
free services which are not critically evaluated by the fim
*  increase commitment of firms to the successful execution of projects, and
-  reduce the need for and cost of detailed oversight of the use of public funds in the course of plan implementation
and utilize instead an er-post assessment of performance focused on outcomes.
Basic firm eligibiliy and co-investment requirement Eligibility would require that a firm is willing to invest at
least 50% of the firm's own resources to cover the costs of a well-defined and time-bound agreed Competitiveness
Learning and Innovation Plan designed to increase the international competitiveness of existing products, or develop new
products or new markets. In this sense, participation in the Program is self-selecting, ensuring a firm's commitment to
good implementation and prompting invest of its own resources in entrepreneurial learning.'
Firm size and Income level. Firms accessing WI of the Program would be limited to small and medium-scale,
which would be assured by virtue of the requirements that (a) a total of US$50,000 would be the maximum available to
any single firm for all activities---experience shows, however, that the average co-investment amount per firm is not
likely to exceed an average of about $1 5,000-20,000, and (b) only firms with fewer than a total of 50 employees would
be eligible.
Eligible pre-competitive activities. Activities eligible for financing under Wl are primarily professional service fees
for advice, information, light product and production process adaptation, study tours, product quality and environmental
certification, and training. Salaries, other recurrent costs (such as office rental or advertising) and capital goods, among
others, are not eligible.
Operating Sequence- Window I would operate basically according to the following II steps:
5 Program eligibility would not distinguish between domestic and international market orientation. For export-oriented
activities, such grants are consistent with the WTO framework and are non-actionable subsidies as defned in Article 8 of
the Agreement on Subsidies and Countervailing Measures. They are non-actionable because they are not specific, as
provided in Art. 8, para. I(a): specificity under the WTO rules typically involves a targeting of geographic regions or
economic sectors, and such targeting will be expressly disallowed under the Program's Operational Manual. Even if a
charge of specificity were made, the activities to be fnanced by the Program would fall under the exceptions provided
for in Art. 8 para. 2, principally the exception for research activities carried out on a contract basis for industrial research
and for pre-competitive development activity. In appropriate cases, the exception for adaptation of existing facilities to
new environmental requirements could also be applicable.



Page 47
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
(1)   the Program would be widely promoted throughout its life until all funds are fully committed.
(2) interested clients (including manufacturing and processing firms and groups of firmns, commercial service
providers and private sector organizations) would prepare proposals for grant assistance, with support and
advice from the Contractor
(3)   these proposals would be validated by the contractor for conformity with a framework of rules approved by
the Government and PRONAM in advance
(4)    a letter of commitment (Grant Agreement) would be signed by the Contractor with the client, once the project
is confirmned as being compliant with the rules governing the program
(5)   the client would then execute the project and would be entitled to claim reimbursement of 50% of eligible
expenditures on presentation of a claim
(6)    a claim for reimbursement would consist of concrete evidence of the completion of the activity in question (or,
in many cases, a pre-defined stage of such an activity), together with supporting documentation
(7)   the Contractor would validate the completion evidence and documentation and would reimburse the Client by
electronic transfer to the client's bank account
(8)    all disbursements made by the Contractor would be subject to independent audit by a private audit firm
(9)   the disbursement would be made from an imprest account (the Grant Account), which would be opened by the
Ministiy with the Contractor as sole signatory
(10)   a deposit would be placed in the Grant Account by the Government, amounting to the anticipated value of one
month's expected disbursements
(I1)   the Grant Account would be replenished when the value of disbursements would have reduced to 50% of its
initial value and the audit of those disbursement would take place immediately, so as to limit the extent of
disbursements pending audit to a value not normally greater than, say, half a month's average disbursements.
Typical outputs: trained human resources in strategic planning, product development, market standards and
regulations, and quality certification; new information access about overseas product demand & import regulations,
product design, quality and safety standards; packaging & labeling requirements; competitors and competitive position;
distribution & promotion strategy options, etc; specialist advice on production restructuring measures needed to meet
intemational design, cost and quality control requirements, secure patents, trademarks, licenses as needed and royalty
agreements; and new overseas business partnerships with potential buyers, foreign investors, suppliers, private
associations, and other business partners in more advanced markets.
Plan supervision and reimbursement Under WI, quarterly personal visits and monitoring reports of plan
implementation would be made by Program management, reimbursement (not upfront disbursement) of 50% of total
qualified expenses under the Plan, and certification of all expenditures by qualified independent auditors. PRONACOM,
with the help of qualified independent evaluators, will make a quarterly progress and an impact assessment of the
Program.
Performance Indicators. A preliminary vision of the benefits of WI the CLIP would include:
*   sustained increases in domestic and export performance by participating firms to an overall incremental value
of at least US$ 60 million computed from the three-year average performance of participating firms from the
year following entry to the Program
*   modernization of management systems by at least 20% of participating firms, for example, in terms of
obtaining and maintaining international quality certifications, strengthening of management structures,
undertaking significant, or planned management training programs
*   introduction of new technology or processes by at least 10% of participating firms, in terms of cost-
reductions, productivity improvement prograTns or process re-engineering
*   improvements in marketing tools such as packaging, promotional materials, adaptation of promotion using the
World Wide Web, development
*   enhancement of marketing organization and management, such as the appointment of new agents and
distributors, appointment of full-time marketing or export management teams of departments.



Page 48
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Window 2 for microbusinesses
Window 2 (W2) would offer voucher support to micro-enterprises over a three-year period totaling US$1 million.
The target group would be established micro-enterprises (employing less than five people) with potential for growth.
The goals of W2 would be:
*  to establish and manage a program of voucher support to the micro-enterprise sector in respect of basic business
development services
*  to offer service vouchers to about 10,000 micro-enterprises with an average value per enterprise of US$ 25
*  to motivate and pre-qualify at least 50 service suppliers to participate in the Program
*  to monitor the operation of the program against formal quality assurance objectives, policies and procedures
*  to conduct systematic audits of the transparency and professionalism  of all phases of the system, from
promotion through to service delivery, including the actual participation of beneficiaries as claimed by the
submission of the voucher.
Eligible Services. Entrepreneurs would receive a limited number of vouchers (five or six, but in any case, not more
than ten for all types of services) from the Program's centers. Different voucher types would be issued (with different
face values) for different types of eligible service. These services would comprise pre-qualified business development
services in:
*  business planning
*  product and process development
* management and technical training
i  marketing and sales
e  firm support services, such as market and technical information, human resources, finance and administration.
The vouchers would each have a fixed money value and could each be used only to contribute to the cost of one
eligible service type that would have been pre-qualified for participation in the Program. In order to maintain a control
over the allocation and utilization of overall program resources, the vouchers should also have a fixed period of validity
- of the order of six months. Requests for the replacement of expired vouchers should be honored until the last months
of the life of the Program.
The face value of the vouchers would be set lower than the lowest price available for the service type, usually so as
to require a contribution by the client of at least 20% of the price of the service. In the case of services priced at higher
levels, the proportion of the cost contributed by the client would be correspondingly higher. As a result, service suppliers
would be under pressure to keep the price of their services low. On the other hand, because they would have to
contribute part of the price in advance from their own resources, clients would be keen to seek the best quality offer
available. Experience indicates that the value of the vouchers as a proportion of the price ranges from 50% to 80%. In
either case, the contribution of the client is seen as sufficient to ensure commitment. Experience also suggests that it is
useful to include a provision in the design of such programs for a declining value of voucher for second and subsequent
applications by clients.
Pre-qualification of service suppliers. The focus in the identification and pre-qualification of service suppliers is to
establish a high level of dependability in the services to be supported by the program. Word-of-mouth referral by early
participants is a key factor in ensuring long-term success; as a result, early identification of quality services relevant to
the commercial development needs of the target firms (micro-businesses) is critical. In practice, such programs pre-
qualify a large number of alternative suppliers of services to the micro-enterprises, in order to ensure a minimum
technical competence in the delivery of the specific service. The process of pre-qualification should continue after the
initial phase, in order to encourage participation by a continuously growing number of service providers, thus
strengthening competition in the services sector and improving the quality of services available to micro-businesses. The
voucher program itself does not support the development of services by accredited suppliers, but such development
would nornally be eligible for support under a Matching Grant type of program, if one operates alongside the voucher
program.



Page 49
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Outreach. The numbers involved require the extensive use of intermediaries in reaching the target audience of the
program to the extent required by the overall objective of the window. These intermediaries would include NGOs, civic
groups, non-bank and bank credit programs aimed at the sector. However, the process of voucher issue would not be
delegated to third parties, in order to maintain a defensible level of consistency and quality assurance in the process.
Instead, a team of ten Guatemalan agents, hired by the management contractor, would be responsible for the issue of
vouchers to micro-entrepreneurs in Guatemala City and other areas of the country. The tasks of the agents would be to
(a) promote the voucher program to the micro-business community through intermediaries and information campaigns,
and (b) assess applicants for compliance with eligibility criteria and issue vouchers to them. Each agent would issue
vouchers to about 100 entrepreneurs each week
Operating Sequence Window 2 would involve the following basic sequence of operation:
(I)  the voucher opportunity would be widely promoted through NGOs, service suppliers and credit institutions
serving the micro-business sector throughout the life of the Program, until all funds are fully committed.
(2)   ten agents of the Program, all trained in the assessment of applications, would issue vouchers in accordance
with specific quality assurance procedures
(3)   two senior executives of the program would be responsible for supervising this team of agents and auditing
their performance
(4)   at least fifty service providers would be pre-qualified to participate in the Program, under a promotional
campaign conducted by the senior executives and would be subject to continuing audit by them throughout the
life of the Program
(5)   vouchers would be redeemable by the service providers on completion of the delivery of the service
(6)  the Contractor would validate the completion evidence and documentation and would reimburse the service
provider by electronic transfer to the client's bank account
(7)   all disbursements made by the Contractor would be subject to independent audit by a private audit firm
(8)  the disbursement would be made from an imprest account (the Voucher Account), which would be opened by
the Ministry with the Contractor as sole signatory
(9)   a deposit would be placed in the Voucher Account by the Govenment, amounting to the anticipated value of
one month's expected disbursements, based on a plan prepared by the Management Contractor
(10)  the Voucher Account would be replenished when the value of disbursements would have reduced to 50% of its
initial value
(11)  the audit of those disbursement would take place immediately, so as to limit the extent of unaudited
disbursements to a value not normally greater than half a month's average disbursements.
Disbursement procedures. The micro-business client pays his / her cash contribution before the service is
delivered and if satisfied, pays the balance due at the end by handing the service provider the voucher, endorsed by the
signature of the client. Vouchers that have been so endorsed are redeemable on completion of the service delivery by the
provider. On receipt of a claim by a service provider, the Management Contractor of the program validates the voucher
and the signature of the entrepreneur to whom it was issued. He then reimburses the service provider to the value of the
voucher.
Monitoring and supervision of operations and impact The success of voucher programs is based on their
continuing relevance to the needs of the clients. The justification for their operation is based on the market-driven nature
of the support they offer to the development of a market in business services for micro-enterprises. The continuity of
that relevance must be ensured through a process of monitoring the patterns of usage of the services supported by the
Program - both to encourage the development of services demanded by the clients and to avoid the abuse of the system
to develop inappropriate services, or fraudulent claims based on no service delivery.
Experience of voucher programs to date shows that the pattern of usage varies widely between accredited
providers. Effective program management assesses patterns of usage of vouchers to influence the pre-qualification
process applied to service providers and to give feedback to all service providers on demand patterns. This monitoring
process should also monitor the impact of the program in developing secondary demand for these courses, which is not
supported by vouchers. The role of the management in this regard should also monitor the impact of programs on the
participants' conduct of their business through a regular process of surveying practice modifications by them following
the completion of the service offered.



Page 50
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Management and Supervision.
Management. The Program would utilize an independent private contractor for Program client assistance and
management, selected in accordance with the Bank's Consultant's Guidelines and reporting to a separate Supervisory
Committee setup within the PRONACOM Management Unit.6 The principal tasks of the contractor would be to:
*  promote the Program services and benefits to the target audiences in the enterprise and micro-business sectors
*  provide assistance to interested firms to prepare their competitiveness plans and build commitment in participating
frms by providing high-quality services to them
*  appraise and approve individual applications less than or equal to $30,000 equivalent
*  monitor results and impact of the program on the operations of participating enterprises
*  meet the reporting requirements of PRONACOM, the Government of Guatemala and the World Bank.
Managing the overall Program would be the responsibility of a Prograrn Manager, who would report on policy and
performance to the Supervisory Committee. His operational responsibilities would be:
*  key client contact
*  direction and operational supervision of the Program
*  establishment and maintenance of a Program quality assurance system to international standards
*  supervision of the financial control of Program operations
*  internal audit of these operations
-  relationships with the independent auditors of financial diligence
The other members of the management team would be a financial accountant and a computer systems manager. In orde
to execute the Program efficiently and effectively, the contractor would be required to establish regional windows to
service clients outside the area of Guatemala City.
A key aspect of management is the personal nature of the service supplied by the Program to its clients through
its professional staff. The professional and support staff would assist firms in the development of their plans and also, would
operate the Window I by assisting clients avail of its benefits. This team should possess a range of experience and expertise
that would be relevant to the profile of beneficiary frms. It would operate primarily as advisers to firms, helping them
identify their best options for improving the competitiveness of their frms and for export development As a result, the
relationship between the teamn and their clients should be supportive, rather than judgmental. Ideally, they should see
themselves as having a role to help firms benefit from the Program, by contnbuting to the analysis of the strategic issues
facing the firm and identifying the best options for addressing these issues. The role would not in any sense result in the team
member being a consultant who would solve the technical or marketing problems facing a firm
Program management would consist of two Senior Technical Consultants (STCs), one Guatemalan and one with
specific international experience in programs comparable to the CLIP, who would be widely experienced in the major
functional areas of business operations and would have specific experience in the sectors in which PRONACOM clusters
currently operate. The role of the STCs would be to:
* advise and assist client firms and organizations on the preparation of their business diagnostics and
development plans
* provide detailed specialist advice to client firms and organizations at the stage of preparing their projects
* assist clients in identifying not only solutions to the client's development problems, but also, sources of
these solutions
* present project proposals for co-financing to the Program Manager (and the Executive Committee of
PRONACOM, if required)
* monitor and assist clients during project implementation
* validate the technical compliance of project execution with the approval agreed between the Program and
the Client.
Each STC could be expected to manage a portfolio of about ninety clients in a year - at varying stages of the client
project cycle.
6 As a condition of loan effectiveness, the Goverrnent would adopt the Program Operational Manual, satisfactory to the
Bank, and hire the contractor.



Page 51
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                       Project Appraisal Document
Supervision. The Supervisory Committee would consist of the Executive Director of PRONACOM, a
representative of the Vice-Ministry of Micro, Small and Medium Businesses of the Ministry of Economy, and a
representative of the private sector membership of the PRONACOM Executive Committee. The main role of the
Supervisory Board would be to focus on the (1) selection of the contractor, (2) adoption of the Operating Manual and
amendments as necessary, (3) regular monitoring of Program implementation by the contractor, and (4) evaluation of its
impact. In addition, where grant requests by recipients exceeded $30,000 equivalent per investment, such requests would
be submitted for review and non-objection by the Committee.
Programs that are well-supervised have significantly better records of success than others. The nature of the
supervision is critical, to ensure that it is and remains sensitive to the objectives of the Program and not to other agendas.
It is also important that it be constituted in a way that permits it to operate efficiently and transparently. Key design
elements in successful Program supervision would include:
*  establishment of a system of management-by-objectives, in the form of annual work plans and targets, which
would be reported on quarterly
*  a primary focus on policy guidance and quarterly review of performance and results against such objectives
*  delegation of operations and decision-making on individual grants to the contractor operating under detailed
policies and procedures - preferably defined to ISO standards
*  quarterly ex-post reviews of operational decisions on the part of PRONACOM
Financial Controls. An important issue would be the need to achieve the correct balance between the control and
efficiency aspects of the operations of the Program. Clearly, as the sovereign borrower of the funds to be used to finance
the Program, the Government of Guatemala has an obligation to ensure that these funds are properly allocated and not
misused in any way. At the same time, the experience of matching grant programs has shown that the application of
public sector financial administration not only does not achieve this goal but, in many circumstances, it can contribute to
its frustration. At best, the adaptation of public sector procedures can lead to a cumbersome loss of efficiency that is at
variance with the needs for an efficient and transparent system of fnancial control. Best international practice in these
programs has shown that these types of problem are most easily avoided by:
*  establishing a supervisory Board of mixed private-public sector origins
e  selecting the members of that Board at a high level of experience and integrity
i insisting on the Management Contractor establishing appropriate quality assurance and financial control
mechanisms and obtaining the approval of the Board for them at the start of the Program (sometimes in
conjunction with World Bank supervisors)
* subjecting the Management Contractor to regular private sector audit of financial performance
*  undertaking (usually in conjunction with World Bank supervisors) an annual ex post audit of overall
professional, technical and financial performance
*  establishing a special Grant Fund bank account in a commercial bank, with the Management Contractor as the
sole authorized signatory; the grant funds would be lodged to that account on a phased basis, always ensuring
that funds would be available to meet the needs of clients
To increase Program transparency, all grant approvals and rejections would be posted daily on the Program's web page.
Expected Socio-Economic Benefits.
Qualitatively speaking, at least 300 mainly smaller private firms, associations an clusters would be expected to
benefit under Window I and 10,000 microbusinesses under Window 2 for Project investments in entrepreneurial learning
and innovation. Beneficiaries are expected to accrue domestic and international market awareness and know-how,
forming the basis for a change in business behavior, which in many cases will lead to increase their international
competitiveness and outward-oriented growth. In immediate terms, this change would be reflected in new domestic and
international business market partners---market and product information sources, suppliers, private associations,
potential buyers, potential foreign investors, etc.
The expected economic outcome of these outputs will be prepared during Project appraisal. In general,
however, it is expected that the CLIP would produce incremental domestic and non-traditional processed export output
substantially exceeding current levels and make a substantial and visible positive impact on worker income and
employment. They can be to be felt in (i) higher value added (mainly wages and profits) in products and new



Page 52
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                      Project Appraisal Document
employment (ii) broader domestic and export market linkages (more products exported by more fimns), and (iii) more
linkages to domestic producers as indirect exporters (share of local raw materials, intermediate & finished goods in
product cost). Tbis incremental output would also generate additional tax revenues expected to exceed that the total
grant value of the CLIP in the fourth year of the Program from the following sources: (1) incremental payroll taxes-paid
by domestic and exporting firms and by employees, (2) corporate income taxes, and (3) value added taxes generated by
incremental employee consumption outlays (assumed to be about 90/. of remuneration and taking an average VAT
recovery rate).
These direct benefits should be the basis in many cases for new capital investment for export production and
also be accompanied by indirect spillover effects on the domestic economy, as the international know-how and
experience gained is acquired through indirect exporters, the mobility of trained personnel, new entrreneurship, and
the demonstration effects of new product designs, technologies embedded in new imported equipment, etc. The Project
should also provide a demonstration effect to policy-makers and other domestic-market firms of the opportunities for
growth provided by increased integration with the global economy



Page 53
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
2.6 IT-Based Business Development Services Pilot
BDS markets are often highly developed in advanced economies. In Guatemala, as most elsewhere in
economically development countries, business development services are few and only cover an estimated 39,000 low-
income small business entrepreneurs---less than 5% of the market. Existing BDS providers consist mainly of local
universities, the government (INTECAP), specialized management institutions and NGOs. Most universities are not
oriented toward entrepreneurs, do not have non-degree business programs, especially for lower formally-skilled and
lower-income segments of the market, and are not making full use of current distance learnig systems. The
Government's INTECAP program does focus assistance on business production issues (though little on management)
but, as most require at least a 6t" grade education, only about 23,000 of its participants are among the low-income low-
literacy groups.
Information technology (IT)-based BDS offer a very substantial potential to accelerate small business market
access and competitiveness, but require the development of higher value-added information, analytical and marketing
services, and eventually e-commerce capability---just to keep the IT gap from growing rather than shrinking in
Guatemala. IT-based BDS are available only in modest quantities and highly concentrated in the modern sector. Several
commercial for-profit Internet cafes and similar organizations exist which offer basic IT services. Clientele consist
mainly of a mix of students, entrepreneurs and tourists which are among higher educated and upper income groups.
Basic business services are available in a variety of the main urban locations, but support only elementary marketing
needs with basic copying services, letterheads, cards, posters, and brochures. Much more limited are services for
packaging, labeling, fax services, and fast mail services. More limited still among small businesses are access to personal
computers and printing facilities. In addition, few entities provide access to multiple services in one location and most
services are not accompanied by skilled human assistance and guidance on content and quality---a vital input particularly
for those with lower formal education. In fact, most of this entrepreneurial group does not even know of the existence of
such services. In the absence of a concerted effort to expand access to IT services for smaller businesses, large firms and
high-spending, sophisticated consumers will continue to expand the "digital divide".
Objective
The immediate objective of MicroNet would be to raise earnings of at least 25,000 low-income micro and small
businesses by increasing their business skills, market access and operational competitiveness. MicroNet, using a for-
profit private-public sector joint venture model, would deliver integrated communications and information technology-
based business development services (BDS) with strong community outreach and fmancially sustainability. MicroNet's
target clientele would be two large markets: (i) very low-income microbusinesses, the majority of which are the
indigenous Mayan population and female, with low literacy and numeracy levels, only about 2-3 years of primary
education, and limited if any Spanish; and (ii) more complex micro- and small businesses (light manufacturing,
wholesale/retail commerce, and professional/personal services) having sound literacy and numeracy skills, Spanish
facility and with up to 20 employees. Direct consultations have been held with potential clients among Mayan groups,
which are reflected in MicroNet's business plan (first draft prepared) and would enable such clients to expand beyond
their own low-income economies to establish market linkages with higher income segments of the national and, for
some, international markets, and to increase competitiveness. The success of MicroNet would be determined by actual
client outreach, MicroNet fmancial sustainability, and microbusiness development impact on growth client base,
productivity, sales and net income.
Main subcomponents
The basic strategy behind MicroNet is to help drive small business growth by expanding connections with
higher income segments of the national and international market and building business management skills. Design
services and delivery to match key client characteristic---ability to pay, prevailing education and experience, gender,
sector, work environment and availability---and expand mutually reinforcing services having a strong developmental
impact at low-income levels.
MicroNet would progressively build 3 service lines: (1) to help build microbusiness know-how and information
technology skills, it would provide (a) business management skills to groups of small business entrepreneurs via non-



Page 54
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
formal education techniques, (b) information technology training, including an overview of BDS to promote
understanding of their economic value, and (c) distance learning and conferencing on small business issues in Guatemala
and internationally; (2) to facilitate access to new higher income markets, it would provide assisted access to (a)
telephone, fax, photocopies, scanning, e-mail, mail/shipping, computer word processing & printing services, and (b)
coaching and materials, designs and techniques to increase market penetration through advertising (posters, handouts,
long-distance advertising and mail-order), labeling and packaging; and (3) to increase business competitiveness, offer
self-help and coached (a) productivity workstations with software wizards for simplified business planning and problem-
solving in production, fnance/credit and marketing for business expansion; (b) business networking to locate suppliers
and price trends, other sources of business information and advice, organize group discount purchasing of raw materials,
etc., and (c) electronic commerce for information exchanges with suppliers, customers and creditors, web page
promotional outreach to new markets, and business-to-business collaboration in product design, materials supply and
product distribution.
MicroNet would consist of a network of 10 community-based centers and a supporting hub, linked to existing
community infrastructure for strong involvement. It would be operated by experienced private sector management
supported by governing partnership of successful local business partners, BDS NGOs and the Government. It would
include a strong staff training program and performance pay incentives, combined with a vigorous BDS promotion
program.
Implementation
MicroNet has been developed with strong public-private collaboration and, as a pilot initiative, would be
launched as a PRONACOM public-private foundation having major synergies for both parties: for the Government, to
exercise its role to encourage (i) broad public awareness of the development value of IT, (ii) private participation in
creating IT applications and local content for lower-income groups, (iii) extension of IT services outside of the
Metropolitan area, and (iv) increased competition in the local IT services market at reasonable prices. For the private
sector, it would engage successful business management experience and draw upon the capabilities of business-oriented
NGOs, such as AGEXPRONT, ANACAFE and Genesis Empresarial, which have substantive skills and business
interests in the success of the microbusiness sector, and provide new opportunities for local IT providers of intemet
services, programming and local content to reach new markets.
Initial total capital costs for the network are estimated is US4.0 million, with an additional $0.4 million to
support research and development of other IT services supporting MicroNet's objectives and operations. The Project
would help to implement the MicroNet business plan by mobilizing technical expertise and providing risk-mitigation
capital through the Government to support the costs of pre-operating and non-operating development expenses, and the
transfer of skills and technology. These would include investments in development of local content in MicroNet services
and its delivery systems, staff and management training costs, promotion costs to increase awareness of BDS and IT
applications, other non-recurrent costs associated with pilot learning and experimentation, and technical assistance for
MicroNet operations, quality assurance and impact evaluation.



Page 55
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                          Project Appraisal Document
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
2.7 Business Cluster & Social Responsibility Program
The initial development of integrated clusters7 in Guatemala---to date in textiles/clothing, agro-industry,
forestry and tourism---was initiated following the study managed by Michael Porter of Harvard University on the
competitiveness of the Central American region. The Guatemalan approach is distinct from most other countries, relying
mainly on regional and local specialists to conduct a first-round overall diagnostic of competitive strengths and
weaknesses of a cluster and to benchmark it internationally. This more "bottom-up" approach has been largely effective,
and has promoted cluster development in a locally-rooted and cost-effective manner.
One of the most significant achievements of the cluster program in Guatemala thus far has been the bringing
together of private and public sector players who rarely interacted among themselves and certainly not in as coordinated
a manner. In forestry, for example, bringing businesses, environmentalists, engineers and other actors from the sector
around a single table has been a significant achievement. In agro-industry, it has brought large and small producers
together; in clothing, the assemblers and raw material providers are working together on how to produce finished
products that have a higher level of value-added for export than their individual components. Less successful has been
the regular involvement of small business. PRONACOM is consequently planning to strengthen the number of
facilitators to manage the cluster development process and to establish "micro-clusters" to involve a larger number of
small businesses.
Objective
The objective of the cluster program is to stimulate growth, employment and equitable development in
Guatemala in order to reduce poverty in the medium to long term. Cluster initiatives raise the ability of the private sector
to export, invest and create employment opportunities, particularly among SMEs and currently unemployed citizens.
Consequently, indicators such as employment, value-added, exports, growth and others - at sector level - will be the key
performance indicators (KPIs) in the medium to long term. These will be detailed at a cluster level and monitored
regularly by the clusters and Management Unit of PRONACOM. The Project would also support nascent efforts in
Guatemala to promote the development of a culture of business social responsibility (BSR) within the objectives of the
Project; namely, toward lower-income businesses and related households.
Main sub-components
The Project would concentrate on extending the initial cluster experience to other parts of the economy, with a
projected 2 new clusters or micro-clusters per year over two years. To do so, the PRONACOM Management Unit would
initial contract service providers to (i) continue broad promotion and dissemination programs and encourage use of and
provide training in the methodology (100% Bank financing), (ii) facilitate the organization of new clusters and undertake
initial cluster diagnostic and benchmarking assessments (50% financing), and (iii) assessment and recommendations of
cross-cluster issues in public policy and institutions constraining competitiveness (100% financing). Once a cluster has
commitment to proceed, performance will be linked to definition of the cluster, initial workshop and establishment of a
representative and inclusive Cluster Coordinating Committee; completion of relevant diagnostic studies that identify
current level of competitiveness of firms in the cluster within the national and global context; workshops to validate
analysis and draw up strategic vision and work program for the cluster, including recommendations for action at the
micro-, meso- and macro-levels; and establishment of task groups to carry out the work program with clear performance
indicators.
7 A"cluster" has the following essential interactive elements: export-oriented manufacturing and services industries,
their supplier industries (material inputs, trade, distribution and other services), and basic infrastructure systems that
underpin it (human resources, technology, finance, regulatory environment and physical infrastructure). Cluster
programs bring together in working groups key private and public sector actors from the cluster to carry out a process
which mainly involves: (1) initial diagnosis of international competitiveness levels, (2) benchmarking these findings
against trends elsewhere in the world, (3) formulating a longer-term competitiveness vision and strategy, and (4)
implementing a near-term specific change program.



Page 56
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
In addition, where PRONACOM itself or clusters express interest in cross-cluster business environment issues
(eg., labor mobility, technical barriers to trade, etc.), the Project would finance economy-wide diagnostic work and
policy/institutional recommendations similar to those prepared under the Japan PHRD Grant. The results of work on
business environment issues would be brought to the attention of appropriate government authorities through normal
channels or via PRONACOM's Executive Committee headed by the Vice President of the Republic.
Regarding BSR, it connotes activities undertaken or sponsored by leading Guatemalan businesses that are not of
a charitable nature, but simultaneously advance their longer run corporate strategic interests and specific community
interests. PRONACOM, with inputs from the Council of Foundations, individual business leaders and the Bank, would
anchor this initiative. Under the Project, PRONACOM would first try to develop through local and cross-country
exchanges, workshops, case studies and consulting support a common understanding of the definition and scope of BSR,
then establish a focus for employing BSR in support of small business development, particularly in the form of
generating subcontracting relationships between small and larger firms. This initiative would be extended via
collaboration in international BSR events and a public communications campaign.
Implementation
The PRONACOM Management Unit will continue to be responsible for the day-to-day management of the
cluster and BSR programs and report directly to PRONACOM Executive Committee. It will work closely with the
privates sector, other competitiveness units (eg. CIG, Agexpront) and the various Cluster Coordinating Committees.
This Project component will run over two years. The results milestones would be (1) ongoing cluster initiatives with
demonstrable results as per above, (2) 2 clusters launched per annum with support from PRONACOM, (3) diagnostic
and recommendations to address 1-2 cross-cutting issues per annum, (4) 2 seminars per annum per cluster held to
showcase results and propose further action plans, (5) quantifiable improvements in key indicators of competitiveness as
defined per sector eg. exports, investment, productivity, efficiency, (6) subcontracting relationships or other commercial
relationships generated between small lower-income firms and larger firms, and (7) ongoing support from private sector
and government at highest level .
The total estimated cost of this component is $1.5 million, of which $1.0 million would be financed from the
Bank loan and the remainder by matching contributions of participating clusters or BSR groups and their private sector
members. Existing clusters and BSR groups could draw on the CLIP for further support once initial funding is used.
T'his could include support for ongoing analytical studies eg. benchmarking surveys, process support eg. facilitation
skills training, appointment of cluster facilitator/coordinator, outreach and access support eg. for SMEs and rural cluster
role-players to attend meetings and address specific issues of interest to them, projects with academic and research
institutions in establishing training programs, academic curriculae, research programs and intemships, technology
transfer eg. Joint purchasing of new technology or training, marketing and communication strategy development,
international or regional visits to similar clusters, and productivity and training programs at shop-floor level.



Page 57
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                            Project Appraisal Document
Annex 3
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Estimated Project Costs
Increasing domestic market competition                           0.4         0.4        0.8
Accelerating foreign investment              _30_ .0                          4.8       7.8
Expanding in-firm skills training & information markets          1.3          1.3       2.6
Upgrading firm product and process quality                        0.9     __11          2.0
Sub-total                                                        5.6          7.6      13.2
Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program
(i) Window 1 - matching grant financing                      5.0        5.0        10.0
(ii) Window 2 - voucher grant financing                      2.0                    2.0
(iii) client assistance and management contract              0.8        0.2         1.0
IT-based business development services                           2.2         2.1        4.3
Business clusters and social responsibility                      0.8         0.7        1.5
Sub-total                                                        10.8        8.0       18.8
; ~ ~   ~   ~   _____ _______. __        LI 
Bank loan capitalized front end fee                                          0.2        0.2
Total Project Cost (incl. contingencies)                         17.5       15.8       33.3
.. .. ..  jz......._ ____  M [ ........ _..  _._..  ___  _ ........  __|_...
.       '">   -1:-<'.......................- .3    e3t' 't1 't ......................... s:$';' ''i.i,R 3lt<'<i 3i'*i-......  ' ">' 3



Page 58
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                                                                                      Project Appraisal Document
Annex 4
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Financial Summary
Years Ending December 31
(US$ Millions, 2001 base year)
Fir  prdc &  roes qalt
Domestic m                arket competi          tion                          041                0.3                   0.3                  01 0.8
Foreign  investment                                                           2.0                 1.8                    1.7                0.6               4.3
Skills training & information markets                                         1.2                1.00.26
Firm product & process quality                                                0.5                0.7                   0.82.
Firrn investmnents in learning &  innovatio                                   4.                   .                   331.
,  _ _                                         _                  _         _      _ _   _ ,  _  .   _ ,  _  _  .   .......   .............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~..............
IT-based business development services                                        0.9                1.4                    1.4                 064.3
Competitiveness-building process                                              0.3                0.6                   0.6                                     1.5
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.... .                   .....   ....... ........                      ...... ......    .  __,        ........ . .   ...._..  _ . ._. -   ................  .......   ..............   .......
PRONACOM Management Unit                                                       0.3               0.3                   0.3                  0.2                1.1
.................... .............. ~~ ~ _ _ . _. _ .............. _ . ~~ . _ ....... ...  _....._.................. . ........................  .... ..........................................................
Bank loan capitalized front end fee                                           0.2                                                                             0.2
Total Project Costs                                                 9.9               11.4                     8.8                 3.2              33.3
ntRD           o.3                                                                          0.4                    0.5                 2.3                 1.3
%total                                                                  4                 4                     66                     16 _
.                                                                                                        ... .   .  . ..  _   _  _   .. . ............. _ _ .. , . _ _ ._, _ . _ ................ _ ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~.. ... .. ... .. ..
Private sector fees & rnatching                                          5.2                3.2                    2.50.                           ~i13
~~ % total   5__ 2 _                                                                          28            -2_                    _12_  ~3
Central Governiment                                                      0.3                0.4                    0.5                  1..7----i--
% /total                                                        _ 4 _                       4-             -   6 -  - 1    -----
._  _  _   .     .                _         _                        _      _     _     _     _ , . _  _  _    ....................................................  ............~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~. .............
Total Financing                                                     9.9                11.4                   8.8 _3.2                             33.3
00gXXWEW _    ESX                         , 98M0tE}M,0d,'s't, m  m



Page 59
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                          Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Procurement and Financial Management Arrangements
A. Procurement Arrangements
Procurement for the proposed project would be carried out in accordance with World Bank
"Guidelines: Procurement Under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits", published in January 1995
(revised January/August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999); and "Guidelines:
Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank Borrowers" published in January
1997 (revised in September 1999 and January 1999), and the provisions stipulated in the
Loan Agreement.
1) Procurement methods: The methods to be used for the procurement described below,
and the estimated amounts for each method, are summarized in Table A. The threshold
contract values for the use of each method are fixed in Table B.
Procurement of Works
Works procured under this project would include the 10 microbusiness development centers
totaling US$1.2 million equivalent. Contracts for a portion of these works (with an
estimated value of US$0.8 million) will be procured following National Competitive
Bidding procedures (NCB), using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs agreed
in advance with the Bank. Small works, estimated to cost less than US$150,000 equivalent
per contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.4 million, may be procured on the basis of
at least three quotations received in response to a written invitation, which will include a
detailed description of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion
date, a basic form of agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where
applicable.
Procurement of Goods
Goods procured under this project would include vehicles, computer equipment,
promotoinal materials and office equipment totaling US$3.2 million equivalent. To the
extent possible, contracts for these goods will be grouped into bidding packages of more
than $150,000 equivalent and procured following International Competitive Bidding
(ICB) procedures, using Bank-issued Standard Bidding Documents (SBDs). Contracts
with estimated values below this threshold per contract and up to an aggregate amount of
US$1.5 million may be procured using National Competitive Bidding (NCB) procedures
and standard bidding documents agreed with the Bank. Contracts for goods which cannot
be grouped into larger bidding packages and estimated to cost less than US$25,000 per
contract, up to an aggregate amount of US$0.5 million, may be procured using shopping
(National /International) procedures based on a model request for quotations satisfactory
to the Bank.



Page 60
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
Selection of Consultants, Training and Information Services
Consulting, training and information services will be contracted under this project in the
following areas of expertise: domestic competition policies, in-firm training systems,
foreign direct investment promotion, quality standards assessment and conformity, micro
and small business development services, information technology, and business cluster
and social responsibility programs. These services are estimated to cost US$20,700,000
equivalent and would be procured using Bank Standard Request for Proposals.
Firms
All contracts for firms would be procured using QCBS except for small and simple
contracts under the Competitiveness Learning and Innovation Program estimated to cost
US$50,000 equivalent or less up to an aggregate amount of US$9,500,000 equivalent. Given
the large number of small contracts expected under this program, for which maximum sub-
project grant is $50,000, contracting responsibility will be undertaken by a client assistance
and management contractor selected under QCBS and satisfactory to the Bank. The bulk of
the contracts financed by this Program are expected to be for training and advisory services
provided by consulting firms, training institutes and NGOs to the beneficiaries of the grants.
Since beneficiaries (grant recipients) will be from the private sector and beneficiaries will co-
finance the services themselves, procurement of these services from firms and NGOs may
follow commercial practices acceptable to the Bank. Selection of services of the Project's
Client Assistance and Management Contractor will be by QCBS in accordance with Bank
guidelines.
Individuals
Specialized advisory services would be provided by individual consultants selected by
comparison of qualifications of three candidates and hired in accordance with the
provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an aggregate
amount of US$3,700,000.
Operational Costs: Sundry items, office rental and utilities, and incremental salaries
would be financed on a declining basis and would be procured using the PIU
administrative procedures which were reviewed and found acceptable to the Bank. The
Bank will finance initially US$60,000 per month in the first year, declining annually in
accordance with an agreed plan.
2) Prior review thresholds: The proposed thresholds for prior review are based on the
procurement capacity assessment of the project implementing unit and are summarized in
Table B. In addition to this prior review of individual procurement actions, the plan and
budget for the PIU Operating Costs will be reviewed and approved by the Bank annually.
B. Assessment of the agency's capacity to implement procurement
The PRONACOM Management Unit would be responsible for ensuring that procurement
is carried out in accordance with the Bank's Guidelines for Procurement. The Unit
would double its current eight full-time positions by adding specialists coordinators for
the areas of domestic competition, foreign investment, in-firm skills training and product



Page 61
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
Programa Nacional de Competitividad
Relaciones de Trabajo e
Institucionales
|Dimedl6n  ltV |
A   !Xw do G OM
Ioord= odo I  Com.dor   I    C.ordo.dordo  .ons*Sup.dI   C*,mddnoor/r.n
do Gomunicaol .  de Clut,.   Cul,ms do Ngodo  Mac          dens  do MiW
quality. The Unit will conclude an internal contract with the Ministry of Economy's
project management unit which is experienced in procurement and financial management
to be responsible for the execution of Project procurement decisions taken by the Unit.
This staff would provide consistent support and oversight of the process in collaboration
with technical staff having responsibility for selection of consultants and procurement of
goods and works. The Project would include, in addition to the procurement procedures,
the Standard Bidding Documents to be used for each procurement method, as well as
model contracts for works and goods procured on the basis of three quotations or
shopping.
Unidad de Gesti6n y Administracion Financiera
Relaciones de Trabajo
Director Ejeoutivo
Auditores
Extemos
Lideres de  Gerente de Gesti6n
Componentes   y Administraci6n
Financiera
1"1



Page 62
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                           Project Appraisal Document
An assessment of the capacity of the PIU to implement procurement actions for the
project has been carried out and was approved by the Regional Procurement Advisor on
October 17, 2000. The assessment reviewed the organizational structure of the proposed
PRONACOM Management Unit, its staffing, operations and procurement experience.
The current Management Unit is sound and well-versed in Bank procurement procedures,
having managed a large number of Project preparation activities in the course of 1999-
2000. The Unit has also benefited from consultation with other well-run Bank-financed
project management units in Guatemala.  A recent Bank Country Procurement
Assessment Report (November 1999) found that Bank-assisted projects have generally
been free of procurement problems.
Most of the issues concerning the Management Unit have been or are being addressed.
The risks identified in the assessment include: (i) an expansion in the rate of Project
activities which exceeds the units ability to manage procurement properly, and (ii)
adequacy of filing, monitoring and reporting procurement actions. To address these
risks, the Management Unit will be recruiting additional technical and procurement staff
as outlined above, will provide training in Bank procurement procedures for newly
recruited staff, and (iii) hire a consultant to design a satisfactory system for filing,
monitoring and reporting procurement activities which is expected to be ready by
October 2000.
The overall project risk for procurement is Average.
Although the overall risk assessment resulting from the Management Unit's capacity
assessment was Average, the Unit has not yet in place a satisfactory system for filing,
monitoring, and reporting procurement actions. Consequently the PIU is not eligible for
PMR-based disbursements on procurement reporting grounds. However, such situation
would be re-assessed when the consultant work is completed.
C. Procurement Plan
The Government has developed an indicative plan for the four-year period of project
implementation which provides the basis for the aggregate amounts for the procurement
methods in Table A. A Procurement Plan has been prepared for the first year of project
implementation and has been found satisfactory. Subsequent plans will be submitted
yearly as part of the Annual Action Plan.
D. Frequency of Procurement Supervision
In addition to the prior review supervision to be carried out from Bank offices, it is
recommended one full supervision mission to visit the field to carry out post review of
procurement actions six months after Project initiation and yearly thereafter. Based on
the overall risk assessment (Average) the post-review field analysis should cover a
sample of not less than 1 in 5 contracts signed.



Page 63
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                            Project Appraisal Document
E. Disbursement
The closing date for loan disbursements would be June 30, 2005. The loan proceeds. would
be disbursed against the categories shown in Annex 5 Table C. Given the interest of Project
clients to avoid a hiatus between the design and delivery stages, retroactive financing of up to
10% of the loan amount ($2.0 million) is proposed for expenditures incurred not earlier than
12 months prior to loan signing. Disbursement requests will be based on certified Statement
of Expenditures (SOEs), except for payments under NCB goods above $150,000 and
contracts above $100,000 equivalent for consultant firms and $50,000 for individual
consultants. Documentation for SOEs would be retained at the PRONACOM Management
Unit and available for review of the Bank and external auditors.
The Bank loan would be disbursed against (a) for works, 100% of foreign expenditures and
80% of local expenditures, (b) for goods, 100% of foreign expenditures and 80% of local
expenditures, (c) 100% of consulting services exclusive of those financed under Business
Cluster Program (50%) and the CLIP, and (d) for the CLIP, 50% of expenditures for
matching grant subprojects, 100% for voucher grants, and 100% for the client assistance and
management contract. A special account would be opened in the central bank in an amount
equivalent to $1.5 million.
F. Financial management assessment
Following World Bank's policy OP/13P 10.02, the LCR Financial Management Unit
(LCOAA) reviewed PRONACOM's financial management system relating to the project.
The review was focused on the assessment of the internal control, planning, budgeting,
accounting and financial reporting system, and audit arrangements. Details can be found in
the Financial Management Assessment Report dated October 20, 2000.
It was concluded that PRONACOM did not have yet in place a system satisfying the Bank's
financial management requirements for the project; hence, a pertinent loan condition of
effectiveness was recommended. Compliance with the condition is expected upon substantial
completion of the activities detailed in the action plan below:
1. Organization and staff
la. Identification of staff and structure of PRONACOM's FM Unit.
lb. Preparation of position descriptions/Terms of Reference (1 ORs) for FM staff.
lc. Appointment of FM staff.
ld. Selection of staff from the UDAF that will be part of the project team for liaison/capacity
building purposes.
le. Participation of PRONACOM in the launch workshop for the Bank-financed Land Fund
project.
2. Procedural controls
2a. Elaboration and review of the manual for administrative, financial and accounting norms
and procedures8.
Among others, the manuals will satisfactorily cover applicable areas mentioned in the LAC's "Financial Management
Assessment Checklisft and Bank's "Project Financial Management Manual".



Page 64
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
2b. Opening of the Special Account9 in US dollars.
2c. Opening of the bank account for counterpart funds.
3. Flow of funds
3a. Preparation of flowcharts and procedures for the flow of funds from every financing party
and for each project component.
4. Planning, budgeting and financial reporting
4a. Elaboration and review of Annual Operating Plan for 2001, including monitoring
indicators and use of funds' projections (segregated at least quarterly), all consistent with the
Project Appraisal Document and the corresponding cost tables, as well as the Loan
Agreement's provisions.
4b. In conjunction with the Ministry of Finance (MOF), preparation of a budget increase
proposal sufficient to cover external and internal funds necessary to properly implement the
project during 2001.
4c. Definition of the formats for the Project Management Reports (PMRs) and annual
financial statements.
4d. Definition of the procedures for the distribution, review, analysis and approval of the
monthly, quarterly and annual financial management information.
5. Accounting/financial system
5a. Preparation of accounting manual and chart of accounts for the project (allowing as a
minimum for classification of expenditures by disbursement category, project component and
source of funds).
5b. In coordination with MOF, design of implementation plan for SIGEPRO.
5c. Readiness of SIGEPRO for accounting purposes.
5d. Development of filing system for accounting/supporting documents.
6. External and Internal Audits
6a. Preparation, review and approval of short list of firms and audit TORs'0.
6b. Appointment of the external audit firm.
7. Coordination among the participating agencies
7a. Preparation, review and approval of the operating manual for the CLIP component.
7b. Definition of the mechanisms for receipt of funds from the private sector and financial
inforrnation regarding the FDI, Micronet and clusters.
Other actions that should be completed not later than six months after the loan effectiveness
date are:
9 The Special Account will only be used for eligible expenditures under the Credit (under no circumstances may funds in
the Special Account be used to cover the counterpart's share of expenditures). Transfers from the Special Account to
other bank accounts will only be performed to meet eligible expenditures for a limited period of less than 30 days.
'0 Interim audit visits and corresponding reports would be performed on a quarterly basis.



Page 65
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                            Project Appraisal Document
4e. Preparation and submittal of first quarterly PMR.
5e. Readiness of SIGEPRO for preparation of PMRs.
6c. Appointment of an internal auditor reporting to PRONACOM's Executive Committee.
6d. Preparation and review of the annual Internal Audit Program.
For monitoring purposes, PRONACOM will prepare monthly reports on the progress of the
execution of this Action Plan



Page 66
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5 - Table A
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Project Costs by Procurement Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1. Works
Facilities Upgrading                           0.8     0.4 (a)                1.2
_._______   ______    .__                    (--~-() (0.4)                 (0.4)
2. Goods  =_         =
Office equipment, IT & materials      1.2      1.5     0.5 (b)     -          3.2
(1.2)    (0.7)     (-)                  (1.9)
3. Services                 _                              ____   ____
Technical consulting & advisory       - _               6.6    _              6.6
services                                               (5.4)                 (5.4)
Training programs, study tours & other    -   _         2.0                   2.0
travel              ____-_                             (2.0)                  (2.0)
Information & dissemination services  --0.5                                  (0.5
.___ ______._.___._ __._  ...(0.5)   __.____                 .5)
4. Other_____ _
Competitiveness Learning &
Innovation Progra_           ____           _____
  Matching grant subprojects                           10.0                  10.0
(5.0)                (5.0)
*  Voucher grants                                       2.0                   2.0
(1.0)                (1.0)
*  Client assistance & management                       1.0                   1.0
contract    __   _____        _     _ _____  (1.0)                        (1.0)
Operational Costs                                       5.5
_ _ ______   _        _ _  _                _ (1.8)                    (1.8)
PRONACOM Management Unit                  . _.1                                1. I
(1.1)                 (1.1)
Bank loan capitalized front end fee                     0.2                   0.2
(0.2)                 (0.2)
Total                                 1.2      2.3      29.8                  33.3
(1.2)    (0.7)    (18.4)                (20.3)
Note: N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed (includes elements procured under parallel co-financing
procedures, consultancies under trust funds, any reserved procurement, and any other
miscellaneous items).
"See Table A-I for consultant selection arrangements.



Page 67
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                        Project Appraisal Document
a/ Three quotations (ie.: Contracts for small works procured under lump-sum, fixed-price contracts awarded on the
basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic contractors in response to a written invitation . The award
shall be made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has the expertence
and resources to complete the contract successfully).
b/ Shopping (National and International)
c/ Consultants Services. Contracts awarded to firms using Quality-and Cost-Based selection (QCBS) and Least Cost
selection (up to an aggregate amount of $1,000,000) and to individual consultants in accordance with paragraphs 5.1 to
5.3 of the Consultants Guidelines (up to an aggregate amount of $2,000,000).
or:
c/ Consultants Services. Details provided in Table A-I
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts to be financed by the Bank loan.



Page 68
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5 - Table Al
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Consultant Selection Arrangements
(in US$ million equivalent)
1e4io~~~~~~  ~~~d          T0nota Cs
Q~S    QBS   $f1~I~CS    CQ    Othr  N.B.F
A. Firms                      9.5                                    7.8 (a)                17.3
(7.1)                                   (4.5)                (11.6)
B. Individuals                                 -                     3.7 (b)               ( 3.7
____ (2.2)               (2.2)
Total                         9.5                                     11.5                 21.0
_ _ =______________________  (7.1)                                (6.7)                (13.8)
Note: QCBS = Quality- and Cost-Based Selection
'QBS = Quality-based Selection (price not a factor)
SFB = Selection under a Fixed Budget
LCS = Least-Cost Selection
CQ  = Selection Based on Consultants' Qualifications
Other (a) = Selection of firms and NGOs for sub-projects financed by CLIP, using
commercial practices (Section 3.12 of Guidelines), based on use of roster
continuously open for registration and on procedures described in Operating
Manual.
(b) = Selection of individual consultants (per Section V of Consultants
Guidelines)
N.B.F. = Not Bank-financed.
Figures in parenthesis are the amounts estimate to be financed by the Bank loan.



Project Appraisal Document                                                                                                                     Page 69
Country: Guatemala                                                                                                    Project Title: Competitiveness Project
Procurement Plan
Contract             Est, Cost    SelectionfProcurement  Request Expression of     Invite          CAwardContract           Implementation
I (US$ million)       Method           Interest/Advertise    Propossls/Bids
Increasing domestic market competition
Design/implement competition  l    0.2     QCBS                  10/00                 11/00              1/01                     2/01
law
Make operational Competition  |    0.2     QCBS                  4/01                  5/01              7/01                      8/01
Commision
Public infornation programt       0.1      QCBS                  1/02                  2/02              4/02                      5/02
Compliance program          |    0.1       QCBS                  1/02                  2/02              4/02                      5/02
Computer & office equipment       0.2      Shopping                                    7/01              9/01                      10/01
Accelerating foreign investment
Promotional materials             0.2      QCBS                  4/01                  5/01               7/01                     8/01
Equipment & computers             0.3      NCB                   3/01                  4//01              6/01                     7/01
FDI promo advisory services   _    0.4     QCBS                  1/01                  2/01               4/01                     5/01
Investment registration           0.4      QCBS                  2/01                  3/01               5/01                     6/01
facilitation system                                                           .
Expanding in-firm skills training and information markets
Adopt regulatory changes &        0.6      QCBS                  10/00                 11/00              1/01                     2/01
establish Training Council
Training promotion &              1.0      QCBS                  1/01                  2/01               4/01                     5/01
extension services
Expand specialist facilities      1.5      NCB                   3/01                  4/01               6/01                     7/01
Technical advisors to establish   0.2      QCBS                  2/01                  3/01               5/01                     6/01
Statistics Superintendency                I_I
Computer equipment for            0.2      Shopping              4/01                  5/01               7/01                      8/01
Statistics Superitendency
Training Statistics staff         0.1      QCBS                  4/01                  5/01               7/01                     8/01
Upgrading firm product and process quality
Quality training and outreach    0.35      QCBS                  11/00                 12/00              1/01                     3/01
services
SCA information center           0.175     QCBS                  2/01                  3/01               5/01                     6/01
development
Non-traditional product &        0.050     QCBS                   12/00                 1/01              2/01                      3/01,
process certification
Quality awareness & promotion    0.075     QCBS                  10/00                  11/00             1/01                      2/01
0.100     NCB                   10/00                 11/00              1/01                     2/01



Page 70
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                            Project Appraisal Document
Increasingfirm investments in learning & innovation
MicroNet leasehold                 0.6        NCB                    11/00                  12/00              2/01                       3/01
improvements
MicroNet computer & office          0.7      ICB                     11/00                  12/00              2/01                       3/01
equipment
MicroNet advisory services          0.3       QCBS                   11/00                  12/00              2/01                       3/01
MicroNet staff training program     0.2       QCBS                   11/00                  12/00              2/01                       3/01
(4) Cluster diagnostic &            0.4       QCBS                   2/01 (first one, repeat   3/01            5/01                       6/01
benchmarking analyses                                                every 6 months after)
(2) Cross-cluster public policy     0.2       QCBS                   9/01                   10/01              12/01                       1/02
assessments & proposals                     I                      I
Business social responsibility      0.2       QCBS                   1/01                   2/01               4/01                       5/01
groups technical advisory                                                                  -
World Bank User
Q:VIHDOCS\Guatemala\2PREP\OVERALL\ProcurementPlan\Procurement Plan.doc



Page 71
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                   Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5 - Table B
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Thresholds for Procurement Methods and Prior Review
pdiftlre             Contract Value          Fiiemint           Contracts Subjeci to
Category             (Threshold)             Method              Pror ReviewI
Estinated Total Value
US$ thousands                                Subject to Prior
_____________                Review
1. Works
>150                  NCB               First 2 contracts
<150             Three Quotations         Post Review
2. Goods
>150                   ICB                    All
>25>150                 NCB               First 2 contracts
<25                 Shopping             Post Review
3. Services
Firms                         >100                  QCBS                     All
<100           Commercial Practices       TORs Only
Individuals                    >50           Section V Guidelines            All
>20 <50         Section V Guidelines        TORs only
<20           Section V Guidelines       Post Review
Total value of contracts subject to prior review:                           $21.0
FOverall Procurement Risk Assessment: Hmgh
Averge 
Low
Frequency of procurement supervision mission proposed:            l Eery 12 months



Page 72
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                         Project Appraisal Document
Annex 5 - Table C
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Allocation of Loan Proceeds
ZzpenitureCatg                        Amount in              Financing
US$nilllonPercentag
1. Works
Facilities upgrades                                        0.4                    80% local
100% foreign
2. Goods
Office equipment, computer hardware and software           1.9                    80% local
and materials                                                                    100% foreign
3. Consulting Services                                                           100%
Technical consulting & advisory services                   5.4
Information dissemination & promotion services             0.5
CLIP assistance and management contract                    1.0
PRONACOM Management Unit 1/                                1.1
4. Training                                                2.0
Competitiveness Learning & Innovation
Program2/
5. Matching grant subprojects                              5.0                   100% of
amounts disbursed
6. Voucher grants                                          1.0                   100%  of
amounts disbursed 3/
7. Operational Expenditures                                1.8                     4/
8. Bank loan capitalized front end fee                     0.2               Amount Due
[Total                                                     2 ; ;  f 7  0. ; 0 I3 0    0  !  : 0      61% 0  I
1/ Eligible expenditures include fees and travel costs for PRONACOM Management Unit, contract staff, fees for
financial audits and project impact evaluation.
2/ Eligible expenditures include information services, training, travel, demonstration equipment, technical advisory
services fees, quality or environmental testing and certifications insofar as they contribute directly to the approved
program. Salaries, other recurrent costs (such as office rental or advertising) and capital goods, among others, are
not eligible.
3/ While the voucher value would be fixed and covered 100% by the Bank loan, the value at which it would be fixed
will not exceed 80% of the estimated value of the eligible business development service.
4/ Recurrent costs would be financed on a declining basis: 100% until disbursements under this Category have
reached an aggregate of $800,000; 67% until disbursements under this category have reached an aggregate of
$1,400,000, and 33% thereafter.



Page 73
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                    Project Appraisal Document
Annex 6
Guatemala Competitiveness Project
Project Budget and Processing Schedule
A. Project Budget (US$000)                          Planned              Actual
(At PAD stage)
660.0               $643.4
B. Project Schedule                                Planned              Actual
(At fnal PCDI stage)
Time taken to prepare the project (months)         12 months            12 months
First Bank mission (identification)                  4/98                 4/98
Bank final project preparation mission             10/25/99              10/25/99
Fornal concept review meeting                      03/07/00              03/07/00
Begin Bank pre-appraisal mission                   03/20/00              03/20/00
Appraisal mission departure                       07/05/00              09/18/00
Loan Negotiations                                  08/07/00              11/08/00
Loan approval by Bank Board of Directors        September 2000           12/21/00
Loan signature                                  November 2000             2/01
Planned Date of Effectiveness                    January 2001             4/01
Prepared by: PRONACOM
Preparation assistance: PHRD Grant.
Composition of Bank Task Team
Jim Hanna            Task Manager & specialist in microbusiness services
Geeta Batra          PSD staff specializing in in-firm training systems
Ben Rowland          FIAS specialist in foreign direct investment
Mike Goldberg        LCSFP staff specializing in microbusiness
Kate Kuper           LCSFP Young Professional staff specializing in FDI & trade
Mario Marroquin      Guatemala City WB Office specializing in BSR
Luis Tineo           PSD consultant specializing in domestic competition policy
Lily Franchini       LCSFP staff assistant
Manuel Vargas        LCR specialist in financial management
Quality Assurance Arrangements
Luis Guasch           Sector Manager
Hong Tan              PSDBE



Page 74
Guatemala Competitiveness Project                             Project Appraisal Document
Annex 7
Guatemala Competition Project
Documents in the Project File
The Business Environment
1. Survey of Firm Skills Development, Technology and Productivity, GSI, July 1999.
2. Increasing Domestic Market Competition, Luis Tineo, Claudia Curiel & Gabriel Muadi,
November 2000.
3. Accelerating Foreign Investment and Trade
3.1 Foreign Investment and the Free Trade Regime, The Services Group, November 1999.
3.2 International Supply Chain Development - Phase 1 :Mritime Transport, WEFA,
Septermber 1999.
3.3 International Supply Chain Development - Phase 2: Inland Haulage, WEFA, July 2000
4. Expanding In-Firm Skills Training Markets, CIEN and GSI, September 1999.
5. Expanding Firm Product/Process Quality Technology Infrastructure, Robert Toth & Luis
Cordero, December 1999.
6. Improving the National Information System, Emmanuel Seidner, February 2000.
The Firm Level
7. Increasing Firm Investments in Learning and Innovation, Trade Development Institute,
December 1999.
8. Business Cluster Development Program
8.1 PRONACOM 1999 Program of Activities, PRONACOM, December 1999.
8.2 Forestry, IDC, June 1999.
8.3 Agro-Industry: Beans, Santa Cruz, Salazar & Asociados, July 1999.
8.4 Agro-Industry: Potatoes, IDC, September 1999.
9. Business Social Responsibility, Luisa Fernanda de Bosch & Mario Marroquin, December
1999.
Bank Staff Assessments
Procurement Capacity Assessment Report. The World Bank's Latin America and Caribbean
Region Private Sector Development Cluster, September 18, 2000
Financial Management Assessment Report. The World Bank's Latin America and Caribbean
Region Financial Management Unit, October 20, 2000.



Guatemala Competitiveness Project                                                                                                                                 Page 75
Project Appraisal Document
Annex 8
Statement of Loans and Credits
Status of Bank Group Operations in Guatemala
As of Date 11/13/2000
Closed Projects   23
Active Prolects                                                                                                                                     Oifference Between
Last PSR                                                                                                    Expected and Actual
Supervision Rating bi                                     Original Amount In USS Millions                          Disbursements'
Project ID              Project N  Development   Implementation  Fiscal Year           IBRD              IDA         GRANT           Cancel.  Undisb.      Orig. Frm Rev'd
O_beti,ves      PErores
P048657                GT INTES                      S             1998                 15.7              0              0                0       5.3       5.3        0
P047039                GTJUDS                        S             1999                  33               0              0                0      29.8       7.3        0
P048654                GTTAXS                        S             1998                 28.2              0              0                0      24.5      24.5        0
P007223                GTA3ASS                       S             1997                  33               0              0                0      10.3       -1         0
P040198                GT/FIS IS                     S             1999                  50               0              0                0       8.2    -24.1         0
P049386                GTARECS                       S             1999                  30               0              0                0      27.3       8.9        0
P049616                LAND AS                       S             1999                  31               0              0                0      26.4        7         0
P054462                 LANOFS                       S             1999                  23               0              0                0      22.8       7.2        0
P048756                PRIV PlF                      U             1997                  13               0              0                0       9.8       8.9        0
P035737                 RURAL S                      S             1998                 66.7              0              0                0      48.9       3.8        0
Result                                                             Result              323.6              0              0                0    213.2       47.7        0
a Intended disbursements to date rminus aclual disbursemerds to date as projected at appraisal



Page 75.1
CAS Annex B8 (IFC) for Guatemala
Guatemala
Statement of IFC's
Held and Disbursed Portfolio
As of 9/30/00
(In US Dollars Millions)
Held                    Disbursed
FY Approval Company        Loan Equity Quasi Partic Loan Equity Quasi Partic
1997 Aceros          13.5     0      0  9.33  13.5       0     0  9.33
1994 Fabrigas        2.63     0      1     0  2.63       0      1     0
2000 Frutera            7      0     0      0     7      0      0     0
1998 LaFragua         20      0      0     0    20       0     0      0
1997 Orzunil        12.91   1.17     0  14.7 12.91   1.17      0  14.7
1996 Pantaleon       12.5     0      0     0  12.5       0     0      0
1993/96     Puerto Quetzal     0      0      0     0     0       0     0      0
1993 Vigua           4.13     0      0     0  4.13       0     0      0
Total Portfolio:     72.67   1.17     1 24.03 72.67   1.17       1 24.03
Approvals Pending Commitment
Loan Equity Quasi Partic



Page 76
ANNEX 9
Guatemala at a glance                                                                 9/12100
Latin   Lower.
POVERTY and SOCIAL                                            America   middle.
Guatemala   b Carib.  Income        Development diamond"
1999
Population, mid-year (millions)                        11.1       509      2,094                  Life expectancy
GNP per capita (Atlas method, USs)                    1,660      3,840     1,200
GNP (Atlas method, US$ billions)                       18.4      1,955     2513
Average annual growth, 1993-9 9
Population (%/6)                                        2.6        1.6       1 1
Labor force (%)                                         3.6        2.5       1.2     GNP                              Gross
per                             primary
Most recent estimate (latest year available, 199349)                                 capita                        enrollment
Poverty (% of population below national poverty line)    75
Urban population (% of total population)                 39        75         43
Life expectancy at birth (years)                         64        70         69
Infant mortality (per 1,000 live births)                 37        31        33
Child malnutition (% of children under 5)                27         8         15                Access to safe water
Access to improved water source (% of population)        67        75        86
llliteracy(%ofpopulation age /5+)                        32        12         16
Gross pnmary enrollment (Y. of schoolage population)     88       113        114               Guatemab
Male                                                   93                 114         -Lower-middle-income group
Female                                                 83                 116   1
KEY ECONOMIC RATIOS and LONG-TERM TRENDS
1979     1989      1998       1999
Economic ratios"
GDP (US$ billions)                             6.9      6.4       18.9      18.0
Gross domestic investment/GDP                 18.7     13.5       16 0      15.7                     Trade
Exports of goods and services/GDP             21.3     17 3       18 6      18.8
Gross domestic savings/GDP                    14.2      8.3        7.7       8.3
Gross national savings/GDP                    16 1      8 0       10.5      11 5
Current account balance/GDP                   -3 0      -5 4      -5 5      -5 3     Domestic   I
Interest payments/GDP                          0.7      1.3        0.7       0 8     Savigs           1            Investment
Total debt/GDP                                15.2    31 5        20.9      22.6     S
Total debt service/exports                     7.3     19.6        98        9.6
Present value of debtWGDP                                         22.6
Present value of debt/exports                                    105.2
Indebtedness
1979489  1989-99     1998       1999   1999-03
(average annual growth)
GDP                                   0.4      4.1      5.1        3.5       5.0            -Guatemala
GNP per capita                       -2 3      1.5      2.8        0.6       2.4                Lower-middle-mcome group
Exports of goods and services       -3.7       6.5      6.0        4.8       7.9
STRUCTURE of the ECONOMY
1979     1989      1999       1999      Growth of investment and GDP(%)
(% of GDP)                                                                           30
Agriculture                                   25.4     25.6       23.4      23.1
Industry                                      21.5     201        20.0      20.1     1a -
Manufacturing                               16.3     15.2       13.5      13.4
Services                                      53.1     54.3       56.6      56.8      o       . .;
94   95       9   7    98
Pnvate consumption                            78.7     83.8       86.8      85.9    las
General government consumption                 7.1      7.9        5.6       5.8                     GDt       0.GDP
Imports of goods and services                 25.9     22.5       26.9      26.2
197989  1989-99       1998       1999     Growth of exports and imports %)
(average annual growth)
Agnculture                                     0.7      2.9        3.5       22 2
Industry                                      -0 6      4.2        5.2       41      20
Manufacturing                               -0.3       2.8       3.6       2.6                               r
Services                                       0.6      4.6        5.8       37      1s
Pnvate consumption                             0.8      4.3        5.5       30       o
General government consumption                 2.8      4.5       10.6       4.8              94s7    gosa                9
Gross domestic investment                     -3.3      5.2       21.9      -4.0   -1i
Imports of goods and seMces                   -4.2      9.0       23 0      -1 7             -Erxports       iOsmports
Gross national product                         0.1      4.2        5.5       3.2
Note 1999 data are preliminary estimates.
"The diamonds show four key indicators in the country (in bold) compared with its income-group average. If data are missing, the diamond will
be incomplete.



Guatemala
PRICES and GOVERNMENT FINANCE
Domestic prices                               1979     1881e      11N8      legs     Inflation (%)
(% change)                                                                            1
Consumer prices, average                      113       114        70        49      ro'
Implicit GDP deflator                          8.6     10.9        6.8       6.6
Central Govemment finance
(% of GOP, includes cuffent grants)                                                   o
Current revenue                                                    9.9       9.8             94    95    96    97   9s    99
Current budget balance                                             2 4       1 6                   GOP deflatDr    *CpI
Overall surplus/deficit                                            -2.5     -3.1              -GDP detlator           CPI
TRADE
(US$ mil/ions) 1J79                                    118S       199      119SS      Export and Import levels (USS mlil.4
Total exports (fob)                                    1,126     2,847     2,488     5,000
Coffee                                                380        581       561     4                                       _
Sugar                                                  92        314       192
Manufactures                                                     929       839     3,000
Total imports (cif)                                    1,641     4,651     4,558     2,0
Food                                                  231        969       960
Fuel and energy                                       212        284       321      ,
Capital goods                                         352       1,373    1,289        o                           _
Export price index (1995=100)                    ..      84         89        81                 t    9s    r   a     ss    9
Import prce index (1995=100)                     ..     101         93        91                   flExports     U Imports
Terms of trade (1995=100)                        ..      84         96        90
BALANCE of PAYMENTS
(USS millions)                                1978     188        1910      199       Current account balance to GDP (%)
Exports of goods and services                1,449    1,465      3,455     3,475     0
Imports of goods and servioes                1,784    1,869      5,028     5,005         _6                       1
Resource balance                              -335     .404     -1,573    -1,530    ,2
Net income                                       3     -195       -169      -200
Netcurrent transfers                           123  148   705  783  - 1111111
Current account balance                       -209     -451      -1,037     -947     .         1
Financing items (net)                          183      364      1,279       822
Changes in net reserves                         26       88       -243       125    -s
Memo:
Reserves including gold (US$ milions)          718      329      1,209     1,084
Conversion rate (DEC, local'US$)                1.0      2.8       6.4       7.4
EXTERNAL DEBT and RESOURCE FLOWS
1979     1181       1991     11s
(US$ millions)                                                                        Composition of 1999 debt (US$ mill.)
Total debt outstanding and disbursed         1,050    2,651      3,944     4,061
IBRD                                         108      261        203      258
IDA                                            0        0          0        0                            258
Total debt service                             113      304        396       386             1268
IRD                                          10       48         26       31
IDA                                            0        0          0        0
1299
Composition of net resource flows                                                              9
Official grants                               20      127        152        71
Official creditors                           126       16        124       58
Private creditors                             61        7        -52      -46
Foreign direct investment                    117       76       673       155
Portfolio equity                               0        0          0        0                             682
World Bank program
Commitments                                    0       29        154        23     A - IBRD                     E - Bilateral
Disbursements                                 47       14         30        70      8-IDA    O- Othermultilateral  F-Private
Principal repayments                           2       27         14        15     C-IMF                        G Short-term
Net flows                                     44      -13         15       55
Interest payments                              8       21         12        17
Net transfers                                 36      -34          3       38
Development Economics                                                                                                   9/12/00



IBRD 29282
_11                                                90,                                                                  8'8/         .
Gulf iA                                                                       Q88
Mexio/
MEXICOL4 1              C  Scr b0                               25      50      7S Viwhom'trs                              /
GuatEmala   ( ig..rA                                      0            25            50           75 Mi6s                p
ElSAtV         NICARAG; A18 ,  /       18
OC@^EA       r         N                  -..__,_; *                                                                                    A7E
PACfFIC          C- -,           ,-I    e-'                                                        -I CA  0 
920                                .                                                                             -a "i
This map as produced by        -      ,                                                                  j I                             ,
the Mop Design Unit of The   e.                     
World Bank. The boundaries,                                   -- '
colors, denominations ad           *                                                                                 BELI 1
any other information shoum                                                 L. PclIZ E ,-'
onthimamp 6not imh,$ an                                                     L. Pet6 ,0/tz6j                       
the partof Th. W.7rfd Bnk                                       ,           >,                                                                 t,
/r,IUp,oyj2Yudg0mentOfF m Ae                                              Flom 5/D                ,            ,                                         f
legal status of any territory ,,Foa0i                                                                          '                                         
or any endorsement or
acceptance of such                                  .                   P E    T       NE                                             (-
boundarie.                                                            -    - v                    >,    I                           Xs        7
a.                          - -    -          
M              E X I C O                                                                                                      Gulf of
I,;<  ,  !            ;          - tlHonduras
A-,                                bi'                                                   ;-        A      ~
16~~~~~~*
/    .                 --                             ALIA  VERAA               / _
/- I                      KCJ  St tCHC           ;S   E*E g3Cotpnc        -      -              t  ) ,  JIde
*      , ,r         "'_8#-B- -S   !s           t,,
/       S'                    *   ~        Hueuonar c ingo
M,AARCOS                      ,''.bA.A vs,8A PAZ,   s....  
San             ICTNICPANI                  iK, 0MA 'Y   AZAA
Marcos. K  @SantcCruz                              ESlcmot<y   L             ZACA>V
*R    a   Cl <,    >  T%onicapan delQuich,_                       PR0OG            RZcpa
,~ oLL>-Q($~inokngo   'iaap               { yp>j~)HONDURAS
SjgUE~It  *;    6          V J           Gua?ema\\/Culap  ct    ~>s          
bS  ,   --           Esunaw ,,         .-E 
2ETALHYVEU    &"'t'                                ,                                 AC
SAtAh ~~~~~~~OS_2 r-t
X4o -i                                                                                                                                       *.'ZRCt  o>@ 140
EL SALVADOR
GUATEMAIA  --:-    
*    DEPARTMNTMCAPTALSA -                -                                         -a-           -  C
- -Wa                                                                  PAII    OCEANS
- - -   '4ERNATIONAL ROUND>ARES            .~ .           .~-        -.--                    
JULY 1998



