Page  1
CONFORMED COPY
LOAN NUMBER 7044-GU
Loan Agreement
(Competitiveness Project)
between
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
and
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
Dated May 23, 2002
LOAN NUMBER 7044-GU
LOAN AGREEMENT
AGREEMENT, dated May 23, 2002, between REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA (the 
Borrower) and INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
Page  2
(the Bank).
WHEREAS the Borrower, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of the 
project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested the Bank to assist 
in the financing of the Project; and
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, inter alia, of the foregoing, to extend the 
Loan to the Borrower upon the terms and conditions set forth in this Agreement;
NOW THEREFORE the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
ARTICLE I
General Conditions; Definitions
Section 1.01. The “General Conditions Applicable to Loan and Guarantee Agreements 
for Fixed-Spread Loans” of the Bank dated September 1, 1999 (the General Conditions) 
constitute an integral part of this Agreement.
Section 1.02. Unless the context otherwise requires, the several terms defined in the 
General Conditions and in the Preamble to this Agreement have the respective meanings therein 
set forth and the following additional terms have the following meanings:
(a)
“
Banco de Guatemala
” means the Borrower’s Central Bank;
(b)
“Cluster” means a group of businesses comprised of, 
inter alia
,
suppliers, 
producers, distributors and systems support within the same economic sector which have agreed 
to pursue one or more programs to increase the international competitiveness of said economic 
sector;
(c)
“Competitiveness Plan” means any of the plans referred to in Part E (a) of the 
Project;
(d)
“Eligible Categories” means categories (1) through (7) set forth in the table in 
Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement;
(e)
“Eligible Entity” means an entity with less than 50 employees or a group of 
entities with less than 50 employees each which are engaged in manufacturing, commerce or 
services and meet the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate under Part E (b) 
of the Project; 
(f)
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works and services 
Page  3
referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement;
(g)
“Eligible Micro-enterprise” means an entity with less than 5 employees which 
meets the criteria set forth in the Operational Manual to participate under Part E (c) of the 
Project;
(h)
“Executive Committee” means the committee (comprised of public and private 
sector representatives) of the 
Programa Nacional de Competitividad
 (PRONACOM), the 
Borrower’s National Competitiveness Program, established pursuant to Presidential Accord No. 
942-99 (as defined below) for the purposes of setting forth the policies to carry out PRONACOM 
(as defined herein);
(i)
“Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to an 
Eligible Entity out of the proceeds of the Loan for purposes of financing up to 50% of the 
implementation cost of the activities within a Competitiveness Plan (as defined above) or 
$50,000, whichever is lower; 
(j)
“Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in Section 3.04 (d) 
of this Agreement;
(k)
“Implementation Letter” means the letter of even date herewith from the 
Borrower to the Bank setting forth the Project indicators;
(l)
“ISO” means the International Standards Organization, an international entity 
which sets standards and norms;
(m)
“Management Agreement” means the agreement referred to in Section 3.04 (a) 
of this Agreement;
(n)
“Management Entity” means the entity referred to in Section 3.04 (a) of this 
Agreement;
(o)
“MINECO” means 
Ministerio de Economía
,
the Borrower’s Ministry of 
Economy;
(p)
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.04 (c) of this 
Agreement;
(q)
“Presidential Accord No. 942-99” means 
Acuerdo Gubernativo
 No. 942-99, the 
Borrower’s Presidential Accord No. 942-99 of December 20, 1999 which established 
PRONACOM and the Executive Committee (as defined above), as such Presidential Accord has 
been amended to the date of this Agreement;
(r)
“Project Management Report” means each report prepared in accordance with 
Page  4
Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(s)
“PRONACOM Management Unit” means the unit referred to in Section 3.05 (a) 
(i) of this Agreement;
(t)
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement;
(u)
“Supervisory Committee” means the committee referred to in Section 3.05 (a)(ii) 
of this Agreement; and
(v)
“Voucher” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the Borrower to an 
Eligible Micro-enterprise in the form of a promissory note in favor of a third party service 
provider for purposes of financing up to 80% of the cost of the services provided by said 
provider under Part E (c) of the Project.
ARTICLE II
The Loan
Section 2.01. The Bank agrees to lend to the Borrower, on the terms and conditions set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement, an amount equal to twenty million three hundred thousand 
Dollars ($20,300,000), as such amount may be converted from time to time through a Currency 
Conversion in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.09 of this Agreement.
Section 2.02.  The amount of the Loan may be withdrawn from the Loan Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for: (a) amounts disbursed (or if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be disbursed) by the Borrower under a Grant; (b) amounts paid (or if 
the Bank shall so agree, to be paid) by the Borrower under a Voucher; and (c)  expenditures 
made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in respect of the reasonable cost of goods, 
works and services required for Parts A, B, C, D, E (a) and (d), F and G of the Project and to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan and in respect of the front-end fee referred to in Section 
2.04 of this Agreement and any premium in respect of an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar payable by the Borrower in accordance with Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions.
Section 2.03. The Closing Date shall be June 30, 2005 or such later date as the Bank 
shall establish. The Bank shall promptly notify the Borrower of such later date.
Section 2.04. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a front-end fee in an amount equal to 
two hundred three thousand Dollars
 
($203,000). The Borrower agrees that on or promptly after 
the Effective Date, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and pay to itself the amount of such fee.
Section 2.05. The Borrower shall pay to the Bank a commitment charge on the principal 
Page  5
amount of the Loan not withdrawn from time to time, at a rate equal to: (i) eighty five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.85%) per annum from the date on which such charge 
commences to accrue in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of the General 
Conditions to but not including the fourth anniversary of such date; and (ii) seventy five 
one-hundredths of one per cent (0.75%) per annum thereafter.
Section 2.06. The Borrower shall pay interest on the principal amount of the Loan 
withdrawn and outstanding from time to time, in respect of each Interest Period at the Variable 
Rate; provided, that upon a Conversion of all or any portion of the principal amount of the Loan, 
the Borrower shall, during the Conversion Period, pay interest on such amount in accordance 
with the relevant provisions of Article IV of the General Conditions.
Section 2.07. Interest, commitment and other charges shall be payable semiannually in 
arrears on June 15 and December 15 in each year.
Section 2.08. The Borrower shall repay the principal amount of the Loan in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 3 to this Agreement.
Section 2.09. (a) The Borrower may at any time request any of the following 
Conversions of the terms of the Loan in order to facilitate prudent debt management:
(i)
a change of the Loan Currency of all or any portion of the principal 
amount of the Loan, withdrawn or unwithdrawn, to an Approved 
Currency;
(ii)
a change of the interest rate basis applicable to all or any portion of the 
principal 
amount of the Loan from a Variable Rate to a Fixed 
Rate, or vice versa; and
(iii)
the setting of limits on the Variable Rate applicable to all or any portion 
of the 
principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding by the 
establishment of 
an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate Collar on 
said Variable Rate.
(b)
Any conversion requested pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section that is 
accepted by the Bank shall be considered a “Conversion”, as defined in Section 2.01 (7) of the 
General Conditions, and shall be effected in accordance with the provisions of Article IV of the 
General Conditions and of the Conversion Guidelines. 
(c)
Promptly following the Execution Date for an Interest Rate Cap or Interest Rate 
Collar in respect of which the Borrower has requested that the premium be paid out of the 
proceeds of the Loan, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan 
Account and pay to itself the amounts required to pay any premium payable in accordance with 
Section 4.04(c) of the General Conditions up to the amount allocated from time to time for such 
purpose in the table in paragraph 1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement.
Page  6
ARTICLE III
Execution of the Project
Section 3.01. (a) The Borrower declares its commitment to the objectives of the Project, 
and, to this end, shall carry out: 
(i) 
Parts A, B, C, D, F and G of the Project through the PRONACOM 
Management Unit; and 
(ii) 
Part E of the Project through the PRONACOM Management Unit with 
the participation of the Management Entity, all with due diligence and 
efficiency and in conformity with appropriate technical, administrative, 
trade, financial and environmental practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the funds, facilities, services and other resources required for 
the Project.
(b) 
Without limitation to the provisions of paragraph (a) (ii) of this Section, the 
Borrower shall provide, promptly as needed, as counterpart funds for the Project, an amount of at 
least $1,700,000 equivalent.
Section 3.02. Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the goods, works 
and consultants’ services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the 
Loan shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 4 to this Agreement.
Section 3.03. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and without 
limitation thereto, the Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall:
(a)
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank not later than six (6) months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be agreed for 
this purpose between the Borrower and the Bank, a plan for the future operation of the Project; 
and
(b)
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the Borrower 
on said plan.
Page  7
Section 3.04. (a) For purposes of assisting the Borrower in the administration and 
supervision of Part E of the Project, the Borrower,
 
through the PRONACOM Management
 
Unit
,
shall enter into an agreement (the Management Agreement) with an entity (the Management 
Entity) with qualifications and experience acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank.
(b) 
(i) The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall exercise its 
rights under the Management Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the 
Borrower and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank 
shall otherwise agree, the Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall not 
assign, amend, abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce the Management Agreement or any 
provision thereof.
(c)
The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall carry out Part 
E
of
the Project in accordance with a manual (the Operational Manual), acceptable to the Bank, 
said manual to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the criteria for selecting Eligible Entities and Eligible 
Micro-enterprises; (ii) the criteria for approving Competitiveness Plans; (iii) the criteria for 
approving Vouchers and the terms and conditions of said vouchers; (iv) the disbursement and 
procurement procedures governing Part E (b) and (c) of the Project; and (v) a sample of the terms 
and conditions of a Grant Agreement and a Voucher.
(d)
Upon approval of a Competitiveness Plan, the Borrower, through the 
PRONACOM Management Unit, shall enter into an agreement (the Grant Agreement) with the 
corresponding Eligible Entity to enable said entity to carry out its Competitiveness Plan, on 
terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of said entity 
to finance at least 50% of the cost of its Competitiveness Plan.
(e)
(i) The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall exercise its 
rights under each Grant Agreement in such manner as to protect the interests of the Borrower and 
the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the Loan; and (ii) except as the Bank shall otherwise 
agree, the Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall not assign, amend, 
abrogate, terminate, waive or fail to enforce any Grant Agreement or any provision thereof.
Section 3.05. (a) The Borrower shall: 
(i) 
establish within MINECO, and thereafter maintain and operate at all 
times during Project implementation, a management unit (the 
PRONACOM Management Unit) with functions and responsibilities 
acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the responsibility to: (A) 
implement the directives issued by the Executive Committee in 
connection with the carrying out of the Project; and (B) assist the 
Borrower in the monitoring and overall supervision of the Project; and 
(ii) 
establish within the PRONACOM Management Unit, and thereafter 
maintain and operate at all times during Project implementation, a 
supervisory committee (the Supervisory Committee) with functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the 
Page  8
responsibility to assist the Borrower in the supervision of Part E (b) and 
(c) of the Project.
(b)
The Borrower shall ensure that the PRONACOM Management Unit is, at all 
times during the implementation of the Project, headed by a managing director to be appointed 
by the Executive Committee and assisted by staff in adequate numbers, with qualifications and 
experience satisfactory to the Bank.
Section 3.06. The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall: (a) not 
later than November 30 of each year of Project implementation, starting in the year 2001, prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a plan of action, acceptable to the Bank, setting forth the Project 
activities to be carried by the Borrower during the calendar year following the date of 
presentation of said plan; and (b) thereafter carry out said plan in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.07. The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall:
(a)
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and evaluate 
on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the indicators set forth in the Implementation Letter, the 
carrying out of the Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof;
(b)
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to the 
Bank, not later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter, starting with the report due 
for the third quarter of the year 2001, a report integrating the results of the monitoring and 
evaluation activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress 
achieved in the carrying out of the Project during the calendar quarter preceding the date of said 
report and setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the 
Project and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the calendar quarter following such 
date; and
(c)
review with the Bank, by July 31, 2002, or such later date as the Bank shall 
request, the pertinent reports referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all 
measures required to ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the 
objectives thereof, based on the conclusions and recommendations of each said report and the 
Bank’s views on the matter.
Section 3.08. The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall, prior to 
providing technical assistance to a Cluster under Part G.1 (a) of the Project, enter into an 
agreement with said Cluster on terms and conditions acceptable to the Bank, including, 
inter alia
,
the obligation of said Cluster to finance up to 50% of the cost of the technical assistance to be 
provided under said Part of the Project.  
ARTICLE IV
Financial Covenants
Page  9
Section 4.01. (a) The Borrower shall establish within the PRONACOM Management 
Unit, and thereafter at all times maintain a financial management system, including records and 
accounts, and prepare financial statements in a format acceptable to the Bank, adequate to reflect 
the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project.
(b)
The Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall:
(i)
have the records, accounts and financial statements referred to in 
paragraph (a) of this Section and the records and accounts for the 
Special Account for each fiscal year audited, in accordance with auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, consistently applied, by independent 
auditors acceptable to the Bank;
(ii)
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later than 
four months after the end of each such year: (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section for such 
year as so audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements, records and 
accounts and report of such audit, by said auditors, of such scope and in 
such detail as the Bank shall have reasonably requested, including as 
part of the information to be provided in such report, a management 
letter concerning the Borrower’s internal controls; and
(iii)
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such records and 
accounts, and the audit thereof, and concerning said auditors, as the 
Bank may from time to time reasonably request.
(c)
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the Loan Account 
were made on the basis of Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure, the 
Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall:
(i)
maintain or cause to be maintained, in accordance with paragraph (a) of 
this Section, records and separate accounts reflecting such expenditures;
(ii)
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the audit report 
for the fiscal year in which the last withdrawal from the Loan Account 
was made, all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and 
other documents) evidencing such expenditures;
(iii)
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and
(iv)
ensure that such records and accounts are included in the annual audit 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and that the report of such 
audit contains a separate opinion by said auditors as to whether the 
Project Management Reports or statements of expenditure submitted 
during such fiscal year, together with the procedures and internal 
Page  10
controls involved in their preparation, can be relied upon to support the 
related withdrawals.
Section 4.02. (a) Without limitation upon the provisions of Section 4.01 of this 
Agreement, the Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall carry out a 
time-bound action plan acceptable to the Bank for the strengthening of the financial management 
system referred to in paragraph (a) of said Section 4.01 in order to enable the Borrower, not later 
than November 30, 2001, or such later date as the Bank shall agree, to prepare quarterly Project 
management reports, acceptable to the Bank, each of which:
(i) 
(A) sets forth actual sources and applications of funds for the Project, 
both cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the 
six-month period following the period covered by said report; and (B) 
shows separately expenditures financed out of the proceeds of the Loan 
during the period covered by said report and expenditures proposed to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan during the six-month period 
following the period covered by said report;
(ii)
(A) describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report; and (B) explains 
variances between the actual and previously forecast implementation 
targets; and
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project and expenditures 
under contracts financed out of the proceeds of the Loan, as at the end of 
the period covered by said report.
(b)
Upon the completion of the action plan referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section, the Borrower, through the PRONACOM Management Unit, shall prepare, in accordance 
with guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to the Bank not later than 45 days after the 
end of each calendar quarter a Project Management Report for such period.
ARTICLE V
Remedies of the Bank
Section 5.01. Pursuant to Section 6.02 (p) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional events are specified:
(a)
The proposed law referred to in Part A.1 of the Project, if enacted, or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
the ability of the Borrower to carry out Part A.3 of the Project.
Page  11
(b)
The proposed law referred to in Part C.4 of the Project, if enacted, or any 
provision thereof shall have been amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not 
enforced in such a manner so as to materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, 
the ability of the Borrower to carry out Part C.6 of the Project.
(c)
Presidential Accord No. 942-99 or any provision thereof shall have been 
amended, suspended, abrogated, repealed, waived or not enforced in such a manner so as to 
materially and adversely affect, in the opinion of the Bank, the ability of the Borrower to carry 
out the Project.
Section 5.02. Pursuant to Section 7.01 (k) of the General Conditions, the following 
additional event is specified, namely, that any of the events specified in paragraphs (a) or (b) or 
(c) of Section 5.01 of this Agreement shall occur.
ARTICLE VI
Effective Date; Termination
Section 6.01. The following events are specified as additional conditions to the 
effectiveness of the Loan Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions:
(a)
the Operational Manual has been approved by the Bank;
(b)
a financial management system has been established as provided in Section 4.01 
(a) of this Agreement; 
(c)
the external auditors referred to in Section 4.01 (b) (i) of this Agreement have 
been hired by the Borrower, in a manner acceptable to the Bank;
(d)
the PRONACOM Management Unit has been established and staffed as 
provided by Section 3.05 of this Agreement; and
(e)
the Supervisory Committee has been established as provided in Section 3.05 (a) 
(ii) of this Agreement.
Section 6.02. The date August 21, 2002 is hereby specified for the purposes of Section 
12.04 of the General Conditions.
ARTICLE VII
Representative of the Borrower; Addresses
Section 7.01. The Minister of Public Finance of the Borrower is designated as 
Page  12
representative of the Borrower for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General Conditions.
Section 7.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of Section 11.01 of 
the General Conditions:
For the Borrower:
Ministerio de Finanzas Públicas
8a Avenida y 21 Calle
Centro Cívico
Zona 1, Guatemala
Cable address: 
Facsimile:
 
MINFIN
(502) 230-0333
Guatemala, Guatemala
For the Bank:
International Bank for
  Reconstruction and Development
1818 H Street, N.W.
Washington, D.C. 20433
United States of America
Cable address:
Telex:
Facsimile:
INTBAFRAD
             248423 (MCI) or           (202) 477-6391
Washington, D.C.
  64145 (MCI)
Page  13
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly authorized 
representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective names in Guatemala 
City, Guatemala, as of the day and year first above written.
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
By  /s/ Eduardo Weymann
Authorized Representative
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR
  RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT
By  /s/ Eduardo Somensatto
Acting Regional Vice President
Latin America and the Caribbean
SCHEDULE 1
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the Loan
A.
General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the Loan, the allocation of the amounts of the Loan to each Category and the percentage of 
expenditures for items so to be financed in each Category:
Amount of the
Loan Allocated
% of Expenditures
Category
(Expressed in Dollars)
to be Financed
(1)
Works
400,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local expenditures
(2)
Goods
1,900,000
100% of foreign
expenditures and
80% of local
Page  14
expenditures
(3)
Consultants' services
(a) under Parts A, B, C, D,
6,750,000
100%
F and G.1 (b) and (c)
and G.2 of the Project
(b) under Part E (a) and (d)
1,000,000
100%
(c) under G.1 (a) of the Project
200,000
50%
(4)
Training
2,000,000
100%
(5)
Grants
5,000,000
100% of amounts
disbursed
(6)
Vouchers
1,000,000
100% of the amount
of the Voucher
(7)
Operational Expenditures
1,847,000
100% until 
disbursements under 
this Category have 
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$800,000; 67% until
disbursements under 
this Category have 
reached an aggregate
amount equivalent to
$1,400,000; and 33%
thereafter
(8)
Fee
203,000
Amount due under 
Section 2.04 of this
(9)
Premia for Interest Rate 
Amount due under 
Caps and Interest Rate 
0
Section 2.09 (c)
Collars
of this Agreement
TOTAL
20,300,000
2.
For the purposes of this Schedule:
(a)
the term “foreign expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of any 
country other than that of the Borrower for goods or services supplied from the territory of any 
country other than that of the Borrower;
Page  15
(b)
the term “local expenditures” means expenditures in the currency of the 
Borrower or for goods or services supplied from the territory of the Borrower;
(c)
the term “Training” means expenditures (other than those for Consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Borrower to finance the transportation costs and per-diem of trainees 
and the leasing of training facilities; and
(d)
the term “Operational Expenditures” means incremental recurrent expenditures 
incurred by the Borrower in connection with the carrying out of the Project, including salaries of 
the PRONACOM Management Unit, transportation costs and per-diem for management and 
supervision of the Project and the fee to be paid by the Borrower to external auditors in 
connection with the carrying out of the audits mentioned in Section 4.01 (b) of this Agreement.
3.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be made in 
respect of: 
(a)
payments made for expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement, except that 
withdrawals, in an aggregate amount not exceeding the amount of $2,000,000, may be made in 
respect of Categories (1) through (7) set forth in the table in paragraph 1 of this Part A on 
account of payments made for expenditures incurred within twelve months before the date of this 
Agreement;
(b)
payments made for expenditures under Categories (3)(b), (5) and (6) of the table 
in paragraph 1 of this Part A unless the Management Agreement has been signed by the parties 
thereto; and
(c)
payments made for expenditures under Category (5) of the table in paragraph 1 
of this Part A for each Grant unless: (i) the condition referred to in paragraph 3(b) of this Section 
has been met; and (ii) the corresponding Grant Agreement has been signed by the parties thereto.
4.
The Bank may require withdrawals from the Loan Account to be made on the basis of 
statements of expenditure for expenditures under: (a) contracts for goods costing less than 
$150,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first two contracts for goods procured under 
Part C.1 (a) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (b) contracts for works costing less 
than $150,000 equivalent each, with the exception of the first two contracts for works procured 
under Part C.1 (b) of Section I of Schedule 4 to this Agreement; (c) contracts for the employment 
of consulting firms costing less than $100,000 equivalent each; (d) contracts for the employment 
of individual consultants costing less than $50,000 equivalent each; and (e) Training and 
Operational Expenditures set forth in Categories (4) and (7) of the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Part A, respectively, all under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to 
the Borrower.
B.
Special Account
1.
The Borrower shall open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in 
Banco de 
Page  16
Guatemala
, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the Bank.
2.
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account has been 
opened, withdrawals from the Loan Account of amounts to be deposited into the Special Account 
shall be made as follows:
(a)
until the Bank shall have received: (i) the first Project Management Report 
referred to in Section 4.02 (b) of this Agreement; and (ii) a request from the Borrower for 
withdrawal on the basis of Project Management Reports, withdrawals shall be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and
(b)
upon receipt by the Bank of a Project Management Report pursuant to Section 
4.02 (b) of this Agreement, accompanied by a request from the Borrower for withdrawal on the 
basis of Project Management Reports, all further withdrawals shall be made in accordance with 
the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.
3.
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Borrower out of the Special Account, the 
Borrower shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank such 
documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not be 
required to make further deposits into the Special Account:
(a)
if the Bank determines at any time that any Project Management Report does not 
adequately provide the information required pursuant to Section 4.02 of this Agreement;
(b)
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals should be made 
by the Borrower directly from the Loan Account; or
(c)
if the Borrower shall have failed to furnish to the Bank within the period of time 
specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports required to be 
furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (A) the records and 
accounts for the Special Account; or (B) the records and accounts reflecting expenditures with 
respect to which withdrawals were made on the basis of Project Management Reports.
5.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account in 
accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank shall have 
notified the Borrower of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of the Borrower to 
make withdrawals from the Loan Account pursuant to Section 6.02 of the General Conditions.  
Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, in its sole discretion, whether further deposits 
into the Special Account may be made and what procedures should be followed for making such 
deposits, and shall notify the Borrower of its determination.
Page  17
6.
(a)
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special Account 
was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not justified by the 
evidence furnished to the Bank, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, provide 
such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into the Special Account (or, if the 
Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal to the amount of such payment.  
Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit by the Bank into the Special Account 
shall be made until the Borrower has provided such evidence or made such deposit or refund, as 
the case may be.
(b)
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the Special 
Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during the six-month 
period following such determination, the Borrower shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank such outstanding amount.
(c)
The Borrower may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or any 
portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.
(d)
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to sub-paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the Loan Account for subsequent withdrawal or for cancellation 
in accordance with the provisions of the Loan Agreement.
Annex A
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Not Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means an amount 
equal to $1,500,000 to be withdrawn from the Loan Account and deposited into the Special 
Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex.
2.
Withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation and subsequent 
withdrawals to replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:
(a)
For withdrawals of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation, the Borrower 
shall furnish to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount 
or amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account 
and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested.
(b)
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Borrower shall furnish to the 
Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall specify. 
Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Borrower shall furnish to the Bank the documents 
Page  18
and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement for the 
payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is requested. On the basis of each such 
request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit 
into the Special Account such amount as the Borrower shall have requested and as shall have 
been shown by said documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account 
for Eligible Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special Account’s Eligible Categories.
3.
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, once 
the total unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said Special Account’s Eligible 
Categories minus the total amount of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the 
Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 of the General Conditions in respect of expenditures to be 
financed out of the proceeds of the Loan allocated to said Categories, shall equal the equivalent 
of twice the amount of the Special Account’s Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal 
from the Loan Account of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the Loan allocated to said 
Categories shall follow such procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Borrower.  
Such further withdrawals shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been 
satisfied that all such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such 
notice will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures.
Annex B
to
SCHEDULE 1
Operation of Special Account
When Withdrawals Are Made
On the Basis of Project Management Reports
1.
Except as the Bank may otherwise specify by notice to the Borrower, all withdrawals 
from the Loan Account shall be deposited by the Bank into the Special Account in accordance 
with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account 
shall be withdrawn by the Bank from the Loan Account under one or more of the Special 
Account’s Eligible Categories.
2.
Each application for withdrawal from the Loan Account for deposit into the Special 
Account shall be supported by a Project Management Report.
3.
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the Loan, the Bank 
shall, on behalf of the Borrower, withdraw from the Loan Account and deposit into the Special 
Account an amount equal to the lesser of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which 
the Bank has determined, based on the Project Management Report accompanying said 
application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible Expenditures during the 
six-month period following the date of such report; provided, however, that the amount so 
deposited, when added to the amount indicated by said Project Management Report to be 
remaining in the Special Account, shall not exceed an amount equal to $3,600,000. 
Page  19
SCHEDULE 2
Description of the Project
The objective of the Project is to foster economic growth and reduce poverty in 
Guatemala by assisting primarily micro and small businesses in expanding their activities, 
creating employment opportunities and generating higher income.
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof as the 
Borrower and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such objectives:
Part A
: Domestic Competition
1.
Preparation of a draft law, acceptable to the Bank, which would, if enacted, strengthen 
the Borrower’s competition framework and foster economic efficiency and consumer welfare, 
said law to primarily establish provisions to protect competition against anti-competitive 
business practices and to create a competition commission with a structure, functions and 
responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Design of draft regulations to the law mentioned in Part A.1 above. 
3.
If the draft law referred to in Part A.1 above is enacted, provision of technical assistance 
to the competition commission mentioned in Part A.1 above in order to enable it to commence its 
operations, including the provision of training to staff and the acquisition and utilization of goods 
required therefor.
4.
Design and implementation of a strategy to inform the public in general, Borrower’s 
officials and representatives of the private sector and the academia with respect to the contents of 
the proposed draft law and the functions and responsibilities of the commission referred to in 
Part A.1 above, through, 
inter alia
, the carrying out of seminars, workshops and conferences. 
5.
Design and implementation of a corporate competition policy program, said program to 
include, 
inter alia
,
the carrying out of analyses and case studies of anti-competitive business 
practices.
Part B
: Foreign Investment
1.
Establishment of a foreign direct investment promotion council with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank. 
2.
Strengthening of the institutional and administrative capacity of the council mentioned in 
Part B.1 above through the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and 
Page  20
utilization of goods required therefor.
3.
Carrying out of an analysis of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework governing 
foreign investment registration in order to identify administrative and procedural barriers to said 
framework and, thereafter, design and implement a plan (acceptable to the Bank) to eliminate 
said barriers and to introduce, if needed, regulatory changes to reduce the cost and time of 
foreign investment registration in Guatemala, including the provision of training required 
therefor.
4.
Carrying out of an analysis of the legal, regulatory and institutional framework governing 
the transport of exported goods (including, related production of inputs for said exports) in order 
to identify barriers to said framework and, thereafter, design and implement a plan (acceptable to 
the Bank) to eliminate said barriers and to introduce, if needed, regulatory changes to reduce the 
cost and time of transport of exported goods, including the provision of training required 
therefor.
Part C
: In-firm Skills Training and Information Markets
1.
Carrying out of an analysis of the current framework governing the application and 
administration of the payroll training levy and thereafter, design and implement a plan 
(acceptable to the Bank) to improve the application and administration of said levy.
2.
Design and implementation of a training promotion campaign targeted, in particular, to 
small businesses for purposes of informing said businesses of, 
inter alia
,
the benefits of in-firm 
training, the public and private sources of training and the procedures to be followed in order to 
benefit from said training. 
3.
Design and implementation of a system of extension services for purposes of assisting 
individual businesses in assessing their in-firm training needs, establishing their training policies 
and identifying training provider options.
4.
Preparation of a draft law, acceptable to the Bank, which would, if enacted, strengthen 
the Borrower’s statistics system, through primarily the establishment of a national statistics 
superintendency with a structure, functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank.
5.
Design of regulations to the law mentioned in Part C.4 above.
6.
If the draft law referred to in Part C.4 above is enacted, provision of technical assistance 
to said superintendency to enable it to commence its operations, including the provision of 
training to staff and the acquisition and utilization of goods required therefor. 
7.
Design and implementation of a strategy to inform the public in general, Borrower’s 
officials and representatives of the private sector and the academia with respect to the contents of 
the proposed draft law and the functions and responsibilities of the superintendency referred to in 
Page  21
Part C.4 above, through, 
inter alia
, the carrying out of seminars, workshops and conferences.
Part D
: Product Quality
1.
Carrying out of a training program in quality assurance practices for small businesses 
and selected public entities in accordance with criteria acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Establishment of a standards and conformity information center with a structure, 
functions and responsibilities acceptable to the Bank, said center to be responsible for, 
inter alia
,
providing information on quality requirements of export markets for Guatemalan products.
3.
Design of a program for certification of non-traditional exports
 
to enhance the 
international competitiveness of said exports, said program to include, 
inter alia
,
ISO-14000 for 
sustainable management of tropical woods used in exports, sustainable tourism practices and 
guidelines for the carrying out of social assessments of child labor and factory working 
conditions.
4.
Strengthening of the institutional capacity of the Borrower’s national quality system 
through the provision of technical assistance and training and the acquisition and utilization of 
goods required therefor. 
Part E
:
Competitiveness Learning and Innovation
Carrying out of a competitiveness learning and innovation program which consists, 
inter 
alia
, of: 
(a)
the provision of technical assistance to potential Eligible Entities in the design 
and preparation of their competitiveness plans, said plans to include business development 
activities for productive purposes in pre-competitive learning and innovation, acceptable to the 
Bank;
(b) 
the provision of Grants to Eligible Entities for the purpose of assisting said 
entities in the implementation of their Competitiveness Plans; 
(c) 
the provision of Vouchers to Eligible Micro-enterprises for the purpose of 
enabling said micro-enterprises to benefit from the provision of business development services, 
acceptable to the Bank; and
(d) 
the promotion of said program within the business community in Guatemala.
Part F
:
Information Technology-Based Business Development Services
Design and implementation of a pilot program that will provide information 
Page  22
technology-based business development services, said program to include, 
inter alia
,
the 
construction of about 10 community- based centers and a management support hub, the provision 
of technical assistance to develop product services and carry out impact evaluation analyses of 
said program and the provision of training required therefor.
Part G
: Business Cluster and Social Responsibility
1.
Carrying out of a Cluster program for businesses which consists of, 
inter alia
:
(a) 
the provision of technical assistance to facilitate the organization of Clusters and 
carry out initial diagnostics and benchmark assessments of said Clusters; 
(b) 
the carrying out of assessments of cross-Cluster issues in public policies and 
international competitiveness; and
(c) 
the promotion and dissemination of said program within the business community 
in Guatemala.
2.
Carrying out of a business social responsibility program which consists of, 
inter alia
,
the 
carrying out of workshops, case studies and cross-country study tours to assist large-scale 
businesses to develop business relationships with: (a) small businesses for the purpose of 
increasing said small businesses’ productivity and income levels; and (b) communities located in 
the area in which said large-scale businesses operate for the purpose of developing their 
socio-economic interests. 
* * *
The Project is expected to be completed by December 31, 2004.
SCHEDULE 3
Amortization Schedule
1.
The following table sets forth the Principal Payment Dates of the Loan and the 
percentage of the total principal amount of the Loan payable on each Principal Payment Date 
(Installment Share).  If the proceeds of the Loan shall have been fully withdrawn as of the first 
Principal Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each 
Principal Payment Date shall be determined by the Bank by multiplying:  (a) the total principal 
amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding as of the first Principal Payment Date; by (b) the 
Installment Share for each Principal Payment Date[, such repayment amount to be adjusted, as 
necessary, to deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a 
Currency Conversion applies.
Installment Share
Page  23
Payment Date
(Expressed as a %)
On each June 15 and December 15
Beginning June 15, 2006 through June 15, 2017
4.17 %
On December 15, 2017
4.09 %
2. 
If the proceeds of the Loan shall not have been fully withdrawn as of the first Principal 
Payment Date, the principal amount of the Loan repayable by the Borrower on each Principal 
Payment Date shall be determined as follows:
(a)
To the extent that any proceeds of the Loan shall have been withdrawn as of the 
first Principal Payment Date, the Borrower shall repay the amount withdrawn and outstanding as 
of such date in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Schedule.
(b)
Any withdrawal made after the first Principal Payment Date shall be repaid on 
each Principal Payment Date falling after the date of such withdrawal in amounts determined by 
the Bank by multiplying the amount of each such withdrawal by a fraction, the numerator of 
which shall be the original Installment Share specified in the table in paragraph 1 of this 
Schedule for said Principal Payment Date (the Original Installment Share) and the denominator 
of which shall be the sum of all remaining Original Installment Shares for Principal Payment 
Dates falling on or after such date, such repayment amounts to be adjusted, as necessary, to 
deduct any amounts referred to in paragraph 4 of this Schedule, to which a Currency Conversion 
applies. 
3.
(a)
Withdrawals made within two calendar months prior to any Principal Payment 
Date shall, for the purposes solely of calculating the principal amounts payable on any Principal 
Payment Date, be treated as withdrawn and outstanding on the second Principal Payment Date 
following the date of withdrawal and shall be repayable on each Principal Payment Date 
commencing with the second Principal Payment Date following the date of  withdrawal.
(b)
Notwithstanding the provisions of sub-paragraph (a) of this paragraph 3, if at any 
time the Bank shall adopt a due date billing system under which invoices are issued on or after 
the respective Principal Payment Date, the provisions of such sub-paragraph shall no longer 
apply to any withdrawals made after the adoption of such billing system. 
4.
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs 1 and 2 of this Schedule, upon a Currency 
Conversion of all or any portion of the withdrawn principal amount of the Loan to an Approved 
Currency, the amount so converted in said Approved Currency that shall be repayable on any 
Principal Payment Date occurring during the Conversion Period, shall be determined by the Bank 
by multiplying such amount in its currency of denomination immediately prior to said 
Conversion by either: (i) the exchange rate that reflects the amounts of principal in said 
Approved Currency payable by the Bank under the Currency Hedge Transaction relating to said 
Conversion; or (ii) if the Bank so determines in accordance with the Conversion Guidelines, the 
exchange rate component of the Screen Rate. 
Page  24
5.
If the principal amount of the Loan withdrawn and outstanding from time to time shall be 
denominated in more than one Loan Currency, the provisions of this Schedule shall apply 
separately to the amount denominated in each Loan Currency, so as to produce a separate 
amortization schedule for each such amount.
SCHEDULE 4
Procurement
Section I
.
Procurement of Goods and Works
Part A
: General
Goods and works shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the 
“Guidelines for Procurement under IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” published by the Bank in 
January 1995 and revised in January and August 1996, September 1997 and January 1999 (the 
Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section I of this Schedule.
Part B
: International Competitive Bidding
1.
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, goods shall be procured under 
contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the Guidelines and 
paragraph 5 of Appendix 1 thereto.
2.
The following provisions shall apply to goods to be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of this Part B.
 (a)
Grouping of Contracts
To the extent practicable, contracts for goods shall be grouped in bid packages estimated 
to cost $150,000 equivalent or more each.
 (b)
Preference for Domestically Manufactured Goods
The provisions of paragraphs 2.54 and 2.55 of the Guidelines and Appendix 2 thereto 
shall apply to goods manufactured in the territory of the Borrower.
Part C
: Other Procurement Procedures
 1.
National Competitive Bidding
(a)
Goods estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $1,500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts 
Page  25
awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of the Guidelines;
(b)
works estimated to cost $150,000 equivalent or more per contract shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.3 and 3.4 of 
the Guidelines; and
(c)
procurement of goods and works under this part shall be carried out using 
standard bidding documents acceptable to the Bank.
2.
Shopping
Goods estimated to cost less than $25,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $500,000 equivalent, may be procured under contracts awarded on the 
basis of international or national shopping procedures, at the Borrower’s option, in accordance 
with the provisions of paragraphs 3.5 and 3.6 of the Guidelines.
 3.
Procurement of Small Works
Works estimated to cost less than $150,000 equivalent per contract, up to an aggregate 
amount not to exceed $400,000 equivalent, may be procured under lump-sum, fixed-price 
contracts awarded on the basis of quotations obtained from three (3) qualified domestic 
contractors in response to a written invitation. The invitation shall include a detailed description 
of the works, including basic specifications, the required completion date, a basic form of 
agreement acceptable to the Bank, and relevant drawings, where applicable. The award shall be 
made to the contractor who offers the lowest price quotation for the required work, and who has 
the experience and resources to complete the contract successfully.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
1.
Procurement Planning
Prior to the issuance of any invitations to bid for contracts, the proposed procurement 
plan for the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and approval, in accordance with 
the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines. Procurement of all goods and 
works shall be undertaken in accordance with such procurement plan as shall have been 
approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
With respect to: (a) each contract for goods to be procured under Part B of this Section; 
(b) the first two contracts for goods to be procured under Part C.1 (a) of this Section; and (c) the 
first two contracts for works to be procured under Part C.1 (b) of this Section, the procedures set 
forth in paragraphs 2 and 3 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Page  26
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Guidelines shall apply.
Section II
.
Employment of Consultants
Part A
: General
Consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with the provisions of the 
Introduction and Section IV of the “Guidelines:  Selection and Employment of Consultants by 
World Bank Borrowers” published by the Bank in January 1997 and revised in September 1997 
and January 1999 (the Consultant Guidelines) and the following provisions of Section II of this 
Schedule.
Part B
: Quality- and Cost-based Selection
Except as otherwise provided in Part C of this Section, consultants’ services shall be 
procured under contracts awarded in accordance with the provisions of Section II of the 
Consultant Guidelines, paragraph 3 of Appendix 1 thereto, Appendix 2 thereto, and the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.13 through 3.18 thereof applicable to quality- and cost-based selection 
of consultants.
Part C
: Other Procedures for the Selection of Consultants
1.
Commercial Practices 
Consultants’ services to assist: (a) Eligible Entities in carrying out their Competitiveness 
Plans; and (b) Eligible Micro-enterprises under Part E (c) of the Project, may be procured in 
accordance with commercial practices acceptable to the Bank.
 2.
Individual Consultants
Consultants’ services for specialized activities under the Project, as approved by the 
Bank, that meet the requirements set forth in paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines, up to an 
aggregate amount not to exceed $3,700,000 equivalent, shall be procured under contracts 
awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 5.1 through 
5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.
Part D
: Review by the Bank of the Selection of Consultants
1.
Selection Planning
Page  27
Prior to the issuance to consultants of any requests for proposals, the proposed plan for 
the selection of consultants under the Project shall be furnished to the Bank for its review and 
approval, in accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant 
Guidelines.  Selection of all consultants’ services shall be undertaken in accordance with such 
selection plan as shall have been approved by the Bank, and with the provisions of said 
paragraph 1.
2.
Prior Review
(a)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms   estimated 
to cost the equivalent of $100,000 or more, the procedures set forth in paragraphs 1, 2 (other than 
the third subparagraph of paragraph 2(a)) and 5 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall 
apply.
(b)
With respect to each contract for the employment of consulting firms estimated 
to cost less than the equivalent of $100,000, the terms of reference of the consulting firms shall 
be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only 
after the said approval shall have been given.
(c)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $50,000 or more, the qualifications, experience, terms of 
reference and terms of employment of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior 
review and approval.  The contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been 
given.
(d)
With respect to each contract for the employment of individual consultants 
estimated to cost the equivalent of $20,000 or more but less than $50,000 equivalent, the terms of 
reference of the consultants shall be furnished to the Bank for its prior review and approval.  The 
contract shall be awarded only after the said approval shall have been given.
3.
Post Review
With respect to each contract not governed by paragraph 2 of this Part, the procedures set 
forth in paragraph 4 of Appendix 1 to the Consultant Guidelines shall apply.
