Page  1
CONFORMED
November 25, 1998
Lic.  Pedro Miguel Lamport K.
Minister of Finance
Ministry of Finance
8a Avenida y 21 Calle, Zona I
Guatemala, Guatemala
Re:
Japanese Grant for the preparation of a Competitiveness Project
Grant No. TF025313
Excellency:
I
am writing on behalf of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development 
(the Bank) to indicate the Bank's agreement, as administrator of grant funds provided by Japan, to make a 
grant in an amount not exceeding six hundred sixty thousand Dollars ($660,000) (the Grant) to Republic 
of Guatemala (the Recipient).
The Grant is made in response to the Recipient's request for financial assistance and for 
the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Annex to this Letter Agreement.  The 
Recipient hereby confirms its request that the Bank carry out the activities described in paragraph I of the 
Annex to this Letter Agreement, and represents that it is authorized to contract the Grant for the said 
purposes and on the said terms and conditions.
Please confirm your agreement with the foregoing, on behalf of the Recipient, by 
signing, dating, and returning to us the enclosed copy of this Letter Agreement.  Upon receipt by the 
Bank of the copy of this Letter Agreement countersigned by you, this Letter Agreement will become 
effective as of the date of the countersignature.
Very truly yours,
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION
AND DEVELOPMENT
/s/  Donna Dowsett-Coirolo
Director
Central America Country Management Unit
Latin America and the Caribbean
AGREED
REPUBLIC OF GUATEMALA
Page  2
By:  /s/ Pedro Miguel Lamport
Date: December 4, 1999
ANNEX
Purposes, Terms and Conditions of the Grant
The purposes of the Grant is to assist the Recipient in the preparation of a 
Competitiveness Project (the Project).  The activities (the Activities) for which the Grant is given are as 
follows:
(a)
Carrying out of an assessment (through, inter alia, cluster analyses) of the 
business environment, including an assessment of the legal and regulatory 
framework governing the operation of businesses in Guatemala, in particular the 
infrastructure and investment regimes and the national statistical information 
system, for purposes of identifying the principal constraints affecting such 
businesses.
(b)
Carrying out of an assessment of the Recipient's trade policies and procedures 
which have a negative impact on policy neutrality between domestic and 
international markets and on export competitiveness.
(c)
Carrying out of an assessment of the services provided by financial institutions 
in Guatemala for purposes of identifying the principal constraints affecting the 
expansion of producers' markets.
(d)
Design of a program to inform the public (including key stakeholders) of the 
contents of the Project.
(e)
Carrying out of workshops and study tours for purposes of complementing the 
activities mentioned in subparagraphs (a), (b), (c) and (d) above.
2.
The Grant shall be used to finance consultants' services and training required for the Activities.  
For purposes of this paragraph, the term " training" means expenditures (other than those for consultants' 
services) related to the carrying out of the Activity mentioned in paragraph I (e) above, including the 
per-diem and travel cost of the trainees and training materials.
3.
The Bank shall carry out the Activities on behalf of the Recipient.  The Recipient, through its 
Ministry of Economy, shall cooperate with the Bank to the extent necessary to permit the Bank to carry 
out the Activities promptly and effectively, and to evaluate the results of the Activities.  The Recipient 
shall indemnify the Bank against any costs or liabilities incurred by the Bank as a result of claims against 
the Bank in connection with the Activities, except those resulting from the gross negligence or willful 
misconduct of its staff or external consultants.
4.
It is expected that the Activities will be completed by December 31, 1999.  After that date,
the Bank may at any time cancel the remaining balance of the Grant.
5.
The engagement and supervision of the consultants (the Consultants) required to assist in the 
carrying out of the Activities shall be the responsibility of the Bank and shall be done according to the 
Page  3
Bank's applicable procedures.
6.
The Recipient shall be responsible for the payment of any taxes levied by, or in the territory of, 
the Recipient on the Consultants or any of the Consultants' personnel (other than nationals or permanent 
residents thereof) in connection with the Activities.
7.
The Recipient may at any time request the Bank in writing to terminate the Activities.  Whether 
or not the Recipient has made such a request, the Bank may at any time suspend or, after consultation 
with the Recipient, terminate the right of the Recipient to receive Grant funds for the Activities if any of 
the following events has occurred and is continuing: (a) the Recipient has failed to perform any of its 
obligations under this Letter Agreement; or (b) the right of the Recipient, or any other entity to which the 
Bank has made a loan with the guarantee of the Recipient, to make withdrawals under any loan 
agreement with the Bank or any development credit agreement with the International Development 
Association shall have been suspended.
8.
The Bank is not an agent of, or trustee for, the Recipient and shall not have any fiduciary 
relationship with the Recipient.  The Recipient shall have no right to any portion of the Grant that is not 
expended by the Bank pursuant to this Agreement.
