Page  1
CONFORMED COPY 
 
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056255 
 
Global Environment Facility 
Trust Fund Grant Agreement 
 
(Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources  
in the Amazon Region Project - AQUABIO) 
 
between 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
and 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION 
AND DEVELOPMENT 
 
acting as an Implementing Agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
Dated September 15, 2006 
 
Page  2
GEF TRUST FUND GRANT NUMBER TF056255 
GLOBAL ENVIRONMENT FACILITY TRUST FUND GRANT AGREEMENT
 
AGREEMENT, dated September 15, 2006, between the FEDERATIVE 
REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL (the Recipient) and the INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT (the Bank) acting as an implementing 
agency of the Global Environment Facility (GEF) in respect of grant funds provided to 
the GEF Trust Fund by certain members of the Bank as participants of the GEF. 
WHEREAS (A) the Bank, pursuant to Resolution No. 91-5 of March 14, 1991 of 
the Executive Directors of the Bank, established the GEF to assist in the protection of the 
global environment and promote thereby environmentally sound and sustainable 
economic development; 
(B) 
following the restructuring of the GEF, such arrangements continued in 
place on the basis set forth in Resolution No. 94-2 of May 24, 1994 of the Executive 
Directors of the Bank, which, 
inter alia
,
established the GEF Trust Fund and appointed 
the Bank as trustee of the GEF Trust Fund (Resolution No. 94-2); 
(C) 
the Recipient, having satisfied itself as to the feasibility and priority of 
the project described in Schedule 2 to this Agreement (the Project), has requested 
assistance from the resources of the GEF Trust Fund for funding the Project, and said 
request having been approved in accordance with the provisions of the Instrument for the 
Establishment of the Restructured Global Environment Facility approved under 
Resolution 94-2; 
(D) 
the Project will be carried out by the Recipient, through MMA (as 
hereinafter defined), with the assistance of the Participating Entities (as hereinafter 
defined), as provided in this Agreement; and 
WHEREAS the Bank has agreed, on the basis, 
inter alia
,
of
the foregoing, to 
extend the a grant (the GEF Trust Fund Grant) to the Recipient upon the terms and 
conditions set forth in this Agreement;   
NOW THEREFORE, the parties hereto hereby agree as follows: 
Page  3
-
2
-
ARTICLE I 
General Conditions; Definitions 
Section 1.01 (a) The following provisions of the “General Conditions Applicable 
to Loan and Guarantee Agreements for Single Currency Loans” of the Bank, dated May 
30, 1995 (as amended through May 1, 2004), with the modifications set forth in 
paragraph (b) of this Section (the General Conditions), constitute an integral part of this 
Agreement: 
(i) Article 
I; 
(ii) 
Sections 2.01 (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (14), (15), (16), (18) 
and (21), 2.02 and 2.03; 
(iii) Section 
3.01; 
(iv) 
Sections 4.01 and  4.06; 
(v) Article 
V; 
(vi) 
Sections 6.01, 6.02 (c), (e), (f), (i), (l), (m), (n), (o) and (p), 6.03, 
6.04 and 6.06; 
(vii) 
Section 8.01 (b); 
(viii) 
Sections 9.01 (a) and (c), 9.04, 9.05, 9.06, 9.07, 9.08 and 9.09; 
(ix) 
Section 10.03;  
(x) 
Article XI; and 
(xi) 
Sections 12.01 (c), 12.02, 12.03 and 12.04. 
(b) 
The General Conditions shall be modified as follows: 
(i) 
the term “Bank”, wherever used in the General Conditions, other 
than in Sections 2.01 (6), 6.02 (f)  and  5.01 (a) thereof, means 
the Bank acting as an implementing agency of the GEF, except 
Page  4
-
3
-
that, in Section 
6.02, the term “Bank” shall also include the Bank 
acting in its own capacity; 
(ii) 
the term “Borrower”, wherever used in the General Conditions, 
means the Recipient; 
(iii) 
the term “Loan Agreement”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means this Agreement; 
(iv) 
the term “Loan” and “loan”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant; 
(v) 
the term “Loan Account”, wherever used in the General 
Conditions, means the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account; 
(vi) 
Section 5.08 of the General Conditions is amended to read as 
follows: 
“Section 5.08 Treatment of Taxes 
 
Except as otherwise provided in the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant Agreement, the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
may be withdrawn to pay for taxes levied by, or in the territory 
of, the Recipient on the goods or services to be financed under 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, or on their importation, manufacture, 
procurement or supply.  Financing of such taxes is subject to the 
Bank’s policy of requiring economy and efficiency in the use of 
the proceeds of its grants such as the GEF Trust Fund Grant.  To 
that end, if the Bank shall at any time determine that the amount 
of any taxes levied on or in respect of any item to be financed 
out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant is excessive or 
otherwise unreasonable, the Bank may, by notice to the 
Borrower, adjust the percentage for withdrawal set forth or 
referred to in respect of such item in the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Agreement as required to be consistent with such policy of the 
Bank.”; 
(vii) 
a new subparagraph is added after subparagraph 
 (o) in 
Section 
6.02 of the General Conditions, as follows: “an 
extraordinary situation shall have arisen in which any further 
disbursement under the GEF Trust Fund Grant would exceed the 
resources available for disbursement from the GEF.”; 
Page  5
-
4
-
(viii) 
the words “corrupt or fraudulent” in paragraph (c) of Section 
6.03 are replaced with the words “corrupt, fraudulent, collusive 
or coercive”; and 
(ix) 
the first sentence of Section 10.01 of the General Conditions is 
deleted. 
Section 1.02. Wherever used in this Agreement, unless the context otherwise 
requires, the several terms defined in the General Conditions and in the Recitals to this 
Agreement have the respective meanings therein set forth and the following additional 
terms have the following meanings: 
(a) 
“Amazonian States” means the Recipient’s political subdivisions of 
Acre, Amapá, Amazonas, Maranhão, Mato Grosso, Pará, Rondônia, Roraima and 
Tocantins; 
(b) 
“Beneficiary” means a public or private entity with legal personality, 
including non-governmental organizations, which meets the eligibility criteria set forth in 
the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined) for executing the Subprojects (as 
hereinafter defined); 
(c) 
“Eligible Categories” means Categories (1) through (3) set forth in the 
table in Part A.1 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(d) 
“Eligible Expenditures” means the expenditures for goods, works, 
services and operating costs referred to in Section 2.02 of this Agreement; 
(e) 
“Environmental Management Plan” means the plan, dated December 12, 
2005 (
Documento de Avaliação Ambiental e Plano de Gestão Ambiental
), duly adopted 
by the Recipient as part of the Operational Manual (as hereinafter defined), which sets 
out the environmental protection measures in respect of the Project, as well as 
administrative and monitoring arrangements to ensure the implementation of said plan, as 
such plan may be revised from time to time with the agreement of the Bank; 
(f) 
“FMR” means each report prepared in accordance with Section 4.02 of 
this Agreement; 
(g) “FUNAI” 
means 
Fundação Nacional do Índio
,
the Recipient’s National 
Indian Foundation operating pursuant to the Recipient’s Decree No. 4645, dated March 
26, 2003; 
Page  6
-
5
-
(h) 
“IBAMA” means 
Instituto Brasileiro do Meio Ambiente e dos Recursos 
Naturais Renováveis
,
the Recipient’s Institute of the Environment and Renewable Natural 
Resources, established pursuant to the Recipient’s Law No. 7735 of February 22, 1989; 
 
(i) 
“Implementation Plan” means each of the annual plans referred to in 
Section 3.07 of this Agreement; 
 
(j) 
“Indigenous Peoples” means the indigenous peoples recognized as such 
by FUNAI as eligible to benefit from the constitutional and other legal protection as 
indigenous peoples; 
 
(k) 
“Indigenous Peoples Strategy” means the indigenous peoples strategy 
(
Estratégia Indígena do Projeto AquaBio
)
furnished to the Bank on January 7 2006, 
prepared in consultations with Indigenous Peoples for the carrying out of activities under 
Parts A, B and C of the Project, and which is part of the Operational Manual; 
 (l) 
“MMA” means 
Ministério do Meio Ambiente
,
the Recipient’s Ministry 
of the Environment; 
 
(m) 
“Negro Target Area” means the portion of the Recipient’s Lower and 
Middle Negro River sub-basin that comprises the municipalities of Novo Airão, Barcelos,  
Santa Isabel do Rio Negro, and Manaus (in this case restricted to the drainages of the 
Tarumã-açu and Tarumã-miri rivers), in the State of Amazonas; 
(n) 
“Operational Manual” means the manual referred to in Section 3.05 of 
this Agreement, as the same may be amended from time to time by agreement between 
the Bank and the Recipient; 
(o) 
“Participating Entities” means, collectively: FUNAI, IBAMA, SDS, 
SECTAM and SEMA (the latter three as hereinafter defined);
 
(p) 
“PCU” means the Project coordination unit, within MMA’s Secretariat of 
Biodiversity and Forests (
Secretaria de Biodiversidade e Florestas
), referred to in 
Section 3.04 of this Agreement; 
(q) 
“Performance Indicators” means the set of performance indicators, to be 
used for purposes of monitoring the progress of the Project, set forth in the Operational 
Manual, as such indicators may be revised with the agreement of the Bank; 
 
(r) 
“Procurement Agent” means the Recipient’s agent to be employed under 
the Procurement Agent Agreement; 
Page  7
-
6
-
(s) 
“Procurement Agent Agreement” means the agreement referred to in 
Section 3.03 (b) of this Agreement; 
 
(t) 
“Procurement Plan” means the Recipient’s procurement plan, dated April 
27, 2006 (
Plano de Aquisi
ções e Contratações
)
covering the initial 18-month period (or 
longer) of Project implementation, as the same shall be updated from time to time in 
accordance with the provisions of Section 3.02 of this Agreement, to cover succeeding 18-
month periods (or longer) of Project implementation; 
 (u) 
“Report-based Disbursements” means disbursements made pursuant to 
the Borrower’s option for withdrawal of funds from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
referred to in Part A.5 of Schedule 1 to this Agreement; 
(v) “SDS” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente e 
 
Desenvolvimento Sustentável do Estado do Amazonas
,
the Amazonas State Secretariat of 
Environment and Sustainable Development; 
(w) 
“SECTAM” means 
Secretaria Executiva de Ciência, Tecnologia e Meio 
Ambiente do Estado do Pará
,
the Pará State Secretariat of Science, Technology and 
Environment; 
(x) “SEMA” 
means 
Secretaria de Estado do Meio Ambiente do Estado do 
Mato Grosso
,
the Mato Grosso State Secretariat of Environment; 
(y) 
“Special Account” means the account referred to in Part B of Schedule 1 
to this Agreement; 
(z) 
“Steering Committee” means “CONABIO” (
Comissão Nacional de 
Biodiversidade
),
 the Recipient’s National Biodiversity Commission, which will act as the 
steering committee for the Project and which is integrated by, 
inter alia
,
representatives 
of the Recipient’s federal government, national associations, academia, and non-
governmental and public organizations; 
(aa) 
“Subproject” means a subproject consisting of one or more of the 
activities specified in Part B.1 of the Project, which subproject is selected, approved and 
implemented in accordance with the requirements of the Operational Manual; 
(bb) 
“Subproject Grant” means a grant made or proposed to be made by the 
Recipient out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant to a Beneficiary for the 
financing of a Subproject pursuant to the terms of the Operational Manual; 
Page  8
-
7
-
(cc) 
“Subproject Grant Agreement” means any of the agreements referred to in 
Section 3.06 of this Agreement;  
 
(dd) 
“Target Areas” means, collectively, the Negro Target Area, the 
Tocantins Target Area and the Xingu Target Area (the latter two, as hereinafter defined); 
 
(ee) 
“Technical Cooperation Agreement” means each of the institutional 
arrangements (
Acordos de Cooperação Técnica
)
referred to in Section 3.03 (a) of this 
Agreement; 
 (ff) 
“Tocantins Target Area” means the portion of the Recipient’s Lower 
Tocantins River sub-basin that comprises four out of the nine municipalities of 
Abaetetuba, Barcarena, Moju, Mocajuba, Oeiras do Pará, Limoeiro do Ajuru, Igarapé-
Miri, Cametá, and Baião, in the State of Pará, to be identified after the first year of 
Project implementation; and 
 
(gg) 
“Xingu Target Area” means the portion of the Recipient’s Upper Xingu 
River sub-basin that comprises the municipalities of Água Boa, Canarana, and Querência, 
in the State of Mato Grosso. 
ARTICLE II 
The GEF Trust Fund Grant 
Section 2.01.  The Bank agrees to make available to the Recipient, on the terms 
and conditions set forth or referred to in this Agreement, the GEF Trust Fund Grant in an 
amount equivalent to seven million one hundred and eighty thousand Dollars 
($7,180,000). 
Section 2.02.  The amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant may be withdrawn from 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for expenditures made (or, if the Bank shall so agree, to be made) in 
respect of the reasonable cost of goods, works, services and operating costs required for 
carrying out the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant. 
Section 2.03.  The Closing Date shall be August 31, 2012, or such later date as 
the Bank shall establish.  The Bank shall promptly notify the Recipient of such later date. 
ARTICLE III 
Page  9
-
8
-
Execution of the Project 
Section 3.01.  The Recipient declares its commitment to the objective of the 
Project as set forth in Schedule 2 to this Agreement and, to this end, shall carry out the 
Project, through MMA, with the assistance of: 
(a) 
IBAMA and SECTAM (pursuant to the relevant Technical Cooperation 
Agreement), in the Tocantins Target Area;  
(b) 
IBAMA and SEMA (pursuant to the relevant Technical Cooperation 
Agreement), in the Xingu Target Area; 
(c) 
IBAMA and SDS (pursuant to the relevant Technical Cooperation 
Agreement), in the Negro Target Area; and 
(d) 
FUNAI (pursuant to the relevant Technical Cooperation Agreement), in 
those Target Areas where Indigenous Peoples are present; 
all with due diligence and efficiency and in conformity with appropriate administrative, 
financial, social and environmental standards and practices, and shall provide, promptly 
as needed, the counterpart funds, facilities, services and other resources required for the 
Project. 
 
Section 3.02. (a)  Except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, procurement of the 
goods, works and services required for the Project and to be financed out of the proceeds of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall be governed by the provisions of Schedule 3 to this 
Agreement, as said provisions may be further elaborated in the Procurement Plan.  
 
(b) 
The Recipient shall update the Procurement Plan in accordance with 
guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish such update to the Bank not later than 12 
months after the date of the preceding Procu
rement Plan, for the Bank’s approval. 
 
Section 3.03. The Recipient, through MMA, shall:  
 
(a) 
enter into institutional arrangements (
Acordos de Cooperação Técnica
)
with each of FUNAI, IBAMA, SDS, SECTAM and SEMA, under terms and conditions 
satisfactory to the Bank, setting forth their respective responsibilities for the 
implementation of those Parts of the Project in which each of the agencies mentioned above 
participates;  
Page  10
-
9
-
(b) 
enter into an agreement, for a period not exceeding two years, with a 
procurement agent acceptable to the Bank, under terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank (the Procurement Agent Agreement), whereby: (i) the Recipient will authorize the 
Procurement Agent to undertake, on its behalf, and the procurement Agent will so 
undertake, the procurement of goods, works and services under the Project (except for 
those pertaining to Parts B.1 and B.2 of the Project) in accordance with the procedures set 
forth or referred to in this Agreement; (ii) the Procurement Agent will undertake to keep 
separate records and accounts in respect of such goods, works and services, and to assist 
the Recipient in all other aspects with regard to the carrying out of the Project and in 
complying with the Recipient’s obligations under this Agreement (
inter alia
,
the 
Procurement Agent will undertake, with respect to all Parts of the Project except for Parts 
B.1 and B.2, to comply with all provisions of Article IV of this Agreement as if the 
Procurement Agent were the Recipient); and (iii) the Recipient may transfer directly to 
the Procurement Agent proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant as required by the 
Procurement Agent to effect the payment of goods, works and services under the Project; 
and 
 
(c) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each of the 
Technical Cooperation Agreements and the Procurement Agent Agreement in such manner 
as to protect the interests of the Recipient and the Bank and to accomplish the objective of 
the GEF Trust Fund Grant, and, except as the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient 
shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or fail to enforce any of the Technical Cooperation 
Agreements, the Procurement Agent Agreement, or any provision thereof. 
 
Section 3.04. For the purposes of carrying out the Project, the Recipient shall 
through MMA, maintain, until completion of the Project, the PCU with a structure and 
functions satisfactory to the Bank, and with staff in adequate numbers and with adequate 
qualifications, such unit to be headed at all times by a general coordinator and to have at 
least three technical coordinators, all with qualifications, experience, functions and 
responsibilities satisfactory to the Bank. 
 
Section 3.05. Without limitation to the provisions of Section 3.01 of this 
Agreement, the Recipient shall carry out the Project in accordance with the provisions of 
the manual, issued by the Recipient, through MMA, on September 4, 2006 (the Operational 
Manual), which contains the policies and procedures for the carrying out, monitoring and 
evaluation of the Project, including, 
inter alia
:
(a) the organizational structure of the Project 
(including the role of the Steering Committee and the Participating Entities); (b) criteria for 
the selection of Beneficiaries and for the financing of Subprojects; (c) requirements for the 
selection, approval and implementation of Subprojects, including the environmental 
screening, evaluation, approval and monitoring procedures; (d) the Project procurement and 
financial management requirements and procedures; (e) the Environmental Management 
Plan; (f) the Indigenous Peoples Strategy; and (g) the indicators to be used for Project 
monitoring and evaluation (the Performance Indicators).  In case of any inconsistency 
Page  11
-
10
-
between a provision of the Operational Manual and this Agreement, the provision of this 
Agreement will prevail. 
 
Section 3.06.  For the purposes of carrying out Part B.1 of the Project, the 
Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
enter into agreements with Beneficiaries substantially in accordance with 
the terms and conditions set forth in the Operational Manual, including provisions 
regarding financing agreements for Subprojects (the Subproject Grant Agreements); and 
(b) 
exercise its rights and comply with its obligations under each of the 
Subproject Grant Agreements, in such a manner as to protect the interests of the Recipient 
and the Bank and to accomplish the purposes of the GEF Trust Fund Grant and, except as 
the Bank shall otherwise agree, the Recipient shall not assign, amend, abrogate, waive or 
fail to enforce any of the Subproject Grant Agreements or any provision thereof. 
Section 3.07.  The Recipient shall:  
(a) 
not later than October 30 of each year during Project implementation, 
furnish to the Bank for its approval, an annual implementation plan (the Implementation 
Plan), each said plan to include, 
inter alia
:
(i) the Project activities to be carried out by 
the Recipient and other Participating Entities during the calendar year following the 
presentation of each said plan; and (ii) the budget allocated to the Project for the year in 
question and the respective sources of funding therefor; and 
(b) 
thereafter implement each said Implementation Plan, approved by the 
Bank, in accordance with its terms. 
Section 3.08.  The Recipient shall: 
 
(a) 
maintain policies and procedures adequate to enable it to monitor and 
evaluate on an ongoing basis, in accordance with the Performance Indicators, the carrying 
out of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof; 
 
(b) 
prepare, under terms of reference satisfactory to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank, not later than six months after the Effective Date and every year thereafter during 
the period of Project implementation, reports integrating the results of the evaluation 
activities performed pursuant to paragraph (a) of this Section, on the progress achieved in 
the carrying out of the Project during the period preceding the date of such reports and 
setting out the measures recommended to ensure the efficient carrying out of the Project 
and the achievement of the objectives thereof during the period following such date; and 
Page  12
-
11
-
(c) 
review with the Bank shortly after such reports’ preparation, the reports 
referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section, and, thereafter, take all measures required to 
ensure the efficient completion of the Project and the achievement of the objective thereof, 
based on the conclusions and recommendations of the said reports and taking into account 
the Bank's views on the matter. 
 
Section 3.09. For the purposes of Section 9.08 of the General Conditions and 
without limitation thereto, the Recipient shall: 
(a) 
prepare, on the basis of guidelines acceptable to the Bank, and furnish to 
the Bank not later than six months after the Closing Date or such later date as may be 
agreed for this purpose between the Recipient and the Bank, a plan for the future 
operation of the Project; and 
(b) 
afford the Bank a reasonable opportunity to exchange views with the 
Recipient on said plan. 
ARTICLE IV 
Financial Covenants 
Section 4.01. (a) The Recipient shall maintain a financial management system 
within MMA, including records and accounts, and prepare financial statements in 
accordance with consistently applied accounting standards acceptable to the Bank, 
adequate to reflect the operations, resources and expenditures related to the Project. 
(b) 
The Recipient, through MMA, shall: 
(i) 
have the financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this 
Section for each fiscal year (or other period agreed to by the 
Bank), audited, in accordance with consistently applied auditing 
standards acceptable to the Bank, by independent auditors 
acceptable to the Bank; 
(ii) 
furnish to the Bank as soon as available, but in any case not later 
than six months after the end of each such year (or such other 
period agreed to by the Bank): (A) certified copies of the 
financial statements referred to in paragraph (a) of this Section 
for such year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), as so 
audited; and (B) an opinion on such statements by said auditors, 
in scope and detail satisfactory to the Bank; and 
Page  13
-
12
-
(iii) 
furnish to the Bank such other information concerning such 
records and accounts, and the audit of such financial statements, 
and concerning said auditors, as the Bank may from time to time 
reasonably request. 
(c) 
For all expenditures with respect to which withdrawals from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account were Report-based Disbursements or were made on the basis 
of statements of expenditure the Recipient, through MMA, shall: 
(i) 
retain, until at least one year after the Bank has received the 
audit report for, or covering, the fiscal year in which the last 
withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was made, 
all records (contracts, orders, invoices, bills, receipts and other 
documents) evidencing such expenditures; 
(ii) 
enable the Bank’s representatives to examine such records; and 
(iii) 
ensure that such reports are included in the audit for each fiscal 
year (or other period agreed to by the Bank), referred to in 
paragraph (b) of this Section.  
Section 4.02. 
(a) Without limitation upon the Recipient’s reporting obligations 
set out in Section 3.08 (b) of this Agreement, the Recipient, through MMA, shall prepare 
and furnish to the Bank a financial monitoring report, in form and substance satisfactory 
to the Bank (the FMR), which: 
(i) 
sets forth sources and uses of funds for the Project, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, showing 
separately funds provided by the GEF Trust Fund Grant and 
other financial and in-kind contributions, and explains variances 
between the actual and planned uses of such funds; 
(ii) 
describes physical progress in Project implementation, both 
cumulatively and for the period covered by said report, and 
explains variances between the actual and planned Project 
implementation; and 
(iii) 
sets forth the status of procurement under the Project, as at the 
end of the period covered by said report. 
Page  14
-
13
-
(b) 
The first FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 days after 
the end of the first calendar quarter after the Effective Date, and shall cover the period 
from the incurrence of the first expenditure under the Project through the end of such first 
calendar quarter; thereafter, each FMR shall be furnished to the Bank not later than 45 
days after each subsequent calendar quarter, and shall cover the period not covered by the 
previous FMR until the end of such calendar quarter. 
ARTICLE V 
Effectiveness; Termination 
Section 5.01. The following events are specified as conditions to the 
effectiveness of this Agreement within the meaning of Section 12.01 (c) of the General 
Conditions: 
(a) 
each of the Technical Cooperation Agreements and the Procurement 
Agent Agreement have been entered into between the respective parties thereto in a 
manner satisfactory to the Bank; and 
(b) 
the general coordinator and the three technical coordinators of the PCU, 
referred to in Section 3.04 of this Agreement, have been appointed. 
Section 5.02. Without prejudice to the provisions of the General Conditions, the 
date specified for purposes of Section 12.04 of the General Conditions is the date ninety 
(90) days after the date of this Agreement, but in no case later than the eighteen (18) 
months after the Bank's approval of the GEF Trust Fund Grant which expire on 
December 13, 2007. 
Section 5.03. This Agreement shall continue in effect until the GEF Trust Fund 
Grant has been fully disbursed and the parties to this Agreement have fulfilled all their 
obligations hereunder. 
ARTICLE VI 
Representative of the Recipient; Addresses 
Section 6.01. The Minister of Finance of the Recipient is designated as 
representative of the Recipient for the purposes of Section 11.03 of the General 
Conditions. 
Page  15
-
14
-
Section 6.02. The following addresses are specified for the purposes of 
Section 11.01 of the General Conditions: 
For the Recipient: 
 
Ministério da Fazenda 
 
Procuradoria Geral da Fazenda Nacional 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “P” - 8
andar 
 
70048-900 Brasília, D.F. 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 3412-1740 
 
With copy to: 
 
Ministério do Meio Ambiente 
 
Secretaria Executiva 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco “B”- 6º andar 
 
70068-900 Brasília, DF 
 
Brazil 
 
Facsimile: (011-55-61) 4009-1770 
 
Page  16
-
15
-
Minist
ério do Planejamento, Orçamento e Gestão 
 
Secretaria de Assuntos Internacionais 
 
Esplanada dos Ministérios, Bloco K- 5
o
andar 
 
70040-906 Brasilia DF 
 
Facsimile: (55-61) 3225-4022 
 
For the Bank: 
 
International Bank for 
Reconstruction and Development 
1818 H Street, N.W. 
Washington, D.C. 20433 
United States of America 
 
Cable address: 
Facsimile: 
 
INTBAFRAD (202) 
477-6391 
Washington, D.C. 
   
Page  17
-
16
-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto, acting through their duly 
authorized representatives, have caused this Agreement to be signed in their respective 
names in Brasilia, Federative Republic of Brazil, as of the day and year first above 
written. 
 
FEDERATIVE REPUBLIC OF BRAZIL 
 
By /s/ Suely Dib de Sousa e Silva 
 Authorized Representative 
 
INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR 
RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 
as an implementing agency of the Global Environment Facility 
 
By /s/ John Briscoe 
Authorized Representative 
Page  18
-
17
-
SCHEDULE 1 
Withdrawal of the Proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant 
A. General
1. 
The table below sets forth the Categories of items to be financed out of the 
proceeds of the GEF Trust Fund Grant, the allocation of the amounts of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant to each Category and the percentage of expenditures for items so to be 
financed in each Category: 
 
GEF Trust Fund Grant 
% of 
 
Allocated (Expressed 
Expenditures 
 Category
in Dollars)
to be Financed  
(1) 
Goods, consultants’  
4,541,100 
 
100% 
 
services and  
 
training (other than for 
 
Part B  
 
of the Project) 
 
(2)  Subprojects  
1,274,140 
100% of the costs 
 
of
goods, 
 
works and services 
 
for the respective 
 
Subproject 
 
(3)  Operating costs (other than for  
1,007,760 
100% 
 
Part B of the Project) 
 
 
 
 
(4) Unallocated 
357,000
TOTAL 7,180,000 
2. 
For the purposes of this Schedule: 
(a) 
the term “training” means expenditures (other than those for consultants’ 
services) incurred by the Recipient to finance reasonable transportation costs and per-
diem of trainees and trainers (if applicable) and rental of training facilities, materials, 
services and equipment under the Project; and 
Page  19
-
18
-
(b) 
the term “operating costs” means the reasonable cost of recurrent 
expenditures, all which would not have been incurred absent the Project, such as: (i) 
travel and per diem costs; (ii) consumable items; and (iii) utilities and supplies. 
3. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph 1 above, no withdrawals shall be 
made in respect of expenditures prior to the date of this Agreement. 
4. 
The Bank may require withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account to be 
made under such terms and conditions as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient, 
on the basis of statements of expenditure for expenditures for: (a) works costing less than 
the equivalent of $1,000,000 per contract; (b) goods or non-consultants’ services costing 
less than the equivalent of $500,000 per contract; (c) consulting firms’ services costing less 
than the equivalent of $200,000 per contract; (d) individual consultants’ services; and (e) 
training and operating costs. 
5. 
The Recipient may request withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
to be made on the basis of reports to be submitted to the Bank in form and substance 
satisfactory to the Bank, such reports to include the FMR and any other information as 
the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient (Report-based Disbursements). In the 
case of the first such request submitted to the Bank before any withdrawal has been made 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, the Recipient shall submit to the Bank only a 
statement with the projected sources and applications of funds for the Project for the six-
month period following the date of such request. 
6. 
If the Bank shall have determined at any time that any payment made from the 
GEF Trust Fund Grant Account was used for any expenditure not consistent with the 
provisions of this Agreement, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice from the Bank, 
refund to the Bank for deposit into the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account, an amount equal 
to the amount so used or the portion thereof as specified by the Bank. 
B. Special 
Account
1. 
The Recipient may open and maintain in Dollars a special deposit account in a 
commercial bank acceptable to the Bank, on terms and conditions satisfactory to the 
Bank, including appropriate protection against set-off, seizure and attachment. 
 
2. 
After the Bank has received evidence satisfactory to it that the Special Account 
has been opened, withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account of amounts to be 
deposited into the Special Account shall be made as follows: 
 
(a) 
if the Recipient is not making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex A to this Schedule 1; and  
 
Page  20
-
19
-
(b) 
if the Recipient is making Report-based Disbursements, withdrawals 
shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Annex B to this Schedule 1.  
 
3. 
Payments out of the Special Account shall be made exclusively for Eligible 
Expenditures.  For each payment made by the Recipient out of the Special Account, the 
Recipient shall, at such time as the Bank shall reasonably request, furnish to the Bank 
such documents and other evidence showing that such payment was made exclusively for 
Eligible Expenditures. 
 
4. 
Notwithstanding the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule, the Bank shall not 
be required to make further deposits into the Special Account:  
 
(a) 
if the Bank at any time is not satisfied that the reports referred to in Part 
A.5 of this Schedule 1 adequately provide the information required for Report-based 
Disbursements;
 
(b) 
if the Bank determines at any time that all further withdrawals for 
payment of Eligible Expenditures should be made by the Recipient directly from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account; or 
 
(c) 
if the Recipient shall have failed to furnish to the Bank, within the period 
of time specified in Section 4.01 (b) (ii) of this Agreement, any of the audit reports 
required to be furnished to the Bank pursuant to said Section in respect of the audit of: (i) 
the records and accounts for the Special Account; or (ii) the records and accounts 
reflecting expenditures with respect to which withdrawals were Report-based 
Disbursements or were made on the basis of statements of expenditure, as the case may 
be. 
 
5. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account 
in accordance with the provisions of Part B.2 of this Schedule if, at any time, the Bank 
shall have notified the Recipient of its intention to suspend in whole or in part the right of 
the Recipient to make withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account pursuant to 
Section 6.02 of the General Conditions. Upon such notification, the Bank shall determine, 
in its sole discretion, whether further deposits into the Special Account may be made and 
what procedures should be followed for making such deposits, and shall notify the 
Recipient of its determination. 
 
6. 
(a) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any payment out of the Special 
Account was made for an expenditure which is not an Eligible Expenditure, or was not 
justified by the evidence furnished to the Bank, the Recipient shall, promptly upon notice 
from the Bank, provide such additional evidence as the Bank may request, or deposit into 
the Special Account (or, if the Bank shall so request, refund to the Bank) an amount equal 
to the amount of such payment.  Unless the Bank shall otherwise agree, no further deposit 
by the Bank into the Special Account shall be made until the Recipient has provided such 
evidence or made such deposit or refund, as the case may be. 
Page  21
-
20
-
(b) 
If the Bank determines at any time that any amount outstanding in the 
Special Account will not be required to cover payments for Eligible Expenditures during 
the six-month period following such determination, the Recipient shall, promptly upon 
notice from the Bank, refund to the Bank such outstanding amount. 
 
(c) 
The Recipient may, upon notice to the Bank, refund to the Bank all or 
any portion of the funds on deposit in the Special Account.  
 
(d) 
Refunds to the Bank made pursuant to subparagraph (a), (b) or (c) of this 
paragraph 6 shall be credited to the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account for subsequent 
withdrawal or for cancellation in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement. 
Page  22
-
21
-
Annex A 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are Not 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
For the purposes of this Annex, the term “Authorized Allocation” means the 
amount of $700,000 to be withdrawn from the GEF Trust Fund Grant  Account and 
deposited into the Special Account pursuant to paragraph 2 of this Annex. 
 
2. 
Withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation and subsequent withdrawals to 
replenish the Special Account shall be made as follows:  
 
(a) 
For withdrawals of the Authorized Allocation, the Recipient shall furnish 
to the Bank a request or requests for deposit into the Special Account of an amount or 
amounts which in the aggregate do not exceed the Authorized Allocation.  On the basis of 
each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF 
Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account such amount as the 
Recipient shall have requested.  
 
(b) 
For replenishment of the Special Account, the Recipient shall furnish to 
the Bank requests for deposit into the Special Account at such intervals as the Bank shall 
specify.  Prior to or at the time of each such request, the Recipient shall furnish to the 
Bank the documents and other evidence required pursuant to Part B.3 of Schedule 1 to 
this Agreement for the payment or payments in respect of which replenishment is 
requested. On the basis of each such request, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, 
withdraw from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account 
such amount as the Recipient shall have requested and as shall have been shown by said 
documents and other evidence to have been paid out of the Special Account for Eligible 
Expenditures. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the 
Bank from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible 
Categories. 
 
3. 
The Bank shall not be required to make further deposits into the Special Account, 
once the total unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant minus the total amount 
of all outstanding special commitments entered into by the Bank pursuant to Section 5.02 
of the General Conditions shall equal the equivalent of twice the amount of the 
Authorized Allocation. Thereafter, withdrawal from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account 
of the remaining unwithdrawn amount of the GEF Trust Fund Grant shall follow such 
procedures as the Bank shall specify by notice to the Recipient.  Such further withdrawals 
shall be made only after and to the extent that the Bank shall have been satisfied that all 
such amounts remaining on deposit in the Special Account as of the date of such notice 
will be utilized in making payments for Eligible Expenditures. 
Page  23
-
22
-
Annex B 
to 
SCHEDULE 1 
 
Operation of Special Account 
When Withdrawals Are 
Report-based Disbursements 
 
1. 
Withdrawals from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account shall be deposited by the 
Bank into the Special Account in accordance with the provisions of Schedule 1 to this 
Agreement. Each such deposit into the Special Account shall be withdrawn by the Bank 
from the GEF Trust Fund Grant Account under one or more of the Eligible Categories.  
 
2. 
Upon receipt of each application for withdrawal of an amount of the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant, the Bank shall, on behalf of the Recipient, withdraw from the GEF Trust 
Fund Grant Account and deposit into the Special Account an amount equal to the lesser 
of: (a) the amount so requested; and (b) the amount which the Bank has determined, 
based on the reports referred to in Part A.5 of this Schedule 1 applicable to such 
withdrawal application, is required to be deposited in order to finance Eligible 
Expenditures during the six-month period following the date of such reports. 
Page  24
-
23
-
SCHEDULE 2 
Description of the Project  
The objective of the Project is to support the mainstreaming of a multi-
stakeholder, integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable use of 
freshwater biodiversity in
 the Recipient’s Amazon river basin, ultimately contributing to: 
(a) reducing threats to the integrity of freshwater ecosystems in the Recipient’s Amazon 
river basin; (b) assuring the conservation and sustainable use of freshwater biodiversity; 
and (c) promoting the expansion and replication of integrated management of aquatic 
resources in the Recipient’s Amazon river basin over the long term. 
 
The Project consists of the following parts, subject to such modifications thereof 
as the Recipient and the Bank may agree upon from time to time to achieve such 
objective. 
Part A
:
Planning and Public Policy
1. 
Formulation and implementation of action programs for integrated management 
of aquatic resources in three sub-basins of the Recipient’s Amazon river basin, with a 
view to generate replicable experiences in the future, applicable in other Amazon river 
sub-basins. 
 
2. 
Formulation and negotiation, in the Target Areas, of institutional arrangements 
for integrated management of aquatic resources, involving the participation of 
government institutions, non-governmental organizations and civil society organizations 
such as cooperatives, fishermen colonies and associations, indigenous associations and 
rural producers, among others. 
 
3. 
Development and negotiation of a strategy for financial support to the 
implementation of action programs for integrated management of aquatic resources. 
 
4. 
Carrying out of detailed participatory diagnostics in the Target Areas through 
studies and consultations to facilitate better understanding of aquatic biodiversity and 
water resources management issues. 
 
5. 
Organization of seminars and meetings to present and discuss the Project 
approach with representatives from the Amazonian States. 
 
Part B
:
Demonstration Activities
Page  25
-
24
-
1. 
Design and implementation by Beneficiaries of projects (the Subprojects) to 
demonstrate how to incorporate freshwater biodiversity concerns into productive 
activities, selected on the basis of pre-defined criteria, and consisting of 
inter alia
:
(a) co-
management of aquatic resources associated with the resolution of conflicts over access 
to and sustainable use of fisheries resources; (b) promotion and integration of ecotourism 
into local communities; (c) management of access and sustainable use of ornamental 
fisheries resources, offering alternatives to predatory or degrading activities; and (d) 
development and local dissemination by Beneficiaries of communication and 
dissemination products, presenting aquatic integrated resource management lessons 
learned and associated experiences systematized and made available to the public. 
 
2. 
Carrying out of activities to support the mainstreaming of the activities under 
Parts A, B.1 and C of the Project, including, but not limited to: (a) commercialization of 
products obtained through the sustainable management of natural resources; (b) 
alternatives for fire and deforestation control, and environmental education; (c) 
rehabilitation of native riparian vegetation; (d) adoption of integrated solid waste 
management, aimed at water and soil conservation; (e) restoration of degraded lands, 
including erosion control; and (f) development of sustainable tourism to generate 
alternative employment and income. 
 
Part C
:
Building Capacity
1. 
Organization and carrying out of capacity development, awareness and 
environmental education events for effective stakeholder implementation of integrated 
management of aquatic resources. 
 
2. 
Provision of training to environmental and rural extension agents on the 
principles and mechanisms for sustainable integrated management of aquatic 
biodiversity, including methodologies for sustainable use and conservation of natural 
resources.
 
3. 
Design and carrying out of information and dissemination  campaigns to increase 
awareness among local communities on issues related to freshwater biodiversity and 
sustainable use of aquatic resources. 
 
4. 
Provision of institutional and individual training of Beneficiaries for the 
formation of partnerships and conflict resolution in connection with the conservation of 
freshwater ecosystems. 
 
5. 
Provision of support for the establishment of mechanisms for decision-making 
and discussion, and resolution of conflicts over the use of aquatic resources in the Target 
Areas. 
 
Page  26
-
25
-
Part D
:
Management, Monitoring and Evaluation 
1. 
Establishment and operation of the PCU. 
 
2. 
Monitoring and evaluation of Project activities and impacts, including the 
implementation of a Project monitoring system (known as SIGMA). 
 
3. 
Creation and implementation of the aquatic biodiversity information system 
(known as SIBA). 
 
4. 
Dissemination of information on Project activities, results and lessons learned, to 
relevant stakeholders and society at large through various communication means, both 
locally and at the national level, and setting-up of a Project electronic homepage. 
 
*
*
*
The Project is expected to be completed by February 28, 2012. 
Page  27
-
26
-
SCHEDULE 3 
Procurement and Consultants’ Services 
Section I
.
General
A. 
All goods, works and services (other than consultants’ services) shall be procured 
in accordance with the provisions of Section I of the “Guidelines: Procurement under 
IBRD Loans and IDA Credits” dated May 2004 (the Procurement Guidelines), and with 
the provisions of this Schedule.  
B. 
All consultants’ services shall be procured in accordance with Sections I and IV 
of the “Guidelines: Selection and Employment of Consultants by World Bank 
Borrowers” dated May 2004 (the Consultant Guidelines), and with the provisions of this 
Schedule.   
C. 
The capitalized terms used below in this Schedule to describe particular 
procurement methods or methods of review by the Bank of particular contracts, have the 
meanings ascribed to them in the Procurement Guidelines, or Consultant Guidelines, as 
the case may be. 
Section II
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Goods and Services (other than 
Consultants’ Services)
A. International 
Competitive 
Bidding
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, contracts shall be awarded on the basis of International Competitive 
Bidding.  The provisions of paragraphs 2.55 and 2.56 of the Procurement Guidelines, 
providing for domestic preference in the evaluation of bids, shall apply to goods 
manufactured in the territory of the Recipient. 
B. 
Other Procurement Procedures
1. 
National Competitive Bidding
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded on the basis of National 
Competitive Bidding.  
2. Shopping
.
Goods estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, 
and works estimated to cost less than $100,000 equivalent per contract, may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Shopping. 
Page  28
-
27
-
3. Community 
Participation
.
Goods and non-consultant services required for Parts 
D.2 and D.3 of the Project may be procured on the basis of community participation in 
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Operational Manual. 
 
Section III
.
Particular Methods of Procurement of Consultants’ Services
A. 
Quality- and Cost-based Selection
.
Except as otherwise provided in Part B of 
this Section, consultants’ services shall be procured under contracts awarded on the basis 
of Quality- and Cost-based Selection.  For purposes of paragraph 2.7 of the Consultant 
Guidelines, the short list of consultants for services estimated to cost less than $500,000 
equivalent per contract may comprise entirely national consultants. 
B. Other 
Procedures
1. Quality-based 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet 
the requirements set forth in paragraph 3.2 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded on the basis of Quality-based Selection in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 through 3.4 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
2. 
Selection Under a Fixed Budget
.
Services for assignments which the Bank 
agrees meet the requirements of paragraph 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines may be 
procured under contracts awarded on the basis of a Fixed Budget in accordance with the 
provisions of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.5 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
3. Least-cost 
Selection
.
Services for assignments which the Bank agrees meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured under 
contracts awarded on the basis of Least-cost Selection in accordance with the provisions 
of paragraphs 3.1 and 3.6 of the Consultant Guidelines. 
4. 
Single Source Selection
.
Services for tasks in circumstances which meet the 
requirements of paragraph 3.10 of the Consultant Guidelines for Single Source Selection, 
may, with the Bank's prior agreement, be procured in accordance with the provisions of 
said method. 
5. 
Selection Based on Consultants’ Qualifications
.
Services estimated to cost less 
than $100,000 equivalent per contract may be procured under contracts awarded in 
accordance with the provisions of paragraphs 3.1, 3.7 and 3.8 of the Consultant 
Guidelines. 
6. Individual 
Consultants
.
Services for assignments that meet the requirements set 
forth in the first sentence of paragraph 5.1 of the Consultant Guidelines may be procured 
under contracts awarded to individual consultants in accordance with the provisions of 
Page  29
-
28
-
paragraphs 5.2 through 5.3 of the Consultant Guidelines.  Under the circumstances 
described in paragraph 5.4 of the Consultant Guidelines, such contracts may be awarded 
to individual consultants on a sole-source basis. 
Section IV
.
Review by the Bank of Procurement Decisions
The Procurement Plan shall set forth those contracts which shall be subject to the 
Bank’s Prior Review.  All other contracts shall be subject to Post Review by the Bank. 
 
