Page  1
INTEGRATED SAFEGUARDS DATASHEET 
APPRAISAL STAGE 
 
I.  Basic Information
 
Date prepared/updated:  01/30/2006 
Report No.:  AC1284
1. Basic Project Data  
 
Country:  Brazil 
Project ID:  P066535 
Project Name:  Integrated Management of Aquatic Resources in the Amazon (AquaBio) 
Task Team Leader:  Maria Isabel Junqueira Br 
GEF Focal Area: Biodiversity 
Global Supplemental ID:  
Estimated Appraisal Date: January 26, 
2006 
Estimated Board Date: March 28, 2006 
Managing Unit:  LCSEN 
Lending Instrument:  Specific Investment 
Loan 
Sector:  General agriculture, fishing and forestry sector (50%);Sub-national government 
administration (50%) 
Theme:  Biodiversity (P);Land administration and management (P);Water resource 
management (P) 
IBRD Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
IDA Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
GEF Amount (US$m.): 
7.20 
PCF Amount (US$m.): 
0.00 
Other financing amounts by source:  
 BORROWER/RECIPIENT 
9.95
9.95 
Environmental Category: B - Partial Assessment 
Simplified Processing 
Simple [] 
Repeater [] 
Is this project processed under OP 8.50 (Emergency Recovery) 
Yes [ ] 
No [X] 
2. Project Objectives 
A.2. Project Objectives  
 
The project development objective is to support the mainstreaming of a multi-
stakeholder, integrated management approach to the conservation and sustainable use of 
freshwater biodiversity in public policies and programs in the Brazilian Amazon River 
Basin. The global environmental objective is to reduce threats to the integrity of 
freshwater ecosystems in the Brazilian Amazon, and assure the conservation and 
sustainable use of its freshwater biodiversity of global importance.  
 
The main expected outcomes are: (i) Institutional arrangements and processes 
established in three sub-basins of the Brazilian Amazon, to support the adoption of 
integrated management of aquatic biodiversity for addressing priority issues and 
problems that affect the long-term conservation and sustainability of freshwater 
biodiversity, water resources, and the welfare of local communities; (ii) Demonstration 
activities to test and implement technologies and methodologies that support the 
Page  2
mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity concerns into relevant production sectors, 
developed in three sub-basins of the Brazilian Amazon; (iii) Greater operational and 
decision-making capacity by institutions and civil society at local, state, and federal 
levels, to adopt and implement integrated management of aquatic biodiversity; and (iv) 
Strengthened institutional capacity to manage and coordinate actions in the three sub-
basins, monitor impacts, and disseminate the experiences generated by the project.  
 
The Project is consistent with the World Bank’s Country Assistance Strategy (CAS), 
and will address three issues specifically identified therein: (i) natural resources 
management, including water, forests, and soils; (ii) environmental protection and 
management, including the development of linkages among actors/stakeholders regarding 
environmental issues; and (iii) global environmental externalities, including biodiversity.   
 
3. Project Description 
Component 1: Planning and Public Policiy (Total: US$1.26 million, GEF US$1.08 
million).  
 
The principal objective of this component is to ensure the institutional and financial 
sustainability of Action Programs (APs) in three sub-basins of the Brazilian Amazon, 
generating replicable experiences that may become permanent public policies, with 
positive impacts on aquatic biodiversity, on the reduction of conflicts among various 
users of natural resources, and on the improvement of local communities’ living and 
working conditions.  
 
Subcomponent 1.1 Sub-basin Action Programs: detailed participatory diagnostics 
completed and the respective strategic actions for integrated management identified and 
agreed in three sub-basins; Action Program (APs) proposals  prepared in a participatory 
manner in sub-basins, and with institutional arrangements formulated and negotiated with 
users of natural resources.  
 
Subcomponent 1.2 Financial Sustainability: strategy for financial sustainability of APs  
developed, with pilot financial mechanisms adopted by the end of the project.  
 
Subcomponent 1.3 Up-scaling and Mainstreaming: proposal for institutional 
arrangements and processes for integrated management formulated and discussed with 
interested parties in the nine states of the Brazilian Amazon, with inputs from experiences 
generated in the sub-basins.  
 
Component 2: Demonstration Activities (Total: US$6.43 million, GEF US$1.78 
million).  
 
The objective of this component is to develop demonstration activities directed toward 
the various productive sectors, providing inputs for the development of APs.  
 
Subcomponent 2.1 Mainstreaming freshwater biodiversity sub-projects, financed with 
GEF and GoB resources.  
Page  3
Subcomponent 2.2 Support for mainstreaming of freshwater biodiversity sub-projects, 
financed with resources from the re-directed baseline.  
 
Component 3: Building Capacity (Total: US$3.67 million, GEF US$2.56 million)  
 
The objective of this component is to prepare stakeholders, especially local ones 
(individuals and institutions), to be able to actively participate in the formulation, 
implementation, and monitoring of strategies and action plans aimed at the conservation 
and sustainable use of freshwater biodiversity and water resources in the Project areas.  
 
Subcomponent 3.1 Training: (i) training of leaders and technical specialists willing to 
promote and disseminate the concept of integrated management of aquatic biodiversity 
among local communities and among institutions and interested parties working in the 
Amazon; and (ii) communities of fishermen and rural producers trained to adopt 
technologies and traditional knowledge suited to the conservation and sustainable use of 
biodiversity and water resources, and rural extensionists able to provide technical support 
to these communities.  
 
Subcomponent 3.2 Environmental Education: natural resources users and 
decisionmakers at local, state, and federal levels made aware of the priority issues and 
problems that affect the aquatic biodiversity, water resources, and living conditions of 
local communities in the Amazon.  
 
Subcomponent 3.3 Institutional Strengthening: formation of partnerships with existing 
organizations and strengthening and/or supporting the creation of initiatives in the field of 
associations and cooperatives dealing with the sustainable use of aquatic biodiversity and 
water resources.  
 
Subcomponent 3.4 Sustainable Public Fora for Integrated Aquatic Resources 
Management: fora (spaces) that social actors consider more adequate for providing 
continuity to implementation of APs and adoption of integrated management of aquatic 
biodiversity are strengthened and/or created in the three sub-basins.  
 
Component 4: Project Management, Monitoring and Evaluation (M&E), and 
Information Dissemination (Total: US$5.80 million, GEF US$1. 77 million).  
 
The objectives of this component are to coordinate, manage, and monitor actions 
developed under the scope of the project, and to foster integration among the various 
components, as well as with other related projects and programs, to indicate the possible 
need for changes in project development, and to disseminate results at local, state, 
regional (Brazilian Amazon), national and international levels.  
 
Subcomponent 4.1 Management and Coordination: effective participation by 
government institutions and civil society in project actions; project implementation plan 
revised and implemented; annual operating plans (POAs) prepared and implemented.  
Page  4
Subcomponent 4.2 Monitoring and Evaluation: system to monitor project impacts fully 
operational with the participation of actors; project physical-financial monitoring system 
(SIGMA) operating and providing inputs for the ongoing improvement of the project 
implementation strategy; and information system on aquatic biodiversity and water 
resources implemented and made available to the public.  
 
Subcomponent 4.3 Information Dissemination: project objectives and results 
disseminated by means of specific events and media campaigns to all relevant 
stakeholders.   
 
4. Project Location and salient physical characteristics relevant to the safeguard 
analysis 
The Project will focus on the Brazilian Amazon Basin.  Field interventions will be 
limited to 10 municipalities, located in the following sub-basins: Xingu (3), Rio 
Negro(3), and Tocantins (4) rivers. Project results will provide the basis for future 
expansion of this initiative to other sub-basins in Brazil, and possibly to other countries in 
the Amazon Basin.  
 
The three sub-basins provide a representative sample of the magnitude and diversity of 
the issues and conflicts related to the conservation of freshwater biodiversity in the 
Brazilian Amazon: (i) prevalence of blackwater ecosystems, where direct use of aquatic 
biodiversity is currently the main threat to this resource (mid and lower basin of the 
Negro River); (ii) clear water ecosystems, where unsustainable land use and its negative 
consequences to freshwater habitats is the main threat to aquatic biodiversity (upper basin 
of the Xingu River); and (iii) prevalence of clear water ecosystems, where the long-term 
negative impacts of hydropower development, land use changes, and direct use of aquatic 
resources are the main threats to freshwater biodiversity (lower Basin of the Tocantins 
River).   
 
5. Environmental and Social Safeguards Specialists 
Ms Judith M. Lisansky (LCSEO) 
Ms Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga (LCSEN) 
 
6. Safeguard Policies Triggered
 
Yes No 
Environmental Assessment (OP/BP 4.01) 
X
Natural Habitats (OP/BP 4.04) 
X
Forests (OP/BP 4.36) 
X
Pest Management (OP 4.09) 
X
Cultural Property (OPN 11.03) 
 X 
Indigenous Peoples (OP/BP 4.10) 
X
Involuntary Resettlement (OP/BP 4.12) 
 X 
Safety of Dams (OP/BP 4.37) 
 X 
Projects on International Waterways (OP/BP
 
7.50) 
 X 
Projects in Disputed Areas (OP/BP 7.60) 
 X 
Page  5
II.  Key Safeguard Policy Issues and Their Management 
A. Summary of Key Safeguard Issues 
1. Describe any safeguard issues and impacts associated with the proposed project. 
Identify and describe any potential large scale, significant and/or irreversible impacts: 
The Project would generate positive environmental impacts through strengthening the 
capacity of government institutions and civil society to participate in decision-making 
that supports the sustainable use and conservation of freshwater biodiversity in the 
Brazilian Amazon and, in the medium and long term, through fostering better 
management and control of the threats that lead to degradation of the Region’s aquatic 
resources.  Because of the intrinsic positive environmentalobjectives of the AquaBio 
project, and of the small scale of sub-projects to be supported on a pilot basis, it is 
extremely unlikely that sub-projects with potential negative environmental impacts would 
be proposed and approved.  
 
A
few of the activities supported under Component 2 could have the potential to cause 
limited and localized negative environmental impacts if the related sub-projects are 
poorly administered.  To prevent such situations, strict environmental evaluation and 
monitoring procedures, including environmental licensing (if needed) and mitigation 
measures, would be utilized.  In the case of sub-projects that involve agricultural 
activities, the project will adopt IPM measures whenever possible. Nevertheless, on a few 
very specific situations, especially related to sub-projects involving the restoration of 
riparian vegetation, the temporary use of small amounts of pesticides may be necessary, 
where allowed by the National legislation. The project does not require a separate Pest 
Management Plan, given that there are no significant pest management issues, and 
procurement of substantial quantities of pesticides is not envisaged.  
 
Indigenous populations are present in and/or nearby the Rio Negro and Xingu target 
sub-basin areas, but not in the Tocantins sub-basin area. The AquaBio is primarily an 
environmental project that would involve local stakeholders, including indigenous 
populations, primarily in training and capacity-building activities with the goal of more 
effective stakeholder participation in water resource commissions and committees that 
the project seeks to establish, as well as possibly in some selected demonstration 
activities.  It is also expected that indigenous representatives would be involved in 
steering and advisory committees for the planning and policy level, as well as being 
involved in monitoring and evaluation activities. The project would not generate negative 
impacts on indigenous people.  To the contrary, indigenous people are viewed as 
important stakeholders that would benefit from involvement with project activities.   
 
2. Describe any potential indirect and/or long term impacts due to anticipated future 
activities in the project area: 
No negative potential impacts of such nature are envisaged for this project. However, it is 
expected that project activities would result in long term positive impacts on the 
conservation of aquatic ecosystems in the Brazilian Amazon.   
 
Page  6
3. Describe any project alternatives (if relevant) considered to help avoid or minimize 
adverse impacts. 
Not relevant.   
 
4. Describe measures taken by the borrower to address safeguard policy issues. Provide 
an assessment of borrower capacity to plan and implement the measures described. 
The proj
ect’s EMP involves five broad lines of action: (1) capacity building for sub-
project proponents on the evaluation of potential environmental impacts of sub-projects; 
(2) established procedures for the elaboration, evaluation, and approval of sub-projects; 
(3) agreed restrictions in the case of sub-projects located within or around 
environmentally protected areas; (4) provision of technical assistance to sub-project 
proponents; and (5) monitoring and evaluation. The Project would promote workshops to 
train interested parties in the preparation of sub-project proposals.  The elaboration of the 
environmental evaluation would be one of the topics to be addressed in the workshops 
and would be an integral part of all sub-project proposals.  The Project would also offer, 
as necessary, additional technical assistance to the proponents for the elaboration of the 
environmental evaluation and environmental management plan of the sub-projects. A 
Standard Form has been developed for the evaluation of the potential environmental 
impacts of sub-projects. The use of this Standard Form would be discussed in the training 
provided to sub-project proponents, and the completed Form would be an integral part of 
all sub-project proposals. Sub-projects would be classified as Category I or II according 
to their potential negative environmental impacts. Category I sub-projects would have no 
potential negative impacts, and would not require any mitigation measures. Category II 
sub-projects could have the possibility of limited and localized negative impacts, which 
would be mitigated through specific actions described in the sub-project proposal. Project 
support for a Category II sub-project would depend on its initial evaluation and approval 
by the project’s Local Steering Committee, which would involve staff from the municipal 
and state environmental agencies, and also on its final evaluation and approval by the 
project’s State Steering Committee and of the PMU.  
 
Potential hazards associated with the storage, handling, use and disposal of pesticides 
would be assessed on an individual basis for each sub-project, according to its particular 
characteristics, and the sub-project EA/EMP would include measures (according to Law 
7802/89) to reduce these hazards to a level that can be managed by the envisaged users of 
such products. In addition to the adoption of IMP and compliance with the above law, the 
use of pesticides, whenever needed, should be limited to low toxicity products according 
to Class IV of Decree 98816/90, which is equivalent to WHO Class “U” (unlikely to 
present acute hazard in normal use) or, if appropriate “U” products are not available, use 
of Class III products (slightly hazardous) may take place. 
 
Indigenous populations are present in and/or nearby the Rio Negro and Xingu target 
sub-basin areas, but not in the Tocantins sub-basin area. The AquaBio is primarily an 
environmental project that would involve local stakeholders, including indigenous 
populations, primarily in training and capacity-building activities with the goal of more 
effective stakeholder participation in aquatic resource commissions and committees that 
the project seeks to establish, as well as possibly in some selected demonstration 
Page  7
activities.  It is also expected that indigenous representatives would be involved in the 
project steering committee and sub-basin and Project target area advisory groups. The 
project would not generate negative impacts on indigenous people.  To the contrary, 
indigenous people are viewed as important stakeholders that would benefit from 
involvement with project activities.  An Indigenous People’s Strategy was consulted with 
representatives from various groups which participated in project preparation activities.  
 
The project would be implemented by the Ministry of Environment, with close support 
from IBAMA and the State Environmental Agencies responsible for environmental issues 
and enforcement in the project sub-basins. These agencies have adequate capacity to 
address and monitor safeguard compliance in the context of the proposed AquaBio 
Project.   
 
5. Identify the key stakeholders and describe the mechanisms for consultation and 
disclosure on safeguard policies, with an emphasis on potentially affected people. 
Key stakeholders involve national and local stakeholders. The main national stakeholders 
include: (i) federal and state government institutions, including the National Environment 
Institute (IBAMA); (ii) national and international NGOs; (iii) national organizations from 
various private sector stakeholders; and (iv) universities and other research institutions. 
The main local stakeholders include: (i) local municipal government; (ii) municipal 
councils and other local associations; (iii) natural resource users, such as fishermen and 
small rural producers, as well as their families and associations, large commercial 
farming and ranching operations, and hydropower developers; (iii) indigenous groups; 
and (iv) local NGOs. The involvement of these stakeholders during project preparation 
included a series of meetings and public events with participation of more than 600 
people. Indigenous peoples representatives, from the Middle and Lower Rio Negro sub-
basin and the Xingu sub-basin target areas, participated in consultations during project 
preparation. Indigenous people expressed a range of concerns about threats to the aquatic 
and water resources on which they depend, and in general expressed interest in the 
project as well as interest in participating in the project.  
 
During project implementation stakeholders would participate as follows: (i) CONABIO 
would act as the project’s Steering Committee; (ii) the Executing Unit foreach project 
impact area would be supported by experts who would help monitor and support project 
execution, with the representation of government institutions and civil society 
organizations, where the respective POAs would be presented and discussed together 
with evaluations of the project’s progress and the resultsof regional interventions; (iii) 
partnerships would be established with universities, research institutions, and NGOs for 
the execution of project activities at the local level and for project monitoring.  Local 
stakeholders and beneficiaries, including indigenous people, would participate through: 
(i) involvement in the planning, implementation, and monitoring of demonstration 
activities; (ii) inclusion, in the project’s annual planning, of their demands for training in 
sustainable management of natural resources; and (iii) active participation in 
environmental education and training programs for integrated management of aquatic 
biodiversity.   
 
Page  8
B. Disclosure Requirements Date
 
Environmental Assessment/Audit/Management Plan/Other: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/10/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
11/01/2005 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/27/2006 
 
For category A projects, date of distributing the Executive 
Summary of the EA to the Executive Directors 
 
Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
10/19/2005 
 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
01/23/2006 
 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
01/27/2006 
 
Pest Management Process: 
Date of receipt by the Bank 
 
N/A 
Date of "in-country" disclosure 
 
N/A 
Date of submission to InfoShop 
 
N/A 
*
If the project triggers the Pest Management, Cultural Property and/or the Safety 
of Dams policies, the respective issues are to be addressed and disclosed as part of 
the Environmental Assessment/Audit/or EMP. 
If in-country disclosure of any of the above documents is not expected, please 
explain why: 
C. Compliance Monitoring Indicators at the Corporate Level (to be filled in when the 
ISDS is finalized by the project decision meeting) 
 
OP/BP/GP 4.01 - Environment Assessment 
 
Does the project require a stand-alone EA (including EMP) report? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional Environment Unit or Sector Manager (SM) 
review and approve the EA report? 
Yes 
Are the cost and the accountabilities for the EMP incorporated in the 
credit/loan? 
Yes 
OP/BP 4.04 - Natural Habitats 
 
Would the project result in any significant conversion or degradation of 
critical natural habitats? 
No 
If the project would result in significant conversion or degradation of other 
(non-critical) natural habitats, does the project include mitigation measures 
acceptable to the Bank? 
No 
OP 4.09 - Pest Management 
 
Does the EA adequately address the pest management issues? 
Yes 
Is a separate PMP required? 
No 
If yes, has the PMP been reviewed and approved by a safeguards specialist or 
SM?  Are PMP requirements included in project design?  If yes, does the 
project team include a Pest Management Specialist? 
N/A 
Page  9
OP/BP 4.10 - Indigenous Peoples 
 
Has a separate Indigenous Peoples Plan/Planning Framework (as 
appropriate) been prepared in consultation with affected Indigenous Peoples? 
Yes 
If yes, then did the Regional unit responsible for safeguards or Sector 
Manager review the plan? 
Yes 
If the whole project is designed to benefit IP, has the design been reviewed 
and approved by the Regional Social Development Unit or Sector Manager? 
N/A 
OP/BP 4.36 - Forests 
 
Has the sector-wide analysis of policy and institutional issues and constraints 
been carried out? 
N/A 
Does the project design include satisfactory measures to overcome these 
constraints? 
N/A 
Does the project finance commercial harvesting, and if so, does it include 
provisions for certification system? 
N/A 
The World Bank Policy on Disclosure of Information 
 
Have relevant safeguard policies documents been sent to the World Bank's 
Infoshop? 
Yes 
Have relevant documents been disclosed in-country in a public place in a 
form and language that are understandable and accessible to project-affected 
groups and local NGOs? 
Yes 
All Safeguard Policies 
 
Have satisfactory calendar, budget and clear institutional responsibilities 
been prepared for the implementation of measures related to safeguard 
policies? 
Yes 
Have costs related to safeguard policy measures been included in the project 
cost? 
Yes 
Does the Monitoring and Evaluation system of the project include the 
monitoring of safeguard impacts and measures related to safeguard policies? 
Yes 
Have satisfactory implementation arrangements been agreed with the 
borrower and the same been adequately reflected in the project legal 
documents? 
Yes 
Page  10
D. Approvals 
 
Signed and submitted by: 
Name 
Date 
Task Team Leader: 
Ms Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga 
 
Environmental Specialist: 
Ms Maria Isabel Junqueira Braga 
 
Social Development Specialist 
Ms Judith M. Lisansky 
 
Additional Environmental and/or 
Social Development Specialist(s): 
 
Approved by: 
 
Regional Safeguards Coordinator: 
Mr Reidar Kvam 
 
Comments:   
Sector Manager: 
Mr Abel Mejia 
 
Comments:   
